
                                      A. R. li Ci £
Wh&todttw JRECEIVED DATE
4
4 rf m
    “%k. 'Sk. ^
                _£FGHAN
            JNFORMATION
          qentre
      MONTHLY BULLETIN
No. 104        Ninth  Year        November 1989
 Address: PO Box: 228
                   18E S.J. Afghani Road, University Town, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN _            Telephone:  40953      —     Telejpram: AFIC
               The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
               1.       To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
               2.       To make this information available in the form of articles, news bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
                (a)  International news media,
                (b)  Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
               The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
               The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
    Founder: Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor Sayd Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription      Bank account No 284822306 
Pakistan Rs          400 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK    
Abroad   Dollar :    50  Grindlays Bank P L C      
                         Peshawar Pakistan         
       THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED
           AFGHAN INFORMATION
                 CENTRE
            Monthly Bulletin No. 104        November 1989
    CONTENTS:
    I    .   INTERVIEW WITH FORMER PROFESSOR
    II   .   TRIHLE JIRGAH
    III  . FESCUE BADGHIS PB0P1E
    IV   . SITUATION IN NINGARHAR SITUATION IN KUNAR SITUATION IN KABUL SITUATION IN URUZGAN
                 INTERVIEW WITH FORMER PROFESSOR
         In 1982 the Kabul regime pursued some of the Kabul University professors and put some of them in jail for long periods of time. Among the detained, Mohammad Yonus Akbari who held a doctoral degree in nuclear physics from France was assassinated.
         When the news leaked out. Amnesty International and the Human Rights Organisation of the United Nations considered the matter seriously. With the ceaseless efforts of Prof. Ermacora some of the detained professors were freed in 1987. Mohammad Usman Rustar was the last professor to be released from jail. He holds a doctoral degree—from Lyon University, France. He was once again irtprisoned in July 1989 but by the insistent appeal of Kabul University he was released. Inf the last days of October he set out for Peshawar and immigrated . to Pakistan. The reporter of AIC had an interview with him excerpts of which are presented here:
         "The Kabul communist regime fills the gap left by the loss of qualified professors with members of the party.    The Russian advisors used to supervise the
    academic and cultural affairs and interfere profoundly in internal issues, the aim of which was totally to metamorphise ,the history of Afghanistan to the interest of the Soviet Union.
         Their sole aim was to implant in the minds of students and youth that Afghanistan cannot sustain itself without the             help of the Russians who neighbour
    Afghanistan. They strove to wash away the epical struggles of their freedom loving ancestors against the colonialists with their vicious goals.
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
        The Kabul University evidently is designated as an academic and cultural centre but in reality it has been turned in to a military garrison. There are military departments for the students which train them for combat, even the girls are no exceptions.
        Study at the university was not for acquiring knowledge but merely to escape military conscription. The regime has only preserved its skeleton to deceive world opinion.
        Since numerous lecturers either defected to Pakistan or have been detained the regime has to cancel some of the subjects taught in the curriculum of the university."
        Asked why the Kabul regime still persists, professor Rustar answered:   "The reason for its survival could be
   summarized by economic, political and military factors. The political reasons could be nothing except to sew disunity and disarry among the ranks of the mujahideen. The regime thinks that it is strong enough and there is no alternative to replace it. It therefore defends itself from a position of force and high morale.
        The next reason could be cited to be economic. The regime is provided generously by the Soviet Union with material assistance. Even though mujahideen are able to create obstacles in the way of these consignments the regime has been able to fill its stocks sometimes even from local markets. Obstruction of the highways may weaken the regime but the pressure is not enough to topple it. The present composition of the population of Kabul is of those people who left the provinces to seek security in the city, therefore, the economic pressure on people would not’ motivate them to rise against the regime.
        So far, the Kabul citizens' movement against the regime has been quashed and the central jail of Pule
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
  Charkhi is full of insurgents. Only urban people are arrested by the regime since it cannot catch its opponents outside Kabul city boundaries."
       He added:    "Always a covert movement has existed
  against the regime.       This has  caused the regime to
  weaken". Rustar believes that as long as the prestige of the two super powers is concerned and the balance is not disrupted the war in Afghanistan will continue..
       The only way that could lead to the downfall of the regime is the mass defection of military personnel to the ranks of the resistance movement. The latter can escalate the process by guaranteeing the life and honour of those who join hands with the mujahideen".
       He says that he believes in bringing political pressure on the regime to quit. The unity among the resistance movement along with the strengthening of the Interim Government through the attraction of intelligent and influential figures could reinforce the resistance as an alternative for replacing the hated regime.
       He was questioned about the conditions of the prison in which he lived.He said:  "The conditions of   detention
  were much worse than the prison itself.
  In detention nobody was allowed to use books or any media.According to the law passed in Babrak Karma 1's time, the accused is innocent until he is convicted for a crime. While in the hands of the regime's stooges, the accused is treated more harshly before trial than when serving his term in the prison.
                                 I
       In the special revolutionary court the accused has no right to defend himself or even to speak freely. Since the majority of the judges are members of the PDPA and their judgement manifests their ideological ' bias, therefore , no justice can be found in their judgements.
                                        3
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
      After having tortured and mistrusted the accused before trial, in order to assure that he does not die which would leave his file unfinished, afterwards they treat the victim better and guard his health."
***
***
***
                Tribal Jirqah Endorses Role for Zahir Shah
November 2nd
      The Pashtun tribes of Pakistan's ribal territories held a grand assenfoly or jirgah at Kajori village of the Mir Ali area, Waziristan under the chairmanship of Niaz Ali Khan. The assenbly was attended by elders from eight agencies and tribal elders. The agencies represented were Khyber, Malakand, North and South waziristan, Mohmand, Bajawor, Warakzai, Kurma. Most of the people were from the Waziristan agencies and about 200 to 300 had come from the rest of the agencies. The total number in the audience could be estimated between 6 to 8 thousand.
      The session was started with recitation of some verses from the Holy Koran. Niaz Ali Khan was the first speaker and after him Haji Malik Nadir Khan Zakha Khil, Mirajan Sial Mohmand, Fazel Manan Mohmand, Mia Shah Jahan Bajawor, Habibullah Bajawor the secretary for the unity of the tribes, Habibullah Khan Masoud, Shah Mahmoud Masoud, Maroof Khan Shinwari, and Khwaja Mohammad Kurmi talked extesively on the issues of Afghanistan.
      They described the losses that they had suffered from the Russians because of their support for the Afghan jihad, but still continued their support for the well-being of their Afghan brethren. Their cross-border trade of the agencies had almost collapsed as a result of the war. The air and land bombardment by the enemy caused considerable material and human losses among the people of the agencies.
                                      5
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
     Even after the Russians pulled out from Afghanistan unfortunately peace and tranquility were not restored. The problem still persists. In these long tiresome years no unity emerged among the different factions of the mujahidin. Each party is hostile to another for selfish interests. This is why they could not reach a reconciliation and a compromise among themselves. There is fear of the disintegration or the Lebanonization of Afghanistan.
     The elders in their assertions called for unity among the mujahidin and the formulation of a programme to safeguard the independence and territorial integrity of the country and to form a government acceptable to all the Afghans, If Zahir Shah or any other Afghan has the potential to end this chaos we will all back him up.
     They believe that the mujahidin in their current condition cannot overcome the Kabul regime and the regime, itself, cannot bring security and peace in the country. The warring sides cannot convince or defeat one another under the prevailing circumstances.
     The elders of the tribes in their talks reiterated that the well-being, independence and progress of the Afghan nation are vital for the tribal areas. They promised to redouble their efforts for the settlement of this problem and to continue contacting the parties involved in the present dilemna. " We share the common view with all Afghans residing in the refugee canps, in the other countries and all the commanders of jihad"..
     The speakers also dwelt on the need to launch compaigns against drug trafficking, theft and robbery, kidnappings and other crimes in their respective areas.
 Concluding the session, the participants adopted a resolution cm the problem on Afghanistan. They worked on
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 council to represent all the people in the tribal areas From each agency 10 persons were elected as the deputies to tackle the problems. For this purpose they adopted a resolution calling for:
 ----A swift end to th war in Afghanistan
 ----A ceasefire
 ----A broadbased government which will insure an
 independent, non-aligned and Islamic Afghanistan
 ----Thr convningof a Loya Jirgahthat could bring peace in
 Afghanistan
 ----A halt in the interference in Afghanistan by its
 neighbors
 -----A cesefire between jihad forces fighing each other
 , and the remove of foreign ideology from Afghanistan
 ----All protagonists involved in Afghanistan to accept
 the tribal jirgah as an intermediary in efforts to end the war
 ----In recogniation that the free world , the people
 of the tribal territories , Afghan refugees and those living aboard , the people inside Afghanistan , the commanders want peace , the trible jigah recommends for a practical solution of the Afghan [problem a decisive role for Zahr Shah in arranging for a loya jirgah tht will establish an independent Islamic government in Afghanistan .
                             *** *** ***
                                  7
                           RESCUE BADGHIS PEOPLE
      "If we were deprived of military and economic aids, if we were neglected and bore all the bombardment from Soviet territory, we did however keep our patience. But now we had to come in Peshawar and have to knock at every door for donations because our people are facing acute shortage of food." This was stated by Noman, incharge of one of the clinics in Qadis district, Badghis province related to Jamiat Islami Afghanistan in an interview with a correspondent of AIC on coming to Peshawar on November 20.
 He added:
      In addition to the famine, the prevalence of locust and Sinn pest has threatened the agriculture in this province. 85 % of the this year’s crops in five districts was destroyed by these noxious pests. At the moment 350,000 of the population in this province are threatened by famine and acute shortage of food. If relief food is not sent this year to the local people mony will surely die of starvation and malnutrition and probably many will have to migrate. The comparison of the prices are a good indicator of the present situation:
 commodities          the price in  1988          in 1989
 wheat-7kg              600 Afs        '         1500 Afs
 ghee-can                 4000 "                 8000   "
 potatoes(7kgs)         700   "                  .1400  "
 onions-7kgs •             560 "                 1400   "
 beef-1 kg              300   "                   600
 mutton-lkg             400   "                   850   "
8
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Locusts emerge in the beginning of the spring and attack the fields later. Without having equipment and the necessary chemicals, controlling the pest seems impossible. People fight the pests with instruments in hand. They attack the grounds or dig holes in the ground to combat this dreaded pest but none of the effort is effective to control it.
      Though we are in a better situation new militarily and only the centres of Qadis and Jawand districts are in the hands of the government and all the tribes live as brothers, the bombardment and shelling from the Soviet Union cause many casualties among the civilians in this province. In addition to the bombardment mines are the principal enemy of the civilians.
 Unfortunately so far no tangible measure has been taken to demine the area. The areas close to the Soviet borders are completely mined and impossible for walking and cultivation.
      Concluding his assertions, the director of theclinic gave the following list of prices and the comparison of the two years:
 Relief Workers Killed
      In the last three months four of the workers from the relief organisations in Afghanistan have been killed. This reveals that working inside Afghanistan has become extremely risky. Three workers from DAACAR, VITA and Handicap International committees have been
sugar-7kg soap-a bar egg (one)
800 " 100 ” 10 " 20 " 1000 " 300  "
1200
150
20
40
1500
1200
bread-a loaf chicken-a piece kerosine-a gallon
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
 killed in different regions in different times, the latest incident was the death of Shah Mohammad Bazgar.
      Shah Mohammad Bazgar was bom into an influential and rich family in Kama district of Nangarhar province. He ended his higher education in France. His efforts for the Afghan cause were admirable. He spent most of his time in Afghanistan working with the agriculture. He has written a book about the Afghan jehad by the name of La Resistance au coeur Afghanistan. It was published in French in 1986.
      Shah Mohammad Bazgar from 1985 worked for the two French institutions Solidarity Afghanistan and AFRANE in agricultural affairs in Kandahar.
      Sayed Fazluddin Agha, a commander of Mahaz Milli who has been working with Bazgar for five years said "The car carrying Bazgar and his entourage towards Kandahar was ambushed near Kandahar city. Bazgar and his three companions were killed.
                             *** *** ***
   t4                                                                       •
 '-i
                                     10
                             SITUATION REPORTS
INTERVIEW WITH A C0M4ANDER FROM KHUGIANI
     The chief commander of Mahaz division in Khugiani ( Ningarhar), Abdul Majid, a graduate of the Economics Faculty of Kabul University, describes the situation in this district of Nangarhar province by saying:     In the
long battle of the Afghans with the super power, the irrigation system has been substantially damaged and the villages and towns raced to the ground by the savage land and air bombardment.
     Due to the lack of sufficient water and manpower the farmers can only cultivate part of their land in this mountainous district where arable land is scarce. Lack of improved seeds and fertilizer and the high prices for essential communities has caused the immigration of village people. People used to be employed in other sectors as well, but no more. Aside from these problems, the social, health, educational and agriculture services that were rendered in the past by the government cannot be found nowadays. Markets and workshops that used to provide recreation for the people and bring a livelihood for shop people no longer exist. The prices are very high and inflation is out of control.
     All the above reasons contribute to the widespread planting of poppies in the area. The political organizations also have their share in this highly profitable business. With the protection and patronage of some influential people heroin making units have been installed. One remedy could be condemnation by the ulema for the act of cultivation.
                                      11
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
       Agriculture here also faces the lack of draught animals (oxen). A pair of the oxen costs something between 250,000 to 300,000 Afghanis, (previously only 15-20 thousand). Another problem is the lack of tractors and other mechanical means to substitute for traditional implements.
      A jerib of land sown in wheat can fetch only 40,000 Afghanis while the same area cultivated with poppies will earn from 200,000 to 300,000. To avoid the cultivation of this dreaded plant, people should be offered feasible alternatives. Assistance from international organizations is urgent, but misuse of the funds earmarked for curbing the cultivation of the poppies in programmes elsewhere is also a stumbling block for the total erratically of this business.
      One thing that is extraordinary is the regrcwth of the forest in Khugiani unlike the rest of the country. Here the forests are preserved on the bases of tribal oaths. Selling and transfer of the wrood is forbidden by the tribal elders. They supervise the protection of the forest and hire men for this purpose. People are allowed only to take out dried wood when it is needed. But the areas under control of the party organizations have suffered somewhat.
      Three large tribes reside in the area: Shirzad, Kharboni and Wazir. The Shirzad tribe resides in Marakkhil, Toto and Kodikhil, while the Kharboni in Zawa and the Wazir in Wazir valley.
      A unique tradition existed in the area for guarding the forests against enforcement. Guardmen (Kekhi, or Qaraqul) used to be employed by the government by consent of the people. ’Their salary was paid from the fines levyed by the tribes or from each harvest they were paid in kind. The surplus money from the fines was used in cleaning the irrigation canals, repairing of the mosques and other public utility services.
                                      12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Nobody is allowed to break the live branches. If someone needed logs for building houses, the tribe allowed him to cut a fixed quantity. The same Was true for fuel wood. This regulation is supposed to be observed in all three valleys. Only in Wazir valley the party rather than the elders have the authority to use the forests. The internal differences among factions in the resistance have caused serious damage to the forests. They only levy tax on the use and transfer of the timber.
     NO significant rehabilitation work has been done in Khugiani area. The only noticeable project is the fortification of a canal and a dam in Kodikhil where Afghan Aid Association has started the job. The engineering work of the project has been entrusted to Mohammad Enam Wak probably sponsored by the UN agencies. Other ditches, canals and streams have not been considered.
     The inproved seeds and chemical fertilizer sent to Khugiani has not been sufficient or properly distributed. Last month some consignment were sent tc Kodikhil and was distributed to some influential and partially sold in the black markets for 2500 Afghanis pei bag that later sold for 5000 Afghanis. This corruptior has angered the people.
     Another serious problem is the embargo on transportation of goods on the Shinwar-Peshawar road which is imposed by the eastern zone mujahideen on the: pretext that it supplies Jalalabad city. Inspite of the embargo some goods are permitted to go through. When someone goes to Peshawar for shopping many families hand him money to bring supplies for them saving cost and time.
     The health situation of the region also deserves some attention. The clinics operation in the area are set up by the relief organisations, among them the
                                       ' 13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
  German-Afghan Committee which built three these centres five years ago are rendering valuable services for the need. The clinics function in Shirzad and Kharboni areas. Clinics also operate in Marakikhil, Kodikhil and Zawa valleys and one was newly built in the Wazir region. Hezbe Island, has set up a clinic in Kaga.
      Some shortcomings existed in the educational affairs of the area. There are some primitive schools in the primary level and sane religious schools. They are financed and looked after by the Afghan Interim Government Education Centre.. The schools include Shahid Mohammad Anwar primary school with 100-120 students, the Musafer Shahid primary school with an enrolment of 200, Loya Termai with 60 to 70 student, and Warisar with 100 students.
      In Rishki there is a primary school with 25 students. Some of the schools could not receive the teachers salaries but mujahideen have shifted funds from other schools. Two madrasas are also functioning: one in Markikhilo with 25 to 30 students and the other in Nawkarkhil where 60 pupils study. Probably some other schools are als*' functional in some other parts.
      But still all these schools are not sufficient to meet the need of the students. In all the years of war unfortunately most of the young generation of the country have been deprived of the virtue of literary. Afghans appeal to the friendly nations to help in educating the new generation of the country.
      In the first days of November, the base of Jamilurahman of the Wahhabi party in Patela area of Khugiani waS looted by the mujahideen of other organisations. A quantity of food and ammunition was taken.
                              14
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
It has been decided that in Mamakhil a mujahideen council to be set up.
     Representation would be based in accordance with the number of the members and military capability of the organisations. But the plan has not been undertaken yet.
It is a good start and could restore order and law in the area and lessen the arguments. Hopefully, sincerely and cooperation previal here and the enemy will be defeated.
This can also solve many of the people's problems.                ,.s
Commander Abdul Majid has pinpointed the following problems,:
     -interference by the foreigners including friends of the Afghan Jehad internal affairs including ideological, political, economic and military,
-not granting the self-determination right to the people, -indifference of the leaders to the national interests,
-economic and military aids to the warring sides,
-not paying attention to views and aspirations of people.
     To achieve a swift restoration of normality in the country, these problems have to be tackled first. It means that Afghans should be granted the right for self-determination who could decide in accordance to their Islamic beliefs and form a stable government - able to restore peace and security in the country. After this the people would have time to rebuild their devastated land. The United Nations could have a positive role in bringing an end to the war and prepare the ground for a free and fare polling. Indifference and negligent could further destroy our homeland.
SITUATION IN JAIALABAD:
      A traveller who returned on November 18. from Jalalabad city, described the situation here as following:    The   city  comes  under  mujahideen  rocket
attacks every so often. Some of the rockets hit the military or the government installations but some times
                             15
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 19S9
            civilian residential quarters as well. Most of the people prefer to remain at their dealing places and have built hideous to protect themselves from the rocket shelling.
                 The regime is on alert to prohibit the headway of mujahideen toward the city. Foodstuff and fuel are stocked in special sterilises to lessen the pressures of the previous winters. The regime tries hard to forties <'          the security  belts around  the city.  Tanks and artillery
            units are entranced in the ground to guard the security posts and the belt surrounding the city; only their barrels are visible which are targetted toward mujahideen positions.
                 The paths and              avenues leading to the city are
            heavenly mined. There is venomous propaganda against mujahideen always on the air to define the resistance and keep people far apart. Getting out of Jalalabad is very risky. Only a few families would be able to pass government check points which are heavenly gaurded.
                 Manokai Mangal who was summoned to          Kabul      has
            returned. The moment he arrived in the. city he called his     supporters and advised    them to make      tight the
            security and their hold on the city by promising them material assistance.     It is  learned that a caravan is
            coming and going night from the highway to Kabul. The regime has mobility between 10 to 12 thousand armed men to rebuff the assault by the mujahideen.
                 The highway between Kabul-Jalabad' is guarded by the Gilam Jam militia who number upto 2500 on the route. The chief of the militia, Dustam, lives in Kabul. People are tormented by the very .existence of the militia. People are robbed of their personal belongings by members of the militia when passing the highway. It has been known that sometimes even women are taken from the buses and kidnapped.
                                          16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          These days the militia are undisciplined. There is one story of an unfortunate girl which is recollected every where. She used to wear men's garments and go back and forth on the highway. This was learnt by the militia. They took her from abus and vanished for ten days. Afterwards,she was brought to the Nangarhar University Hospital . She is still in this hospital.
          The inhuman conduct of the militia conpelled the people and even the government supporters to complain to the higher organs of the regime. To assess the situation a military deception was conposed of five officers-two coolness and three major. The Gilam Jam militia severely beat the officers and let them free only after the interruption of Dustam, their ringleader.
          Arriving at Kabul they cried for reddress and avenue, nobody listened. The regime is taking good care of Gilam Jam for they are dogging for security of the highway.
          A rumour was heared in Jalalabad that Dustam would come to Jalalabad and be assigned to take the security and prevent the possible attack of Mujahideen on the city. His mission would be to expand the security belt around the city and also to launch attacks on Mujahideen positions.
          The high rising prices in the city have placed people in a very serious situation. Only the very close relatives of the regime supporters have all the privileges. They loot government properties and amaze a huge sum of money through bribery and selling of public properties. From the fortunes they make they set up large stores and place their relatives in them.
     Rate of some essential committee in the city:
     - seven kg of wheat flour 1600 Afs.
                                 17
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
-Slim rice              7 kg             2600 II      
-Common rice         II          1800 to 2000 II      
-Potatoes            II                   300 VI      
(the reason for low price is     the harvest season)  
-Onion               II                   150 II      
-Firewood            II             160 - 200 VI      
-Muttc-              1 kg                1125 It      
-Beaf                VI                   675 •1      
-Green tea           n              1800-2000 •1      
-Black tea           it             1600-1800 •I      
-Sugar               ••                   330 •1      
- a large can of ghee(16-17kgs)   8000 - 9000 II      
- an egg                                   50 It      
- a loaf of bread                          25 n       
- a gallon of petrol                     1200 n       
- a gallon of kerbs                 800 - 900      tt 
SAMARKHIL, November 17
                   After retaking Samarkhil, the regime tried hard to regain the Samarkhil mountain which at the moment is in the hands of mujahi teen and is an important point. For this end the regime launched several attacks. A dominate point here was taken over by the government as a result of ignorance by mujahideen. Mujahideen started their attacks to retake this which they achieved. In the operation two mujahideen were killed and one wounded by a mine.
                   On November 18, the regime launched a sudden attack '          and once again took the point. After a pause by
             mujahideen they were able to take it once again on ,i,i         November  20. They also captured four of the regime
             soldiers. The regime forces are heavily borrbing the resistance positions around Jalalabad city and villages in Shinwar and Khugiani districts. Scud and Uragon missile shelling have also intensfied. That has resulted in
                                         18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     losses among civilians. In the month of November more than 30 casualties have been reported.
          Some families have left for Pakistan due to the shelling. The Kabul-Jalalabad highway that was blocked for a brief period of time by Mujahideen, has remained open due to the regime. In other parts of the city other than sporadic shelling of the rocket and artillery no major offensive can be traced.
     Interview with a member of the Mujahideen Education Department:
     Pahlawan who is the member of the Education Ministry of the Interim Government, in the beginning of Novenber visited Rodat, Haski Mini and Khugiani (districts) of Nangarhar province. Returning to Peshawar he dwelt on the situation in these areas:
          One of the major problems the people face is the insecurity in these districts. People are longing to live in peace and tranquility. The common people want a government without the participation of Parchamis and Khalqis and to be controlled by Afghan Muslims and guaranteed a peaceful life.
          In the very days we stayed in Khugiani district a vehicle was blownup by a mine. Ten persons died and 6 others were wounded in the incident. Beside dai’y bombardment of the area scud missiles are also fired.
          Agriculture was going on in the districts but by traditional methods. The harvest were not bad. Tomatoes were good this year but since there was no way to market them in Jalalabad most of the crop was spoiled. . So, people were compelled to cultivate poppies.     People are
     admitting the case but saying that as long as necessities are not provided they had to cultivate the plant.
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
               The prices are as follows:     Seven kg  of wheat  500
          Afs., seven kg of rice 500 Afs., seven kg of com 400 Afs., a meal 250 Afs.
               The interesting thing was that no foodstuff was permitted to enter through Torkham to Afghanistan. But meanwhile, foodstuff and even precious stones were freely entering to Pakistan at least with a changed route.
               There is grave need for schools in the liberated areas. Two schools are functional in Rodat. Each one had 160 students. One school was in Haski Mina and the other in Khugiani. The Alawnul Island which is an Arabic Organisation wanted to establish madrasas in the area. In some places such madrasas are already established. To encourage the parents, the organisation has agreed to pay some financing helps to the parents. The same thing was done by the Ahle Hadith organisation.
               No tangible war was going on in Jalalabad. Some of the mujahideen had made the decision to launch an attack on the city.
            Some of the commodities are transferred to the city secretly.
          NEW REFUGEE IN PESHAWAR
                   In the begioing of November some 250 families from Kolman valley, Alingar district of Laghman province emigrated to Pakistan. The correspondent of the AIC visited the refugees who live in the open on wet ground without having smallest protection in this chilly nights of Peshawar. .
               None of the seven parties nor the relief agencies rushed for their help though they have enormous possibilities at hand. Our people left their dewelling places under the influence of the heavy bombardment and the economic difficulties that we have encountered for
20
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         several years. While able to speak non of the official Afghan languages and only Pashai their local tongs, they said:   120 more of the families from our region are now
         living in the open air in Mo'nmand agency without receiving the slightest help from any organisation. The children are suffering acute diseases if not rescued probably most of them will die.
              The settlement of the refugees was pursued by the ATC and the result came in:     They are now stationed in
         the camp of Khost and aided by (Operation SALAM and UNHCR. The camp is located 40 kms from Nawshahra.
         INTERVIEW WITH A MEDICAL OFFICER:
              Maj. Abdul Shakoor, who works a medical staff in the jehad fronts in Farza and Kohdaman of Estalif sub district, in an interview with AIC said:
              Farza and Estalif which are located in North eastern part of Kabul city at the moment are under the control of Mujahideen and the government has no influence in the area.
              In Farza Jamiat mujahideen are prominent.
              He commented on the health problems in Farza, and said:  I am a military officer but I have experience as
         a paramedical practioner and as* there is a lack of professional doctors, I work as a doctor. In all eleven years of jehad, the people in Farza have not received any help from any source be it party organisations or any international relief organisation.
              The people secure their needed medicine from bazaars in Kabul and Charikar cities which is expensive; The mujahideen and the civilians die of the slightest injuries due to the lack of health facilities. Very seldom people can transfer the wounded to Peshawar due to the high price and the distance.
                                      21
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
                Most often they die unfortunately. Inspite of all these difficulties other common diseases such as dysentry, diarrhoea, jaundice, typhus are the main causes of children’ deaths.
                Agriculture lands are destroyed as a result of bombardment. They have become uneven and the boundaries mixed up. But here the vineyards still exist. This year there were plenty of grapes in the area but the regime did not let people carry the fruit to the local bazaars. This added to the peoples' problem. We procure wheat and flour from the Parwan province and even from Kabul city but cladestinely against high prices. Some of the commodities are sold at the following prices:
           -  a large can of oil ghee 8000   Afs,
           -  seven kgs of wheat        1600 Afs,
           -  a kg of sugar              600 Afs,
           -  a kgs of tea              1600 Afs,
                Although onions and potatoes are grown in this locality since the seeds and the care for the crop is very expensive the prices of these crops remain high.
                He was asked of unity among mujahideen, he answered: The unity is not stable and permanent. Over-anbition among the factions for power sometimes causes clashes. They have little understanding between them.
                Elucidating* on the situation of the education, he said:  In each village and town in the local mosques in
           Farza education takes place. In each mosques about 50 to sixty students attend the classes. They are only taught religious education. No aid is available for the people in schooling affairs. The salaries of the teachers is given by the parents of the children. Each of the teachers are paid 3000 Afs. Of late some of the organisations have promised to send some teaching materials.
                                       22
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
            Abdul Shakoor has come to Peshawar through Logar province, he explained the situation of the road:
       When on my way to Peshawar, a tense fighting was going on in Duranny between different factions of Jamiat and Etehad. Meanwhile, the regime was shelling the disputed area with heavy artillery and missiles. The way leading through Logar also comes under constant air attack by the regime.
      INTERVIEW WITH KOH-E-SAFI COWANDER:
            Maj. Khan Mohammad, chief commander of National Islamic Front in Koh Safi spoke about the situation in the Kabul city:
            The Regime has intended to widen the security belt and to use the local people for forming tribal units and garrison. In some instances the plan has been executed to some degree and vast possibilities have been put at the disposal of some people in these localities.
            Meanwhile, the mujahideen bases which are out of the control of the regime are under constant bombardment of the regime. The enemy uses BM 21, BM 13, Ubus/ Oragon and Mig'planes to bomb the areas. It also bomb from high altitudes. It is known that the regime is busy installing the launchers in Mazare Sharif to hit the suburbs of Kabul city. The suburbs could not be hit from Kabul. The Koh Safi are bombed daily. The regime has fortified its troops in the area by about 50 per cent.
            In the bombardment some of the heaviest bombs are used. They explode before hitting the ground and each part turns to several bombs and each one destroys a different place.
            The Regime tries hard to establish contacts with the commanders around Kabul and wants to convince them to support the Kabul regime.
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
                 The area under the control of the regime is on the north from Khairkhan pass, on the south to Pul - e -Chakari and Khordkabul, on the east to Mahiper and Pule Charkhi.
                 The Kabul-Salang high way route has been changed for some time now. The former route passed through Qarabagh and Saraykhwaja and Khairkhan. This path has been blocked by the regime. To refrain from attacks by mujahideen a new road has been constructed to connect Bagram to Dehsabz. Mujahideen are trying to block this way also. Since it is located in the plane area, its blocked will cost many lives for the mujahideen.
                 This year, the local people        on the old way
            requested the government for the opening of the way. The Regime has forwarded its conditions. It is thought that the people did not agree, so the road remained blocked. As a result alot of the fruit harvest of this year was lost.The people are complaining against the government for damaging their economy.
                 The Regime has stocked foodstuff but only those working in the military or intelligence can benefit or anyone of the high ranking officials in the party and state.
                 The rest pf the people are comforted with grave shortage of foodstuff.
                 Mujahideen carried out sane successful operations on the regime caravans in Baghlan, Samangan, Kapisa, Parwan and Kabul provinces and the regime has suffered considerably. Mujahideen are trying to keep Kabul under pressure for if the capital is weak the provinces will not resist and destablize. The Kabul regime is now bombing heavily the villages around Kabul which are not under the control of the regime and bring the pretext as if they are supporting mujahideen and thus depopulate the area of locals.
                                      24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           Most of the people had to leave their villages under pressure from the regime. Most of the villages have been turned to ruins. Schools, hospitals and houses have been destroyed. In Dehsabz most of the orchards have turned dry. The irrigation system has suffered substantially. Lack of a labour force is also a rain reason for the collapse of agriculture around Kabul province.
           At the moment almost half of the villages in Dehsabz district are occupied by its residents.                The
      Bakhteiaran, Tarakhil, Wotkhil, Paymonar, Deh Yahia are among the villages were the regime has formed tribal units this year. Most of the residents in these villages have some connection with the mujahideen. They report the day to day happening to the mujahideen and render necessary assistance to the resistance.
           After the evacuation of the Russian forces, the mujahideen have not returned to the area because life is abnormal there and no possibilities for living are available for them. Mujahideen have not banned the return of the emigrants to the area. They are happy with the return of the people. Because they are the very people who render assistance to the mujahideen. But, the refugees are reluctant to return for the following reasons:
      - the combination of bombardment by the regime;
      - war is going on between the regime and mujahideen;
      - mines are planted by the regime everywhere;
      - the irrigation system has been damaged substantially;
      - the land has turned to wasteland;
      - the emmigration has caused lack of man power for rebuilding the area;
      - no attention has been paid for the reconstruction and rehabilitation in the Koh Sax. and Dehsabz areas. Lack
     "of seed, fertilizer, tractors and other necessary items the land remained uncultivated. No houses are available for the people to reside in.
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
                 There are no educational programmes in the area. There are some facilities for the students in Tagab district to educate students but only in religious studies. Besides this, there should also be some facilities for modern science. It is difficult at the moment to undertake comprehensive programmes for the students. No initiation has been demonstrated by the people to build their own schools or others. It is an urgent task to provide facilities for the students to study, otherwise many of them will remain illiterate. The relief agencies should help in this connection. Primary and secondary schools are needed in the area.
                 Beside the educational facilities health requirements also deserve attention. So far no clinic is operation in the area to render health services. Only first aid could be given to the orthopodic patients by the graduates of the health courses and still only on a limited scale.
                 The Koh Safi mujahideen are faced with economic problems. They buy goods at very high prices. The area possess strategical importance for the mujahideen. The Regime has suffered enough from the mujahideen of this area. Mujahideen can shell the Kabul international airport, Bagram airfield and Garrison 4 and 15 from this point.
                 Also, the- military academy, the Mahiper hydropower plant, the Technic Academy, Naghlo hydropower plant' and the high way to Jalalabad are under the influence from Koh Safi. This is why the regime has tried always to hit the area with different weapons and air bombed the whole area.
                 The Mujahideen in their turn carefully launch their operations against the regime installations and cause heavy and serious damages to the regime. Mujahideen are always trying not to damage the civilians. Non of our rockets are intentionally fired towards them.
                                        26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Probably technical problems may cause some misfiring. If they hit the wrong places or the the people are. killed they are angry. They know that this is missed by the regime.
            There is unity among the Koh Safi mujahideen from the inception of jehad. They conduct joint operations. Once, commander Malang, from Hezbe Island, did some unnecessary things. The chief commander at Koh Safi the late Mawlawi Saifullah requested the commander to refrain from such conduct but he insisted. The local mujahideen declared a fight against him and he had to join hands with the regime when the Russians were still present in Afghanistan. He committed many atrocities in the Dehsabz and Koh Safi areas.
            When the Russians started to retreat he once again referred to Hekmatyar and again become a commander. In Koh Safi all organisations except Hezb are present. The conduct of Malang caused Hezb to retreat from the area.
            This year the Koh Safi mujahideen attacked cm several posts and units some examples are cited here:
            In July last the Garrison 4 and IS, Kabul International Airport came under the attack of Mujahideen. In the operations three planes were destroyed and tens of regime supporters were killed in these military instalations.
      In August last the Dehsabz security belt was attacked, five posts were annihilated, 2PK machinguns, 20 klashnikovs, 3 rocket launchers and two mortars were recovered.
            In this month 122 mm missiles numbering 40 hit the airport. It burned for eight hours. Some of the depots were destroyed by strong explosions and by catching fire.
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
           The explosions shook Kabul city. In Dehsabz in the Katakhil area another attack was launched. Ten klashnikovs, one PK and seven soldiers were caught. In the last days of October six posts were destroyed. They were located in Zhawary, Waraghakh, Dandsar, Abdaki, Giro, Minaighakh. In this operation five were killed and 38 soldiers and 3 officers were captured.
                Meanwhile, 41 klashnikovs, 4 PKs, 3 rocket launchers, one mortars, two granade launchers along wit 1500 shells and a large quantity of foodstuff were confiscated by mujahideen. The operation was carried out by Khan Mohammad, Abdul Raouf, Ajabgul and Abdul Hakim who commended it. Some of the mujahideen related to Abdul Rapif and Abdul Hakim were martyred and six others wounded in this operation.
               Major Khan Mohammad expressed his view concerning the Mujahideen Interim Government and said:    All people
          in Afghanistan took active part in Jehad and no one could monopolize the honours to their group. Therefore, they should have the right to determine their future freely. In forming this government even the outstanding mujahideen commanders were not consulted. There should be instead/ another government elected to represent the people.         (
                Not letting others share the power and usurping the power has some dreadful consequences. This is what, the regime in Afghanistan faces now. The government which has not the support and love of the people will gradually diminish and could not be responsive to the peoples8 demands.
             The list of prices in Kabul -Wheat flour              7 Kg
          -Rice                     "
          -Plump rice
          -Muton
          -Beef
city:
     1800 Afs. * 3000  "
2000-2500   "
     6000 " 4500   "
                                                18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
-Beans                  II         3000 
-Onions                 II          300 
-Potatoes               II          300 
(the two above are   cheap due  to it t 
season)                                 
-Barley                 tl         1000 
-a large can of ghee    10,000 to 12000 
-Green tea             1 kg        3000 
-Black tea              ••         2800 
-Sugar                   n          500 
-a bath soap (Dove)                 500 
-a chicken                   1800-2000  
-an egg                           30-40 
-a calf                          80,000 
-a goat *                         25000 
KUNAR, November
         The Mujahideen Interim Government announced the appointment of Mohammad Ali, member of Jamiat which is also a menber of the Seven Party Alliance in Asadabad as the governor for Kunar. For the time being a committee was formed by the Alliance and the Wahhabi to appoint only one governor here.
         The councils functioning in the province were informed through the radio and posters hung on the walls in this province. While rejecting the new appointment they agreed to accept the former governor Molvi Gholam Rabbani who belonged to Jamiat as the joint governor and the Wahhabi assistant governor as his assistant. Other organisational appointments still continue.
     FOREST PROTECTION IN KUNAR PROVINCE::
         There used to be separate tribal oath taking to
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
           protect the natural forests in Kunar province. Thus, nobody dared to cut or destroy the forests. Whoever did so faced severe fines or some other punishment. The local people used timber sufficient to build their houses only. Trading of timber was forbidden. The oath taking preserved their force until the advent of the April coup de'etat and even the government supported the tribal decisions.
                 The forests of the country have suffered some destruction due to the war. Meanwhile, some areas have been cleared and brought into Pakistan by the smugglers. The tribals feared for the complete destruction and renewed their fining procedures and the oath taking but nobody is willing to follow this.
                 It has been known that the offenders when tried had some relatives who mediated in their release. They went without any punishment or even a fine. The tribes are grieved over this indifference. The councils try hard to belittle the. importance and the influence of the tribal jirgahs.
                 The timber traders have invested a sum of over 30 million Rs. buying standing trees. The timber is exported via different routes out of Kunar province. Once the tribal Jergah (council) of 200 men of Asmar district stopped the smuggling of tinber. According to the tribal decision they wanted to burn the timber and fine smugglers.
                 But the shura of Kunar intervened by arresting the smugglers and 5 tribal elders. They released the tribal elders and told them that it was non of their business to punish 'the smugglers. Later on the smugglers, because of some relation with the menbers of the shura were released unpunished and the tribal decision was not respected. Some time ago, some of the Pakistan timber merchants from Dir called for the continuation of the timber trade and transportation.
30
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       They threatened that if the trade is prohibited they would equally prohibit the emigrants’ businesses in their localities.
            It has been stated that several hundred thousand trees have been cutdown in Kunar province. The clearance of forests intensified after the completing of a bridge over Kunar river in Barikot. If the present scale of denudation is continued for longer, it will be a great crime against the Afghan nation. This question of demonstration should be taken up by the International Agencies and the Afghan Interim Government who should be very careful which projects and whom they support for fear of encouraging the destruction.
            Forests are not the only estate to be worried about. In Paktia as well as Kunar all the vehicles, tractors, tanks, armoured personnel carriers, buldozers and heavy weapons which were left behind by the regime and the Soviet in the centre and districts were looted by profiteers and sold as      mere scrap metal.    The sound
       vehicles were tom down to parts and then sold as the scrap metal first 50 Rs. per seven kgs and later 250 of the same amount. The captured tanks were sold in the begining for 20-30 thousand but now the price is higher-80,000 Rs. In Paktia province it is reported that since the Tani road has been opened for use by mujahideen metal roof beams, windows, doors and any other material from government buildings to     sell  on the black   market in
       Pakistan. It is said that at least 50 tonnes have arrived in Miram Shah,       one  border town     in north
       Waziristan Agency in only one day.
            Agriculture is some how revised. Some 70 per cent of taie arab land now could be cultivated where the danger of mines are not felt.       The  people who enphases to
       Pakistan prior to the liberation of Kunar province could cultivate their lands but they are short of seeds and fertilizer that the relief organisations distribute in the area.
                                        31
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
             Only the relatives of the commanders are able to have a share in those assets. Because of the lack of proper organisation the real owners of the land who live in refugee camps in Pakistan are not informed in time. Lack of security (administration and protection) is another problem hindering the          normalization    of
        agriculture here. Economic reasons are also behind the the slew pace of removal.
             These land holders who lived in the region and left the area after the liberation of the province have no right to cultivate their land.         Instead they are
        cultivated and harvested by the organisations themselves. Corruption in reconstrution and lack of interest for national property is the ocrcmon phenomenon.
        INTERVIEW WITH TRIBAL MAN
             Three years ago when the regime was controlling Barikot, the Kabul government contacted Mirza Mohammad Jigaly who was originally a Pakistani and from Amavri. Khar (Arandu) which is a Pakistan border town opposite to Barikot. The Jigaly tribe that the man belonged to was famous for bribery and murder and were creating unrest in Pakistan and Afghanistan in the past.
             The Kabul government established contacts with Mirza Mohammad and sent him along with seme of his tribesmen to Kabul and there under the supervising of Ajmal Khatak, a dissident Pashtoon and Niaz Mohammad Mohmand, an outspoken menber of the PDPA, he prepared himself and returned to Asmar where a group of his tribesmen militia was formed. A lot of money and arms were put at their disposable, in this way the Jigaly tribe undertook the security of Asmar.
             bhen the regime was defeated in KUnar and the tribe was still there, some of the mujahideen commanders
                                    32
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          reached a compromise with these people and stationed them in the centre of Nary subdistrict. While the people of Mar ay,      who are Khoistani (speaking their own
          language) and were sympathisers of the Kabul regime, under heavy pressure from Mujahideen,          instead of
          submitting to the Mujahideen of 7 parties joined the Nooristan Independent Front in 1981. But their lands which were considered very fertile re controlled and cultivated by the resistance organisations.
               Later on some commanders because of taking vengeance from the people of Nary (who live as refugees in Chitral) transferred the Jigalies to Nary. When stationed in the area they were aided by some commanders of different parties in terms of arms and other goods. The Jiglies brought the rest of their families from Pakistan and gradually increased their influence and later reckoned themselves as the sole and legitimate owners of the Nary area. Meanwhile, they reorganised their contacts with the Kabul regime. The emigrants from the area that cure living mostly in Chitral in a place called Daroush could not go to their region to benefit their lands. They took active part in Jehad in order to compensate for their previous mistakes.
               The Jiglies have created security problems in the area. They are behind the deforestation of the valuable forests and the subsequent selling of the timber in Pakistan together with local businessmen.
               On the other hand they are active militantly and create some problems for those passing by particularly the original inhabitants of Nary, and even fire heavy weapons on Arandu and cause some human loss among Pakistani civilians. Sometime ago • the Arando people demonstrated and claimed that their region is being shelled from inside Afghanistan. They say that in the course of Afghan jehad we have suffered alot but still remained loyal to the mujahideen. In a resolution they strongly appealed for the help of mujahideen to expel the
                                       33
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
      Jigalies from the area and put an end to their shelling on their residential areas.
           Otherwise, they warned that they would block the bridge newly built in Barikot on Kunar river connecting Pakistan and Afghanistan. On the other hand the original residents of Nary are willing to return to their ancestor land. Their houses and lands are mostly occupied by the Jiglies and partial Hisb-e-Islami. They could not dare come closer by their lands down to the Kunar Valley. Enmity is now emerging between these two people. Nary is situated about 15 kms from Barikot on the banks of the Kunar river.
           No individual can take action against them because such behaviour would be regarded as a personal offence. The Jealous are feared for their former reputation for sabatage and war, mothers' controlled their children using the name of the Jigales, and now no one will take on this tribe.
           Another matter that concerns all is the exploitation of the precious stones in Kunar province. When the war ceased in Kunar province the commanders and the traders after selling the destroyed army equipment and other materials as scrap metal, turned to the precious stones in the area. All the drilling units that were used for digging trendies cure new used for searching for precious stones. * They use explosives without any professional background. This causes heavy damages to the mines and is extensively practice all over Kunar province.
                    .         URDZGAN :
           From the time the areas under the control of the regime have been liberated by the Mujahideen no aid has been given to the locals in this province.
                                  34
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
              This was stated by Abdul Qodous Erfani, one of the Mahaz cxxmanders in Ur agon province in his interview with the AIC correspondent.
              Previously agriculture and economic assistance were given to the area. But now inspite of many requests no such aid could be traced by the relief organisations. People are threaten by the prevalence of various diseases.
              He explained the situation of jehad in Afghanistan and said:
              Jehad has taken other forms after the departure of the Russian forces from Afghanistan. Mujahideen are fighting reluctantly with no zeal. The reason for this could be the very bad economic conditions in the area.
              What prospects do you see for the future of Afghanistan?
         He said:
              In my opinion, all the people of Afghanistan should get together and elect a person to be acceptable for all. He can govern over people be it Zahir Shah or anyone.
         He was asked about the cultivation of poppies in the province, he answered:
              Poppies prefer a warm climate vhere it can thrive veil. T>iererore, this plant is only grown in the centre where there is a suitable climate for cultivation. But the transfer of the drug takes place through this province and also through Kandahar and Helmand province to Pakistan and then to other countries.
         Personally I am against this dreaded plant, cultivation and the trade ofthis deadly drug is contrary to the
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
             teaching of the holy religion of Islam.
                  Mussa Khan and Jan Mohammad Khan influential commanders of Tirinkot capital of Uruzgan and members of Etehad (Sayaf) left the area on 20th November and came to AIC on Nov. 30th. They discribed the situation in Urzgan as follows:
                  "One month ago Mujahideen under the command of Jan Mohammad Khan attacked a regime security post in Tirinkot. As the post was located very closed to the regime headquarters it was besieged by the regime troops. After heavy fighting 21 Mujahideen died and 12 were wounded. The regime losses were 67 killed including Nader the Police commander, Saif and Atiqullah Khad, assistants and 4 Khad activests captured. The prisoners were exchanged later on with 21 dead bodies of mujahideen which remained in the post."
                  Hie commanders said that during the last 15 months heavy fighting has started in Urzgan and the Mujahideen are so close to the rigime positions that we are throwing grenades on each other. The regime is unable to use the airport, so they supply their besieged troops by air drops .Some times the parasites fall in Mujahideen controlled areas.
                  Commander Jan Mohammad said that these mujahideen have captured.            40 parachutes so far.   In those
             parachuts there were silo bread , wheat flour , rice , cooking oil , vegetable and ammunition for heavy and small arms and the most interesting thing was white cotton for death shrouds.
                  A soldier who defected to the mujahideen said that in one of parachutes which fell in the middle of Tirinkot city            there were 250 million Afghanis .
             According to detector from Tirinkot 550 soldiers and officers were killed in the last 15 months while
                                           36
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bui tin
    mujahideen lost 300. In Tirinkot there are 720 families and 3,000 soldiers . The families with the mujahideen are well kept and provided with assistance and enjoy tribal protection .
         The commander said that in Dragon there are two Shuras based on the tribal system . The Durrani Shura and the Hotak - Tokhi Shura . The commanders said, that mujahideen are identified according to tribes not parties . The also said that Urozgan province have no refugees in Pakistan but many displaced people.
         About the agriculture they added that most of the irrigation is by Karez that are partially destroyed by war have not been cleaned during the war. The main canals like Canal Khakbad, Garm Aab and Torin have been destroyed by the war. In the last 15 months of war a very long canal which was irritating the area in the centre of the province was sealed by the regime which resulted in damage to orchards and agriculture this year
         The main agriculture production of Urozgan are Potatoes , rice, almonds and            apricots.    These
    productions have been damaged from lack of water and proper transportation becuase of the destruction .of the roads.That is why people are not able to cultivate large tracts of land.
       1/3 of the farms are cultivated by poppies becuase it needs less water and gives a large income.
         The commanders listed the price of conmodities as follow .•
Weat   1 Seer  400 Afg. 
Corne  II      300  II  
Potato •I      350  It  
Beef   •I     1700  It  
37
No. 104
Ninth Year
November 1989
Lanp "                            3000 
Tea                              10000 
Suger "                           1200 
Almond "                   1200 - 3000 
Dry Apricot                        800 
Cheken                     1000 - 1500 
Egg §                               20 
Soap 1 pice                        120 
( 1 Seer =4,5 Kg in Southern provinces 
           KANDAHER ECONOMIC BLOCKADE ENDED:
                Kandahar is one of those provinces which kept its unity in the course of jehad and the reason behind this unity was the existence of the traditional ways among the resident tribes. This unity could not be broken by the Russians nor could the differences among mujahidin divide the people.
                When the Russians were present in Kandahar all the
           tribes were united but when the government ceased its
           intervention in the city, inter-tribal differences
           surfaced in this province. The real differences could
           not be traced among the tribes but among the mujahidin
           groups who transfered them to the tribes from outside.
           Up to now the people of Kandahar and.the local mujahidin
           had a joint council and its decision was obeyed by all
           parties. After the retreat of the Russians the council
           did not last long.
                     . •
                After that another council was formed dominated by the commanders of the resistance groups. The latter also did not last. When the centralized decision making terminated the blockade of the city began. Since different groups were functional in different areas of
                                        38
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 the city each individual group had its own policies which were.often quite different. At this time there were internal clashes between Hekmatyar and Rabani factions in Arghandab area.
       The internal clashes caused the transfer of the mujahidin from the premises of the Kandahar airport to Arghandab to become involved in the fighting there. The regime, exploiting the situation attacked the areas and recovered a large quantity of the arms of ammunitions belonged to the mujahidin in the area. The fighting which was among the different factions in the begining later penetrated the tribes. This was the reason that the regime was able to progress 18 kms into the areas that had been liberated with the blood of outstanding mujahidin in the past.
       The outcome              of the internal clashes were
 beneficial for the government. Now the blockade of the city is over and the armless mujahidin can go to the city and it is a good chance for the regime to exploit the situation.
       Another unfortunate incident was that insecurity spreaded in the areas under control of the mujahidin. The people living over there are afraid of one another. It was for this             reason that in the last days of
 Noveirber a commander of Etehad, Haqani, was wounded in Arghandab. His car was blown up by a mine planted in the road.    In this incident the driver of the car was
 killed.
***
*★*
***
                        SUFISM AND THE MODERN WORLD
      The man of knowledge is one who has knowledge about himself , not one who has only knowledge about his knowledge.
                    ***      ***    ***
      Bewilderment is a bird which leaves bits nest looking for food but does not find its way back .
                    ***      ***    ***
      I spend thirty years seeking God. In the end I realized that he was the   seeker  and I sought
                    ***      ***    ***
      I spend thirty years praying aloud . When I I* came silent I realized that the veil between God and me was my prayer.
                    ***      ***    ***
                                            From the book " Sufism and the Modern World " By Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh
***
***
***