  jVEi’GHAN TNFORMATION QENTRE
             MONTHLY BULLETIN
Nos.105-I 06    Ninth Year      Dec.89-Jan.1990
Photo: AMRC
    Address:   18E S.J.   Afghani Road,  University Town, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN
    PO Box: 228       —        Telephone:  40953      _        Telegram: AFIC
               The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
               1.        To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
               2.        To make this information ai/ailable in the form of articles, news bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
                 (a)  International news media,
                 (b)  Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
               The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
               The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
    Founder; Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor : Sayd Naim Majrooh
                          Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
Annual Subscription
Institutions       : US$  100
Individuals        : US$   70
or equivalent Pakistan Ruppe
THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
AFGHAN INFORMATION
C O
I
II
III
IV
V
CENTRE
Monthly Bullet: in
Nos.105-106
Dec.1989 - Jan.1990
N T E N T S :
    ADVERSARY OF THE SOVIET INVASION             1
    SITUATION IN AFGHANISTAN                     4
    AFGHANISTAN FROM THE VIEW POINTS OF AFGHANS 19 From the series of interviews with Radio rrc and VOA
    PDPA MEMBERS DEFECTED                       29
. HEZB COMMANDER EXECUTED                       42
***
***
***
                       ANNVERSARY OF THE SOVIET INVASION
      On December 27,    1979  the  Russian army invaded
 Afghanistan. This day is marked as a dark spot in the history of the country. But what is a more unhappy fact is the continuing existence of the communist regime which is the product of that invasion and is a major cause for the continuation of bloodshed.
      The Russian invasion of Afghanistan was a real tragedy which derailed the social order that was progressing toward a balanced growth. In the past ten years of misery not only was the country destroyed but the invasion created problems for the future. Besides having a hated regime imposedon them, the people now face the huge task of reconstructing a war torn country. More than one and half million of Afghans lost their precious lives and thousands have been maimed or handicaped. Who may care for all these cripples many of whom do not have close relatives to care for them. Thousands of orphaned children and widows are the achivment the of the "glorious Saur Revolution" and the invasion of the "fraternal Soviets".last year the Soviets said the had completed their international duty priod.Now the Soviet parlement has , itself , condemned the invasion .
      The Afghan economy was hit hard by the invasion. Agriculture, animal husbandry, and industry were devastated.The war has created a generation that has seen only war. Compared to all previous foreign invasions, the Russian one has had the most damaging impact on the social life of the people. The two main impacts have been:
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The Russians have created a group of politicians who prefer benefits for the invaders to that of their own country.
      This group of politicians is isolated from traditional Afghan society and culture which it is trying to destroy.Every colonial power has left problems for the countries they have left behind.               In   today's
 Afghanistan although the Russians is gone their legacy— the war— is still raging; the divide and rule principle is working; tribal order has been replaced by rampant individualism which nowruies over affairs.
      Besides economic implications, the Russian political impact is strikingly alive and spreads its shadow over the present situation. Their installed regime still controls Kabul and some cities. To get rid of the regime unity, clear political goals and dedication to the national interest are vital.
      Never in the history of Afghanistan have so many people been displaced both internally and externally. Their exodus has no comparison in the whole world. Most of the people took refuge in countries which had past problems with Afghanistan.
      Having escaped from the occupation forces and their Kabul clients the refugees found themselves in a new environment that ’* divided them into        groups and
 indoctrinated them with alien thoughts.     Refugees who
 left their country for the sake of God and preserving their honour and the salvation of their country had these fixed goals in mind.
      They have since confronted issues that distract their attention and now focus on other matters. Back home traditional bonds controlled their lives, but today individualism governs. This is why so many resistance no!iticans are behaving differently . The more the
                                        ,*0
                                    2
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
refugees depend on such leaders to solve their problems the more they are diverted from national objectives and values. Under such circumstances they are indifferent toward the major national problems. The more interference from friends and foes in our nation's affairs the harder it gets for us to pull together as one nation.
     The Russians have evacuated Afghanistan, but left their legacy, the Najib regime. It is still in power. The atrocities continue.
                             *** ★**
                                       3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                           SITUATION IN AFGHANISTAN
     Before Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan people thought that simultaneously with the termination of occupation the puppet regime would collapse and an Islamic and national government in accordance with the aspiration of the majority of people would replace it.
     The leaders of the resistance forces had given the good news to the world community that this collapse would occur soon but the same pace of victories did not last. Ambition and greed for power among the resistance though existed long before but it was revealed only after the evacuation of the Russian forces was one of           the
reasons that final victory could not be achieved. The Rawalpindi council on February 10 was a historic mistake. It was convened without taking into view the geographic, national and political pecularities of the country.
     The failure of the Interim Government is a testimony for immaturity of the decision. Such mistakes are not uncommon in our history.
     The practical ways and means for settlment of the issue was constrained with the formation of the AIG and the people had tP accept it . So they eagerly a waiting for the consequences of the performances ofthe AIG. Soon the internal clashes began between the components of the government.             Meanwhile   the
responsibilities and authority of the seven parties had not been transfered to the interim government. And its activities remained confined to Peshawar where they were busy dividing the positions and organisational affairs. Friends of theAfghan jehad who had contributed to the formation of the government did not recognize it. The
                                4
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
 Dec.89-Jan.1990
 March issue of the Bulletin has discussed in detail this situation.
 Jalalabad experience and Commanders
      The second mistake after formation of the interim government was the attack on Jalalabad. It was aimed to transfer the interim government to this city and that it should had take place one month after the inception of the government. Since the start had not been discussed with the commanders inside Afghanistan and in addition to that the command was coming from Peshawar ,the operation came to a standstill. The reasons why this happend could be summerized in the following factors:
      -lack of experience on the part of mujahidin in conventional war fare ;
      -lack of coordination among different factions in the fronts surrounding the city;
      -The frozen state of war on other fronts and more important the openness of the highways leading to Kabul and Jalalabad;
      -Scarcity of arms and ammunition and the injustice in their distribution;
      -inability to attract Jalalabad citizen to cooperate because of lack of nessesary security and protection arrangment for the civilians in the city.
      -making mistakes such as killing the surrendered soldiers and officers, looting of the liberated areas such as Shiwa and the Ghazi Abad farm
      -lack of coordination and understanding between the organisations in Peshawar;
      -erronous calculation of how long it would be to take Jalalabad ;
      -prevailence of negative competition thefactions for taking over the city.
5
among
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      -the fortifications and superiority in arms and ammunition on the part of the regime. It used effectively air forces, armoured vehicles and artillery to stop mujahideen attacks;
      -the extensive propaganda by the regime about involvement of the Wahabis and Pakistanis in the operations. Motiuatin the Jalalabad citizens and city defenders against allonged Pakistan and Arab Wahabi intervention. Exaggeration of looting and plundering of public properties and Dishonouring the women after the fall of some parts in the province.;
      -the tight seige of the city by the regime to prevent fleeing from the city and using food as a weapon to bring pressure for defending the city;
      -the transfer of fresh military personnel to the scene of fighting by the regime;
      -the undue importance attached to the fall of the city which turned it to a challange for the warring sides;
      -the heavy casualities among the mujahidin
      Inspite of the shortcomings or the invasion of the city the mujahidin achieved major victories in the initial period of the war. They took over 'the major garrison of Samarkhil which was a Russians base in only 24 hours . They attacke          the air field and entered
 the military division of the city. These were all scored in a short time-three days. In addition vhe mujahidin started their attacks from the north and reached within three kilometersof the city. In the south they within reached about five kilometers from the city.
      The designers of the attack were thinking only of the early collapse of .the city while they should have used each victory to lead to a final victory . • They should have urged the city dewellers to stand up against the regime. If mujahidin stopped their uncontrolled headway and instead give a chance to the people to evacuate, the. city " this would had been
                                                     6
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
 beneficial for the mujahidin: first, it would have neutralized the venomous propaganda of the regime that the mujahidin would kill of innocent people. This act would have showed their care for protection of the people in case the city would collapse . Second, sincethe regime would not let people leave the city, they would have been compelled to uprise and weaken the government inside the city.
      The rocket attacks of mujahidin on the city would urge the people for uprisal. On' the other hand lack of foodstuff was another problem for the regime to keep people calm. This would have revealed that the people , in fact were hostages of the government. These opportunities were lost, otherwise, these was a good chance to attract the people'cooperation in taking over of the city without much blood shed.
      Most of the commanders who have established positions (except for some artificially raised to power) in the localities they operate are of the view that they have played their role in forcing the Russians out of the country. The withdrawal of the Soviet contingents was the result of the sacrifices of the valorous people of Afghanistan and only they posses the honour for it. The commanders believe that only jehad in military field is not enough it is the duty of the statesmen and leaders of the resistance to politically be ready to topple the Kabul regime.
        The commanders always comment that if the present lust for power. and money in jehad affairs along with corruption and internal clashes are not terminated they fear the present victories and sacrifices will be useless . Then the responsibility for the failure would rest completely on the shoulders of the resistance leaders. As long as these conditions prevail the jehad would be suspended and or would gradually go to dormancy and the internal clashes would be on rise.
                                                                                                 t
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 The enemy will manipulate the opportunity it wasgiven and will strenghten its shaky position. The enemy is allways alert to widen the gap between the jehadi commanders and by muddy the waters and achieve its goals which is dismantling and neutralising the resistance. It is quite natural for the commanders when they observe that the national cause is forgotten to become reluctant to risk their lives merely for the sake of a power hungry leadership .
 The Peshawar Parties:
      Before the advent of the April coup, people were certain about the ideas and aims of the communist party. Thus, when they usurped power swift responses and reactions were shewn all over the country. This led to brutal retaliatory measures by the communist regime which culminated in mass emigration of millions of people to neigbouring countries.
      The emigrants found themselves without any of their possessions except for the cloths they wore. They had to strive hard       for the    minimum amenities      * of  life.
 Fortunately, the neighbouring countries were not completely alien to   the refugee population .      Some people
 had lived in    them for   a long time before       the recent
 occurences.     Soon the  influencial leaders among the
 refugees pleaded for assistance to the international community. Gradually these leaders achieved the position of leading the people and formed political groups. In 1979 altogether 70 poltical bodies applied for registration. From among them only six and one in 1980 were able to get recognition as parties and were given permits by Pakistan to start political activities.'
      When the seven parties were formed choosing the leading bodies for them was meticulousy done. Right from the time that the parties were in the fetus stage it
S
Jos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
 was decided to rule out the influence of tribal loyalties and intellectuals who were concerned about the fate of their nation. Thus, they were forced them out of the field by intimidation and they took refuge overseas.
      The unjust allocation and distribution of the economic and military aid caused ideological and religious dependencies.      Hie aid provided by some Arab
 countries was used in a manner not only for the cause of our nation but to escalate political and religious divisions as well as irresponsibility and corruption. Instead of appreciating the aid the Afghans reacted angrily towards it.Hie organisational rivalry for access to the aid fanned the internal clashes which affected the pace of jehad.
      Hie question of jehad which was started as a sacred duty of all Muslims became a conditional task. It was tied to having material means and luxurious living. Previously, the jehad was conducted voluntarily and for God's sake.- At the same time the regime -~onfined itself to the vicinities of the large cities and abandoned offensive warfare and remained defensive. Hie long ten years of war made the waring sides tired and economically bankrupt. On the other hand, Russian withdrawal in fact scaled down the fervor for jehad. The commanders and the mujahidin were gradually attracted to their local and family affairs and became thoughtless about the national question.
               ♦
      Other problems that slowed down the pace of jehad were the number of casualities among the families and the associated difficulties with the families of the martyred who have not been properly cared for, inter-group rivalries, and negligence in asking the views of the commanders and prominent       leaderswhen     the interim
 government issue was in motion. Hie heavy casualities in Jalalabad and its results discouraged the mujahidin. They think somewhere inside the jehad organisations there
                                 9
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 are shortcomings that have to be corrected before reaching a final victory.
      Even the formation of the Afghan Interim Government which was based on the division of power among seven parties could not speed their integration into a single government. Unable to be responsive to the challenges facing it, the question of a fresh poll was raised among the disputing member parties of the AIG. Still some members disputed the very existence of elections in Islam; some requested elections on the basis of organisations while others emphasised non-party based elections. Some were of the view that holding elections in wartime conditions is in principle inpossible and asked for a loya jirgah to decide the future of the country. But what is certain is that all of the parties want to monopolise power in Afghanistan.
 Hie Tribes and the Intellegentsia:
      Afghan society in the course of history has been uniquely dominated by tribal institutions.
      Living harmoneously in this country various tribes and social groups have fought heroically for ensuring the dignity and honour of their commom homeland. The latest epic-making struggle with the Russians could be cited as an example.
      Tribal movements and popular uprisals against the foreign encroachments on their territories have exposed their importance in repelling foreign aggressions. Perceiving well the importance, the communist right after coming to power tried hard to eliminate the bonds that tied the people together. To reach their ominous goals, the Taraki regime started a "holy war" against tribal affiliations and called it "the struggle against the
                                       10
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
culture of feudalism". To uproot the "feudalism", they resorted to killing numerous tribal elders all over the country and confiscated their personal properties. It was done in order to squelch any voice raised against the regime. It knew well that the only voice that could have been heard was that .of the tribes for they are naturally bound together.
      Suprisingly, the same phenomenum occured when the hardliners in the Afghan jehad tried to dominate tribal affairs. They neglected the tribal bonds and claimed that a new social order will be established in the country. So here too some of the tribal elders faded from the scene and tribes were placed in an environment where they lost their identity and were alienated from one an another.
      Inspite of all efforts they still preserve some of their characteristics, and they support the resistance movement and long for a united leadership to lead the nation toward independence, peace and prosperity.
                                           i
      Unity within the movement can safeguard the integrity and honour of the country and save it from a dreadful future. . The fundamentalist factions have always tried to infiltrate tribal communities and lure the masses by offering arms, money and food and thus make artificial leaders that will be submissive to their orders and carry on their revolutionary partisan purposes. Such interferences in tribal affairs give rise to rivaleries among them.
      Among the moderate parties there were people who made a bid to strenghthen the tribal leadership who inadvertently encouraged organisational rivaleries and in this way supported uninfluencial people. This approach damaged the tribal system which hadworked effectively in carrying on the holy war.
                                         11
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      If we focus on the tribal relations in the last ten years among the Afghans inside and outside the country, it becomes evident that the tribes have lost some of their strenghth. The enemy has also contributed in inciting the differences between tribes but they largely failed. The tribes have felt a common responsibility viz a vis the cause of their nation. A positive point that could be traced beside the negatives of the war is the understanding between the tribes, they had bled in the same trenches and hdused common lands for feeding their herds.. New they could see what they had in common as Afghans.
      The nation in the light of its cultural and historical relations and in order to decide its future and identity has embarked on a movement for the first time and is heading for the final goal.
 The intellectuals:
      If we call the educated class the intellectuals then the number of such Afghans is few, but they had a pivotal role from the time of Amir Shir Ali Khan to this date in shaping Afghanistan's social transformations. They accepted their duty viz a vis the sacred war proclaimed against the communists. The _gh some of the educated were in the service of the regime but this does not imply that all are the same. Often they came under strong criticism for1 aloofness towards jehad.
      Even though this cannot be completely ruled outthe climate was difficult for intellectuals to actively engage in the most sensitive affairs of their country both inside and in the neighbouring countries. Such ideas as national interest , freedom , democracy, and
12
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
 justice are appealing words that the Kabul regime uses to distort- reality. Every individual has the right to express their ideas but what Parchamis and Khalqis meant by using such words to pave the way for Russian indoctrination.      Their wayis seperate from the rest of
 the people. Their approach toward Islam, democracy, freedom and justice was antagonistic and quite the opposite.
      The resistance movement groupings failed to attract the intellectuals who have not been able to organize effectively. And theywere rejected by the stronger groups, even their survival was at risk. They had either to keep quiet or flee. Some experieced torture and faced death. The martyrdom of Janat Khan Gharwal, Azizurrahman Ulfat, Professor Majrooh, Dr. Ludin and some others could be cited as examples.
 The Question of Emigrants:
      After the pull out of the Russian army from Afghanistan the interest of the world community toward the Afghan cause was scaled down substantially. .This could be gauged from the assistance from the international community to the needy refugee population residing in the camps. This decline in assistance has had an adverse impact on the life of millions of refugees. New they only receive wheat for their food ration and occasionally, kerosene.. The present circumstances compel the refugee population to seek out ways of feeding their needy depedendents. They become so preoccupied with earning a livelihood that they forget the jehad that they had started for the liberation of their ancestoral land. Their economic desparation forces people      into  political rivalries and makes them
 vulnerable to ideological misuses. Some political groups have taken advantage of the opportunity for
                                 13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 indoctrinating them. As a result people lost their openness and the free expression of their views.
      When the Russians went home, the refugees also earnestly wanted to put an end to their miseries and get home but they confronted unexpected stumbling blocks. Lack of required implements and means, air raids by the regime, insecurity in the liberated areas, insufficient and unjust distribution of aid goods were among the main reasons which hindered mass repatriation in the country.
      At the beginning of the emigration, the stream of events severed social and tribal bonds as people became sparsely settled in camps away from dear and near ones. This ushered in a new era in their lives. They were deprived of socialibility and making decisions on their own and to take initiations for jehad and national affairs. At the same time, the harsh conditions under which they lived: pressure, terror, economic dependency and ideological oppression forced most of the refugee population to change to a silent majority.
 Hie Communist Regime
      The ruling party of Afghanistan, the Peoples Democratic Party of_ Afghanistan (PDPA), at the time of the Soviet withdrawal was highly unstable, near collapse. Most of the higher officials of the party were preparing to escape from Afghanistan. Some had sent family members outside. Those menbers of the PDPA who did not have opportunities for escape had established secret contacts with the mujahidin in order to protect themselves and even to try to atone for their past deeds. This included high ranking military officers who were ready to destroy the regime from the inside.
                                                      x*t
Nos.105-106 Ninth Year         Dec.89-Jan.1990
      The civilian population in the regime controlled areas, which was expecting protection and security from the mujahidin, was also ready to collaborate and had created underground organizations for the purpose. They had lists of key party members, plans were drawn up for taking control of police stations and security posts and for the peaceful takeover of the cities.
        ■            I
      But the Peshawar parties expected the people to flee from the cities en masse so that they could storm the cities. It was not possible for the people to flee from the cities in large numbers. There were physical obstacles. It was still mid-winter, roads were mined, and the regime's security belts were partially designed to keep the people from leaving.
      Moreover, the government held hostages, many people had relatives in the Soviet Union or the Eastern bloc, and many were too poor to finance a move and others were worried that the mujahidin would not receive them as patriotic Afghans. For their part, the mujahidin parties had made no preparations to receive them. Those who did leave we roften rediculed as SACAR-20s, refering to the rockets being used against Kabul and other cities.
      Believing that vicory was close at hand, the Peshawar parties maneuvered to gain advantages over each other. Kabul regime troops were mostly scattered among many garrisons and posts. They were exposed to mujahidin attacks and many units were willing to defect. At the beginning all t^hey hoped for was survival.
      Often one mujahidin party approached them and offered to let them go if they turned over their arms and positions* Then another party would offer to protect their officers who typically were seen as guilty of regime crimes. Even a third mujahidin group offered both protection and a share, of their arms and equipment if they would surrender . Yet another group would suggest
15
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 that they not defect or surrender but stay~ in position in collusion with them and wait for further instructions to move against the Kabul regime.
      This negative comoptition between the mujahidin groups induced the regime forces to start bargaining.They found opportunities to raise the the price of their defection. The fighting died down as the mujahidin waited for the surrender of the regime forces. At only one place was there heavy fighting—Jalalabad. The regime took advantage of the lull in fighting elsewhere to transfer reinforcements to Jalalabad. These transfers tended to interrupt the negotiations for defections.
      Gradually the regime's propaganda began to be more effective.
      When the Russians withdrew, Najib had humbly begun to call the mujahidin "dear brothers" and asked them to occupy regime positions without violence. Simultaneously KHAD used bargaining with mujahidin commanders for the surrender of regime units in order to stop new attacks and paralyze their initiatives.
      After their successful defense of Jalalabad their propaganda changed. They claimed that the Pakistanis played large part in the attack on Jalalabad. They charged that the mujahidin had mistreated prisoners and defectors and had looted civilians in the areas captured from the regime.
      Najib began to claim that he had asked the Soviets to leave because his forces were strong enough to defend themselves. . He accused the Afghanistan .Interim Government of being a puppet of Pakistan and the Arabs. His agents had infiltrated mujahidin commands and some now claimed to be mujahidin commnders who then "joined" his regime. Every day Kabul began to broadcast reports of these fake defections.
                                              16
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
      In order to confuse and demoralize genuine mujahidin commanders, they announced bogus treaties, ceasefires and collaborations with the regime. KHAD sought out weaker and wavering commanders and offered them arms and supplies saying that outsiders such as the Wahhabis were interfering in Afghanistan and these weapons would help them fight against Afghanistan's enemies.
      Najib then began establishing a new, stronger political position. He offered to compete against the resistance in an election. He said if defeated he was. ready to be judged by the nation. He proposed national reconciliation through jirgahs, international conferences and various forms of negotiation, knowing that the resistance would refuse to deal with him. In these ways Najib's international reputation became more positive and the Soviets revived their interest in him. They sent an increasing amount of supplies, military equipment and advisors. After their army had gone the various factions within the Kabul regime were forced to unite in order to survive. Thus it had become a more formidable opponent.
      Despite thes successes worldwide events have been moving against the Kabul regime whose leadership cannot stand a close look at its character. In 1985-1986 its sponsor, Mikhail Gorbachev, attempted to destroy the Afghan mujahidin with the most powerful and vicious onslaughts of the war. These massive attacks failed and he was forced to realize that the Soviet occupation would fail. Inside the Soviet Union criticism against the war was rising and throughout the world condemnation continued. 'Losses in manpower and equipment, deteriorating army morale and the serious economic drain compelled him to change policies.
      In order to save the Soviet Union from eventual • economic and political collapse Mikhail Gorbachev took the initiative to introduce internal reforms and to change fore.ign policy . This included permitting the
                                17
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Eastern European nations to go free and other attempts to build a more positive Soviet image around the world. The decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was part of this strategy. Hence the victory of the Afghan people over the Soviet occupation forces contributed to the liberation of peoples elsewhere. For the first time the Soviets were retreating from countries they controlled.
     The recent changes in Eastern European communism are undermining Najib's position in Afghanistan. While the new leaders in Eastern Europe, introduce genuine reforms, Najib and his colleagues remain identified with the disaster they have brought to Afghanistan and the long list of crimes they have committed trying to cling to power. Ironically the Soviets are encouraging reform in Europe but continue to support an illegitimate, criminal regime in Afghanistan.
     Now the events in Afghanistan that led to freedom in Eastern Europe are returning to haunt Najib. Events are coming full circle. If the Soviets had succeeded in Afghanistan, it is unlikely that the Berlin Wall would now be falling. As freedom spreads across Europe its impact leaves the Kabul regime without a future.” Whatever the faalts of the resistance the Kabul regime has to claim to rule Afghanistan It renains for the Afghan resistance to prepare to replace it.
                                   The Editor
                               *** *** ***
                                     18
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
                  AFGHANISTAN FROM THE VIEW POINT OF AFGHANS
King Zaher Shah
      King Zahir Shah said:  "Consider   in every solution
for a political settlement in Afghanistan, the decision of the Afghan people. In my point of view the best way to establish a future government would be to hold an emergency Loya Jirgah which would consist of every element in the society including the devoted commanders. Our people are familiar with such a traditional organization. During the last several centuries the Afghan has always solved his important national problems through the jirgah."
       On the question of negotiations with the communist regime the king said:
"The Afghans have sacrificed more than one million lives and the country is destroyed. Why did the people offer these sacrifices? The people made these sacrifices in rejection of an imposed regime that renounced their beliefs and ideology. After ten years of war how would it be possible to sit down with this regime an negotiate a distribution of power?
      At the present time it is inpossible to negotiate with this communist regime".
                                         19
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Dr. Mohammad Yusuf,
     The former prime minister in an interview with VOA elucidated on the current events in Afghanistan and said: "Regretfully so far the interim government has had no impressive success in any recent affairs neither in war nor in policy instead it paved the. way for further rifts among themujahidin and more bloodshed". He laments the way they are forming the government and the procedure in the consultative council. It was assigned merely to choose a government body not appraise the crucial and key issues of the country.
     The council was not sufficiently representative. The local commanders and Iran based resistance movement had not their due share and foreign hands were clearly operating behind the scene. These shortcomings degraded the position of the interim government among Afghans everywhere. I had anticipated the stalmate beforehand. I had recommended holding a grand assembly in a third party country preferably Vienna.
     Commenting on proposals advanced by Pir Gilani and Eng. Hekmatyar, Dr. Yusuf said:
     Even though I am not well-informed of the detail but as far as I can guess, their unanimity lies in the word not in essence. I think they are far apart in this guestion.
He said: At a time when the country is partially ruled by the regime and local commanders and the majority of the refugees are influenced by their respective host countries, the elections could only be held in a calm situation and under the auspices of the United Nations, properly represented.
     Initially the United Nations could make a motion for peace talks and prepare the basis for ending of hostilities and thus lead to an interim government.
                                   20
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
He said:    After  the pull-out of  the Russians hanging
tightly to the policy of a military solution would not be sane. A military solution may lead the region to the brink of the big bang.
      Dr. Yusuf added:      "Regardless   of  my  personal
friendship with Zahir Shah, the bitter conditions in all parts of the country necessitate his positive role. Government under his leadership which can prepare the ground for elections to a Loya Jirgah under the sponsorship of the United Nations, peace and stability would return to Afghanistan".
Sayed Shamsuddin Majrooh
      Former Minister of Justice and member of the seven party council, said peace could come to Afghanistan if the Russians would give up supporting their puppet regime . The Soviet security, business and influence have interest in Afghanistan offering a coalition goverment for national reconciliation which is not acceptable to us
      Pakistan , Iran , America and Arabs also don't want Soviet influence in Afghanistan. Peace would come if all countries would agree with the common theory of an independent, non-aligned Afghanistan . There is a small possiblity that if the Soviets were confident that a non-aligned (as before the coup) government was created , which is not under the influence of competing countries they might stop interference .
      Unity among different parties and groups of Afghanistan is not impossible but very difficult because from one side concerned governments certain parties while ignoring others fueling disputes among th parties . They do this in order to use the parties for their own aims . From the other side the lack of national
21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
leadership has created sickness for power that nobody is giving up their interest and everyone is dreaming of sovereingty.
      Despite all these problems many brave commanders have come forward and have won the respectfrom the people of their , local areas. The people have also gained an even more acute scence of political awarness .
      Unfortunately the vacuum in popular leadership has brought unnecessary chaos.
      I am not very optimistic about the future of the country.      It   is going toward balkanization or
lebanonization. My conclusion is to leave Afghanistan a free, independent, non-aligned Islamic nation with a popular national leadership. Afghanistan must never be a puppet of any foreign power. Its people must be given the right to choose their own government. A government that has earned the people's trust.
      Both friends and foes must stop their interference and come to a common agreement about Afghanistan. A ceasefire should be established. All parties must be disarmed. International aid should be given i±> the central government and reconstruction started immediately. I am sure once this happens the people will gladly lay down their arms and pick up their tools of reconstruction.
Abdur Rahaim Pazhwak
      A veteran diplomat and formerchief of Afghan mission in U.N.expressed his view on the current situation:
In my view durable peace could come to Afghanistan only
22
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
   when the cause for the war has been eliminated. Russia's invasion of Afghanistan was behind the war and imposition of an alien ideology was put upon on people who were not ready to accept it. Russia's pull out in fact was a tactical gesture. Their presence is still felt in the form of Jauzjani militias in Kabul and Kandahar cities. They also send sophisticated weapons. Therefore, we can claim that the Russians are still there.
 Ratwan Farhadi
       A well-known scholar and former dupty foreign minister who is busy teaching in the United States elucidating on the Afghan issue says:
 The Afghan Interim Government should promise to do the following:
       General amnesty should be immediately announced for all Khalgis and Parchami and their lives guaranteed". Those convicted of massacre and torture should be justly brought to the international court and rightly tried. -Their properties and honours preserved
 -Diplomatic ties should be resumed with the neighbouring states.
 -Military assistance should be terminated to both warring sides.
       Farhadi. added:   The  people of Afghanistan can
 decide their government in their own way. This government could rule the country for six months only, then the new constitution should be drafted by well-informed Afghans.
 Sayed Qasxm wesiicxa
       Former minister of culture and information and veil
                                23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 known writer Sees the way out of the present dilemma in twopostulates:     Preserving  pressure  on  the  Kabul
 regime and also bringing about a representative government to replace the regime. He proposes a general poll under the auspices of an international body. He highly commends the role of the former king in the settlement of the problem.
 Mohammad Seddiq Farhang
       Former minister and writer puts the blame on lack of common leadership which is acceptable for the people, a person they could put trust in. In his words, he proposes a "grand assembly" to decide the future government.
 Ghulam Ali Ayeen
       Former minister of Education and mayor bf Kabul who expressed this viewpoint:        If  a  fundamentalist
 government comes into being in Afghanistan, the Soviet Union will have the same problems that the US has had with Nicaragua and Cuba. It is a matter of great concern for the Russians. Meanwhile, if the transfer of power takes place through violence and war, the communists will face death and destruction and probably Gorbachev will lose face.
 Professor Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai,
       Former professor at Kabul University Who teaches at Johns Hopkins University in the United States says: In the Afghan war there is no winning party if things are
24
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
  solved militarily. War will bring nothing Dut torment to the poor and innocent. The only solution which I can think of is that those involved in the issue should leave the people to find a way out from the present dilemma and to accelerate the process of peace. We saw with our own very eyes that the war for Jalalabad was futile and devastating. Kabul citizens are afraid of the same consequences. The refugees are earnestly waiting for the day to return. Peace talks can be held after a complete ceasefire to be observed by warring parties. A nationwide polling can restore people's inalienable right for self determination. . The government that comes into being should declare general amnesty to end hostilities forever in the country.
 Habibullah Karzai                                      v
 Former Afghan representative to the United Nations and a tribal leader,
 points to the geographical importance of the country and says, those having real interest in their national affairs, easily comprehend that they caused a great power to suffer for its mistakes. He comments that Zahir Shah is a good opportunity that should not be lost. He can have a positive role in restoring security and self confidence in the people.
 Hassan Kakar.
       Former professor of Kabul University, presently teaching in California said:    "The  basic  question for
 Afghanistan at present is the achievement of national sovereignty and national interest. At the present time foreigners are making decisions for us, not Afghans. First of all this foreign influence should be cut off.
                                                    25
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 From one side the Soviets should stop helping the regime, from the other the Afghan resistance has been fighting for ten years with foreign arms and money and has been instructed by their allies and this must also be stopped.
       Whether they call themselves fundamentalists or moderates, none of the Peshawar parties have so far accepted opposition. In Afghanistan's history peace has, never resulted from political arrangements imposed by outsiders. Moderate Afghans want to bring back Zahir Shah in order to create an independent, non-aligned Afghanistan which respects human rights, but parties dependent on foreigners are preventing this. This is another tragedy for Afghanistan. The Afghan nation in the last ten years has maintained its unity and has thrown out the Soviets, but new there is a political vacuum which the Afghans, themselves, must attempt to fill. But outsiders won't let Afghanistan have peace and freedom."
 Dr.Samad Hamad
       Former deputy prime minister said:  "The reason  war
 continues  in      Afghanistan is that thes uperpowers and
 Afghanistan's neighbors took advantage of the Geneva agreement.
       In the international arena the Soviets and the Americans   have prepared the  basis    for resolving major
 problems,  but I don't think this       process will bring
 stability  to        our. region. Afghanistan needs strong
 central authority, not rule by party Amirs and commanders. Our neighbors and the two superpowers have to be convinced to give up their heedless attitude toward Afghanistan and those Afghan politicians hungry for power and revenge have to abandon such ideas or be removed. The communists are the major reason for the instability.
                                   26
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
 Afghans will never accept anything against Islam or against their national interest.
       In today's Afghanistan there is no party, group or tribe that can govern by force. Afghanistan's leadership should come from inside. Continuation of the present situation does not favor either the Kabul Regime or the resistance and it has to be changed. An institution should be built which is consistent with Islam and Afghanistan's historical and cultural principles. Accordinly, the basis for organizing a national, Islamic Loya Jirgah must be laid, including the resignation of the Kabul regime and assumption by the United Nations of a major, active role. The effective components of this jirgah must be comprehensive in representing all sectors of the society, including the former king and mujahidin based in Iran, in order to find a common consensus on Afghanistan's future."
 Abdul Sattar Sirat
       Former minister of justice and professor of Kabul University said,. "With the comopletion of the Soviet withdrawal one difficult       and bloody       phase has
 successfully ended. Yet the Jehad is not finished because the cause that made the people -rise against the government still exists. As long as this cause is not removed, peace will not come. Developments since the Soviets withdrew have made peace doubtful. Decisions on behalf of the Afghans are being made outside of Afghanistan. Competition for political power has brought about a struggle between armed groups inside of Afghanistan which has diverted the jehad from its fundamental purpose. If national unity is ignored and decisions are based on matters of language, religion, tribe, or region, Afghanistan will fall apart.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       On the one side the original, fundamental goal of the jehad has changed and on the other side the coming of peace has been confused by the political stands and interests of the foreign friends of thejehad. For Afghans to be successful in this historic test, attention must be given to the following points:
 (1) Restoration of Afghanistan's national integrity within its geogaphical borders.
 (2) Establishment of a government based on the principles of Islam.
 (3) Popular participation without discrimination in the political, economic, and social life of the nation.
 (4) Creation of an Afghan National Islamic Front, based on Islamic and national values which allows all to participate without regard for regional, religious, tribal or linguistic differences, with the exception of communists who have committed crimes.
       This front should created by a meeting whose timing and location will be arranged by a small committee which will also name the mujahidin leaders, famous commanders, great ulama, intellcuals, politicians, and tribal leaders who will gather to establish it. For the sake of God and the jehad and the honor of the nation, settling political differences is the only way to solve Afghanistan's problems and bring it peace and stability."
                                 *** *** ***
                                    28
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
                             PDPA MEMBERS DEFECTED
      Professor Dr. Mohammad Qasim Jarrdar member of Khalq faction , a Ph.D. holder of Moscow Institute , secratary for the higher commission of the academic degrees and member of the academic council of Kabul University . Rector of the Polytechnic Institut defected to NIFA ( Gailani ) along with three military officers , interviewed at AIC:
 Tani and Najib dispute
 Prof.Janrier said:  "In  the last week of December, the
 divsion between Khalq and Parcham factions of the ruling party reached its climax.
      Najib regime announced that Khad had detected a coup attempt and arrested 127 military and civil officials. Among the arrested were the Air Defence commander, Gen. Wali Shah, the deputy-chief of communication department of the Defence Ministry, General Halim, deputy-chief of the Kabul Garrison and Gen. Najib Ahmad. Alleged to be involved in the attenpt. Col. Rasul was killed by Najib supporters while; the regime pronounced his death to be suicidol move. A list of coup plotters contained the names of 70 military officers most whom were Khaliqis.
      The announcement and the list widened the gap between Dr. Najib and Shah Nawaz Tani, the defence minister of the regime. According to confidential sources, the minister who is a well-known Khalqi warned Najib of the annihilation of Khalqis in the name of Aminis(supporters of Hafizullah Amin) and sympathizers of the mujahidin. Based on the same source, Tani has said:
                                   29
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly'Bulletin
 Both Najib and I were appointed as president and defence minister by the same Russians."
      After warning Najib, Tani took personal command and summoned 15 generals. He appointed some of the generals to key posts- - Lt. General Abdul Gahafoor, as the chief of staff, Bd. Gen. Bandizai, the commander of the Kabul Garrison, .Col. Jafer Sertarai, the commander of the headqarters of the defence ministry. On his order, Gen. Gulbahar, the commander of the third division of the security forces, Gen. Faqir Mohammad, commander of the sixth division. General awoon, the commander of night division, Gen. Zurmati, the commander of the Revolution Defence Army, and Gen. Mohammad Ali, from the fifth garrrison, were put on alert. The Defence Ministry took up precautionary measures and the armoured tanks were deployed to startegic points at its headquarter defence ministry. General Hamza, the commander of the air force, along with air defence high officials stood behind Tani.
      Najib sent Watanjar, the interior minister , to discuss the terms of a compromise with Tani, but Tani refused to meet him. Najib then sent politboro members of the party Niaz Mohammad Mohmand and Mir Sahib Karwal to see Tani. When negotiations were conpleted the two envoys announced their allegaince to Tani. Najib appointed Gen. Asef Delawar as the defence minister in place of Tani., but Gen. Delawar rejected the offer and also joined the ranks of the Tani supporters. Embarassed by the developments Najib ordered unit four of the Khad force to arrest Tani. Tani had already mobilized 400 soldiers with "Alu" type(flame throwing) rockets to guard the headquarters of the defence ministry. Among the Khad forces 200 refrained from attacking Tani. For four consecutive days armed conflict was expected between the two sides. On the fifth day, a high ranking Soviet delegation , reportedly headed by Varantsov, the deputy Soviet foreign minister, arrived to Kabul.
                               30
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
      The Soviet delegation warned Tani that the Soviet Union has invested heavily in the Khalq-Parcham regime and in no way is ready to sacrifice its interests in Afghanistan.       He (Tani)       should refrain from any
 confrontation with Najib.         The delegation mediated
 between Najib and Tani. Tani presented to the delegation the following points as his terms for the reconciliation with Najib.
 -those allegedly involved in the coup attempt should be released immediately;
 -those Khalqis arrested after the Russians came to Afghanistan should be released;
 -hereafter, all the high officers should appointed by the defence ministry and approved by Najib;
 -hereafter, all other officers should be appointed by the defence minister;
 -the militia fuhctioning under Najib particularly Jauzjanis, should be brought under the command of the defence ministry;
 -in all party and state affairs rboth Khalqis and Parchamis should be given equal opportunity to share in civilian administration.
      Until recently only the first condition was agreed to by the Kabul regime. From among the detainees only Gen. Najib Ahmad and Gen. Halim were released but the rest areexpected to be freed."
 Jauzjani Militias;
      The division among Parchamis and Khalqis together with Najibs need to protect the regime compeled him to reerait Jauzjani militias apparantly from among Uzbek and Turkamen tribes from Jauzjan province. The regime claims that they are from the province but some people are of the opinion that they have been brought from the
                                    31
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 USSR to salvage the regime. The following reasons sometimes are given for their Soviet origin:
 ' -the Turkamen and Uzbeks of the province can speak in Dari but these militias do not. The few who are able to speak Dari have Tajiki accent.
 -Najib has granted particular privileges to the militias the same as he had granted to Russian army. The militia; are looting Kabul city just as the Russians did. They are killing innocent people, dishonouring the women, but are not being stopped by the regime's men. Some examples of their conduct are:
 -on December 5, 1989, a police officer from the first < security zone of Kabul city has related that the Jauzjani militias resorted to looting every where.            They
 dishonoured women and stabbed people, including the party members. Watanjar, the interior minister was informed. He stated that Najib becomes angry if we try to control the militias. Ironically a day later.the same officer was killed in a clash with the militias. The bodyguard of the same police officer narrates the incident:
      The officer was informed that the militias were in the process of looting people and shops in Saray Shahzada and Kochi markets. While accopanied by two subordinates and a few guards he moved toward the market. Their tanks was stopped at the gate and they entered the market by foot. They saw that four militiamen were standing, in front of a shop and forcing a shopkeeper to give the money. The officer ordered the militia to return the money but the militia refused to do SO. Fighting broke out and continued for 24 hours. The commander, four militiamen, two civilians were killed, and two police officers were injured. The clash continued and additional security forces arrested a number of the militiamen. As far as known, the detainees were soon released and no one interrogated them.
                                 32
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
 -In another incident the militia forced eleven women out of a public bath in Qalacha and kidnapped them.
 -the militia have their own chief. They are allowed to occupy people's properties and they do not take orders from the security forces in Kabul. Instead, they are formed in Khad under Najib's direction ".
 Situation of Higher Studies in Afghanistan
 Hie curricula in the higher studies institutions has been heavily damaged by the Russians. Time for study of main subjects was reduced substantially. For the dwindling number of boys a day of military training was compulsory. For six periods a week philosophy, political economy, and the history of the party were compulsory subjects at the university and other higher educational institutions.
       Now that the regime is raising a hue and cry for national reconciliation, these subjects are called sociology. On the basis of the new regulations for higher studies, the academic curriculum should be approved by the Academic Council of the university, but actual authority comes from the government without the consent of the council. The teaching of these subjects has been entrusted to the security and KHAD agents.
      Sultan Ali Keshmand tries hard to prevent the teaching of Hanafi Fiqa and instead replace it with Jafari Fiqa. For this purpose, two Shariat so-called scholars have been assigned to do so.
      The academic year and the semesters were purposely shortened so the students and the teachers could not come to know one another and thus discourage strikes by the students. Lecturers were appointed to the academic cadres without taking into account academic criteria. Affiliation with the party, and minor considerations determined academic ranks and priviledges.
                                       “33
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Neither the lecturers nor the students were in a position to study or teach comfortably. Duplicity, dishonour and immorality were encouraged by the KHAD agents in the academic institutions.
     Not long ago the vice-president of the Philosophy and History Faculty, who was a close relative of Noor Ahmad Noor, raped a student belonging to an influential family of Kabul. He was removed from the office but later reappointed as the director of the Teachers Directorate. Meanwhile, a lecturer of the Faculty of Natural Science was killed at a laboratory in this faculty for an alleged rape. A number of lecturers who have affiliations with the security authorities also take bribes from the students. This damaged the academic level of the institutions.
     The Russians have introduced translated versions of 84 textbooks to facilitate the Sovietization of the academic system. Most of these books are in the social sciences which stress heavily the ideologcal aspects of their Concepts. This is why most of the lecturers oppose use of these books in their courses.
     Economically the lecturers are also suffering. The rate of inflation badly hits their economic status like the rest of goverment errployees. Instead of carrying books and teaching materials they car y with them sacks and cannisters for receiving flour and kerosene. The bread that is supposed to be distributed to the professors is being sold in the black market. If the rank of a full professor is corrparable to a lieutenant-general, his salary is only one-third. His salary is equal to a soldier's in Najib's special guard.
     The lecturers are under constant pressure from KHAD and the party members. This has caused the defection of most of the knowledgeable lecturers.
                                  34
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
Cadets who were sent to further their academic credentials in the short term courses in Termez dispersed into the cities and towns nearby and hid. Only 20 percent returned home because they knew they would be directly sent to the Jalalabad or Khost fronts. Here I can cite an example:    the father did not know anything
about the son's return from the Soviet Union when his coffin unexpectedly was brought to his house. I know this father, Amir Muhammad Umarzia and his son, Garan.
Hie General Situation in Kabul
     "The economic situation in Kabul is worsening. There is no stability in prices. The Salang highway is blocked every week. The rate of inflation is on the rise. Prices of foodstuff are rising by 15% per month. Those having fixed incomes suffer most. The average salarly of the employees in he government is 3300 Afghanis while only seven kilograms of average rice cost 2700 Afghanis. An average family whose livelihood depends on the father has eight members. If the prices and the salaries are compared the result is obvious.
     The political situation in Kabul remains complicated. The ruling party is divided into Khalq and Parcham factions. Within the Parcham, the members are divided into Karmali, Keshtmandi and Najibi groupings. In the same fashion, Khalqis are divided into Taraki, Amini, Zarghoni and Kunjaki subgroupings. SAZA, SZA, CJA, and the Peasants' Justice party under Maulana Siret and the Ansarrullah Union are all functioning as front parties under the auspices of KHAD.Some of these groups have mobilized militia units which will lebanonize the country in case th$ regime is conpletely defeated.These groups are busy inflamming tribal,linguistic andzonal differences among the people.They are also busy demoralizing the jehad commanders.Russian advisors are still supervising in the KHAD,Tsarandoy and the Defense ministry.
                                                35
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      In the ongoing war the mostly poor Afghans are used as cannon fodder. When the SCUD or the Luna rocket is fired they only further devastate the country. Robbers and KHAD agents are busy daily and nightly employing looters and thieves to rob people's property and humiliate them. While doing this they try to disguise their atrocities by blaming the mujahidin for these crimes.
      Kabul's citizens are earnestly waiting for the
 moment that their mujahid and muhajir brothers
 unamimously agree to hold elections for choosing an
 Islamic and impartial leadership to vmite all, Afghans and get rid of the present charlatan regime m Kabul.
 Interview with Aman Beg
      A Khalqi , graduate of the Political Division of the Military University, who studied security (KHAD) affairs, Lt. Beg for three months in 1989 served at a SCUD missile base in Darulaman, Kabul.        He said that
 SCUDs are divided between the Defense and the KHAD ministries. Each has one base which contains four launchers. All of the launchers are controlled by the Soviets. Where he was serving at Darulaman there were 20 Soviet military advisors, commanded by a Captain Nicholai called Kolya by the Russians. The advisors lived in the Soviet Embassy and drove to the base in a special covered vehicle. The vehicle brought them to the base during the day and they returned to the embassy at night. He said that the SCUDS were not stored in Kabul, but some 5 to 8 were delivered every day and fired immediately. It .takes four hours of preparation to launch a SCUD. They are a guided missile which has a radar screen.
                                                    3b
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
 Interview with Jarndar Khan Zaman
      Incharge of First Security Zone of Kabul city and a member of the Khalq faction of the PDPA
      He described the security conditions of Kabul as deteriorating. Every night there are many cases of theft, murder, kidnapping in which KHAD personnel and the Jozjani militia are involved. About 5,000 to 7,000 Jozjani militia under Najib's direct command are in charge of the external security of the city. They come into the city with fully armed, even with rockets on their shoulders. They create security problems in the city. "On December 5th, 1989 at nine o'clock in the morning some of these militia entered Shah Zada market and Timur Shahi market and started looting.
      The police could not stop them. At 3 o'clock in the afternoon a special security unit with an armored car surrounded the markets. Fighting took place between them with the result that the commander of the security unit, Rasul, four Jozjani militia, and a woman and man who were bypassers were killed. Two officers, and some Jozjani militia were wounded. Sporadic firing continued for 24 hours. Finally 35 militia wre arrested by the security forces. I understand that they were released later on. While this fighting was going on the Kabul Radio made a statement that nobody could enter the city with arms and those stationed at the outside security belt should leave the commercial sector of the city.
      "At the end of November while I was on security duty in Jada-i-Maiwand*passing by the Aqcha Hotel at 11:30 pm the hotel guard stopped me and tQld me- that soma Jozjani militia who live in the hotel have kidnapped a woman and taken her to their room. I and two other security guards entered and heard thd screams from a woman upstairs.
                                                  37
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      We decided to rescue her if we could. We- took off our arms and rushed to the room and with difficulty rescued her. There were six militia who seized her at 8:00 pm and had already raped her. Her identity showed she was a teacher and was a member of a very respectable family and she requested that honor for her and her family required that no charges be made. We returned her quietly to her family.
      "At the end of October in Qalacha some Jozjani militia rushed into a ladys' public bath and kidnapped 11 naked women. There are many other such stories I have heard from other security police,but whenever we reported these crimes to the Ministry of Interior the officials would say that they could do nothing because the militia were only answerable to the KHAD.
Afghan Orphans in Soviet Union:
      Captain Abdul Malik, a member of the Khalq faction of the PDPA, and a masters degree holder from-the Police Academy, Leningrad, who served in various capacities in the Afghanistan Ministry of Interior, is an eyewittness to the presence of Afghan children in the Soviet Union. He says that between 1982 and 1986 about 10,000 children, ages 7-10, were recruited by the National Orphan Nursery of Kabul to be sent to the Soviet Union.These children are now living in various orphanages throughout the Soviet Union including Turkmenistan, Tashkent, Kazakistan, and the Ukraine. Some 200 children were also sent to Mongolia.*
      In the summer of 1989 Captain Malik visited Kabul on vacation. While he was there some of the parents of these childrenasked him to visit their children because they had not had any news from them.
38
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
      "When I returned to the Soviet Union in October, I stoppd over in Dusharnbe to* search for the children that are living in the village of Shar-i-Nau about 140 kilometers from the city. In this orphanage I saw 400 Afghan children living among Soviet orphans. I gave four names to the guards. They guided me to a room and brought the children there. Their names were Yasim, son of Amanullah of Kunar, Inayat Waliv son of Muhammad Wali of Kunar, Mir Wais, son of Ghulam Qadir of Kabul and Maiwand, Mir Wais' brother. I spoke in Pashtu and Dari to them and the children replied in Russian saying they didn't know their mother tongue."
      He asked them about their living conditions and their problems. Their first complaint was about the food. They conplained that they couldnot get news from their parents or family. They are not given money for postage. They conplained about having to clean up their own quarters, their bathrooms and the compound. During "vacations" they are sent to work in kolkhozes to harvest potatoes, cotton and other crops without pay. They are not allowed to leave the compound. They complain they are abused and mistreated by the authorities of the orphanage, especially the teachers.They conplained of a lack of bathsoap .and shampoo, they have to use laundry soap. They said they lacked other necessities. Their clothes and shoes were old and secondhand.
      They had been told that Pakistan had invaded their country and they have been rescued so they have no reason to complain. They also complain about military training and ideological indoctrination. Most, of them said they were told they were being taken for a month's vacation in the Soviet Union. "If we had known they would keep us here we would have committed suicide".
      "I spent two days in the visitors' quarters in that orphanage and many Afghans visited me there. I was the first Afghan to see the children who asked about them, so
                                                                                       -19
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 they were very excited to see me and to learn about the real situation in their country
      "The other orphange was located in Krasnadarska Gorad. I traveled by train southeast from Moscow for a day and a night. When I reached the the orphanage I found 80 Afghans, including 20 girls, among the Soviet orphans.    I had the names .of three orphans: Sima,
 daughter of Amir Muhammad, age 13 from Samangan complained of no news from her parents and was very happy with the news I brought from them.
      Nur Muhammad, son of Auolya Qul, age 15 years from Mazar-i-Sharif said they had taken him out of school in Mazar and told him they were taking him to Kabul. His parents were not aware of this. They kept him in the National Orphanage of Kabul for two weeks. Then they put him on a military plane with other children and took him to the Soviet Union. Nazanin, age 15 from Kandahar, said her father was a Brigader. He died in the war. They took her from from her home without an agreement of her mother and sent her to the Soviet Union. She was very happy to get news from her mother and kissed me. The complaints of these children were similar to those at Dushanbe."
 He placed these children in four categores:
    1.    Children who have lost parents, mostly fathers, who have died in the war
    2. Children kidnapped on the streets
    3. Children from families too poor to keep them
     4.     Children of PDPA party members who thought they were voluntarily sending them for education in the Soviet Union.
                                                40
Nos.105-106
Ninth Year
Dec.89-Jan.1990
      (The parents of children in categories 3 and 4 expected them to return after a few months, but they have remained in the Soviet Union for years.)
      Captain Malik had the following reports about Afghan students in the Soviet Union:
      In front of the Lenin University on October 30, 1989 Soviet students gathered at the university hostel where Afghan students lived, waiting for them to leave. They picked a fight with the Afghans which the police had to stop* Five Russians and two Afghans were injured in the fight.
      In March of 1989 Afghan students from Lenin University were invoilved in fighting with Soviet students in which there were casualties on both sides.
      Some of the Afghans were charged with the murder of a Russian woman and were sent to Siberia. The rest of the Afghan students were expelled from the university.
      An Afghan military officer, Rimatullah, studying at Kiev University was stabbed 21 times and died in hospital.
      Che Afghan student, Daoud Shah, studying at Tashkent was beaten to death by Uzbeg students and his body dumped in the river. It was recovered by the
police and handed over to his brother who was also studying there. The body was then transferred to Kabul.
               ♦
      Captain Malik concludes that most Russians hate Afghans. Consequently it is necessary for Afghan students in the Soviet Union to hide their identities or travel in large groups.

                          , HEZB COMMANDER EXECUTED
      Syeed Jamal, his brother and two other commanders of Hezbe Island executed .
      On the 22nd December, 1989        ,  Syeed Jamal,the
general commnder of Takhar province for Hezbe Island (Hekmatyar), his brother Eshan Mirza, his brother-law Babor Shah, and his dupty Syed Fakhiruddin were excuted in Taloqan city the capital of Takhar province.
      In Taloqan city in the presence of many citizens and mujahidin the decision of the judicial committee of the supervisory council of the north (Jamiat) announced their decision to hang these men. Before they were hanged the condemned men said the treatment by the Masoud people was quite good and they had no complaints.
      Syeed Jamal, 39 who was a famous commander of Hekmatyar was charged with the massacre of Jamiat commanders on 10th July 1989. Jamal had been detained in Farkhar until his execution. Masoud pointing to the recent agreement between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Professor Rabbani through the mediation of people from the Muslim movement from outside Afghanistan, said "the execution of Jamal was not my decision, not the decision of the Supervisory Council, ‘but according the Sharia law of Islam".
**
★ **
***
        " I came out of myself like a snake out of its old skin and I saw that love , the lover and the beloved are one. Thus I travelled from God and heard a Voice saying : ' From Me to Me , Oh ! you in Me , you are Me! . This was the stage of annihilation in God "
        " God was my mirror for thirty years . New I am cwn mirror . It means nothing is left of what was I . As I am no more , God is his cwn mirror . For this reason I am right to say that I am my mirror : He is talking with my tongue and I am absent. "
        " It is inpossible to knew the Truth and not love it . Knowledge without love has no meaning .
        " knocked at the door of Truth with all types of hands , but it did not open until I knocked with the hand of humility . I asked with neny tongues for an audience , but was not admitted until I called with the tongue of lamentation . I took all the steps along the Path , but did not reach the supreme station until I walked with the steps of my heart. "
               •
         From the Book " Sufism and the Modem World
                              by Prof.Sayd. B. Majrooh

■kick
kkk