ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN STRONGLY DETER
ANY SINCERE EFFORT FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF AFGHAN PROBLEM IS WELCOMED
 I
 (
                                     In the name of Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful.
                Lo! those  who disbelieve after their (profession of) belief, and afterward grow violent
                in disbelief: their repentance will not be accepted. A ndsuch are those who are astray.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Al-Imran - III (90) Quran.
                              ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
                           Cover photograph: Hazrat Professor Al-Mujaddedi with Mujahideen

LIBERATION FRONT
 April, May-1990.
g&fe.
                                        Afghan National Liberation Front Peshawar.
JS t"1 -                        -•‘I
 * *• ‘      . -  -  y
              LIBERATION
                 FRONT
•-’v
 EDITOR IN CHIEF:
                                                                                                           HIDAYATIJLLAH MATEEN B.A., LL.B., LL.M.
CONTENTS
                                        ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION INCLUDING AIR POSTAGE
                                                      Annual: US$ 50.00 Three Months: US$ 15.00 Annual: Rs. 50.00 Three Months: Rs. 10.00
  'T
                                                            Subscription to the LIBERATION FRONT
                                                 is considered purely a contribution to the Afghan Jihad against the Soviet invasion of the Islamic, Non-aligned and sovereign state of Afghanistan.
                                                   Kindly send your subscription order at the Magazine’s following address.
                                         LIBERATION FRONT P.O. BOX 610 PESHAWAR, PAKISTAN.
                                        Published by The Cultural and Publication Committee, Afghan National Liberation Front, Peshawar, PAKISTAN.
                                                      P.O. BOX 610
 Page
 Is Nouroze, the Afghanistan Day. ... 4
 2: Criminals are Always Criminals.... 5
 3*' Mujahideen to Elect Loya, Jirga
    Within Two Months: Pir Gilani..... q
 4: Soviet Prisoners of War
     By Abu Irfan .............................. IQ
 5:
 President’s Message on Eid-day............. 15
  6: Any Sincere Effort for the Afghan Problem Welcomed: President Al-Mujaddedi . .       17
  7*
  '* Islamic State of Afghanistan Strongly Determined to Hold Elections in Afghanistan........................... jg
  8: Islamic State of Afghanistan Strongly
      Condemns the Attack on Relief Agency... \ g
  9: U.s. Programme Helps Revive Education
      in Afghanistan.................... 21
 10* Seminar on Supervision DHW’s in Kunar
      and Ningarhar..................... 23
 11: Sovietisation of Afghanistan By Ghulam Sarwar..................
 24
 12? Worldwide Support for Afghan Mujahideen would not allow Kabul Regime to Survive Peter Tomsen.......................... 26
 135 Prime Minister Sayyaf............. 28
                                             ARYANA OFFSET PRINTERS CHARSADDA ROAD PESHAWAR
 LIBERATION FRONT__________________April, May-1990.
 EDITORIAL
Nauroze, the Afghanistan Day.
   Nauroze the first day of the Solar .HijraT _ Year corresponding 21 March is the'end of the winter and the beginning of the springy f in Afghanistan. Traditionally, this day,hh§ -always been celebrated by the Afghan Mujahid nation with enthusiastic pleasure . and colourful festivity. The weary and exhausted people after the extreme cold of the winter breath a sigh of relief, they visit and greet their neighbours, and .going out on picnics, send felicitations and presents to their relatives and friends who are away from them.
   The last Nauroze of this kind was celebrated cheerfully in free Afghanistan where every;JAfghan was the master of his own abode. But the installation of the communist regime after the Russian backed coup d‘etat of 1978 in Kabul and the subsequent Soviet military intervention substituted not only the delightful celebration of Nauroze for a gloomy situation, but completely changed the face of Afghanistan to a miserable and apprehensive scene. Since the Russian puppet regime has come to power in Afghanistan, the Russian tanks, helicopter gunships, and jet bombers, are roaring from the air and ground and the soldiers are marching in the streets, hence there is no security of person, property and honour for the Afghan Muslim nation.
   The Russian and Khalq Parcham infidels, after they seized the powjer, started their brutal ant/i-Islamic and antihumanitarian activities against the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. They used to inter the houses on the plea to search it, but they completely looted whatever they found in /
   the house. This was followed by the arrest
• '-of those who were not the members of
   ^Chalq-Parcham parties or supposed to '''■ agitate against the communist regime in ^Afghanistan. They were driven with masks on their faces, brutally tortured, killed and even burried alive. The bereaved families were denied the right to receive the bodies of their dead husbands, brothers and sons or to see those who have been arrested by the communist installed regime in different jails.
     The Russians invaders did not satisfy with such atrocities alone but further heavily bombarded and demolished the villages, towns and cities and also applied chemical weapons for the annihilation of the defenceless nation of Afghanistan. The people had no other alternative but to leave the country and lead homeless and miserable life of refuge in the neighbouring countries.
     Thus, after the coup of 1978 with the Russian invasion the environment in every Afghan family has been completely
* changed to an awful atmosphere and the day of Nauroze (New year) for Afghan is no more the day of nauroze. There is no such family inside and outside Afghanistan where condolence meeting has not been held and tears have not been shed in the memory of their imprisoned, missirg and dead relatives.
     In 1981, on the recommendation of the Presidential Council passed by the European Parliament on 18-19 Nov. 1981, in Strasbourge France that March 21, of every year corresponding to 1st day of Solar Hijra year is to be celebrated as the Af-
4
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
ghanistan Day throughout the World peace loving nations.
   The Islamic government of Afghanistan on this auspicious day held conferences and extended its profound gratitude to the Muslim Ummah and peace loving nations who always shared the pleasure and grief of Afghan Mujahid Nation and supported the cause of Jehad in Afghanistan particularly for the declaration of 21st March as Afghanistan Day.
   The Islamic government presented its greetings and compliments on the occasion of New year 1369 (S.H.) to the Mujahid Nation of Afghanistan and offered prayers
for their prosperity and success. It also offered condolences to the bereaved families of the martyred Mujahideen and remembered those Mujahid brothers who have been imprisoned by the puppet regime in Afghanistan merely on the ground of their Islamic faith, belief and principles.
   It is hoped that the New Year of 1369 would bring happiness and prosperity to the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan and the Holy Jehad would successfully continue against the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul until an Islamic government in accordance with the wishes of the Muslim and Mujahid nation of Afghanistan is established.
CRIMINALS ARE ALWAYS CRIMINALS
   The Cabinet of the Islamic government of Afghanistan held a meeting on March 7, presided by Hazrat Prof. Sibghatullah Al-Mujaddedi, president of the Islamic government of Afghanistan. The cabinet considered the coup attempt pf Khalq against Parcham for the toppling of Najib puppet government in Kabul, as the internal fight between Khalq and Parcham. The cabinet of the Islamic government declared both of them (Khalq and Parchamjas the enemy of Islam. The Islamic government further declared that"Neither we are ready to stand in one rank with the communists nor to live under a joint administrationwith them."
   Similarly, Prof. Abdul Rub Rasool Sayyaf, Prime minister of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, iri his press conference held in Peshawar on March 10, made it clear that no Mujahid affiliated to 1 his six party government, was extending any help to Shahnawaz Tanai’s forces who were fighting to overthrow Najib. Thus a man
 who was yesterday the enemy of Islam and has committed crimes against Muslims, how could he be considered today a friend of the Muslims and the supporter of Mujahideen. It may be recalled that in the coup of 1978, the main leading mutineers were Pacha-gul- Wafadar, Faiz-Moham-,mad and Shanawaz Tanai and some other military officers belonged to Khalq-Par-cham factions. On seizing the power, the so called revolutionary government, apprehended former cabinet ministers, members of parliament, university professors, military officers, educationists, intellectuals and religious scholars. The interrogation team headed by Pachaegul-wafadar, and Faiz-Muhammed ministers of Trihal affairs and Interior ministry respectively started brutalities and inhuman treatment against all the political prisoners.
                                                                    Some of the political prisoners, including Muhammed Hasham Maiwand-wal, former prime minister, were killed by j’acha gul wafadar and Faiz Muhammed,.
 /
5
 LIBERATION                               April, May-1990.
 during the interrogation, While Muhammed Moosa Shafiq, former prime minister, Ghulam Muhammad Niazi and some other ministers and member-; of the parliament were arrested and after brutal torture were sent to Dehmazang Central Jail. According to an eye witness General Khan Muhammad Khan, Zarghun-Shah, Saifuddin M.N.A, Eng. Habib-ur-Rahman, and Arif Shinwari were shot dead by Pacha-Gul wafadar himself. Molvi Habib-ur-Rahman, Saifuddin, Eng. Jan Muhammad and some other religious scholars were also executed.
   In the soviet backed coup of 1978, in which Khalq-Parcham factions were directly involved, Taraki was installed as puppet president of Afghanistan. In this coup Watanjar, the present defence minister and Shanawaz Tanai (Khalq)the claimant of Mujahideen’s supporter and their sympathizer, playeTd a key role. It was during Khalq party’s regime that tens of thousand innocent people were tortured, arrested, killed and million others were forced to flee the country and seek refuge in Pakistan and Iran. In November 1989, it was disclosed by Khalq regime to a visiting British member of parliament, Lord Bethel, that thousands of people were killed after being detained. Lord Bethel said he was handed over a list,
                                     v
 of 11,000 Afghans Including two former prime ministers so far arrested and murdered by the Kabul regime.
   Subsequently, where the Afghan resistance posed serious threats to the Corh-munist regime in Kabul, it became.a good pretense for Russia’s military interference in Afghanistan. The war mongers of Russia, without any valid reasqn, invaded Afghanistan on December 27,1979, killed Amin and installed Babrak Karmal as their agent. But within a short period, the Russians lost their confidence in Babrak, arrested him and took him to some unknown destination in
  Russia.
     Najib, the present Soviet puppet president, who was by that time Chief of KHAD (secret police agency), was trained in Moscow and was the most trusted Soviet supporter, notorious for his brutalities. While in Russia in 1978, Najib was a key adviser to the Soviets in planning their invasion on Afghanistan in December 1979.
     After replacing Babrak Karmal and assuming power, Najib came forward with a vow to crash the resistance movement of the freedom fighters (Mujahideen). He assured the Soviet authorities of the establishment of a stable Communist regime in Afghanistan. During this period, Najib killed thousands of political prisoners, severed military activities against the Mujahideen, increased Soviet troops in Afghanistan, started sabotage activities in Pakistan and sent children and youths for terrorist and military training to Russia.
     Since 1978, the ruling party of Khalq-Parcham has never considered themselves as Muslims, never quoted from the Holy Quran in their speeches during the Soviets presence in Afghanistan, but rather they ridiculously spoke about Islam, the Prophet Mohammad(PBUH) and the Holy Quran. But after the Soviets withdrawal from Afghanistan when Khalq-Parcham leaders found their position unstable, they came forward in the garb of Islam and sympathisers of the Afghan Muslim nation. They changed the tone of their speeches and the line of their policy towards the Mujahideen. Now they want to deceive the Afghan Muslim nation, to divert the atten- * tion of the Muslim Ummah and to weaken the position of Afghan freedom fighters by creating friction and misunderstanding 1 among the Mujahid organizations.
                                                                         It may also be recalled that in the mas-1 sacre of Herat on 15th March, 1978, at the
 i
6
LIBERATION FRONT                          April, May-1990.
Soviets were invited to provide the Afghan nation with bread, clothes and shelter.
time of Tarakf, Shahnawaz Tanai played a deceiving role in the killing of Mujahideen and other civilians in the city of Herat. He, as a military officer, flew from Kandahar Province by helicopter along with his troops, while Herat city was under the siege of the Mujahideen, and no one was allowed to enter the city, where the Muslim people of Herat and the Mujahideen were fighting against the Khalq-Parcham puppet goverh-ment in the city. On landing in Herat, General Tanai and his soldiers hoisted white flags on their tanks on which the KALIMA was inscribed. They raised slogans of Allah-u-Akbar in the disguise of Mujahideen to deceive the Muslim freedom fighters. Seeing their white flags, the Mujahideen thought that perhaps a military division had defected to the Mujahideen and had come to their help. The Mujahideen, therefore, allowed them to enter the city. With this trick, Tani, along with his troops, entered the city of Herat and killed innocent men, women, children
   and old people. Similarly, in the same year of 1978, Shahnawaz Tani watched the massacre, where the Soviet military divisions and soldiers machine gunned the innocent villagers of Kirala in Kunar Province under his (Tani) command.
     . Could this inhuman, brutal and cruel ac-tions of Tani be forgotten by the Jvlujahideen, particularly by the people of Hetrat and Kunar provinces?
     Thus,the coup attempt of 6th March 1990, led by Shahnawaz Tanai to topple the puppet Najib was actually the internal affair of Khalq- Parcham factions. In this coup, Khalqies wanted to overthrow the Parcham ruling party and seize the power, but it' ended in failure. The coup was not in the interest of Mujahideen, because it is impossible for Mujahideen to make coalition government either with Khalq or Parcham, as they both are the sole enemies of Islam r and Mujahideen as ^uCh. Had the Mujahideen desire to make coalition
1
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
The Afghan nation faced with this undesirable situation after the coup of 1978.
 government with communists, they would have formed it with Najib after he announced national reconciliation and offered the formation of a coalition government with Mujahideen.
   It is a vivid fact that Khalq-Parcham factions have seized power in Afghanistan with the direct soviet military intervention in Afghanistan in 1978-79. How it may be possible for Mujahideen and the'Muslim nation of Afghanistan to forget the ten years long ruthless war, genocide and destruction in Afghanistan, and to forgive those Khalqies and Parchamies whose hands are still stained with the blood of innocent Afghan Muslim nation?' ;       l'
   Now, to protect themselves against the accountability from the hands of Mujahideen, some Khalq-Parcham active, senior and notorious members have joined Mujahideen ranks. They ridiculously claim that they are and were the true Muslims and supporters of Mujahideen. Although, communist leaders are trying to remove from the memories of the people the number of civilians and mujahideen, they have killed in Afghanistan, but the people of Afghanistan would never forget the killing of their brothers by communists in Afghanistan and would never forgive those Khalq- Parcharp members for. the crimes,they have committed against Muslims in Afghanistan.
LIBERATION FRONT                        April, May-1990.
Fir Syed Ahmad Gilani, Chief Justice of IIGA addressing a press conference in Peshawar.
MUJAHIDS TO ELECT LOYA JIRGA WITHIN TWO MONTHS: GILLANI
    The chief of AIG election commission, Pir Syed Ahmad Gillani, said on Tuesday May 22, that 2500-member Loya Jirga will be elected within next two months, with ten members representing each subdistrict.
    Addressing a press conference, Pir Gillani Chief justice of the Interim government of Afghanistan said that elections would be the best opportunity to the people of Afghanistan to exercise their right of self determination. Loya Jirga would later elect the president, he said, adding former King Zahir Shah and women could, also take part in the elections. Describing the election formula as unanimous decision of the componQnt of the AIG. Pir GiHani hoped that Mujahidcn parties outside the fold of AIG would also take part in the
elections.
    He pointed out that Loya Jirga would be elected from the liberated areas, while seats would be reserved for those areas under the control of the Afghan government.
    Answering a question, chief of the election commission said that the proposed election formula was quite flexible and added that local people hailing from a particular district were competent to decide weather they would elect their members or select or nominate them. "It would be entirely upon the locals to decide. Pir Gillani said.
    Of the ten members from a district, one would be nominated for the national assembly (Ulasi Jirga), while remaining nine would be members of Loya Jirga and local council of that district. Pir Gillani
said in response to yet another
question. He said that Loya Jirga would later elect the head of the State, who would also appoint a commission to draft the constitution of the country. Once the constitution was drafted, president or head of the state would invite any member of the Loya Jirga to form the government, known as national assembly or (Ulasi Jirga), Pir Gillani added.
    Pir Gillani pointed out that Qazi Amin Waqad, Chief of Ir-tehad-i- Islami of Mujahideen Afghanistan has also agreed to participate in the proposed elections. He hoped that parties outside AIG would take part in the elections as they had no other way out except to accept the propose formula.
9
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
SOVIET PRISONERS OF WAR
    By Abu Irfan
    A United Nations report, published in November last, expressed "deep concern” over the human rights violation in Afghanistan even after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops. The report by Felix Em-racora, a special representative of the U.N. Human Rights Commission, says that the Soviet backed Kabul regime holds more than 3000 political prisoners and those awaiting trial "are kept like animals in small cells or rooms."
    It may be recalled that an, eight member Soviet delegation, representing the Soviet Peoples’ Committee for the release of the prisoners of the Afghan war, arrived in Pakistan last year on June 18, and held meetings with the Mujahideen pleaders to seek the release of the Soviet POWS.
    The Afghan Interim Government released two soldiers of the Red Army on November 27, 1989 in the presence of the Soviet ambassador in Pakistan at a ceremony held at the headquarters of the AIG in Peshawar.
    This year, again, a Soviet delegation visited Pakistan to find out ways and means for the exchange of Soviet and Afghan POWS. Moscow claims that 311 of its servicemen are missing in Af-' ghanistan, presuming that they are held prisoners by the Afghan Mujahideen. Mujahideen, on the other hand, admit having taken Soviet servicemen as prisoners, but say that the number is not as high as Moscow claims. The Mujahideen further ask the, Soviet officials to provide details of about 40,000 Mujahideen fighters who are missing in the 10 year war. *
    However, it may be known to the Soviet authorities that there
  were neither Soviet POWS in the captivity of Afghan Mujahideen nor was there any such talk and attempt by the parents of the Soviets soldiers for the release of the Soviet servicemen before 1979.
     This anxiety of the mothers of the Soviet soldiers and to the citizens of Russia as well as to the Afghan people has been created by the Soviets authorities themselves when the Soviet troops numbering about 1,20,000 invaded a non-aligned, independent Muslim state of Afghanistan in 1979, killing, arresting, harassing and torturing hundreds of thousands of innocent Afghan men, women and children and dragged the Afghan nation to the bloodiest war in the history of Afghanistan.
     After the invasion, Russia increased the number of its troops in Afghanistan and also for further reinforcement, recruitment policies were followed by calling Russian youth to be sent for basic training to military centres (eight to ten weeks) or sergeant schools (six months) in different parts of Russia. After graduation and taking their military oath, the Afghanis-tan-bourid recruij^ were sent to assembly points near several large Central Asian cities, including Asbakhabad, Tashkent and Dushanmbe and from there they were flown to Afghanistan.
       !
     Of these Soviet recruits, some of them voluntary opted for Afghanistan for military service and , some of them were forced to serve ‘'in Afghanistan. Voluntary because in Russia a lieutenant’s salary increases from ,210 to 600 Rubles upon transfer to Afghanistan with some other facilities. In addition, one year of service in Afghanistan is said to be equivalent to three
 years service in Russia. The advantages of service in Afghanistan for the Soviet officers are summarised by a former soldier as follows:
    "In the Soviet Union, officers are concerned with regulations. Here, in Afghanistan, the officers who come are interested only in money. For those who serve in Afghanistan, two years are equivalent to six years in the Soviet Union. There you have to wait six years for promotion - here only two but with three times the salary. So only the greedy people are volunteers for Afghanistan."
    On the other hand the volunteers are those who are sent to Afghanistan as a form of punishment. Four such servicemen who were sent to Afghanistan because of transgression against military regulations had told their stories after their captivity at the hands of the Mujahideen:
    One of them had become a sergeant and had served more than a year in an airborne unit in the Baltic military district when he was arrested for being AWOL for three years. Normally, he would have been court-marshalled and sent to the penal battalion, but instead, he was transferred to a motorised rifle unit of Afghanistan.
    Another soldier, a recruit whose entire training unit of chemical reconnaissance specialist was sent to the Soviet forces in Germany, was kept behind with sevtral others because of "bad behaviour". Soon thereafter, he was flown to Kabul.
    A third respondent has complained his case that their unit was sent to Fergana to help with workers on a Kalkhozc. Many units were being used for work at that
 i
10
LIBERATION FRONT
 time. He and a few friends of him began selling cattle in the black market and would get drunk with the money they made. When they were caught, they were sent to Afghanistan.
    The fourth respondent, a demolition expert, says that an officer with whom he did not get along, arranged for him to be sent to Afghanistan. Once he told his officer: "If I ever get out of the army, I will kill you." And he said: "Well, I am going to send you to a place from where you will never return."
    Some other Soviet conscripts with criminal records are being dispatched to Afghanistan. One former sergeant, who about such cases has remarked:
    "For the most part, criminals are send to serve in bad places inside the Soviet Union, such as Siberia and the Central Asia. But criminals are send to Afghanistan as well. Not ofily criminals, but also those who had committed a crime and were about to be put in jail. There were some fellows whose cases have already been opened in courts and who were going to jail. Their only solution was to join the army and tjieir cases would be dropped."
    Thus some Soviet military officers and soldiers were sent to serve in Afghanistan because of tarnished records, some other have been demoted for chronic drunkenness and others have been sent to Afghanistan after being demoted for unspecified transgressions.
    So when such offenders and convicted soldiers were sent by the Soviet military authority to Afghanistan to fight ^gain^t the Mujahideen, how the Soviets can expect them to return to Russia, join the army, stand the trial and serve the term of their sentences. NJost of these Soviet offenders have
 always tried to desert the Soviet army in Afghanistan, have joined the Mujahideen ranks or remained in captivity of the Mujahideen and have further applied for asylum in Europe or in the United States.'
    Another factor for the desertion of Soviet troops, is relations between first and second-year soldiers in the Soviet expeditionary force. This conflict, known as (DEDOVSHEHINA AND STRAIKOVSHINA) a Russian terms used for junior and senior soldiers, which is of course of long standing in the Soviet army. Under this army precedents, second-year soldiers, regardless of rank enjoy complete hegemony over the younger conscripts.
    The superior status of the old-timers is expressed in a number of practices. Perhaps the most innocuous of these is the young soldiers forced to perform personal chores for the old-timers, such as cleaning their uniforms, shinning their boots, doing their laundry, making their beds, cooking dishes, clean up the territory, clean the latrines and even to wash his Commander’s feet and anything else the old-timers want. Second-year soldiers can often do force the first-year soldiers to give them their belongings cloths, personal items money and so pn.
    A 'former Sergeant has described his experience with senior officers on his arrival in Afghanistan: when they arrived in their permanent unit in Afghanistan, onf the very day the seniors took away their new overcoats, their gloves and their new pants that the unit had just issued to them. The old-timers further took every thing ifrom them—things such as cigarettes, lighters, pens etc.
    There are ^lso reports from reliable sources that the young soldiers were forced to scrub latrines with tooth-brushes, crawl under
April, May-1990.
 beds and run with gas masks on until they faint. Others are awakened in the middle of the night and ordered to provide food and cigarettes. Refusal to comply with the demands of the old- timers will result in severe beatings of the first-year soldiers, which are administered by a group of old-timers, who are usually brutal. Several of the respondents knew of cases where young soldiers had been beaten so severely that they had been taken to hospitals, with their bladders ruptured and ribs broken.
    A former soldier and now Soviet POW recalled that immediately upon arriving in Afghanistan, the "melody" practice for the treatment of new recruits were processed by the old men. This involved passing the young conscripts one by one through a circle of old-timers, who would hit, kick and humiliate them, "so that they would understand who is boss."
    If this cruel treatment of the new recruits in the hands of senior soldiers was complained to higher authority for the redress of their grievances, would lead to violence, moral problems and serious disciplinary action against the victim. This harsh and uncivilized treatment will lead the new recruits to committ suicide.
    A young Uzbek Soviet POW recount the case of a fellow Uzbek from his unit who killed himself: The Soviet soldier as soon as he came to Afghanistan ran away. His regiment looked for him, but could not trace him. Latter on he was found in his native place and was sent to disbat for 20 days and tlien he was brought back to his unit, where he was beaten severdly. One night at 2 a.m. he took a knife, went to the toilet, locked the door and committed suicide.
    The new recruits not only kill themselves but also shoot down
  i
11
 LIBERATION FRONT
 their seniors and old-timers whenever they get chance during combat and also in their own units during night.
   Thus, the above cited examples and interviews with Soviet POWS can provide ample evidence to prove.the abuse and harsh treatment of the junior soldiers by the old-timers which ultimately lead the junior soldiers to desert the Soviet army and join the Afghan Mujahideen.
   The Soviet POWS while in the captivity of Mujahideen are well satisfied with the sympathetic and civilized behaviour they receive from the Afghan Mujahideen. Some of these Soviet POWS are so impressed upon the manner of the Afghan Mujahideen that they even speak of returning to Afghanistan and help the Mujahideen more if they one day become free men. Recently some Soviet prisoners of war in the presence of the Mujahideen leader refused to go with their mother^ to Russia. Some
 others Soviet POWS dream of making their way to western countries and to start new^ife in the free world.
    The following is,the transition of letters written in Russian to President Reagan by Soviet POWS.
    Dear Mr. President:
    It is now the third year that Fm with the Afghan partisans. In terms of time in general three years is not a long period, but in the life of a human being.
    All of this time my friends, and I have been trying to make our way to the free world, but so far it has all been without any result. We are rejected, western countries are turning away from us. But why? What are we guilty of? I, a former (Soviet) soldier, voluntarily laid down my arms and joined the resistance, in hope of finding freedom.
    In the USSR 1 lived like millions of other Soviet citizen. I finished school, then the PTU (professional
                                                                                                            April, May-1990.
 technical school) and later worked at a factory as an electrician-welder. A human being is so created that he is constantly dreaming of a good, happy life and all of his life he strives toward that dream. But what can you do with this dream in a country where a person is considered merely as a cheap working unit? My parents and I lived in a communal apartment where we were allocated a room which was 14 square meters. Living in such cramped quarters, we couldn’t even dream of a three-room apartment, not to speak of a happy life.
    On April 2, 1983, I was taken into the army. I was literally taken, because no one asked me whether I wanted to go or not. Two months later I was already in Afghanistan, where I came face to face with real communism: lying, genocide, lawlessness, humiliation, betrayal, servility, etc. I could go on listing it other similar qualities without end. I didn’t want to support all of this then, I will not do so in future.
    I completely support the Afghan partisans and their just struggle for their country’s freedom. We have spent manv sleepless, anxious nights together under one sky, and we have shared ilast crumbs of bread and the la<» bops of water. It is so difficult to remember all of this!
    Is it possible that after all of this, my friends and I are destined to live a life of anguish and suffering, without freedom? Can it be, that this is all we deserve?
    Of course, I have achieved freedom in Afghanistan. I c;»n walks and express myself freely, but, this can happen only in a tight circle, in Afghanistan. I cannot tell the world what is happening here, I cannot exert myself on behalf of Afghanistan. My friends and I need total freedom, and we see this freedom in the image of your country. In America we will be able
 i
12
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 to join our American friends and together fight for the observance of human rights.
    Mr. President, I, Sergei Busov, and my friends, Vladislav Naumov and Vadim Plotnokov, ask you to let us come to the United States of America! This is our last hope of having a chance to live and not simply to exist. Please extend your helping hand to us, who arc innocent victims of this damned war.
    Respectfully yours,
    /s/Sergei Busov
    March 31, 1986.
    Dear Mr. President:
    This appeal comes to you from a former Soviet soldier who was stationed in Afghanistan and who did not participate in the genocide which the Soviet government is conducting there with the hands of Soviet people.
    I would like to tell you a little about myself. My name is Vadim AlkexandroVich Plotnokov. I was born on February 13, 1965 in Moscow, where I lived and went to school. My life in the Soviet Union was hardly any different from that of the average Soviet citizen: I went to kindergarten, to school and then
 to work. Alii i completing eighth grade, I had to start working because my family needed extra means of support. You know that simple people in the USSR live on the poverty level. I continued my education at a high school for working youth.
    In May 1983,1 was drafted into the Sov iet army and went through basic training at an aviation unit in Soviet Turkmenistan. After finishing this military training, which lasted five months, 1 was sent to Afghanistan.
    1 went to the side of the Afghan patriots voluntarily, with my weapon in my hand, because I did not agree with the policies of the Soviet political leadership.
    My own political convictions are obviously against the Communist ideology. It is now th third year I am with the Afghan resistance and my main goal is liberty. I want to be a free person and to live in a free country. It is precisely for this reason that I deserted from the Red Army. I turn to you, as the president of America and as a very good person, and ask you to grant me and my friends political asylum in the U.S.A.
    I believe that you will pay heed to our difficult situation and will help us come to America. I ask you to take a personal interest in our case because otherwise some people who are not interested in our release may stand in the way. I w'ould like to assure you that for me, there is no way back, because for a year now I have taken up arms against the Communists and I am fighting to defend the freedom <>f Afghanistan. In no way can I wish to return home. I believe that those soldiers who have returned to the USSR have committed a crude and cross act against the Free world.
    I believe in you, and hope that you will personally help me and my friends.
 with best regards.
    Yours,
    /s/Vadin Plotnikov
    April 3, 1986.
    Dear Mr. Reagan:
    I am writing to you because you are the president of the freest country in the world. I, Igor Leonidovich Kovalchuk, do not want to kill children and women; I do not want God to judge me for having spilled blood. In Afghanis-
 i
13
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 Vadium a Soviet soldier who was in the captivity of Afghan Mujahideen.
 tan, I learned to understand the entire Soviet government system, and I have learned to hate the violence that maii can exert over man. I left the army in hope of reaching the free world, where I can follow the dictates of my soul and not that knout.
    I have been in Afghanistan for six years. America is a freedom loving country which defends human rights. I ask you to kindly grant me political asylum.
    With great respect.
    /s/Igor Kovalchuk
    Those Soviet POWS who succeeded in deserting the Soviet Army and acquired asylum in the United States or the Western countries consider themselves the luckiest people among the Soviet
 citizens.
    Thus, the Sc" iet delegation, representing parents of the soviet POWS in the captivity of the Afghan Mujahideen, should contact their sons whether they are desirous to return to their country and join their army units in Russia, where itltfy have experienced inhuman treatment at the hands of their superior military officers.
    The parents of the Soviet POWS are also advised to let their sons determine their own fate, whether to return to their homeland and live as slaves or to live as free men in the free world and enjoy their privileges as POWS under the Geneva Convention.
    Moreover, the exchange of POWS take place after the termination of war on both sides. But in the present circumstances, the Afghan Jehad against the Soviets and their puppet regime in Afghanistan has not been concluded with the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, because the Soviet military advisers and pilots are still present in Afghanistan.
    Besides, the Soviet troops, during their military invasion on Afghanistan, have committed war crimes against Mujahideen and also against the innocent Afghan civilians contrary to the principles of the Geneva Contention, for which they may be held responsible. The Soviet authority in Kabul has transferred thousands of minoris and school children, without fhe consent of their parents, to Moscow for brainwashing. In the 10 year war, 40,000
 Afghan people are also missing who may either be in the prisons of the N:ijib regime or may be in the captivity of the Soviet authorities in some unknown places. The Afghan mothers also have the right to know about their children and Mujahid sons for whom they have been waiting for the last ten years.
    In this regard, talking to the Soviet delegation which went to Washington to seek the help of the I ’ .S. authorities in the release of the Soviet POWS in the captivity of the Afghan Mujahideen, Mr. D. Rader, a member of the U.S. House of the Representatives, said that for the Soviet, the war in Afghanistan had not yet ended. A huge quantity of the Soviet weapons was still being airlifted to Kabul, and the Soviets were strongly supporting their puppet regime in Afghanistan. Besides, thousands of Afghan children had been sent to the Soviet Union and thousands of Mujahideen were also under the captivity of the Kabul regime and the Soviets.
    Expressing sympathy with the Soviet POWS, Mr. Radar asked the Soviet delegation to exert pressure on their government to stop supporting the Kabul regime and send back those Afghan children who had forcibly been taken to the Soviet Union for brain washing.
    Finally, it is up to the Soviets to facilitate the exchange of POWS for which they are responsible, because it were the Soviets who invaded Afghanistan, and not the Afghans who invaded the Soviet territory.
 i
14
           PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE ON THE OCCASION OF ETD-UL-FITAR.
  My Muslim countrymen, sisters and brothers. Assalamu-Alaikum-Wa- rahmatulIah-Wa-Barakatuh.
  I congratulate you on this auspicious day of Eid-ul-fitar, and pray for the success of Mujahideen, Muhajireen and the Afghan Muslim nation in their struggle for the liberation of our beloved country from the Soviet backed Communist regime of Kabul.
  The month of Ramathan is the month of blessing, grace and mercy. The main purpose of this month is to ward off evil. As Almighty Allah has said "O, you who believe fasting is prescribed for you, even as it was prescribed for those before you, that you may ward off (evil). Holy Quran. Continued on Page 29
  President Al-Alujaddedi and Pakistani foreign minister, Sahibzada Yaqub Khan,           ^
  exchanging views on ‘Afghan issue.
 p 0j 4.K- Sayyuf, Prime Minister of IGA.
Hazrat Prof. Sibghatul
UNITY, SINCERTY AMONG TI THEIRSTRONG FAITH IN ALMIGF AFGHANISTAN.
 Mujahideen can never cooperated and form coalition government with those persons who have murdered thousands of people in Afghanistan, destroyed thousands of houses, and committed enumerous crimes.
 For the establishment of Islamic Government in Afghanistan, we would intensify our activities and increase our pressure on the enemy.
 The leaders of IGA did not want power for themselves, nor to impose their rule by force. They wish the Afghan people to determine their destiny in accordance with Islamic teaching.
 The Islamic government of Afghanistan 15th March 1990.
16
Photos- A.M.R.C.
                                               Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Minister for reconstruction and repatriation.
Molvi Mohammad Nabi
 'ah-Al-Mujaddcdi, President.
IE MUJAHIDEEN LEADERS, AND [TY ALLA 11 WOULD BRING PEACE IN-
    Sayed Ahmad Gailani ChiefJustiCe of
Mohammadi, Defence Minister. Molvi Mohammad Yonus Khalis, Minister of Home Affairs.
 ANY SINCERE EFFORT FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF AFGHAN PROBLEM IS WELCOMED.
    Prof Hazrat Al-Mojcddedi
    In regard to the statement of Mohammad Zahir Shah ex-king of Afghanistan issued on 13 May 1990, Prof. Sibjhatullah Al- Mojad-dedi, President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan said: Keeping in view the present critical situation of Afghanistan, it is the moral obligation of every Afghan Muslim to participate in the struggle for the settlement of Afghan problem. Any sincere endeavour by anyone for bringing unity and mutual understanding among various Afghan Muslim Organizations is welcomed; on condition that the regaining of Islamic Status, national sovereignty of the country and the right of the Afghan nation for self-determination is guaranteed. However, the selection for future leadership shall be left to Loya-Contimied on Page 30
17
     PRESIDENT ATTENDED PRESS CONFERENCE:
     ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN STRONGLY DETERMINED TO HOLD ELECTION INSIDE AFGHANISTAN.
                    ■r
   PROF. AL-MOJADDED!
   Prof. Sibghatullah Al-Mujad-dedi President of the Islamic government of Afghanistan in his press conference held on April 25, in the premises of Presidential office, said that the Islamic State of Afghanistan is strongly determined to hold election inside the country and to form a broad based government for the restoration of peace and tranquillity in Afghanistan.
   In reply to a question regarding the recommendation of the United Nations that an election be held inside Afghanistan in the areas under the control of Mujahideen, supervised by the Conference of Islamic Countries, President Ha/.ral Al-Mojaddedi said that the Islamic State of Afghanistan has not yet decided about this issue. The pr6si- J dent also added that the offer put forward by Dr. Najecb for the peaceful settlement of-lhe Afghan problem, if he is sincere and serious in his recommendation, then the Afghan problem will be resolved in accordance with the regulations and principles of Islam. Hbwevcr,
  18
he further added that before the war and bloodshed in that country could be stopped, it is necessary to find-out the real cause and basic elements of the war.
    Prof. Al-Mojaddedi, President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan said that as everyone knows, the
existence of the Communist regime in Afghanistan forced the Muslim nation into general uprise and the declaration of Jehad against the Communist takeover in Afghanis tan. Now, If the Communist regime
                                                                                                               Continued on Page 30
Pctcf Thomson, IJ.S. special envoy Mujahideen, with President Al-Mujaddedi.
  1           i
LIBERATION FRONT
                                                      April, May-1990.
ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN STRONGLY CONDEMN THE ATTACK ON RELIEF AGENCY.
    The Islamic stale of Afghanistan strongly condemn the attack on the installation of the Shelter-Now International (SNI), a relief organization for Afghan refugees in Nasar-Bagh refugees camp, and consider it as malicious operation against the interests of Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajirccn
    The Islamic state of Afghanistan, appreciate the plan, programme and activities, the agency of Shelter-Now International has undertaken for the relief and benefit of Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajirccn. The Islamic state also strongly support the humanitarian assiatance and diligence services, the Shelter-Now International Agency has extended to the welfare of Afghan Muhajireen. -T
    This statement was issued by the Islamic state of Afghanistan on May 13th 1990.
    It may be recalled that after this incident of 26th April at Nasar Bagh refugees camp, it appered
 in the section of the press that "More than 100 international voluntary organisations in NWFP and Balochistan, looking after the Afghan refugees,would be asked soon to pack up and leave Pakistan".
    This news, however, rejected by the spokesman of the state and frontier region division government of Pakistan that the news item was totally incorrect and baseless. He further said t hat no such orders had been issi.» d. On the contrary, the govern nil highly appreciated l he valuable .services.rendered by the international agencies and NGOs for a noble and humanitarian cause in this field, the spokesman added.
    In regard to the April 26 attack against Shelter-Now International at Nasar Bagh, the 59 members Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief (ACBAR), also held a meeting on 15th May, complaining that its members were increasingly being victimised by elements which
clearly did not represent the majority of Afghans.
    In its statement, ACBAR appealed to the Pakistan government, as well to the Afghan Interim Government, Mujahideen organisations and refugee ciders to take concrete steps against those responsible for acts of terrorism directed at relief agencies and their staff. An appeal was also made for providing security to those running humanitarian assistance program-nu s.
    11 may be noted that ACBAR, is a Peshawar based body coordinating the work of its 59 members NGO’s, including bol h western and Afghan, which. provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people collectively ACBAR members employ over 6300 Afghan personnel, 800 Pakistani nationals and 350 expatriate personnel and provide relief services to Afghan refugees absolutely on humanitarian basis.
 i
19
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 AFGHAN STUDENTS IN UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA AT OMAHA
     The scholarship programme for Afghan refugees in Pakistan was established in December 1987 at Peshawar. The main objective of this programme was to update Afghan professional in their respective fields of study: Since then, 62 Afghans in 3 groups have gone to the university of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO) as part of the Afghan scholarship programme.
     The first group of 21 Afghan students (3 or 4 from each of 6 Mujahideen organizations) were selected and sent to UNO after appearing for a TOEFL test and interview in February 1988. The .first and second group were those of doctors, agronomists, pharmacists, engineer, veternary and educationists. Both of these groups received instruction in Public Administration, Reconstruction Development and English-language.
     The first group of Afghan graduates left Omaha for Saudi Arabia in February 1989 and arrived in Peshawar in the first week of March •
     The 2nd group of Afghan students left for Omaha in September 1988 and returned to Peshawar aftyr 12 montlis of study at UNO.
     The 3rd group of Afghan graduates left Peshawar for Omaha in January 1990. This group completed its English language course here in Peshawar. The candidates, with 500 or-above on the TOEFL, were selected regardless of party affiliation.
 i
20
LIBERATION FRONT
                                                                           April, May-1990.
 U.S. PROGRAM HELPS REVIEW EDUCATION IN AFGHANISTAN
    "A mind is a terrible* thing to waste," the American television an-nounccr’s voice intones' being made is not to let lack of money stand in the way of gelling an education in the United States.
    In Afghanistan, however, the problem is not only money; it is war as well. People preoccupied with survival have little time to think of formal education. The ten-year-old boy, used to carrying a gun and dodging bullet' behind his father in Afghanistan, docs not understand the value of education for his own well-being and that of his people; neither does his cousin, born and living in a refugee camp in Pakistan.
a friendly but foreign land.
    The problem of reintroducing education in war-torn Afghanistan is extremely difficult, but not insurmountable. And that is the mission of the education Sector Support Project. The project is part of the U.S. Cross-Border Humanitarian Assistance Program for Afghanistan, which is funded bv the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Started in 1986, its objective is to create opportunities for basic education in rural areas of Afghanistan through the publication and distribution of text books and the training of teachers.
    The 30-million-dollar project is
admini tered by the Education Council of Afghanistan (AEC), an Afghanistan resistance institution in Peshawar, with technical assistance from the University of Nebraska at Omaha.
   "Textbooks are the base of our operation," according to Gerald Boardman, supervisor of the cross-border educational project. The textbooks for grades one through nine have already been printed, he said, and the project will complete printing tcvt books for grade ten through 12 * •' cr the next 18 months.
   The printed educational materials arc being use in all AEC-supervised schools inside Af-
21
LIBERATION FRONT
       High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Thorvald Sloltenberg, with Afghan refugee children during his visit to Akora-Khattak Refugee Camp on March 28, 1990.
ghanistan. "We have some one thousand USAID-supported schools insid<5 Afghanistan," Boardman said. The books arc also provided to mujahideen commanders and to other organizations to distribute to other schools. "So, our textbooks are actually in many schools, beyond those that USAID fully supports," he said. He pointed out that the textbooks also arc being used in the Afghan refugee camps inside Pakistan.
   Since 1986, the project has printed more than a million textbooks for primary schools in Afghanistan, and more than
800,000 of these books have already been distributed to 1,209 schools in all 29 Afghan provinces.
   "We have about 122,000 students in the schools that we are fully supporting who are the direct beneficiaries of the programme," Boardman said. In addition, he added, "we have put over. 30,000 mujahideen through literacy cour-
 ses in the border camps, teaching them how to read and write " And the programme has financially benefited Afghan refugees who help deliver the material inside Afghanistan.
    Along with the textbooks, the project has distributed 95,0000 instructional kits, maps, and 9000 mathematics and language charts. According to Afghan refugees interviewed in Peshawar, the educational materials are also in demand in non-USAID supported schools run by the Kabul regime.
    The project has undertaken a one year, non-degree scholarship programme to the United States for the Afghan refugees who have not been able to complete their education in Afghanistan because of the war, Boardman said. A group of 21 students went to the University of Nebraska at Omaha in the spring of 1988, another group of 21 followed in the fall of that year, and a third group is currently studying
                                                                                                               April, May-1990.
                                                                                                           at the University of Nebraska.
    To improve teaching standards, in 1989 the project started a new programme of training Afghan teachers who will be posted in schools inside Afghanistan. The programme provided short term training for primary and literacy teachers and training course for district educational supervisors who monitor the quality of education provided inside Afghanistan.
    The programme has already graduated 12 master teachers trainers, and 12 more m ister teachers will be trained this simmer, Boardman said. In addition, the programme will train 40 teacher trainers, "one from each of 40 different schools in the provinces that we serve from Peshawar," Boardman explained. The provincial programmes overseen from Peshawar are in north-eastern and central Afghanistan.
    An equal number of teachers will be trained to serve the western and the south-western areas of Afghanistan which USAID funded schools operate. Currently 6,000 Afghan teacher*; are active inside the country, >‘>th a strong concentration in the resistance held north-eastern and central Afghanistan.
    The long term impact of this programme in combating illiteracy in Afghan society, as one Afghan educator put it, "will be felt once these people (Afghan) go back home and start thinking about rebuilding their country." The important thing, he stressed, is to prepare this "educational rehabilitation" as early as possible. And in this endeavour, he added, the education sector support project of the US cross border humanitarian assistance programme for Afghanistan is "only a start, but a positive one." (USIS)
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 SEMINAR ON SUPERVISION BHW’S IN KUNARAND NINGARHAR PROVINCES
Dr. Mujaddedi and Dr. Mohammad Amin Falimie, attended seminar.
    Members of the supervision team of the Public Health Institute of MOPH, of AIG, after their tour of clinics in Kunar and Ningarhar provinces of Afghanistan; attended a seminar arranged by Dr. Syed Mohammad Amin Fatimic. Director General of Public Health Institute, MOPH, AIG. The seminar was held in the conference hall of the Public Health Institute.
    The members of the supervision team Dr. Saleh and Bchram Jan, informed the parti' ipants of the seminar about the problems and difficulties being I iced by the people inside Afghanistan in con-hection with Health Programs.
    Dr. Najibullah Mojaddedi, first Deputy Minister of Public Health, AIG, addressed seminar and
      7-            7
 praised the useful apd productive tour of the supei visibn team, inside Afghanistan. Dr. Mojaddedi suggested that the Institute shall arrange similar seminars on the subject, so that the efforts of the super-vision team may be further
discussed at i broader level, in order to reach conclusions and decision.
                                                                                                         Thereafter, Dr. Syed Mohammad Amin Fatimie, Director
General of the Public Health Institute, talked about the importance of the activities of basic Health workers and supervision thereof, inside Afghanistan.
. A wounded Mujahid receiving treatment in Hospital.
23
LIBERATION FRONT___________April, May-1990.
SOYIET1SATION OF AFGHANISTAN.
                                                   Ghulam Sarwar
    Russian interest in Afghanistan predates the Bolshevik revolution. This Central Asian State had appeared as a "distinct factor" in Anglo-Russian relations as early as in the 1830. The growth of Russian influence in Kabul had led to the Second Ango- Afghan War in 1878. Thereafter, Afghanistan was firmly established as a buffer state between British India and the Russian empire.
    The Anglo-Russian convention of 1907 reaffirmed that Afghanistan lay outside the Russian sphere of interest. Nevertheless, after the October socialists revolution in 1917, Soviet Union vigorously pursued close relations with Kabul. In the process, it won the confidence of the new Afghan Amir, Amanul-lah, who had overthrown British tutelage through the third Anglo-Afghan War in 1919. Economic, military, and technical assistance reached Kabul as a result of a treaty signed with Moscow in 1921. When the reform-minded Amanullah was overthrown in a traditionalist revolt in 1929, the Russian enhanced their activities in Afghanistan.
    Mohammad R. Azmi in his paper: "Penetration in Afghanistan" reveals that in 1933, Zahir Shah ascended the throne of Kabul upon his father’s assassination. He was deposed after 40 years through a coup de’etat which was largely the work of Soviet- trained Afghan military officers. During fhe first two decades of Zahir Shah’s reign, Afghanistan curtailed Soviet influence and maintained a Western-oriented neutrality in foreign affairs. The withdrawal of the
 British from the South Asian Subcontinent in 1947 left a power vacuum in the region. In the new era, the United States largely ignored Afghanistan as a regional factor in the emerging power equation. The Soviet Union, for its part, missed no opportunity to promote its influence in Afghanistan.
    Soon after their penetration in Afghanistan, the Soviet Union completely took over the task of modernizing the Afghan armed forces, though a mall number of Afghan officers continued to be trained in the United States. By 1977, the year prior to the Communist coup, the Afghan army’s strength had risen to 100,000 officers and men and the air force to
 10,000 tanks to an estimated $600 million worth of military assistance from the USSR.
    According to reliable source, approximately 3,725 Afghan officers were* trained in the USSR and about 300 in other Soviet bloc countries from 1956 to 1977. Late Prof. Louis Dupree reported in 1971 that about 3,50Q»Afghan of-, ficers had been trained in the Soviet Union and approximately an equal number in Czechoslovakia. At this rate, the number of Afghanmilitary personnel trained in Soviet bloc should hav£ approached, if not exceeded, the 10,000 mark by the time of the coup of April 1978.
    As early as 1969, observer had pointed to the "Tactical advantages" that accrued to the Soviet Union because of this status as al-' most exclusive supplier of military equipment and training to the Afghan army and Air Force. Apart from the resulting dependence on
 Moscow for spare parts and replacements, Soviet military doctrine was also adopted. Russian became Afghanistan’s military language, and the exchange of officers at all levels for visit and training unavoidably led to personal ties. Dupree expressed concern about the effects of this relationship and the "orientation of Afghan officers trained in the USSR". According to him," the Soviets required no verbal or written pledges" from Afghanistan, because’ certain commitments are present when arms are delivered. They bring along a dependence on the system which develops them .
    Between 1960 and 1970, 2,000 Afghans had received scholarships to USSR Schools, of whom 400 had already returned with their degrees. By 1974, 500 more Afghans had finished their studies in the Soviet Union. Regardless of specialization, all were exposed to Marxist, Leninist ideology as part of their curriculum. To many of these young men, the achievements of the Soviet Socio-economic and political system appeared to provide stark contract to their own backward, tribal society. In a country with an estimated literacy ratio of less than 10 per cent a force of well over 5,000 Soviet trained military officers and specialist, % managers and educators must have constituted a significant and conspicuous segment of the educated elite.
    The overall impact of these intellectual elites was reinforced by the vast auxiliary of Afghan workers and technicians exposed

24
LIBERATION FRONT
 to Soviet instructors and engineers inside the country. From 1957 to 1974, more than 65,000 Afghan workers and technicians were trained in Soviet built enterprises and institutions in Afghanistan itself. In the wake of the massive Soviet economic assistance came large number of SoViet-bloc economic technicians and advisers. In 1970, more than half of the nearly 2,000 foreign experts attached with economic projects in the country were from the Soviet Union. It is reasonable to believe that the activities of all soviet-bloc' personnel in Afghanistan were
 closely coordinated with Moscow’s long term political and military objectives there. One may safely assume that a number of them maintained direct links with the KGB and the Soviet military intelligence service (the GRV).
    when the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) was split in 1967 into the Khalq and Parcham factions, the leaders of both continued close contact with the Soviet embassy in Kabul. Later, the Soviet Union was instrumental in bringing about the reunification of the Party in 1977, and it has played a unifying role since then. In light of this relationship between Moscow and the PDPA leadership, the vigorous recruitment drives were launched by Parcham and Khalq in the Afghan armed forces.
    There is little doubt that many of the Afghan trainees returned , from the Soviet Union with views extremely critical of, or downright hostile to the feudal-absolutist regime in their own country and supportive of rapid modernization and greater social and economic justice. The social origin of the majority of the tra^ihee^ also promoted such an outlook. It stands to Reason, and was indeed borne out by subsequent events, that some were successfuly converted to the Communist cause.
 /
    By the middle of November 1979, there were an estimated 4,500 Soviet military advisers in Afghanistan, down to the company level. With anti-government plotters safely ensconced in the Soviet embassy, Amin began to resent growing Soviet interference. In December as insurgency swept the country, and amidst indications of efforts by Amin to act independently of Moscow, the Soviet began a massive military build up inside Afghanistan and on the Soviet-Afghan border a nervous Amin was reduced to an ineffective spectator, though for a while Moscow maintained an aura of negotiations purportedly to obtain his consent for the influx of Soviet troops, but in vain.
    When Soviets dissatisfied with the attitude of Hafizullah Amin, decided that direct military intervention was necessary. After quietly introducing military elements piecemeal in December 1979, a massive airlift, began during the night of 27 December, Soviet forces murdered Amin and seized control of Kabul.
    The Soviet plan was to incorporate Afghanistan into its imperial order in much the same way it did Mongolia. For this purpose, Soviets undertook a massive programme for the Sovietization of Afghanistan. Thai Russian sent
 6,000 to 10,000 Afghan students for training in the Soviet Union to replace the often suspected administrators who were ruhning the country under the guidance of KGB. The Soviet goal was also to consolidate the Communist regime in Afghanistan, so if some day the Soviet troops withdraw from Afghanistan they would leave behind a government that pays respectful attention to their interests. There was also the military campaign to eliminate all opposition. IJepopulauot*, starvation, terror, lyHoouaj^tra^ditional socio-
                                                                                                                April, May-1990.
 economic struct urcs these were the methods of coercive Sovietization. Being seasoned propagandists, Soviet leaders spread the word that they must use force because of the unreasoning opposition of backward, feudal elements hostile to modernization and social changes. Soviet officials were also far from shy about their intentions. One such official in Kabul referring to the resistance to Soviet occupation, stated before Soviet withdrawal that "Time changes everything. In another 10 to 20 years, the new generation of Afghanistan will view our presence differently".
    The Soviet had a long view in their approach to the subjugation of Afghans. The strategy adopted was not a purely military one, but rather a multifaceted one designed to eliminate the popular support without which the resistance cannot operate.
    To conclude: The Soviet Union viewed Afghanistan in a broader prospective. They planed to built up the pro-Soviet People’s Democratic party of Afghanistan (PDPA), in order to institutionalize Communist rule. While hammering away at the resistance, Moscow worked for the development of cadres and institutions in the country. Realizing that this will take time, the Soviet leadership took thousands of Afghan youths to the Soviet Unions for training and indoctrination. The hope was that they would become loyal to the Soviet backed regime in Kabul, in exchange, they would receive position and rewards. Clearly the aim was that to attract those who aspire to rise in the new political system that Moscow was trying to create.
    However, the Russian plan for the occupation of Afghanistan and for the Sovietization of Afghans was not successful. In the coming years the historian will be able to produce sufficient evidence for the Soviet failure in Afghanistan.
25
LIBERATION FRONT
                                                                            April, May-1990.
WORLD WIDE SUPPORT FOR AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN WOULD NOT ALLOW KABUL REGIME TO SURVIVE
    Peter Tonisen
    In his interview with Riath Daily published in Saudi Arabia, Peter Tomsen special envoy of United States for Afghan Mujahideen, has said.
    "United States always support the resistance movement of Afghan Mujahideen in their efforts for the establishment of a government in Afghanistan."
    In reply to a question, Peter Tomsen said that in spite of Soviets’ troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, Soviets still provide Kabul regime with modern sophisticated
weapons.
    He added that the world-wide support to Afghan Mujahideen would not allow Najeeb’s regime to survive, although he receives continuous support from Soviets.
    Mr. Tomsen, the U.S. special envoy to Mujahideen, added that Mujahideen have full control over more than 80% of the Afghan land, while Najceb in spite of Soviets military and financial support, has kept control of some important cities like, Kabul, Kandahar, Herat and Jalalabad only.
    In regard to the recognition of
Interim government of Afghanistan, he was of the view that as the AIG is still lacking some international norms for recognition, the United States is, therefore, unable to extend its due recognition to AIG but, still continues support to Mujahideen.
    Tomsen added,"The decline of communism and other recent developments in Eastern Europe as well as in other parts of the world, enhanced the hope for the restoration of Afghan’s full independence.
 i
26
 LIBERATION FRONT___________April, May-1990.
 U.S. CONGRESSMAN SPEAKS OF AFGHANS, SOVIETISATION
                           According to the reports, a member of the U.S. Congress, Dan Rather spoke in detail in the Congress on May 3 regarding the ongoing Afghan war, the Soviet military assistance to the Kabul regime and sending of Afghan children to the Soviet Union.
    Rather has expressed concern over the continuation of Soviet assistance to the Kabul regime. He said at a time when the Soviet people themselves were confronted with serious economic problems resulting in the unrest in some of its republics, the Soviet Union had been providing the Kabul regime with the military assistance worth 3 to 4 billion dollars and the food-stuff worth 800 million dollar.
    It is very regrettable that the Soviet Union was spending this huge amount on military assistance to a notorious regime whereas the people of Herat and western Afghanistan were dying of starvation, he said.
    Dan Rather said the latest abortive coup of the former Afghan defence minister revealed that the Kabul regime was not only unpopular among the masses but was also confronted with many opponents amongst the communists. That is why, the Soviet government had increased the strength of its military and civil advisers in Afghanistan, he added. Rather said that mujahideen had witnessed themselves time and again the aerial strikes against them from the Soviet territory.
    The Soviet air raids were open violations of the Geneva Acc ird and these air raids had also been confirmed by an official of the UNHCR, Robert Dor.
   Rather also expressed concern over the Sovidtisation of Afghanistan saying that the mujahideen commanders had arrested a number of young Afghan soldiers in Herat last year who were speaking the Russian language.
   The mujahideen had also reported that a group of arrested Afghan soldiers in the suburbs of Jalalabat4 city were also speaking the Russian language. An officer of the Khad, Hamecd Gul, who had now migrated to Pakistan, told the mujahideen that Khad was sending 3,600 Afghans every year to the Soviet Union for secret training.
   Rather quoted Karim Meh-mood, a for mcr Afghan security official as saying that he had seen at Kabul airport time and again he Soviet military aircraft carrying Afghan children to the Soviet Union.
   Captain Abdul Alik Jamdar, who delected in January this year aid during his education in the Soviet Union, he saw a centre
where communism was being taught to the Afghan children who were forcibly taken there, he said.
   Rather said even the communist officials themselves had announced on Kabul radio about the departure of the Afghan children to the Soviet Union. For example, on November 5, 1984, Kabul radio announced that 870 children between seven to nine years of age had been sent to the Soviet Union for education for a period of ten years.
   After the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan last year, the leader of the Kabul regime, Najibullah had called back thousands of Afghan children being imparted military training in the Soviet Union.
   Rather concluded it was now clear that despite their departure from Afghanistan last year, some Soviet troops were still continuing the fighting in Afghanistan.
27
ifriff, i — ..
LIBERATION FRONT
                                                                            April, May-1990.
PROF. SAYYAF EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR KASHMIRIES
A meeting was held at Al-Jehad Wa Dawah University’s compound on Feb. 22, in solidarity and support of Afghan Mujahideen towards the Kashmiri Muslims. Prof. Sayyaf said, "we as Muslim and the soldiers of Allah are ready to help our Kashmiries Muslims brothern in their struggle". We did not start Jahad for Afghanistan
 alone but for the restoration of freedom and glory of opressed Muslim nations, he added. When ever we find our Muslim brothern in difficulties, we have to help them as much as possible. "We understand that, this is obligatory on us to help them." He said, wc declare our co-operation to all those nations which started Jehad. Kash-
miri freedom fighters who are struggling for their liberation, they are not alone. The Mujahideen of Afghanistan are side by side with them. We, once again, declare to the opressed nations that the only way of salvation is to stand up and give sacrifices for freedom and liberation. He added, the deeds of glory can not be written with chalk but written with the blood.
RABBANI’S VIEWS ON ELECTIONS
 Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Minister of reconstruction of the 1IGA in his interview the month of January, 1990 said, Shoora is a major issue in Islam when the formation of a govt, is concerned. Islam never allows any government to be dominated by a single or a number of persons with out election directly by people or through their representatives. It should be this to the Muslims themselves, so that they can form the Shoora according to the demand of the time and circumstances to meet their demands. Prof. Rabbani ailed the formation of Shoora as an indis-pensible option in the present circumstances. He underlined the fo lowing prerequisites: 1-Structure and formula for the formation of the Shoora should be approved by all parties or the majority of the Jehad parties. It will enable us to counter any possible allegations on the so called reprehensibility of the Shoora in the future. 2-Eormation of the Shoora should be yheld inside Afghanistan and those from the outside should be elected on the basis of the electoral zones. 3-Elec-tion should embrace all electoral zones and none of them should be ignored. With the exception of
communist,betrayers of the homeland, all people of Afghanistan can participate in the election directly or through their representatives. 4-A number of personalities from the Jehad oarties and independent Individuals, whose participation help in the settlement of the Afghan issue, should be nominated. 5-Conditions for the co-operation of the Jehad organizations should be laid down.
6-Elections and formation of the Shoora should be aimed at solving the foundamental problems of our nation and not to please others. Prof. Rabbani concluded that "although on Feb. 15, 1990 ihe one year tenure of the present Islamic Interim Government comes to ar. end, it is perferred if ihe government is extend up to a neessary period in order to avoid a political vaccume.
 i
28
LIBERATION FRONT
PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE ON EID-UL-FITAR.
 Continue from Page 15
     In piety and sanctity all good deeds morality and righteousness are involved. This holy month has got numerous advantages and benefits for mankind. It also purifies the soul and spirit of man, and keeps him in sound and perfect health. Prophet Mohammad (Peace and blessing of Allah be upon him) has said" The source of all knowledge and understanding is the fear of Almighty Allah, and piety. Islam has, therefore, attached more importance to piety and considered it as one of the prin-cipal goals of the month of Ramathan. Piety/sanctity is also one of the elements of worship and adoration of Almighty Allah.
                                                                                                           ’ Islam in accordance with its principles has fixed the month of Ramath^n to bl observed once in a by-every Muslim for the ^purification of his soul and spirit. This is the month of worship,
 ' players;1 blessing and submission to Almighty Allah. If these qualifications did not appear in a person after he has observed fasting in the month of Ramathan, it means he has not been benefited form the blessing df this Holy month.
     Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) has said" If a man during Ramathan did not succeed to give up the habit of telling lies and other evil and bad habits, then God Almighty is not in need of his hunger and thirst. His fasting will not be acceptable to Almighty Allah.
     However, man should not think that in the month of Ramathan, he may observe fasting, do'wqrship, piety £nd other righteousness but, after this njonth is over, he may be free to do any thing he \yishes. The piirpose of fasting in the month of
 Ramathan for a Muslim is, to develop the fear of God, piety and spirit of submission to God Almighty alone.
    The celebration of Eid after the passing of Ramathan is the offering of gratitude to Almighty Allah who enabled man to observe fasting and also for having fulfilled a heavy responsibility before Almighty Allah. On Eid day, all the Muslims in accordance with the principles of Islam are gathering in congregational Mosques and offering their prayers for remembering and thanking Almighty Allah.
    Our most happy and auspicious day, that will be, when we return to free Afghanistan and celebrate our Eid in an Islamic and peaceful atmosphere. On this auspicious occasion I congratulate you and pray Almighty Allah to accept our humble submission and compliance to Him. I also pray for the souls of our martyred brothers and for the liberation of our country.
    Mujahideen Organizations and the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan IIGA has announced that, those members of Khalq Par-cham factions wj^o regret their membership of Khalq Parcham and join Mujahideen ranks shall be pardoned, provided their hands are not stained with the blood of our Muslim brothers and they have no criminal record of killing Muslims. However, they would not be allowed to contest for the membership of the Shoora and also shall not be appointed in the important posts of the Islamic Government.
    In the Political field, your Islamic State and Interim government is in close contact with the United Nations, Islamic countries
                                                                       t
 --------------------y-------------
April, May-1990.
and with other peace and freedom loving nations for the settlement of the Afghan issue. Similarly, Islamic State and the Interim government of Afghanistan is in touch with the leaders of Mujahideen living in our Islamic brother country of Iran, asking them to actively participate in the settlement of the Afghan problem. It is hoped that the struggle and efforts of the Islamic State and Interim government in this regard will be fruitful.
    Moreover, Islamic State and Interim government are planning for the formation and convention of an Islamic and traditional "Loya Jirga" in which the elders, intellectuals and intelligentsia of Afghanistan will be participated. After convening Loya Jirga, we shall try to form an elected parliament.
    As you Know, there is acute shortage of food in Afghanistan. The Islamic State and Interim government therefore, endeavour to send sufficient food stuff to Afghanistan. In this regard we have
contacted United Nations and other concerned organizations in the world, for cooperation.
    Finally, once again I extend my congratulations and good wishes to my Afghan Muslim, sisters and brothers wherever they are residing. I also pray for the success of Mujahideen and for the liberation of Afghanistan.
    Wassalm-u-Alaikum Wa R^h-mat-u-llah Wa Barakatul.
                         )
  % Prof. Sibghatullah All-Mojad-dedi
    President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
29
LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 ISLAMIC STATE STRONGLY DETERMINED
 PRESIDENT PRESS CONFERENCE: Continue from Page is
 could be replaced by an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the Ai-ghan problem will be amicably set-Ted and peace will prevail throughout the country, paving the way for normal elections as it has been earlier discussed.
    prof. Al-Mojaddcdi further commented that if Dr. Najceb is really honest in his proposal, he should in the interest of his countrymen,, respect the demand and wishes of the masses of the 29 provinces of Afghanistan, and as such quit his office and transfer power to the Islamic Government.
    If this plan is honestly and properly undertaken, then a committee to represent both sides shall be appointed for the implementa-
 tion of our plan and programme.
    In reply to another question that if the Kabul regime elect members of the Shoora from the Communist party, what will be the attitude of the Islamic government? the President said that the elected members of the Shoora from the Communist controlled areas must be Muslims, and not be members of the Communist party.
    When he was asked that if the Kabul regime did not comply with the conditions put forward by the. Islamic Government for the election, then what will be the reaction of the I IGA? Prof. Al- Mojaddedi replied that there will be no other alternative for us except to continue our Jehad against the Com-
munist regime of Kabul.
    In reply to the question of whether an election will help to resolve the problem of differences among the Mujahideen organiza tions particularly that of Eng. Hik-raatyar, President Al- Mojaddedi said that on the one hand 6 Mujahideen Organizations have formed a government whereas Eng. Hikmatyar, who is in the minority, did not join the government, even though according to the principles of Islam, the minority is subjected to the majority. However, it is up to Eng. Hikmatyar to decide about the unity and coherency among the Mujahid Organizations in the interests of the
                                                                                                                                          Afghan nation.
ANY SINCERE EFFORT FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF AFGHAN PROBLEM IS WELCOMED.
                                                         Continue from Page 17
4
 Jirga (Grand Assembly). The members of Loya Jitga shall consist of the Afghan intellectuals and intelligentsia, elected by the Muslim nation of Afghanistan in accordance with our previous discussion.
    Similarly, Prof. Sibghatullah Al-Mojaddcdi president of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, before leaving for an unofficial visit to Egypt and Saudi Arabia on 12th May, expressing his views about the future role of former king Zahir Shah, said that the former king is a Muslim and could play an effective role in
                                                        efforts to solve the Afghan Issue.
                        / j
    President Al-Mojaddedi observed that the Islamic State of Afghanistan. Would appreciate if the former king played his role. He said thg future leadership of Afghanis-
tan, would be chosen through Loya ranged according to the election Jirga which he said would be ar- schedule.
i Mujahideen in prayers.
30
O F
In ihe name of Allah, the beneficient, the Merciful.
 "SELFDETERMINATION IS THE RIGHT OF THE AFGHAN NATION, AND     IT IS UP TO THE NATION TO MAKE ITS DECISIONS. WE HAVE
NOT FOUGHT TO SEIZE POWER BUT, WE HAVE FOUGHT TO RAISE THE SLOGAN OF GOD,THAT AFGHANISTAN BECOMES FREE. AFTER THAT/I'T IS NOT NECESSARY THAT WE WOULD BE THE LEADERS".
      HAZRA TPROF. AL-MOJADDE PRESIDENT OF THE ISLAMIC STA TE
                                                                          OF
 I
  1
  I
  "The down fall of communism in the world was only due to the die- hard resistance of Afghan Mujahideen against the Russian endorsed tyranny in Afghanistan.                  >
  Freedom movements in Palestine, Lebanon, Kashmir, Azerbaijan and Lithuania had already started in the result of the disgraced defeat of communism in Afghanistan and it might also teach a good lesson to those who had designs to invade any free nation.
  President Prof. Hazrat Al-Mujaddedi
  March 31, 1990                                                                 President resenting the guard of the Presidential office, Peshowar.