sa
    LIBERATION FRONT
.. .. *■ i
u 'C                      *:.v       ^     -;-•   >>
                             ' /-:_____________. - ..
Pakistan’s Worry Over Afghanistan

Sanction is given unto those who fight because they have been wronged : and Allah is indeed able to give them victory:
Those who have been driven from their homes unjustly only because they said: our lord is Allah — for had it not been for Allah's repelling some men by means of others, cloisters and churches and oratories, and mosques, wherein the name of Allah is <qten mentioned, would assuredly have
been pulled down. Verily Allah help one who help him. Lo! Adah is Strong, Almighty.
                  The Pilgriamge (Quran)
        LIBERATION-
          FRONT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF :
                             HIDAYATULLAH MATEEN B.A; LL B; LL. M.
AFGHAN NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT
  ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION INCLUDING       CONTENTS                                       
                        AIR POSTAG                                              Page 
ANNUAL: US $ - 50                  1. Another plot in the name of                    
THREE MONTHS : US % 15                reconciliation..................       . r.. 4 
                  ANNUAL RS. 50.00 2. Communique of Ittehad-i-Islami                 
THREE MONTHS :Rs. 10.00.              Mujahideen Afghanistan..........       .. . 7  
                                   3. Address of Hazrat Prof. Sibghat                
Subscription to the “ LIBERATED       Ullah Al-Mujaddedi.............        .. . 11 
     FRONT” is considered purely a                                                   
  contribution to the Afghan Jehad 4. Pakistan’s worry over Afghanistan.             
against the Soviet invasion of an     Dr. Anwar Khan................         .. . 14 
Islamic, Non-aligned and sovereign                                                   
state of Afghanistan.              5. Immigration to the west and                    
                                      its repercussion. Dr. Z.M. Khalid . .. • 18    
Kindly send your subscription                                                        
  order to the Magazine’s address. 6. The problem of Afghan Refugees.                
                                      Hidayatullah Mateen -                       21 
                  LIBERATION FRONT                                                   
                     P. 0. BOX 377 7. Jehad fronts in brief............       ... 27 
                          PESHAWAR                                                   
PAKISTAN                                                                             
Published By Cultural              8.                                          ...34 
And Publication                       Global views on Afghanistan .....              
Committee Afghan National             FACKuj                                         
Liberation Front Peshawar                                                            
P. O. BOX - 377                                                                      
3                  MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987              LIBERATION FRONT
\
    EDrtOKIAL
         ANOTHER PLOT IN THE NAME OF RECONCILIATION
     Our readers may recall that the Russiaifs puppet and Communist agent Dr. Najeeb made an announcement on 1st January this year for an open contact with Mujahideen, temporary ceasefire and the formation of a coalition government and national reconciliation.
     This announcement was made some three weeks after Najeeb and his puppet government led a top level deligation to Moscow where he declared to form a Government of National Unity.
     The Mujahideen?s Alliance at Peshawar rejecting this ridiculous offer of the puppet regime of Kabul told newsmen that accepting the ceasefire would amount to recognizing the Kabul puppet government which is backed by the Soviet troops of 115,000, present in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen refused to share any government with the Soviet agents in Kabul and called for the immediate withdrawal of the invading forces from Afghanistaa
          When the bilatral ceasefire and national reconciliation was rejected by Mujahideen, Najeeb offered unilateral ceasefire in Afghanistan, and called on Muhajireen to return to their homeland. Even he sent decorated vehicles to the border with Pakistan to transport the refugees to so-called emergency camps, The puppet regime in Kabul also made false propaganda that a large number of Afghan refugees have been returned to their homes.
          In this regard a group of Afghan Muhajireen; who were crossing the border to Pakistan told the correspondent of the Liberation Front, that the puppet regime in Kabul was busy in taking photographs of those Muhajireen who were intering Pakistan, and shamelessly displayed the same on T.V. in Kabul to delued the public.
          However, the scheme for bilatral ceasefire, national reconciliation and coalition government met with failure. Najeeb, the Soviet puppet therefore, made' new offer to former King Zahir Shah to return to Afghanistan and form coalition government with the members of the Communist regirne.-in Kabul This offer was backed by Soviet and all sorts of rumours were spread ou t in refugese camps that foimer king of Afghanistan has accepted the offer and would re|6m to Afghanistan to form coalition government with members of the Soviet backed ruhng'pprty^M Afghanistan. This was another trick played by Soviets to create friction betweenvMujtffcideen organizations. But recently Zahir Shah rejected the offer for coalition government with tire Soviet backed Communist regime in Afghanistaa The former king who is living ip Italy has declared that so far the Russian troops are present in Afghanistan, he would never accept any offer for coalition government under the aegis of Russian invaders.
^--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    r
T.ITERATION FRONT
                                                           MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
4

s
          Thus all the four points plan, viz., unilateral ceasefire, national reconciliation, coalition government and offer to Zahir Shah to return to Afghanistan were completely collapsed.
          The main objectives of this plan as the Russian had in mind, to weaken the Mujahideen position on diplomatic level. The offer for ceasefire was made by Najeeb while 150,000, Russian troops were present in Afghanistan, the eight round of Geneva talk was about to resume, Pakistan was negotiating with Soviet for short term timeframe for the pull out of troops from Afghanistan, the border area inside Pakistan was under heavy bombardment by the Soviet installed regime in Kabul to pressurise the government and people of Pakistan to desert Afghan Muhajireen, and further by the threat of terrorism and sabotage activities, Soviet wanted to force Pakistan for accepting her terms and conditions for peace in Afghanistan.
          The acceptance of the offer by Mujahideen would have weaken the position of Pakistan and other freedom loving nations ott the negotiating table for short-term timeframe for pulling out of Russian troops, particularly the principled stand of Pakistan on Afghan issue would have been smashed. The acceptance of the offer also would have led to the recognition of Communist regime in Kabul and its illegal position would have become legalized.
          Russia also wanted to misslead the free world that she contemplates bringing the Afghan war to an end. This would further minimise as the Russians believed the international pressures which have turned even many European Communist parties against Soviet on the Afghan issue.
          Another objective of the offer was to divert the attention of the free world particularly of the neighbouring States from the aggressive act of Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, and further an attempt to reduce their sympathy towards the freedom fighters and refugees by a false pretension that the Soviet backed Kabul regime was succeeding in reconciliation with Mujahid leaders, the resistance movement was ending and the Afghan Muhajireen from Pakistan and Iran would be returning to their homeland. This as the Soviets thought will slow down the world political and moral support to Mujahideen as well as the world aid and cooperation to Muhajireen The Soviet hoped that in this way the resistance movement against the Soviet military intervention will ultemately fail
          The Krimline imperialists further aimed at crushing the uprising of Muslims community of Kazakistan, Bukhara and other Islamic States of Central Asia under the Soviet domination. They hoped to strengthen their military position in Afghanistan during the ceasefire and to slow down the activities of Afghan Mujahideen against the Russian troops, so it would be easy for Communist imperialists in Moscow to keep pace with the Muslim uprising at home.
          Another target of the Najeeb offer was to sow the seed of disunity and misunderstanding between Mujahideen, Muhajireen and their leaders by diverting their opinion in regard to the offer of ceasefire and coalition government with the Communist regime in Afghanistan. The Russians dreamed that the long stay of the Afghan Muhajireen living in the camps outside their homeland would have weaken their morals, and the so called offer of pardon and reconciliation would speed up their return to Afghanistan.
          But contrary to the Soviet well design plan and all hopes, the Mujahideen leaders in the
 MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
 LIBERATION FRONT
     seven party alliance ‘Tttehadi-islami-Mujahideen-Afghanistan”, met together in'their representative form and rejected the offer for national reconciliation, cease fire and coalition government with one voice.
          Thus, the thought for national reconciliation and the formation of coalition government with the puppet ruling party in Afghanistan would never arise. The war in Afghanistan is not the war between two States or conflect arisen from a border despute which is to be ceased and the dispute will continue. It is indeed Jehad,declared by the Afghan Muslim nation after the Soviet puppet Communist regime was installed in Kabul through a coup directly aided by Soviet air power and thousands of Russian advisors while present in Afghanistan, invaded a nonaligned, independent, sovereign, Muslim State without any justification.
          Do the Soviet imagine that the Muslim and Mujahid nation of Afghanistan will forget and forgive the Russians for their invasion of Afghanistan, the nine years long period of their trial and tribulation since 1978, the martyrdom of over a million of Afghan Mujahideen, the destruction of villages, towns and crops, the killing of their children, women and aged people, and the harassment of civilians to the neighbouring States and their subsequent tribulation in the refugee camps?
          Do the Russians think that without radical change in Soviet policy and the complete withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, mere declaration of national reconciliation and the formation of coalition government will satisfy the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen to return to their homeland?
          Do the Russians believe that Afghan Mujahideen were laying down their lives and making sacrifices all these years just to form a coalition; government with Najeeb the puppet head of the Soviet backed regime in Kabul whose hands are still atained with the blood of the defenceless Afghan nation?
          This was- the final trick the Russians put into test in Afghanistan under the garb of national reconciliation and coalition government with Mujahideen which was strongly rejected by the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen. The leaders of Mujahideen unanimously termed the offer from Najeeb, as yet another last Moscow plot to trap the struggling Afghan Mujahideen.
          The seven parties Alliance leaders pledged that the Afghan Mujahideen would never stop their Jehad and the refugees from the neighbouring States would never return to their homeland untill all Soviet troops were withdrawn, the Soviet puppet regime was over thrown and an Islamic government in accordance with the wishes of the Afghan Mujahid nation was established in Afghanistan.
 fi
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
          IN THE NAME OF ALLAH. THE MOST COMPASSION THE MOST MERCIFUL -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Following the recent Soviet imperialistic, wicked manoeuvre in the name of “Peace initiatives” voiced through their latest colonial instrument.tDr. Najeeb, the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen organizations called for a conference at Peshawar to announce their united response.
        The gathering of over three hundred thousand Mujahideen and Muhajireen, hailing with one voice their leaders’ determined and moving speaches was an unforgitable demonstration of unity. The heartfelt slogans of “Allaho-Akbar” (God is the Greatest) being voiced by the faithful participants in approval of the united stand taken by Mujahideen leaders struck as a thunder to once again shake the very foundation of Soviet imperialism, leave alone their shamefull attempts at playing their imperialist political tricks; the false hopes created in the closed minds of Soviet puppets in Kabul was shattered for ever.
        For our readers, we chose to publish in this issue the text of the declaration of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen which was read by then Spokesman of the Unity, Honourable Moulavi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, as well as the text of the moving speaches that Hazrat Prof. Al-Mujaddedi delevered in this historic gathering. While the declaration you read is translation of the initial Persian text, Prof. Al-Mujaddedi’s unwritten speach has been transcribed from tape and then translated to English for our readers:
     Be not faint-hearted, crying for peace, when you should be uppermost: for God is with you, and will never put you in loss for your (good) deeds.
   (Muhammad: 35)
     And fight than on until there' is no more tumult or
     7                  MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987                      LIBERATION   FRONT
 oppression, And there prevail justice and faith in God. (Al-Anfaal: 39)
   The relentless Jihad of our Muslim and brave nation,, which has been continuing for almost past nine(9) years, has proven that this nation is
fighting for a very great ideal.
   For the realization of this ideal ie. the establishment of an Islamic Government which is the aspiration of our people, restoration of political independence of Afghanistan and elimination of all direct and
 indirect interferences of alien powers in the internal affairs of Islamic Afghanistan, one million of our people have been martyred, hundreds of thousand of our compatriots have been crippled and imprisoned, five millions have been forced to take refuge in the neighbouring Islamic countries, hundreds of thousand of innocent people have been displaced internally because of indiscriminate bombing and shellings and innumerable moral and material agonies and losses have been inflicted on our defenceless people.
    It is well known to the world that Russia, due to her expansionist policies, has been indirectly interferring in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and our nation with wisdom and bravery' has resisted these manipulations time and again. Finally when the Russians found the gains of their indirect interference at stake, as a result of the anned resistance of our people, it invaded our country with their savage Red Army forces on Dec. 27, 1979.
    The Russians in the course of their several years geno-cidal war, in spite of employing all of their military resources and satanic conspiracies and sparing no types of sophisticated and lethal weapons, could not overpower a people who consider Jihad in the way < of Allah (S.W.T) and the liberation of their country one of the best worships.
    Therefore, they hatched another plot in the name of
 ceasefire, national reconciliation and coalition government through Najib, that atheist and puppet ruler of Kabul who tries to bring off this conspiracy by using Islamic terminology. But our Mujahid nation is alive to all these tricks Our Mujahid nation would not be decieved by these empty overtures and would continue their armed resistance until the achievement of their lofty ideal.
    hr' case some individuals accept this deceptive ceasefire of Najib and his socalled national reconciliation offer, being fooled by this trick join the puppet government, in fact, such individuals will be considered as infilterated KGB and Khad agents who until now have managed to hide themselves in the ranks of Mujahideen and refugees and in the ranks of our Muslim nation at large.
    Ittehad-e-Lslami Mujahideen Afghanistan which is the only legitimate representative of the lofty ideals and aspirations of our Mujahid nation, explicitly declares that the cries for ceasefire, national reconciliation and coalition government raised by the Russians through Najib are part of the enemy tricks that will never hoodwink our heroic Mujahideen. '
    Ittehad-e-Islami Mujahideen Afghanistan in view of the mentioned facts, rejects the eihpty proposal of the Red Imperialism presented through its Slaves as follows:
 (A) CEASEFIRE:
 1)  Hie Russians through deceptive and garnished words of ceasefire, national reconciliation arid cessation of bloodshed want to pervert the Afghan issue in the minds of world people. Otherwise, what will be the"meaning of truce and national reconciliation and which sound logic will accept such offers in a situation where the forces of aggression have been spilling the blood of our innocent people for seven years for bolstering a, puppet communist regime and there is no sign in sight of the withdrawal of the forces of aggression and the cessation of their inhuman atrocities!?
 2)  In such a situation where the forces of aggression have not vacated our country and are still bent on the an position of their atheist and unpopular - regime on our people the acceptance of a ceasefire after all these sacrifices and sufferings will be tant-amount to a shameful accommodation and ignomi-nous surrender to the enemy.
 3)  Our Jihad has been started in the wake of Russian interferences in our internal affairs and their direct military intervention and aggression for the imposition of an unlslamic regime on our people The war will not stop unless the above two factors and reasons for the present conflict are removed. Upon the withdrawal of the Russian forces from our country, the overthrow of the Unislamic
■£■---------------------------------*------------- *"■' - ------------------------------\
 LIBERATION FRONT                        MAY - JUNE  - JULY - 1987                  8
 puppet government and the establishment of an Islamic state, the war and bloodshed will terminate once and for all and complete peace and security will return to our country.
 4.   The proposal of ceasefire with the Russian forces could only be discussed when they vacate our country unconditionally.
 5.   Moreover, on which authority does Najib propose the ceasefire? If servants can also have such an authority?
 The question that why did not the Russians themselves announce the ceasefire was because that they did not have the guts to announce such a thing in the presence of their forces of aggression in an exceedingly large number. On the other hand they attempted to givi^ a fake prestige to Naieeib and thus foist him as- a real side in the whole issue.
 6) The proposal of the ceasefire is not a new issue in the first place. The Russians through sundry gimmicks have been proposing ceasefire in the past but our Mujahid nation has out-rightly rejected them.
  B-----COALITION:
  1. The righteous jihad of our nation had been started before the Russian invasion for the overthrow of their puppet regime firstly and secondly for the expulsion
 of the invading Russian forces, liberation of our country and the establishment of an Islamic government, this struggle has continued. As long as these objectives are not realized, how can we lay down our arms, stop the fighting and settle for a calition government that includes the communists who are the killers of our people? The armed struggle of our nation will not stop even for a moment unless their ideals and aspirations are realized.
 2)   The Russians by proposing a coalition government are trying to create conditions that will be inconducive for launching a resistance against their puppets again and to enable their stooges to have an opportunity to securely continue their rule in Afghanistaa While this has been one of the objectives for which the Russians had invaded Afghanistan. Because it was the Russians who empowered the communitst regime in Afghanistan and for its perpetuation they militarily intervened in our country. In view of these reasons, the coaltion government is not acceptable to our Mujahid nation.
  3)   The discussion of a coaltion government which has been proposed by the Russians through their puppet regime in Kabul will be tantamount to recognition of the right of intervention by the Russian forces in the internal affairs-of our country and threatens the right of our self-determi-
 nation and is in contravention with the decisions of the UNO, OIC and RAM that have supported and asked for the unconditional, total and prompt withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan.
 4)   Moreover, the establishment of a coalition government with the communists is repugnant to the tenets and injunctions of Islam and our national interests. Islam is irreconcilable with communism and therefore working of the Muslims with communists in single framework of a government is impossible and unimaginable.
 C—1) The Army of the puppet regime is in complete disarray and on the verge of cbllapse and armed and unarmed conscripts are joining the ranks of the Mujahideen. The Russians by offering national reconciliation and cease-fire want to invite the refugees so as to be able to form an Afghan Army from those whom they expect to return by dint of bayonets. The rank and file of our Mujahid nation is alive to
  these tricks and therefore will never be decieved by them and that is why they reject these empty offers of the puppet regime.
  2) The puppet regime has announced that during the ceasefire, the gates of prisons would be opened for those who repent and make comm it-ment of serving the puppet regime. While the whole of our
9
 MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 country, in the presence of Russian forces is a prison. Towns and villages of the occupied areas, military barracks, and offices are all in all prisons and jails. In the cities, people are checked and frisked in each • few steps, houses are checked in each few days, villages are besieged and young and old alike are captured and forcibly sent to the army service and- then, contrary to their wish, they are used in the abominable war against their own brothers. Military posts of the so called Afghan Army are surrounded by anti-personnel mines so as to make the conscripts unable to desert. In the course of fighting too these Afghans are placed in the forefronts so they should be the fuel of war and on the other hand because of fear of the Kalakoves of the Russian officers in the back lines should reluctantly fire against
 their own brothers and libera-ters.
 What do the Russians and their agents think that those who have taken up arms against the Russian forces and the toppling of their agent and puppet regime and have until now waged a Jahad, would be decieved by such preposterous proposals and would make commitments in the enemy’s favour?
 Just and just upon the withdrawal of Russian forces and the fall of the communist regime and the establishm-ment of an Islamic govern-
 ment in Afghanistan the morning of independence will dawn and our nation would be rescued from slavery and subjugation.
 The component parties of the Ittehad-e-Islami- Mujahideen Afghanistan who have complete unanimity of views about the recent tricks of the enemy and its rejection, are currently discussing the sound continuation of jehad and procedures of ey tablishment of an interim Mujahideen government which will be responsible for paving the way for holding general free and fair elections for an elected Islamic government.
 At the conclusion of the discussions of the high council of the Alliance the following decisions were made:
 1)   While we want a total, unconditional and immediate pull out of the Russian forces, we beliSve we have no other alternative for the liberation of our country and the establishment of an Islamic order, than continuation of armed struggle.
 2)   After the overthrow of the puppet regime and the expulsion", of Russian forces 'an interim government of the Mujahideen takes over in Afghanistan.
 3)   Under the supervision of the interim government, general free and fair elections are held and as a result an elected Islamic government,
 and parliament would be established.
 4)   It has been agreed upon that a commission be set up to draft the laws and regulations of establishing an interim government and the procedures of its formation and the determination of the authorities and duties of this interim government. This commission is supposed t3 start its work from February 1st, ‘87 and should complete its mission within one month and present its work ot the high council of the Alliance for approval.
 5>) A decision was made for the formation of judicial delegations which would be responsible for arbitrating between individuals and armed groups of Mujahideen, ironing out their differences and giving “Sharia Fatwas”-religious verdicts on disputes. The verdicts and decisions of these judicial delegations should be operational on all individuals and mujahideen groups.
 6) In the wake of the establishment of Islamic parliament, the constitution of the Islamic state would be drafted and drawn up. This constitution would guarrantee die implementation of Islam in all walks of individual and social life of our people and natioa
............. - ■                 -   —  >■             fp—........  ..
LIBERATION FRONT                  MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987           tQ
     ADDRESS OF HAZRAT
     PROF. SIBGHATULLAH AL-MUJADDEDI
            Following is the text of Hazrat Al-Mujaddedi’s speech delivered on January 17,* 1987, on the occasion on which the leaders of Mujahideen Alliance rejected the offer made by Najeeb for reconciliation and coalition government.
IN THE NAME OF GOD THE MERCIFUL THE BENEFICENT.
     Dear audience, Respectable Guests
Mujahideen, and Muhajireen
Assalam-o-alaikum Wa Rahma-tullah-e-Wa Barakatuh.
     I am very glade that on this happy and blessed occasion a great number of our brothers, Mujahideen and Muhajireen of all the seven parties of Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen have assembled. I hope that Almighty Allah would, with his mercy and benevolence, accept this great and significant gathering. I hope that Allah the Almighty would, in this auspicious moment, shawer this great gathering with His heavenly and divin blessings.
     This is the greatest distinction for the Afghan
 Mujahideen and Muhajireen that on this happy occasion all the Islamic Organizaions of Mujahideen have assembled in a unity form unprecedented in the past eight or nine
 years and extend the hand of unity, brotherhood and sincerety to one another, practically showing that in these sensitive and historical moment they are united with one another and stand in one row.
      Almighty God says that, Lo!         Allah       love
 those who battle for His cause in ranks, as if they were a solid structure. (THE RANKS, QURAN)
      Dear audience! I recall the legend of an old man who in his last moment of his passing away from this mortal world advised his seven sons and asked them to break a bunch of thin tree branches but non
of them succeeded. Then their father who was enlightened with the love of God took the bunch of tree branches and separated them from each other and broke them one by one. Then he told his sons that if they were united and stood together no power would be able to defeat them, but if they got sepera-ted they could be easily defeated. We the seven sons
of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen, we the hope of the people of Afghanistan in this material world, started Jihad not with the power of the arm but by the power of Faith (Eman) and trust in Allah. W'e are, also, like those seven sons. If we really stand in one platform and get united no power, except the power of Allah, will be able to break us. Dear audience, I hope that this auspicious day will result in the cleaning of our
11
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
                                                                     LIBERATION FRONT
 dear Islamic Afghanistafi from the pollution caused by the dirty footsteps of the accursed enemies of our religion, our God and our Prophet (Peace Be Upon Him) and bring liberation to our country; “In that day the believers will rejoice”. On that day you will be cheerful and happy that the Almighty God has not left you without worldly blessing and has returned you to your country with the honour and pride that is unparalled in the history of Islam.
      Dear Brothers, why did the Afghan Nation resort to arms and neglected all the bounties of the world and pledged with the Almighty Allah that they will not spare themselves from any sacrifice and devotion in exalting His word. This auspicious verse (Aya) approved
 our situation that we have been able to achieve so much victory in the field of Jihad: Allah the Great has said: in the name of God the merciful the beneficent, “and when the true believers saw the clans they said: This is that which Allah and his Messenger promised us. Allah and His Messengers are true. It did but strenghened them in their Faith and submission (to Allah)”. Dear audience, you resorted to arms because the accursed enemy, atheists of the world, international communism, and the wicked soviets misled some of our youngsters. Their hearts their faiths, their bodies and souls were decorated with
 “There is no one worthy of worship but God and Mohammad His Prophet (Peace be Upon Him)”, but they deviated and denied the existance of the great God the glorious and the powerful the only creator of the universe. They were those who said, under the protec-* tion of God, that God does not exist, this universe is without Master. Under God’s protection, they denied the existence of all that is sacred. They derided the prophets. They taunted our Prophet Hazrat-e-Mohammad Mustafa (Peace Be Upon Him) and published objectionable articles against Islam and Islamic Values. They made objectionable remarks against those going on the path of the Glorious Allah. They tried to project the Dear and Chaste Islam impure to the world and to our youth. All this impudence against Islamic beliefs and Islam by the atheists enraged the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan. So lHwe all put our souls ouri children and our wealth in the path of glorious God. The beliefs of some persons was absolutely deviated, proper conduct was uprooted and social and individual misdeeds spread in Afghanistan. While, in dear Islam adultery and drinking liquor are prohibited and killing a human being is absolutely forbidden except in cases decreed by the Almighty God, no human being can disobey the orders of glorious Allah, In those times liquors were drunk like water, pigs meat was used, adultery
 was committed even with their daughters and sisters and these acts were spread to those among our youth who were misled by communi-sim. This shocked the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan and made them think as to how long should they not defend the Almighty God, the Quran, dignity, humanity and their land. So, they lost patience and took arms in defence and exaltation of the word of God with the slogan that the glorious God ordered his Prophet (Peace be Upon Him)) “say; Lo! my worship and
 my Sacrifice and my living and my dying are for Allah. Lord of the worlds, He hath no partner. This I am commanded, and I am first of those who surrender (Unto Him)”. Ulema of Islam spirituals of Afghanistan, religious youth, and those who were straight in the path of Almighty 'God were dirided by the Communists. There was no respect for the elders nor mercy for Children. Morality and Humanity vanished. Human dignity was violated by the communists and did not allow the love and affection which the people of Afghanistan had for years in their hearts to continue and find place in other peoples. On the contrary, they tried to destroy it. Direct and indirect intervention by strangers and enemies in Afghanistan deviated some people. They (the communists) did not spare Afghanistan from a brutality, oppression and bloodshed unparalleled in history and they sold Afghanistan. But, thank God, that
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
12
These ruins are the evidence of the Russian barbarism in Afghanistan.
 you the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan once again showed the whole world that the forehead which bows only for the glorious God will not surrender to any super power. That human forehead, that Muslim forehead which bows to the Almighty God will not surrender to any one but by the orders of the Great God. All Islamic and human rights and even the rights of animals were violated by the Communists; Russians and some Afghan atheists. Every Afghan has suffered, every family has suffered more than one million of our people have been martyred. Our wounded and disabled reach hundreds of thousands. How many refugees do we have all over the world. All this sacrifice is made so that we can get our real objectives i.e. establishing the rule of Almighty God and Islam. In Afghanistan the strength of Shariat-i-Mohammadi must rule. In dear Afghanistan humanity and morality and dignity should be restored. We want to show the world that Islam and Islamic understanding is very deep and real. We want that the people of Afghanistan, the young, the old, women and men alike and without exception remain honoured with real Islamic belief that “No one is worthy of worship but Allah and Mohammad is His Prophet (Peace be Upon Him)”. They should have the freedom to continue their belief in that God the Almighty has all the attributes and is clean of all problems and- defects. The Great God has no partner. He
is the only creator of the Universe. The whole world and beings are under His power. He has given a small part of his Power to the Universe. World super powers are a small fragment of His power. This is all a small part of His attributes that He has given to the world.
We believe in the real super power, the Glorious God, So we say “No one is worthy of worship but He who is the most exalted”. We want our children, our Youth and our Men and Women to remain enlightened with this belief. Be sure, that no airplanes, tanks or material power will be able to remove this belief from our hearts and bodies. We want to show it practically that the Islamic conduct which we want to maintain shall revive the first century, the second centry and the third century which the Prophet (Peace Be Upon Him) said “the best century is my century and-that which is near me”. The Prophet (Peace Be
 Upon Him) said that by centuries he meant those who lived during that century, and whose morals and behaviour we should study in History and Ahadis. We should see those of his companion's that he trained in a short time. They carried the glowing Flag of Islam to all places. Allah the Almighty     says       about them
 “God is pleased with them and   they    are     pleased with
 God”. The Prophet (Peace be Upon Him) says about his companions “Be intelligent about my companions.
   No other men like them have come in human history except the Prophets.
   We want the morals of those learned Dignitaries to prevail in Afghanistan. Each Muslim should feel that he is a special servant of God. That there are orders and forbidden acts  for us and be incumbent
 by   the orders and         avoid
 committing the forbidden
13
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 acts.
    Respectable audience; we wish that all refugees. Mujahideen and the Muslim nation of Afghanistan keep aside' all partisan prejudices, ethnic prejudices and linguistic prejudice and obey the orders of Great God that teachs us humanity, justice and equality. On the Day of Judgement the Allah (SWT) does not ask you why were you not a member of National Liberation Front, Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan, Hizb-i-lslami or Harakat-i-Inqilab Islam i or in this or that organisation. But, He asks as to what belief and deeds you have got with you, what did you do with your God His creatures and your religion. So, for the almighty God, for real Muslims, the best of us and the most honourable of us is he who is the most virtuous. May the Almighty God bless us with real virtues. May the Almighty God bless us with pious deeds. The Prophet (Peace be Upon Him) said “Human beings are all equal. The Arab is not superior to Non-Arab and the Non-Arab is not superior to the Arab”. Respectable audience, the great philosopher of Islam (Allama Iqbal) says the following Poem:
    Ve are neither Afghans, nor Turk, nor Tartors; we are (equal) in parallel to a grass field and stem from a single branch.
     For us discrimination of colour and adore is forbidden For, we have nourished from one early spring.”
     I shall not take more of
     your precious time. May
     God Bless you.
  LIBERATION FRONT
Pakistan’s Worry Over Afghanistan
              DR. ANWAR KHAN
   Neighbours, individuals or states have many things in common. Afghanistan as an independent state came on the map of the world in 1747: but previously it shared for centuries the political destiny of the Indian sub-continent. Afghanistan lay on the historic trek of the human migration from inner Asia to South Asia. Human movement carried with it human civilisations, culture and religions. Islam came to the sub-continent predominantly via Afghanistan, and it subsequently provided a large number of leaders, spritual and political. Most of the ruling dynasties of Islamic India were Afghans and almost all celebrated saints in the subcontinent are of the Afghan origin.
   It may be of interest to know that the founder of the state of Afghanistan, Ahmad Khan, later Shah, was born at Multaa The Muslims of the sub-continent took pride in a growing Muslim state, on the north western fringes of the sub-continent. And I give you here a few of the instances of how the Muslims of the subcontinent looked upon
 Afghanistan during the course of history over the last two centuries The Muslim state in India at this time, was confronted with many threats, internal (Sikh, Jat and Marathas) and external (the Europeans on the coastlines, the English and the French) and a call for help from the Muslim leaders both political (Mughal King Shah Alam) and spiritual Shah Waliullah) sent to Ahmad Shah Abdali. The latter responded promptly to it and crushed the enemy (Maratha) at Panipat making life easy for the Muslims in India. The second call came from Sultan Tipu of Mysore to the address of Zaman Shah of Kabul which somehow did not materialize.
     It was in 1818 that the Sadozis and the Barakzis picked up a quarrel in Afghanistan. The ruling house of the Sadozis was ousted by the Barakzis which again was split into seven states each held by one of the Barakzis. This posed a terrible situation. The Muslims of India, then highly weak, pestered by the English from the south east and hara-. ssed by the Sikhs in the north,
M AY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
 14
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiHkiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
 Moscow in Expansion
EXPANSION OF RUSSIAN IMPERIALISM
iiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
 had launched a political struggle (Jehad) against the Sikh atrocities in the Frontier under the command of Syed Ahmad Brelvi, who is believed to have acted under the direction of Shah Abdul Aziz, the illustrious son of Shah Wali-ullah.
   Syed Ahmad Brelvi travelled to Afghanistan in 1826 to warn the Barakzi folk of the consequences of disunity in their ranks and its ultimate result for the cause of Islam in the area. It is not fully known
 that the result of this mission was yet we know that Afghanistan united itself during this year under an able Barakzi, Dost Mohammad Khan, who gave an efficient administration to his country for the next 37 years:. It was under Dost Mohammad that the first British invasion of Afghanistan
 took place. A strong contingent of the Indian Mussalmans under Moulvi Naseeruddin fought with valour and suffered heavy casualties at Ghazni in defence of Dost Mohammad Khaa And again when the British invaded Afghanistan in 1878, a Muslim delegation led by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan callled upon the Viceroy to apprise him of their resentment for this action. The Muslims of India selected Afghanistan as their abode during the Hijrat movement in early twenties of this century. They fought at Tal under Zaffar Hussan against British India in support of the Afghans during the Third Anglo-Afghan war. In feet King Amanullah received considerable moral and political support from the Indian Muslim workers during his Istiqlal and Tanzimat movements.
 Maulana Ubaidullah Sindhi, Barkatullali Bhopali and many Indian Muslims spent considerable part of their lives in Afghanistan with the dual purpose of counter-acting European moves against Islam and giving advise to the Afghans.
    After the fall of King Amanullah, Nadir Khan’s (later Shah) arrival in India from Europe in 1929 was publicly welcomed by Muslim India. Maulana Mohammad Ali escorted him from Bombay to Lahore and Maulana Zaffar Ali Khan further accomponied him to Peshawar. The Pesha-waris organized a public welcome for him at a meeting in Shahi Bagh and collected sizeable donations for his war efforts in Afghanistan and it was finally the Waziri Lashkar-led by Allah Nawaz Khan Multani that placed Nadir
15
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 Khan on the throne at Kabul. The Executive Board of the Muslim conference in its Lahore Session in December 1929 hailed Nadir Khan’s accession to power in Afghanistan and four years later Allama Iqbal accompanied by Syed Sulaiman Nadvi and Ress Masood visited Kabul to advise the Afghans on the essentials of modern education in an Islamic society. The Afghans found a prominent place in Iqhal’s thought and his Masnavi “Mussafir” is addressed to them. Nadir Shah’s death was woefully mourned by the All India Muslim League in its Delhi Session in November, 1933. And in 1934, when Afghanistan joined the League of Nations, Sir Agha Khan (Sultan Mohammad), the Indian government’s representative, welcomed Afghanistan’s entry to this body on behalf of the Indian people in general and “eighty million Muslims of
India” in particular. It was at about this time that some young Indian Muslim students (Chaudhury Rahmat Ali, Aslam Khattak etc) at Cambridge were writing their pamphlet, “Now or Never” a dream land of Pakistan in which Afghanistan fountf and manifest position. A large number of Indian Muslims served with missionary zeal for considerable years in Afghanistan, on insignificant remunerations as it was a service to Islam and their own kith and kin.
   The movement for Pakistan within the sub-continent of India was shaping itself to reality and in 1940, at Lahore the Muslims of India delineated the future boundaries of the state of Pakistan A forty-member contingent led by Sardar Aurangzeb Khan from N.W.F.P. participated in it and vowed to struggle for Muslim homeland within India to be
 called Pakistan. The struggle ultimately succeeded and the Muslim State of Pakistan came to being on 14th August 1947.
   Being two neighbouring countries, Pakistan has considerable historic and cultural interest in Afghanistaa Pakistan, besides this under the present circumstances has beenexpansioato three major threats:
 i. Ideological.
 ii. Hegemonial
 iii. Super Power Entangiem ent.
 Ideological Threat: Pak ,-t.in
 emerged on the map ot the world, by the partition of India, on account of its Muslim public’s ideological differences with the rest of the population of India. It can survive as long as it adheres to its ideologycal preservation, failing which it will either wither into petty states or re-emerge into India. The Soviet presence in Afghanistan and her ambitions to transfer Afghanistan to a communist, anti-religious, atheistic and ideology-imposing state, constitutes a terrible threat to the state of Pakistaa The communist ideology carries behind it a vast Soviet propaganda and war-machine and smaller states like Pakistan can hardly escape its socio-political thrust. The Soviets are not shy in their mission to propagate and advance communism amongst world public through every means available to them. Ideology plays vital role in their state and public planning and Pakistan, as such, will remain vulnerable, as its society is
In the refugee camps, the children ask their parents, when they will return to Afghanistan.
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
16
 passing through socio-economic transitional phases.
 Hegemonial Neighbourhood.
 Russian neighbourhood is an hornet’s nest. None of its neighbours found rest at its hand. It has been .expanding east and west, north ana south for the last four centuries: it is currently the world’s largest single state areawise (22,402,000 K.M. out of the total world area of 149,000,000 K.M.) and most of it (70%) had been carved out of Asia. The area in the east is three times larger than in the west and its expansion much more easier in the east than in the west. Russian’s historic neighbours Ukraine, Lithuania, Moldavia, Estonia, Latvia, Arminia, Gorgia, the Siber, the Kazak ,ithe Uzbeks, Khiva, Bokhara and Khokand, all today stand merged in Russia. The states of Norway, Sweden, Finland, Poland, Czechoslovakia Humgary, Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Iran, China, Afghanistan, Mongolia, Korea and even distant Japan have felt the bitter brunt of it. It will be follish trusting the Soviet terminology of “peaceful co-existance” and friendly neighbourhood”. The lessons of history are fruitful only if they are practised and not simply memorised. .
  Super Power Entanglement:
   Realistic neutrality though in the modern complexities of world political situation, is well-nigh impossible yet there are some states today which have been maintaining some form of neutrality in the
 supper power rivalry. Pakistan is the formative part of its foreign policy planning did not evaluate its geo-political position and perhaps out of certain economic and sociopolitical constraints drifted towards the West and entered into the West oriented CENTO, SEATO pacts but sooner realized the cost of it and slowly moved towards a situation wherefrom it could escape direct confrontation with any super power. The Soviet presence in Afghanistan negates this effort. The world is under division with the Anglo-Saxon, Slav camps. The rivalry spreads from trade and culture to ideology and small nations find it hard to be heard. The Slavic presence in Afghanistan invites the AngloSaxon attendance in the neighbouring Pakistan on account of threat sharing.
   The Russophobists in Pakistan, see in the present Soviet action in Afghanistan, a push towards the Russian historic longing for the warm waters. Afghanistan had provided an obstacle in this direction and the British withdrawal from the sub-continent made Russian move easy and on the first available opportunity
 they marched into Afghanistan. Pakistan, the Russophobists are under the circumstances should send a call to every available friend and well-wisher for help and support as the next Soviet move would be disastrous for the state and the sovereignty of Pakistan None of the Soviet neighbours, they further maintain, have
 survived without assistance from a matching power and the cases of Turkey and Iran during the last century and that of the Western European states in recent century can be cited as instances for it. Any lapse or compromise on the issue by the government of Pakistan is likely to bring insurmountable problems for the further generations in Pakistan.
   But contrary to it, the Russophil advise restrain and caution in dealing with the situation. They also advise Pakistan to put its own house in order, as the sounder the internal situation the better its performance in dealing abroad.
   The policy pursued on Afghanistan by the government of Pakistan since the Saur Revolution of April 1978 followed by the Soviet invasion of this country in December, 1979, as gleaned through the news media, is in conformity with the decades of time. It was alarmed in the first instance in early eighties, posed for a while a belligarant attitude but with the passage of time it toned down itself to a position of understanding without reconciling itself to a change in the broad principles of its policy regarding Afghanistan. Pakistan’s principled stand on this issue is (i) Immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan (ii) honourable and safe return of Afghan refugees to their land (iii) restoration of non-aligned and Is-
                                            Continued on page 2©
17
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
DR. Z.M. KHALID
                                     ■
  Immigration to the West and its Repercussion
   Since 1742, Afghanistan had always a major role on the political arena of Asia. The triangle of Herat, Kandahar and Kabul had been always considered as the gate of the then British India, and now the Subcontinent. It was a nonaligned, Islamic state even from the time of the two World Wars. Prior to April 1978, she had kept friendly relations with almost all the countries.
   But however, since 1947, the West almost neglected Afghanistan’s role on this part of the world. In this regard the celebrated poet and philosopher, Iqbal said once:
   Asia is a figure Made of water and mud In this figure Afghanistan Is the heart Her ruination is The ruination of Asia Her occupation is The occupation of Asia.
   But the West left this “Heart of Asia” alone to the greedy and hungry beasts of Russia. Thus Afghanistan became a bread and butter for Russia. So they rushed impatiently and invaded Afghanistaa But the Afghans stood up with stones, sticks, spades, and swords in their hands against the invaders. Thus the ‘Drama, staged once again on the cross-road of Asia.
                                              IMMIGRATION
   When the Afghans did see the Russian Bears bite every one and do not discriminate between combatant and non-combatant and even do not
 spare the life of the old, Women, children and enfants in their cradles and so widly and wildly they attacked everywhere everyone, then the Afghans started migration to the neighbouring countries.
   Russia invaded and embar-
 ked on mass killing and genocide, and every Afghan, who was not a member of their lackey’s bond, was chased, arrested and killed.
   The fleeing Afghans were still to pitch a tent that the socalled helper hand of the West reached them. In other words, special forms were distributed among the Refugees and refuge was offered in various countries of the West. For a man, whose country has .been invaded and occupied, his home bombed and demolished, his father, mother, sister, brother, children and country fellows, chased and killed, and one third of the entire population of his country thrown out of their homes and hearths and those who saught or took refuge in a .country near to the blood bath, being invited to a far safer and secure place, almost with all possible facilities, would not be possible to reject such an
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
Young Mujahideen are fighting for the liberation of their homeland.
invitation. But rather would struggle for it. So they pre-fered a second immigration.
   People from all walk of life fled Afghanistan. But to the We$t only selected ones were given the chance-the educated ones. Thus all the educated in the West, and a great majority of the educated and professional layer of the country was removed to the West, The battle field and the field of the decision making remained widely open to the semi-educated or non-educated, non-professional^ and non-technocrates. So the nation was left more vulnerable to the invading forces and their lackeys.
   Because, education in Afghanistan was free of charges — financed by the state treasury. The nation was then and now is in critical need of its education layer. Because, educated in such a way, were more in debt and more responsible to the nation than an ordinary man, in this critical juncture of the history. The gap was wide open bet-tween the run away educated to the West, and the warring and refugees masses. Being educated they were able to render valuable services to the nation — in favour of our holy Jehald, but instead they accused each other. Being given refuge in West-Germany, Turkey, Italy, France, England, Canada, Australia and the United States of America, their contribution to Jehad became almost a nil. The fleeing group to the West, did find an excuse that they
 were not given a proper place in the Jehad organizations. Notwithstanding the gates to the West remained wide open and tens of thousands are still on the list, waiting for clearance for their future host countries.
   Thus the West, extended its helper hand indirectly towards the invading troops of Russia. In other words, the occupying forces, forced Afghans to leave their country, and the West, stimulated them to leave the rank and file of Jehad.
   Of course, the contribution of this illplanned policy of the West, in connection of the Refugees, is a great damage to the cause of. the Afghan Jehad Therefore, it is strongly desired that the West would be good enough to recess its policies in regard of the Refugees - either already in the West, or on the waiting list of a second immigration.
   It is to be added that the present Jehad in Afghanistan, is a war of just and liberation. Because, Afghanistan has been invaded by the Russian Imperialists. Afghanistan is the home and mother-land of every citizen of Afghanistan. It is the sacred duty of every citizen of Afghanistan (regardless of faith, creed race, and sex) to do whatever, he/she can for making a success of the just and liberation war. Because, it would not be fair and just that in the time of peace and her prosperity, we were living in, but when she is in trouble to leave her. It is more than regretable to mention that a foreign lady physician being busy in dressing the wounds of Afghan Mujahideen and the Afghan physicians strolling in the streets of London, Paris, and New York. Or, that the formers of Afghanistan are recklessly running over the Russian tanks and our trained
19
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 military officers, personnel, Ph.D., M.A., and B.A., holders, are either standing in a long queue for receiving their ration in the West, or busy in accumulating money. They are the brain of our society and the field of our Jehad is wide and vast. Fortunately or unfortunately there are more than a dozen organizations busy in Jehad affairs. They could and should accommodate either in one or in another organization. Otherwise, they could form an Advisory-Board/Comm ittee/ Assembly, whatever it might be called, and could and would advise and assist all organizations in regard of Jehad affairs. The whole satellite bloc of Moscow is assisting the invading forces of Russian Imperialists in Afghanistan. It is the Afghans to fight them back with every possible means in their disposal. It is a very critical period in the Afghan history. Those Afghans crossing over to Pakistan should not think for a reserved post with the organizations of Jehad. In other words, in place of tc think, what the organizations could do for them, should think, “what they could do for the organizations.”
   Every patriot and believer Afghan should do his best to find out the ways and means to help the brothern Mujahideen and should not dwell upon what the Mujahideen can do for them. Because. Mujahideen and their organizations, render valuable sejAices to the nation — they
 pay with their lives to gain the freedom of the nation, perhaps it is the highest price and service one could do to his nation and his society.
   No doubt, there are many short-coming with the organizations but it could and should be removed and' the Jehad could be put orrits right direction. But who should do it? It is the moral duty and obligation of every Afghan, particularly of those who see and point out the short
 comings. Mere criticism would be no use of, and leaving the field of battle would not be a success. Taking refiige for accumulating wealth in far away countries from the field of Jehad would not be called a Hijrat.
   Therefore, it is .expected that the conscious Muhajireen in the West would rethink and recess their situation as well as the situation prevailing in their dear and brave motherland.
Pakistan’s Worry Over
     Continued from page 17 lamic status of Afghanistan (iv) right of the Afghan people to choose their own government.
   Pakistan has wisely not retaliated to many air incursions on its soil from the Afghan side. It has been exerting pressure on the Soviet Union through the UNO, OIC and NAM for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistaa Indirect talks also called proximity talks, through the UN representative have continued with Afghanistan at Geneva. The subject also formed in
 “polemics” part of the discussion between the two super powers for the proposed talk at Reykjavik on October 11 and 12, 1986. It was also mooted in the nineth round of the Sino-Soviet Normalisation talks held in October, 1986 in Beijing. Mr. Gorbachov’s comments on the Afghan question in the press conference in New Delhi on November 28, 1986 augur well for the situation:
    Nothing would be more pleasing to Pakistan than to see Afghanistan free of foreign troops and foreign intervention.
20
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
HID AYATULLAH MATBEN
The Problem of Afghan Refugees
   Soon after the announcement of the proposal by the puppet regime of Kabul for ceasefire and coalition government with Afghan Mujahideen in the month of January, the Soviet backed Communist government of Afghanistan claimed that large number of refugees were returning to Afghanistan and a growing number of Mujahideen were surrendering.
   This baseless report of the puppet regime of Kabul was rebutted by the Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad as propaganda by Kabul seeking projection of response to their suggestion. The spokesman said that the fact is that thousands of refugees have entering Pakistan every month adding to millions already in Pakistan. He further said that this propaganda is really motivated and deserve no attention.
   Similarly world media broadcasts expressed doubts about Kabul government’s claim that large number of Muhajireen were returning to
 Afghanistan and growing number of Mujahideen were surrendering.
    On the other hand some self interested people in the neighbouring States are expressing doubts about the returning of the Afghan refugees to their home land after the withdrawal of the Russian troops and the political settlement of the Afghan problem. Few are even attempting to create opinion that most of these Muhajireen will permanently settle, and would be nationalized in the host countries. There are also rumours spread out by some anti Islamic elements that Afghan refugees are the source of violation and sabotage activities in Pakistan.
    This question which has been propagated in the public, is well answered by the President of Pakistan General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq himself on various occasion, that “The Afghan Muslim people have not come to Pakistan for feast and enjoyment. But they have come to defend their faith, belief and to liberate their coun-
 try. The government of Pakistan has offered them shelter merely on humanitarian grounds, and the Muslim nation of Pakistan has embraced them with open hearts. He has pledged that Pakistan would continue to provide succour to Afghan Muhajireen till they were back home with honour and dignity. The President of Pakistan has also said that as long as the Afghan war will
 continue every Pakistani would support the Afghan brothern on the basis of Islamic brother-hood. In Afghanistan, every individual, men, women, old and young and even children were prepared to offer every sacrifice for the glory of Islam and their country.”
   In regard to sabotage activities in Pakistan for which some anti Pakistani elements are blaiming Afghan Muhajireen, the President General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq addressing a group discussion of intellectuals for the security of National solidarity from internal dissensions and external
21
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 threats, held on 25th December 1986, at the Aiwani-Sadar in Islamabad, said that acts of viola nee, which had recently taken place in Karachi, appeared to have been masterminded and committed by certain elements which entered Pakistan under the garb of Afghan refugees.
   In his closing remarks at the moot of scholars. Ulema, thinkers, scientists and journalists at the Aiwan-i-Sadar, Pakistan’s President said these acts of sabotage could not be attributed to the Afghan refugees who had been looked after here and were busy earning their livelihood by doing strenous manual labour. He said there was no precedent in
 the Islamic history where so much affinity prevailed between the Muhajireen and Ansars. Though seven years have passed after the influx of Afghan refugees there has not been a single instance when there was a clash between the Muhajirs and Ansars.
   The President of Pakistan said the enemies of Pakistan were extremely upset over the peace and harmony prevailing between the Muhajireen and Ansars and thought that it would be difficult for them to achieve their design unless they were made to fight with each other. Thus they tried to creat rifts between them which they thought would lead to serious clashes among the Afghan Muhajireen and the local people particularly in the Frontier and Baluchistan Provinces.
   Recently on July 8, 1987 President General Mohammad Ziaul-Haq while addressing a public meeting in Balakot, Mansehra district referred to the acts ot sabotage and terrorism in various parts of the country and said that Pakistan was being subjected to these activities because it was an Islamic ideological State and had provided shelter to Afghan refugees on humanitarian ground in keeping with the Islamic spirit of brotherhood.
   President said he agreed with the view that all this had been done to create misunderstanding about the Afghan refugees so that people look at them with doubts and suspicion. He said Pakistan would like the Afghan refugees to go back to their homes with dignity and honour. They (Afghan refugees) would also not like to stay here a minute longer than was absolutely necessary.
   In this regard Brig. (Retd) Sayed Azhar, Government of Pakistan’s Chief Comm issioner for Afghan Refugees in his analyses of the problem has mentioned some of the misgivings doubts and apprehensions created in the public mind on the basis of rumours, half truths and mis-statement of facts and has tried to clear these doubts. He has visited almost all the refugee camps in NWFP, Baluchistan and Mian-wali and does not agree with the contention on the basis of his personal observations. He has said that the yearning for the homeland among the
Wr A fghan Refugee: refit gees.
 Mr. Cordon Humphry I .S. Senator, visiting Xassir Hugh Refugees Camp, while Mr. Fahimullah Khatak, Commissioner Afghan Refugees aecom-panying him.
 refugees is as strong as it was in the beginning and has in no way been affected by free distribution of relief assistance. If the refugees have replaced their tents with temporary mud huts, is merely to protect themselves from vagaries of extreme weather and is not meant for permanent settlement.
    Brig (Retd) Syed Azhar has also enlighted the matter from the early stage when a small number (around 109,000) Afghan refugees crossed the border to Pakistan with the coup of Taraki in April 1978, and sought refuge in Pakistan. Subsequently, with the direct Russian armed intervention on 26, December 1979, the refugees figure increased to almost 400,000, and in the middle of 1980, it marked one million, and the second" million about a year after. The figure stood at more than three million at the end of June 1983. The Chief Commissioner has further stated
 that one may ask, have these refugees been pouring in, in such a large number, are they falling a famine, or epidemic or some other natural calamity? No, Syed Azhar said, the answer given by refugees themselves is simple, they are fighting to regain their national freedom and uphold their religious belief which they have zealously guarded over the centuries.
   While they are carrying on their struggle, their aged man-folk women and children are forced to seek shelter in thier brother country of Pakistan, a foreign but friendly land. Moreover, the ties of the Afghan with the people of Pakistan have been deep and abiding. They have common history, tradition, religion and a common culture, which have patterned in lives of both peoples in similar moulds. On these grounds when our Afghan Muslim brothers have opted Pakistan for their refuge the government of Pakistan
 cannot turn their back on them in accordance with the principles of Islam, and the United Nations convention of 1951 and the 1967 protocol on the status of refugees.
    When Brig (Retd) Fahim-ullah Khattak, Commissioner of Afghan Refugees, NWFP, Peshawar was briefed by Mr. Carter Ex-President of the United States, on his visit to Nasir Bagh tentage village on 3, November last in the out-skirts of Peshawar about the influx of Afghan refugees and the humanitarian assistance being provided to them. The Commissioner informed him that the number of refugees had crossed a figure of three million residing in Pakistan The unregistered refugees who were living with their friends in the •tribal areas will make the total over and above three million.
    In NWFP about 2.41 million refugees were housed in 244 tentage villages while 62 such villages had been established in Baluchistan and 12 in the Punjab.
    He was further informed by Mr. Khatak that more than 45 voluntary agencies were working in the NWFP for the provision of succour and relief to these refugees. He was informed that the influx of Afghan refugees was still continuing at the rate of thousands per month.
    According to United Nations’ report on Refugees, Afghans in Pakistan are the
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY-JUNE-JULY - 1987
24
 single largest group of refugees in the world. The Government of Pakistan re-portes, registration of more than 2.8 million' Afghans and the numbers further continue to grow. The refugees are sheltered in more than 300 camps, primary in the rural areas of Pakistan’s North-West Frontier Province and Baluchistan. Relief assistance, including food, shelter, clothing, and medicine, is provided by the international community, primarily through the UN High Commissioner for refugees (UNHCR) and the World Food Program.
    Recently arrived refugees are facing more hardsheps compared to their predecessors because of the sever fightings in Afghanistan. They bring with them fewer possessions and livestock, thereby placing an additional burden on relief efforts in Pakistan.
    The report has added that Refugee-Pakistani relations have been surprisingly good, with few incidents, largely due to the strong cultural and social ties between the indigenous population and the newcomers. Since early 1986, however, Soviet backed regime attempts to exploit Pakistani concern over the refugees’ presence have increased.
     In regard to the relief assistance to the Afghan refugees, the report says that between 1983 and 1986, the World Bank, in conjunction with the UNHCR, committed $20 million for forestation, irrigation, and road-building
 projects that employ refugees and local labour ill repairing environmental damage caused by the refugees. This project has recently been extended for 3’years.
   The U.S. Government, the largest contributor to the relief effort, pledged nearly $50 million for Afghan assistance in fiscal year 1986. •including $25 million worth of commodities through the World Food Program. To date, total U.S. contribution for Afghan refugees assistance exceed $480 million. Other' major contributors are Japan, Canada, Asustralia, Saudi Arabia, and a number of West-European nations.
   The second largest concentration of Afghan refugees is in Iran The Iranian Government estimates that up to 1.9 million Afghans are within its borders, half of them located in the spbrsely populated eastern provinces of Khorasan and Sistan-Baluchistan. Many Afghans in Iran have successfully integrated into the local population. However, the Government does provide some assistance through its Council for Afghan Refugees, part of the Iranian Ministry of the Interior. In addition to providing equipment for an extensive network of reception and transit centres, UNHCR is developing programs to train refugees in the skills they require to become selfsufficient. The United States is not a contributor to the UNHCR effort in Iraa
                                                                                             Thus the influx of the
 Afghan Mihajireen has been started with the Russian military intervention in Afghanistan in 1978. Over-one-third of Afghanistan’s prewar population of 15 million has been violently displaced. Over 1 million Afghans /'have been driven into urban areas, arch as Kabul, whose population has more than doubled since the invasion, more than 4 million Afghans have fled abroad, to become the world’s largest refugees population. Human rights groups have estimated that more than 600,000 Afghans have been killed although other sources, including the Mujahideen, estimate that between one and one and a half million have lost their lives. Hundreds of thousands of Afghans have been injured or seriously dis-abbledi Afghan living in Soviet dominated areas suffer arbitrary arrests,. detentions without trial, execution of political opponents, torture and persecutions in large numbers.
    Before 1978 no Afghan has crossed over the border to their two close neighbouring states of Iran ajjd Pakistan with the intention to take refuge or with the desire to settle permanently in these Muslin states, with the exception of few hundred of Gipsies who used to come to Pakistan during winter season for the protection of their cattles from the extreme weather in Afghanistaa The majority of
  refugees particularly from the Northern Afghanistan had even no idea about Pakistan
25
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 or to travel for such a long distance for the maintenance of their families in this neighbouring state.
   Tlie Afghan refugees presently living in Pakistan have been forced to leave Afghanistan under the sheer stress of circumstances arisen from the Russian military intervention. These refugees before leaving their homeland had reasonably good living whether they were farmers, workers, businessmen or employees. The Russians intered Afghanistan with the empty slogans of shelter, bread, and cloth as well as land to the formers. But the Afghan Muslim nation completely ignored this offer from the Soviet expansionists. Instead the Muslim and freedom loving nation of Afghanistan for the protection of their faith, honour, religion, and dignity, declared Jehad against the intruders,and left their home and hearth for the cause of Almighty Allah and took
 refugee in Pakistan- on the basis of Islamic brotherhood, common history and tradition.
   It is an undeniable fact that if Pakistan had closed her borders on the face of the Afghan Muhajireen and would not have fulfilled her moral and Islamic obligations towards their neighbouring Muslim brothers, the security and intergrity of Pakistan itself would have been threatened by the aggressors and the Russians dream for dominating the Indian Ocean and the coastal states around it, would have come true.
   The Afghan Mujahideen are not only lighting for the liberation of Afghanistan but they defend the whole of Muslim Ummah particularly its neighbouring countries which is the next target of Soviet social emperialism.
                                                                                       The Afghan Muhajireen have left their home-land
not in search of bread and shelter, but for the protection of their faith and religion in accordance with the principles of Holy Quran. They would return to Afghanistan after reaching their goal of regaining the independence of Afghanistaa
   In an exclusive interview with “Liberation Front” Haz-rat Prof. Almujaddedi the leader of the Afghan National Liberation Front, in regard to the sabotage activities in Pakistan has said” These inhuman activities have been undertaken by the KGB agents and those who are in the active service of the Soviets and working for the puppet regime in Kabul, but not by the Afghan refugees. How it is possible for the Afghan Muhajireen to destroy their own shelter of refuge — Pakistan? In this respect I have talked to the concerned authorities of the Government of Pakistan and assured them that the Afghan Muhajireen to whome the Government of Pakistan has graciously provided shelter and the people of Pakistan reviewed the example of “Ansar” and accepted their Afghan brothem with open arms and shared their distress, would never commite such crimes of exploding bombs, killing their own Ansar brothers and destroying their own home of comfort. ”He said,
 Those who believe in Almighty Allah could never be defeated against the athiests.•
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
26
       The Afghan Mujahideen have paid tremendous price in their battle to oust the Russian invaders. They are unlikely to agree to end the war on terms which will allow the Russians to stay in their country for long enough period to crush all resistance and let the Soviet puppets rule the country thereafter.
                               The ’Ottawa Citizen’ an English daily of Canada has said in its article that “It is true that the Americans Chinese and Pakistanis are helping Afghans in their freedom struggle.
                    Ghazni in Afghanistan, is biown for its terrible cold, but it has no effect on its Mujahideen.
  But it is not the U. S, China and Pakistan which set up a puppet Regime in Kabul and which invaded that country and ravaged its people. It is the Soviet Union that did that. It has softened its rigid stance some what, in response to the military stalemate, worsening relations with the West and with Muslim Ummah and repeated condemnations for herself by the United Nations.
       However, Soviet has not yet agreed to withdraw its troops expeditiously to let
27
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 I
     Afghanistan return to its former status of a small non-aligned, free Islamic country. That’s all the Afghans, and U’N. ask the Soviet to do.
          No doubt that Russia is a great power and has always claimed for bringing peace to the world. But now it is obvious that the Soviet action in Afghanistan has adversary affected its prestige and tarnished its image as a new liberating force of mankind. Her action in Afghan-istanand continued slaughter of Afghans by her forces for the last eight years conveys only one impression, that of its being a brute, unrelenting and expansionist power.
          This brutal action of Soviet not only hit the Afghan Muslim nation seriously but also the philosophy of Communism received serious setback throughout the World.
          Now Krimline leaders have realised their blunder mistake of invading Afghanistan. Moscow is almost admitting that a military Victory over Mujahideen is impossible and the solution must be deplomatic one. But they do not understand how to make such a deplom-atic solution that would end the war and enable the Soviet troops to get out from Afghanistan.
          Some observers believe that there is, sharp increase in terrorist acts, provocation and subversion by Soviet-backed Kabul Government agents in Pakistan. Their goal is to stir up anti-Afghan resentment and to pressurize Pakistan to accept a settlement most favourable to the Communists.
                                               SOVIET LOST NUMBER OF AIRCRAFTS
   Through the closing months of 1986, and in the beginning of 1987, the Soviet have been losing number of aircrafts daily in Afghanistan because of the effectiveness in antiaircrafts tactics of the Mujahideen,and     better co-ordi-
 nation among. Muhahideen faction. If the present rate of aircrafts losses continue, as some military specialists believe, the Soviet will quickly realize the cost of their war in Afghanistan as unbearable.
   The Muhahideen have improved air defences which are hurting the Soviets m another way as well. Soviet pilots must bomb and strafe from much higher altitudes, and thus with much less effectiveness. Even to land at Kabul Airport,
LIBERATION FRONT
 pilots must go through what have been described as “incredible*4 procedures,land-ing in tight corkscrew spirals and taking off as near vertically as possible.
   hi one of Mujahideen’s attacks in the first week of March a Soviet "helicopter carrying thirty Soviet troops was shot down en-route from Kabul to Jalalabad. Most of the troops on board were killed.
   Muhahideen have succeeded in their raid on a government air base near Kandahar, and crippled 14 aircraft in a heavy rocket attack. Mujahideen have also shot down a Soviet plane in Paktia Province which crashed at a place Azra in adjacent Logar province.
   Another Soviet plane which
 struck at Muhahideen centre on February 19, was shot down by anti-aircraft guns, as a result of which the plane caught fire. The Afghan Mujahideen also shot down a Soviet bomber in Jaji area of the Paktia Province.
    According to reports from Jehad fronts, Mujahideen have shot down more than 30 Soviet military aircraft in the month of May,87. The sources said that the capability of Mujahideen has greatly increased since they have aquired modem anti-aircraft last winter. The Russians are now unable to use helicopters even for routine surveillion missions.
    The Soviet military command therefore, does not want further loss of Soviet military planes and pilots. It is now using large number of its
MAY- JUNE - JULY - 1987     28
land forces against the Afghan Mujahideen.
   SOVIETS’ ADOPTED NEW STRATEGY:
   According to reliable sources, the Soviets’ aircraft now fly in a high attitude throughout Afghanistan particularly over Mujahideen basis. The new strategy was aimed at to safe the Soviet planes from Mujahideen’s anti-aircraft guns and sophisticated weapons. It has been reported that accordding to new strategy the fighter planes fly on intensive height while bombing the rural localities in the night instead of the broad daylight.
   Supporting the report of Mujahideen supremacy in their defence against the Soviet air-attacks, the Voice of Germany said that Mujahideen are now countering the air supremacy of the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime. The Mujahideen the radio added, are achieving significant success in their armed struggle as compared to the past. BY having new anti-
 aircraft not only defence capability of Mujahideen has increased but their morale has also been boosted up.
   The radio said Pakistan has been tolerating border violations for a long time but by deciding to take protective steps it had shot down a Soviet made aircraft of Kabul air force during last days which was flying in the Pakistani airspace near Para-chinar. Despite this incident it appears from the stand and attitude adopted by Pakistan so far, that it does not want the war to expand, the radio said.
   Similarly, “The New York Times“ said it is not difficult to assess as to why the Soviet planes, flown by Kabul regime pilots, are attacking Pakistan any territory across the border. Their objective is to cow down Pakistan. Intensifying eight years long war in Afghanistan, Moscow expects that in this way it would force Pakistan to accept Soviet condition for peace. But this
has never been shaken the principled stand of Pakistan in regard to the problem of Afghanistan.
       SOVIET REINFORCE CANNOT STRENGTH HER MILITARY POSITION IN AFGHANISTAN’
   The Kremlin leaders have sent a fresh annoured division comprising of 15,000 troops including a mountianous brigade.
   It has further been reported that fresh Soviet consignment was drawn by 14 transport planes daily between May 21 to 27 at Kabul and Jalalabad airports.
   *;cording to the reports, besides land forces 1,500 tanks armoured cars,heavy rang guns,trucks and jeeps are including in fresh deployment
   The main objectives of the new deployment of the invading troops to adopt a deciding strategy in Afghan provinces lying on the eastern borders.
   On arrival in Kabul, these fresh Soviet troops were immediately sent to Gardez, the headquarter of Paktia province.
   The reinforce of Soviet troops attacked the. Shaha-dat Centre of Mujahideen on May 20, where the invading troops had to retreat carrying 45 bodies of their commandos. Ten Mujahideen were also martyred.
   This year from January to
29
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 June, Soviet launched several affensives throughout Afghanistan but the Russian troops sustained heavy casualities losing large number of Jet bombers, helicopter gunships, tanks, armouredcars, military vehicles, ammunition, and soli-diers.
                                         KGB CHIEF VISITS AFGHAN BORDER AFTER MUJAHIDEEN ATTACKS
   The head of the KGB, Mr. Viktor Chebrikov, has just spent five days inspecting military and border guard units along the Afghan border, reflecting growing Soviet concern at the new Afghan guerrilla strategy of mounting cross-border raids, Tass said.
   In the past two months, the Soviet media have reported two raids. On March 8, in a cross-border rocket attack on the frontier town of Pyandzh, one man was killed and two
 more wounded. On April 8, Afghan guerrillas clashed with a Soviet patrol, and killed two border guards before being fought off in disarray, according to the Tass report.
   The KGB chief visited Pyandzh this week, as well as local forts and the headquarters of the border guards — a 200,000 man military unit under KGB command.
   Although in military terms the attacks were pin pricks, the shock of war being brought back to Soviet soil for the first time since 1945 has rocked the Soviet military and security forces. There are now fears in Moscow that the Afghan resistance has embarked on a new strategy which could move on from cross-border attacks to more ambitious operations inside Soviet territory. The prospect of a terrorist campaign directed against civilians would be a nightmare for. the KGB.
    “In the past, it has been the policy of the Afghan resistance not to >,tart military action in the border zone, because they did not want to hurt their fellow tribesmen who lived across the frontier, and because they had hopes of support from Soviet Muslims,” one Nato diplomat has noted.
    “But the new attempts by the Soviet and Kabul governments to reach a political settlement and to include the moderate opposition within the Government has alarmed militants who want to force a Russian withdrawal. The real Soviet concern now is that the Afghans might have the organisation and the weaponry to begin terrorist actions deep inside the Soviet Union. They certainly have the kind of commitment that made the Palestinian and Lebanese cause such fertile ground for terrorism,’’ the diplomat speculated.
    Security checks have been stepped up on trains and roads in the border zones as a result of the Chebrikov visit. He also held meetings with Government and military leaders in Uzbekistan and Tadzhikistan, the two largely Muslim Soviet republics on the Afghan border.
    Some 50 million Soviet citizens come from traditionally Muslim backgrounds, most of them in the republics which border Iran and Afghanistan, and Islam remains a powerful force. The prospect of an-Is-
 The Mujahideen have captured arms, ammunition and military vehicles from the Russian troops.
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
30
 lamic revival, ftielled by radio propaganda from Iran and by the Afghan resistance, is an alarming one for the Kremlin.
    Mr Chebrikov paid special attention to the issues of securing the state borders of the USSR, and perfecting the frontier guards’ skills, Tass said in its report of the KGB chiefs vist.
    “He visited the towns of Termez and Pyandzh and border-guard units in the Central Asian frontier district, including those sections of the Soviet-Afghan frontier where Afghan anti-government gangs made provocative attempts to attack Soviet territory in March and April,” Tass added.
                                             SOME PERSONAL PAPERS OF ‘RUSSIANS KILLED IN PAGHMAN.
     A number of personal documents belonging to Soviet soldiers killed during the fighting in Paghman, Afghanistan (Sept. 1986) were brought by Mujahideen to Peshawar. There were various receipts, identity cards driving licences, banknots in Rubles, postcards from Russia and letters to friends which the writers had not found time to send. A military identity card by the name of Tokavich from Azar-baijan, born on March, 1987, profession, driver. Card No. 4969110 belonging to a Yuri Segevich, born 15.1.1967, from Ukrain, with a medical sertificate. A trvel perm it between Kabul and Hairatan on the Amu River, vailied until 1986. A receipt for
 a damaged vehicle signed one Ali Moradov. A post-card from Azarbaijan sent to Field P.O. Box 69706-B.
                                                                                   itomiiinil mmkt
                                                                                    MO » *960110
 AWUM.JV U e u/tfij).____________
 oam      So.Ihjliu----,________
 kmm                       ______
 Am*** M»nitro u+i Ttn
 ham _
 pO*1.****4*1__IWlIM MMMmipMfMI
mt
 •v                  t:—■
  /{</• r . t «/£/(<&  > (XM/.t

     (ItyA'Q \A[ '
                        Uh7
   x                       i+P/y
 fir* ^prtoU'* if -
 f{r
 t€*     ft 4<>t4.Ar* .
 M* 'A+pi •                trftyuY
                         t*? (Ms
 u*i om \ • ^<*4&+Ly*yvrS'f/'
                         /fjpyA —
     } ^^ * pj /                          ‘'i
 • tuiffyvtjV— u*J
                  * fy<AO\nt" ufrt*A vU'jfu&
 £Aftyi)«A‘'*6r       f
                                                           SJdUT
 0rWi>           f-Vituysir <*'I
          • : Jafou** '-*9*0*-.   1
 #» (lit
                      c-a ror> •

jYAtlfiVv M* • -       ' ty&Jk
          u‘2d>u %” 7         yu
          ii:V ‘                 £—
   Yf                  AAiitfrust?
 V\
 -C.l
  !A
 (at/OOft j A
 utcyhs A *1
                                                                                                               s.toxht
  \fk&
 u          f ,  ,utCyyUf^h>y       *
 A fy IS*'              «A/J
wXO 2   •'
                                                                             *r\


               rti <(      t, VS*
     rl-
 4UA^*tS<>   i>iVfOl ‘ C
            A i* ? 2y/> Zf *J£)Vji
 injOt jo   /sdtfj * tiyAUkf t4<kv
i tcy/*f    ti j
                    * la
                                                                                                                    *yio f*f*uA
  yvyyb


      I
                                                                                                                                            *
                                                                                                                                        Mi'f,
                                                                                                                                <11^ ^
 ^ vnt'y <t *                  a***-
                                          EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTERS:
   “... I have sent you many
 letters but there is no answer from you. Tell Yersivich, Zina, Akosha and Azhoza that when I come back I will tell you the whole story as I promised. Already ten months I am here. Life is terribly difficult and impossible to describe. When I travel between Kabul and Hairatan, each moment I expect to be killed. Please write to me...”
   “Greeting Misha.. You can-
31               MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987            LIBERATION FR ONT
Afghan Mujahideen are fighting for the cause of Islam, and they would succeed.
 not understand how 1 feel., You are not yet in the army. You have a confortable life...”
   “My greeting to Zina, Maria and other friends. Tell them to write to me. I am going to be sent on a trip. But no idea to where. When I come back I will tell you the strory.”
   “August 19,1986. My dear Forgive me dearest that 1 have not yet answered your letter. I am burning in your fire and in other fire. I remember you with my tears. My darling it is very difficult. Please help me by writing to me, remembering me. Many have come and have disappeared. For God’s sake what is to be done? Please write to me...”
   “Greeting dear.... We went apart and I was separated from my cultivated fields. Tell me, you promised to write. Why then? I have made 18 trip and each time I have written to you. But you did not keep your promise. You know that I am in serious danger. I went through heavy attacks and lost a number of my friends. I am terribly homesick. I hope you will understand me and will not forget me, Kirshka.”
   From the above written letters from the Russians young soldiers to their friends and relatives, one can understand the extreme in-humanitarian burden the Soviet, emperialism has imposed on her nation to light in Afghanistan against their conscious.
LIBERATION FRONT
   According to report froi.: Mujahideen sources, the freedom fighters attacked the 23rd Soviet Brigade head-quarters in Paktia Province on April 11,87. In the course of heavy fighting several Soviet troops including two officers were killed and three armoured vehicles were destroyed. On 14, April, eight Soviet-Kabul troops were killed and injured.
   On 13, April the Afghan Mujahideen attacked the Government base in Kandahar province, killed four troops. In another attack on Soviet-Kabul convoy in Logar Province, Mujahideen killed Communist troops and destroyed eight tanks and armoured vehicles.
   The Mujahideen have also successfully repulsed a strong offensive of the Afghan-Soviet forces in Hisarak area of Ningrahar Province killing 26
 solids while 60 other were injured during the clash.
   The Soviet-Kabul troops conducted an air attack on Mujahideen who were moving to wards the Parwan province from Logar. In the heavy bombardment 18 Mujahideen were martyred while some others were captured, 40 mules carrying arms and ammunition were also killed.
   Report from Kandahar says that 600 Afghan troops joined the ranks of Mujahideen in Maiwand sub-division on April 28. Similarly Mujahideen attacked a security post at.'Eidgah gate of Kandahar city which resulted in the killing of eight Soviet-Kabul troops and destroying of an armoured car.
   According to. the Mujahideen sources, several kind of chemical weapons have been used by the Russian troops
-------u-------------------------------
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987            32
 against the innocent people of Afghanistan. Such weapons as presently used by the Soviet troops in Afghanistan have so far never been tested in any other country. Thus, after the Soviet invasion, Afghanistan has been turned into a place of testing new Soviet arms.
 I In dara-e-Soof Samangan
 Province, Mujahideen ambushed on Soviety-Kabul security post. In result of heavy fighing 109 Soviet-Kabul troops were surrendered to Mujahideen with their arms.
   Other reports from Mujahideen sources also speak about Mujahideen’s attacks on the bases of Soviet-Afghan forces in Kandahar, Baghlan, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz, Herat, Bamyan, Parwan, (iardez Logar, Ningrahar, Kunar and kabul where Soviet-Kabul troops sustained heavy casualties in men and materials.
   In the past six months, this year a larg number of Soviet-Afghan troops have been killed, surrendered to Mujahideen, captured and injured. Tanks, armoured cars, military vehicles, amis and ammunition have been destroyed and seized. Soviet helicopter gun-ships, jet-bombers, and other military plans have been shot downed and damaged by the Afghan Mujahideen throughout Afghanistan .
during the war to estemate            side. The real figure always
correct figure of loss in             gets in to surface after the
men and materials on either war ends.
Mules are the only means for Mujahideen to carry’ arms-to their centres of Jehad.
                                         “If that region (The Persian Gulf)
 goes under Russian control, Japan and Western Europ would hardly be able to do anything but strive for an arrangement, the result of which would be the end
                                   of the alliances that have been known to
 us for almost two generations ”
   The serious damage to the Russian forces caused by the Afghan Mujahideen since the Russian has invaded Afghanistan, Soviet herself has admitted.
   However, it is difficult
Count Hans Huyn member of the West German Parliament
33
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
    GLOBAL VIEWS
   ON AFGHANISTAN
   As the problem of Afghanistan has been created by Soviet since her troops invaded an independent, sovereign, non-aligned Islamic State of Afghanistan in December 1979 which has not only affected the region arround but in feet caused serious anxiety in the peaceloving Nations.
   “Global Views On Afghanistan has therefore been introduced in “Liberation FYont” to reflect global views regarding the problem of Afghanistan.
   Views, suggestions, articles and letters from the readers shall highly be appreciated.
 THE ORGANIZATION OF ISLAMIC CONFERENCE (OIC) DEMANDED UNCONDITIONAL WITHDRAWAL OF SOVIET TROOPS:
   The fifth Islamic sumit opened in Kuwait on 26th January this year, attended by 44 member states of the Organization of Islamic Conference, on the invitation of the Amir of Kuwait Sheikh Saba Al-Ahmad.
LIBERATION FRONT
   The leaders of Islamic Ummah participating in the Islamic Summit have once again resolutely demanded the immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of all Soviet troops from Afghanistan and supported Pakistan’s principled stand on the issue of Afghanistan.
   The summit, being attended by 29 Heads of State and 16 other leaders, including President General Mohammad Zia-ul-EIaq reiterating its deep concern over the continuing Soviet military irivasio'n of Afghanistan, called for urgent efforts to ensure respect for the inalienable rights of the people of Afghanistan to determine their own form of Government and to choose their economic, political and social system without foreign interference or coercion.
   In a comprehensive resolution the Muslim leaders expressed their serious concern over the continued Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan and the consequent impediments which stood in the way of Muslim people
 — 1......n ''......; m
 of Afghanistan, to exercise their rights and to to determine their free will, the summit recalled the principled stand by Islamic Conference in its resolution relating to Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan since 1980 at summits and Foreign Ministers Confrences. It also referred to the resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly at its seven regular session as well as at the sixth emergency special session and decisions of various summits and Ministers Conferences of nonaligned countries.
    Taking in to account the great suffering and distress of the valiant Afghan people, the resolution called upon all states to respect the sovereignty of Afghanistan, its Islamic identity and its non-ali-gned character.
    Deeply conscious of the urgent need for a solution to the grave situation prevailing in Afghanistan, the summit leaders, in the resolution reaffirmed their comment to implimenting of
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987             34
the relevant resolutions adopted by the fourth Islamic summit and previous Islamic Conferences.
   It called for increasing efforts to ensure that Afghanistan remained independently and retained its Islamic and non-aligned character and expressed deep concern over continous influx and the suffering of millions Afghan refugees who had sought refuge in Pakistan and Iran and whose number continued to increase.
   The resolution strongly urged that approperiate conditions be promoted to enable the Afghan refugees to return to their homeland with honour and safety, and renewed the call to all states as well as national and international organisations to extend assistance to alleviate the suffering of the Afghan re-fugges.
   The Muslim leaders deeply deplored repeated violations of the airspace of Pakistan and bombordment of territory from the Afghan side and appreciated the restrain exercised by the Government of Pakistan in the face of these provocations.
OIC URGED TO PUT PRESSURE ON USSR:
   The following statement was submitted by Syed Mohammad Tanzeem Wasti, Secretary General, Muslim Solidarity Committee, London, to the Head of Islamic
 countries participating the OIC conference in Kuwait:
   On behalf of Muslim Solidarity Committee I would like to put forward the following suggestion for the Islamic Summit, with reference to Afghanistan.
   1)    The OIC. should cooperate with the U.N.O. in co-ordinating their efforts to find a solution to the situation in Afghanistan
   2)    The ^OIC and Islamic countries .should, exert maximum pressure, economic and otherwise, on Russia, to compel it to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan within 3 to 6 months under the supervision of U.N.O. and OIC obseervers.
   3)    During the withdrawal, Muslim observers should be posted in Afghanistan to ensure that the withdrawal is complete and that the Afghan people and Mujahideen can return in complete safety and honour.
   4)    U.N.O. and Muslim observers should be posted in the USSR, north of Afghanistan near the border to ensure no further inflation.
   5)    The Afghan Muslims will peed to reconstruct their nation after the long period of destruction and human casualties. Therefore Russian should pay three quarters of the necessary costs by way of war compensation, as they were responsible for
 causing so much damage and loss of life.
   If Russia refuses to withdraw its troops and to give financial assistance to the independent nation of Afghanistan, the Muslim countries should seriously consider closing down their embassies in the USSR and ceasing economic and diplomatic relations the press release of the OIC concluded.
 SAUDI CONCERN OVER AFGHAN AIR RAIDS
   RIYADH, April 2 : Saudi Arabia has expressed grave concern at the escalation of air raids on Pakistan’s border villages on the part of Afghanistan reiterating the kingdom’s continued efforts to restore peace in the region.
   The Saudi Government is following with deep concern the developments of the situation in the region and the outcome of the air raids on the border villages^ a responsible Saudi Arabian official said.
   In a statement to the Saudi Press Agency, the Saudi official denounced the air raids saying they were a manifestation of pressure on the Government of Pakistan and the Mujahideen who take refuge in Pakistan.
   The official said the Saudi Kingdom is exerting maximum efforts tq restore peace in the region and put an end to all forms of actions threatening world peace and security.—
         ----------—---- ~ ■ . . *
  35               "STAY - JUNE - JULY - 198T
LIBERATION FRONT
 NATIONAL RECONCILIATION OFFERED BY KABUL “DIPLOMATIC OFFENSIVE.’
   Jamaat-i-Islami of Pakistan’s Secretary General and Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad termed as “diplomatic offensive” the recent tilt ‘in Soviet attitude to the Afghan issue and called upon the people of Pakistan together with the rest of world to analyse this strategy.
   Qazi Hussain Ahmad said some pro-Soviet elements were now supporting the Najib ceasefire and national reconciliation offer. But it was to be seen as what this offer meant, he questioned. In other words it meant that the Mujahideen should stop fighting and accept the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan.
   The only solution of the Afghan issue is immediate Soviet withdrawal to enable the people of Afghanistan to set up a Government of their own choice.
   In the presence of Soviet troops the ceasefire offer could not be considered. Indeed the Soviet had been upset by valiant resistance. Qazi Hussain Ahmad said.
 U.S. CALL ON SOVIETS
   Marking the seventh anniversary of Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. President Ronald Reagan in a written statement released by the White House said “This stark act of aggression sha-
LIBERATION FRONT
Heavy snow fall cannot slow down our Jehad.
 ttered many illusions about the Soviet Union”. He urged Moscow to present in Geneva a realistic timetable for withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
   “The United States, which has always supported a negotiated political solution to the war in Afghanistan, will place no barriers in the Soviet’s way, should they decide to negotiate seriously an end to their occupation of Afghanistan”. But empty gestures, such as the talk about peace and a settlement and Sham ‘withdrawal’ in October of a few Soviet regiments will not bring an end to the killing and destruction”.        President
 Reagan said.
   The President praised the courage of the Afghan people saying that they had refused to suirender “in the face of a brutal onslaught”. He cited this as evidence” that freedom cannot be bought stolen or
 wrenched from those determined to defend it.”
   “But the Afghan people alone cannot hope to defeat Soviet power. They need the support of Governments and peoples everywhere”, he said.
   President Reagan said Moscow must be made to understand that it would continue to pay a higher and higher price untill it accepted the necessity for a political solution involving prompt withdrawal of its troops and self-determination for Afghans
   As long as the Soviets and their Afghan surrogates continue to vage war which threatens extremination of an. entire people that people will have the support of the international community-for their resistance.
   President Reagan said, “The tragedy in Afghanistan makes it clear that non of us can
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987          J6
take our own freedom for granted; all free nations must do what they can to preserve liberty from assault. Let us pledge at this joyless anniversary marking seven years of Soviet occupation to renew our efforts in seeking together a free and independent Afghanistan and peace on earth.”
HUMPHREY GOUT IONS AGAINST AFGHAN RECONCILIATION GOVERNMENT
   WASHIGTON, March 1 : Republican Senator Gordon J. Hamphrey has cautioned that the so-called Government of national reconciliation in Afghanistan would not entail complete withdrawal of the Soviet forces from that country and self-determination by the Afghan people. “It would result in the Sovieti-sation” of the Muslim nation.
   The Senator .who heads a bipartisan congressional task force on Afghanistan was discussing the prospects of the current round of U.N. sponsored Geneva talk's on the Afghan crisis in his second meeting within three weeks with the area newsmea
   The task force which consists of 11 Senators and 13 members of the House of Representatives was formed in 1985 to heighten public awareness of the suffering of the Afghan people and to find ways to assist the Afghans in their struggle against the Soviet occupation.
   Referring to the recent statements by some former and incumbent U.S. officials about the idea of a government of reconciliation he said, “I reject all of this talk as hypocritical, cowardly and cynical”
   He said we must staind by the original criterion that is complete withdrawal of Soviet forces and the ’process of true self determination for the people of Afghanistan. “Anything less than that”, the Senator warned “is a cowardly sellout of the Afghan people and a tragic throwing away of seven years of monumental sacrifice on the part of the Afghan people”.
   Senator Humphery emphasised : “We want to see this war to be brought to a quick close, that is why I am complaining so much against my Government and urging it for much stronger efforts to get the Soviets out of Afghanistan as soon as possible”. The suggestion that some of the Americans want to bleed the Soviet Union instead of seeking a just soluton was described by Senator Humphery as incorrect and cynical.
 AFGHANS TO EMERGE TRIUMPHANT
   PESHAWAR               A
 three-member Egyptian Red Crescent delegation led by Mr. Mohsenel-Badravi, Under Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs, has said that the relentless struggle of the Afghan refugees to liberate their country from foreign
 occupation, has won them support of the Muslim world.
   This ne said, while addressing a gathering of Afghan refugees at Akora Khattak refugee tentage village on March 20. He stressed +be need for forging unity among their ranks and assured them that they would emerge triumphant in their holy war as they were fighting for the cause of Islam.
   Mr. Bradravi also made a token distribution of tents among the refugees. Explaining the goodwill gesture of the Egyptian people he spelt out that these 500 tents which include some very big tents for housing mosques.
   Schools and dispensaries were donated by their brothers in Egypt and assured that the people and Government of Egypt would continue their assistance for the refugees in Pakistan till their safe and honourable return to their homeland.
   Mr. Saad Du raid, Minister in the Egyptian Embassy at Islamabad, also spoke on the occasion.
                 THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY URGES SOVIET TO QUITE AFGHANISTAN:
   The foreign mmister of the Republic of Germany Mr. Has Dietrich Genscher, in his statement on the seventh anniversary of the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan has said.
31                MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987          LIBERATION FRONT
   For the last seven years the Soviet forces have held a small and formerly nonalig-ned country, and the courageous people of Afghanistan have fought for their freedom.
   The people of this Islamic country do not want to yield to Super power which has ignored the principles of international law, non-alignment and national sovereignty, The people of Afghanistan continuing their resistance against the invading troops.
   The invasion of the Soviet troops has imposed untold suffering on the Afghan population. The report submitted by the United Nations special raporteur, Professor Erma-cora, provides horrible proof of this. We are called upon to fulfil our obligations with regard to the provision of humanitraian assistance as well as political solidarity.
   Five million Afghans had to leave their homeland. They are now living as refugees in neighbouring countries. Three million of them have found refuge in Pakistan, which has assumed considerable political and economic burdens. Violations of its borders by military forces are exposion Pakistan to increasing pressures.
 KABUL’S CEASEFIRE OFFER IS A TRAP : “WASHINGTON POST”
   The Washington Post on 4th January, 1987 in an editorial described the offer of ceasefire as “trap”. It said the offer
 was an invitation to the Mujahideen “not to talk but to surrender’’.
   The Kabul regime’s ceasefire offer, the editorial says, brings to western attention the political track that Moscow has been quietly developing in Afghanistan — even as its more conspicuous offers goes on to crush the resistance militarily. The formal name of this track is “national reconciliation’’. It’s strategic purpose is to isolate and diminish the Mujahideen and their popular
 following. It mctnod involves the divide-co-opt-trick-and-bribe tactics which are the traditonal stuff of politics in Afghanistan. It’s agent is the doctor turned police chief named Najibullah, who now heads the Soviet-imposed government in Kabul.
  CHINA URGES EARLY SOVIET PULLOUT.
   A foreign Ministry spokes-
 man in Beijing, stressed at the news briefing on 7th January, 87 that the fundamental ways to resolving the Afghan question is for the Soviet Union to stop suppressing the Afghanistan people and withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan as quickly as possible.
     This because the Afghan issue is the result of the armed aggression against and invading of Afghanistan by the Soviet forces. This he said in response to a reporter’s request for China’s comment on the
 recent Afghan Government’s ceasefire decision.
 BRITAIN WILL CONTINUE TO BACK AFGHAN CAUSE
   The visiting member of the British Parliament, Sr Gerard Vaughan and Mr. Jeoffry Lawlar, have reiterated their government’s full support to the just struggle of the Afghan people for emancipation from
tbp Russian troops.
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
38
 foreign dominatioa
   Talking to the Afghan refugees at Kacha Garhi tentage village on the out-skirt of Peshawar on January 8, they said that the free world was supporting their struggle against the might of a super power and expressed the hope that they would emerge successful in liberating their homeland........They appre-
 ciated the courage and chivalry of the Afghan people.
   Referring to their visit to the camp, the British Parliamentarians said that they were here to apprise themselves of the people of the Afghan refugees and assured that they would convey their massage to their countrymen and Government and expressed the hope that the British Government would continue its assistance 'dnd help to the Afghan refugees in future till they were safely and honourably returned to their homeland.
   They said that they believed
 in freedom and democracy and as such they also wanted democracy for the people of Afghanistaa
 HUNGARY FOR POLITICAL SOLUTION OF THE AFGHAN ISSUE
   The visiting Hungarian Foreign Secretary, Mr. Gyula Horn, has said while addressing a press conference at the Foreign Office in Islamabad on January 10, 87' that it was agreed during his talk with the counterpart that
  39            MAY
 the regional issues should be solved by political means. The regional issues, he added, was not the problem of the nations of the region alone, because these had serious impact on the international situation too.
    Replying to a question, he said that the East European countries too were interested in a political solution and he added “we all wish to see a neutral non-aligned Afghanistan”.
   Asked whether the presence of Soviet forces was the main hinderance in a political settlement, he said Afghan situation could not be solved unless neighbouring countries gave guarantees.
   The Chairman said that Pakistan was looking after over three million Afghan refugees which was a great burden on her economy. He said the world has already "endorsed the principled stand of Pakistan in regard to the political settlement of the afghan issue.
  NORWEGIAN TEAM VISITED REFUGEES TENTAGE VILLAGE
   A 13 member Standing Committee of Foreign Affairs of the Norwegian parliamentary delegation paid a visit to an Afghan refugees tentage village at Munda on January 19, 1987.
   They went round the tented village and visited boys and girls schools and dispensaries
 JUNE - JULY - 1987
 where they were informed about the education medical facilities being provided to the Afghan refugees. The members of the Nprweigian delegation also saw the distribution of relief goods among the refugees.
   Earlier, on arrival in the village, they were briefed by the Peshawar District area administrator, Mr. Mohammad Younus Khan, about the relif activities.
 ‘U.S. WANTS TO BLOCK SOVIET ACCESSS TO OIL’
   WASHINGTON, Jaa 13: U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said that it took only two weeks for Soviet troops to go into Afghanistan and they could pull out of the country just as fast.
   Mr. Weinberger, appearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee to discuss U.S. global strategy, rejected suggestions that Washington would agree to a plan allowing a year for the Soviet Union to withdraw its estimated 1,21,111 troops.
   He told the committee : “The simple fact is that the Soviets are talking about various kinds of proposals, but at least one of the purposes of those talks is to try to reduce the amount of aid to the freedom-fighter in Afghanistaa’
   He said the hoped whatever agreement Moscow Was willing to make would led to its
                                                                                     LIBERATION FRONT
The Mujahideen are tired of journey, but not tired of Jehad.
troops getting out of Afghanistan as fast as they entered the country in 1979.
   “It is an important part of our strategy not to have the Soviets pursue invasion routes to the oil-fields . and Afghanistan is one of those”, he said.
   He said he believed the importance they attached to this was shown by the fact that for the first time since World War II they were using their own' troops and “not somebody else’s to try and carry out their strategic objectives”.
   Mr. Weinberger’s said it was Washington’s strategic objective to block that kind of advance since “we would have a difficult time, and Europe would have an impossible time living if the Soviet controlled access to the oil.
DUTCH TEAM VISITS AFGHAN REFUGEE CAMP
   A three-member Dutch delegation representing Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Culture and Welfare and Ministry of Justice, led by Mr. Hans Sondal, head of the Refugees Affairs in Foreign Office, visited Kacha Garhi refugee camp on January 13.
   The delegation was briefed by the senior officials of the Refugee Commissionerate with regard to the provision of relief assistance to the refugees in the province.
   Later the dignitaries, went round various parts of the tentage village. They visited primary schools for girls and boys and inquired about the curricular and extra-curricular activities in schools, they also visited domestic energy saving project run by a German-aided agency at the camp. This agency is designing ovans and stoves different from the traditional ones consuming less firewood.
   The delegation also paid a visit to the vocational training centre for Afghan boys at Peshawar.
 SIHANOUK LAUDS PAK ROLE ON AFGHANISTAN
   Prince Samdech Norodom Sihanouk, President of Democratic Kampuchea, made a brief stopover at Karachi airport while returning from Belgrade on 23 January.
   In a statement at tne airport the Prince appreciated role of Pakistan Government in providing shelter and looking after such huge number of Afghan refugees.
   He said that the Kampuchean Government and the people fully support the principled stand of the Government of Pakistan regarding the Afghan issue.
   He stressed that Soviet troops be withdrawn from Afghanistan so that the people there could form a government of their own choice.
   The Prince also commended die progress and development that has taken place in Pakistan during the last 40 years saying that he had first visited the area in 1946 and singe then he noticed a remarkable change.
   He particularly mentioned
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
40
 the role played by President Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq for the betterment of the country.
 U.KCs APPEAL
   In an appeal marking the seventh anniversary since Soviet forces invaded Afghanistan, Sir Geoffrey, the British Foreign Secretary said that more than 110,000 troops were waging war of bitter suppression.
   ‘•The Russians are trying to keep the realities of this war a secret. They talk of withdrawal, instead they and their client regime have only itensi-fied the war, Sir Geoffrey said.
 WEST GERMANY:.
   Speaking on seven years of war in Afghanistan, the Federal German Foreign Minister, Mr. Hans Dietrich Ges-cher said “Moscow’s willingness to pursue a policy detente depends largely on its readiness to bring the war in Afghanistan to an end”.
   The continuing persecution of the Afghan people cannot be accepted by the international community. Since 27th December 1979, the people of Afghanistan are suffering a steadfast opposi-tioa They are not bowing down to a superpower which has trampled over the principles of international law, non-alignment and national sovereignty of other people.
   Similarly the General Sec-
retary of the CDU (Major coalition party) Mr. Heiner Giessier in Bonn has observed that the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan was the major criterion for determining policy of detente with the Western world. He deplored that the hopes which were associated with the arrival of Mikhail Gorbachev in Kremlin have not yet been fulfilled.
   According to the German Politicians the issue of Afghanistan remains the major stumbling block in improving the East-West relations. The war carried in Afghanistan is tantamount to a general massacre of the whole people and is contradictory to the Kremlin leader’s assertion such as calling a conference in Moscow on the question of human rights.
   The Chief Minister of Bavaria and President of CSU Party, Josef Strauss, has also strongly criticised the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He said it was terrible that after seven years of invasion, children, women and men were being massacred at the “cruel dictates and inhuman actions of the Soviet forces”, while they wanted to follow and defend their own rights of national and religious self-determination against the imposition of a Communist ideology”.
   British Foreign Minister Howe, speaking on behalf of the European Community and the rest of the world are
 looking forward to an earlier and complete withdrawal of the Soviet troops”.
 ‘MOSCOW SERIOUS ABOUT GETTING OUT OF AFGHANISTAN’
   OTTAWA, March 16 : A Canadian correspondent in Moscow says the signs are “increasing that Moscow is serious about getting out of Afghanistan” and that the Soviet Government “now recognises implicitly” that the Afghan “invasions was a terrible mistake”.
   Christopher Young, correspondent in Moscow of the 15 newspapers of the Southam chain in Canada, wrote that “the outlines of a possible settlement of the seven-year war are taking shape.” Young
 is one of Canada’s most respected newspaperman.
   His report published in the “Ottawa Citizen” and other south papers with Moscow-dateline said :
   “When a Western Ambassa dor asked a high Soviet Foreign Ministry official what kind of solution the Soviet Union is looking for in Afghanistan, the answer came in one word : “Finalnd.”
   Suggestions that the Finish model could be the answer carry the Soviet position a long wily from where it was
MAY - JUNE - JULY 4:198?           LIBERATION FRONT
 between 1979 and 1986.
   “A Finnish solution implies a regime friendly and cooperative in economic and defence matters, preferably but not necessarily Communist and with more scope for independent decision-making that the satellite governments of Eastern Europe are normally granted.
   “It would begin with a coalition government, dominated by the present Communist leaders but including opposition elements, even those now fighting against the Kabul regime.
   “It is entirely possible the Communist leadership might not survive for long, and if the Finnish model is accepted Moscow would have to live with that.
   “The Soviet Union invaded its : mountainous southern neighbour just before Christmas 1979 in an effort to prop up an unpopular and failing Communist regime.
   “Until the end of last year the objectives remained the same :to secure the communists in power and to stamp out the nationalist and Islamic resistance.
  TERRIBLE MISTAKE
   “The invasion was a terrible mistake, as the Soviet Government. now recognises impli-city. It was taken during the time when Leonid Brezhnev was shuffling feebly toward the grave.
   LIBERATION FRONT
   “Last December Gorbachev and his colleagues faced some brutal facts, leading to a partially effective ceasefire starting on Jan 15.
   “Afghanistan had become for the Soviet Union what Vietnam was for the United States in the ‘60s and 70s.
   “The Red Army was bogged down in difficult terrain, fighting against a stubborn and highly motivated enemy who enjoyed popular backing.
   “Its own troops were not universally convinced of the justice of their cause, making them vulnerable to drug abuse and other demoralising behaviour.
   “Even though the Soviet Government did not allow honest reporting and televising of the war, as the Americans did in Vietnam, support on the home front was ebbing.
    “That was especially true among the youth, from whom the army must be drawn, and to an unknown but significant extent among the large Muslim population of Soviet Central Asia.
    “Anger over the war worldwide, not only Western, for once, speeches at the United Nations made a difference, including, Canadian diplomats believe, those of Ambassador Stephen Lewis.
    “More important, the neutral and Third World nations, which the Soviet
 Union works so hard to cultivate, were unhappy about what they saw as Soviet imperialism.
   “This time the evidence is that they want to get out but they’re not sure what will happen if they do.”
  FRENCH MPs VISIT
                                            AFGHAN TENTAGE VILLAGE
   A sevenmember Frencn parliamentary delegation, led by Mr. Yves Tavernier member of parliament and President of study group of the French National Assembly on Afghanistan, called on Commissioner Afghan refugeesN.W.F.P.. Brig (Retd) Fahimullah Khan Khattak, here this morning „ The distinguished dignitaries were informed that over two millions refugees have been accommodated in 247 tentage villages in NWFP. Schools and dispensaries had been set up in various tentage villages to provide education and medical facilities to the Afghan refugees. Besides this the Government have also started income generating schemes to enable refugees to earn their livelihood in a better way.
    The Commissioner Afghan Refugees lauded the role of the people and government of France for providing relief assistance to the uprooted Afghan refugees.
    The members of the delegation expressed satisfaction over the arrangements for refugees and appreciated Pakistan government’s help and assistance to the uprooted Afghan refugees.
 42
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
Sanction is given unto those who fight because they have been wronged : and Allah is indeed able to give them victory:
Those who have been driven from their homes unjustly only because they said: our lord is Allah — for had it not been for Allah's repelling some men by means of others, cloisters and churches and oratories, and mosques, wherein the name of Allah is often mentioned, would assuredly have
been pulled down. Verily Allah help one who help him. Lo! Adah is Strong, Almighty.
                  The Pilgriamge (Quran)
    In regard to the future of Afghanistan my stand is clear. My obligations towards the Afghan Mujahid Nation would be fulfilled as soon as The Soviet Forces withdraw from Afghanistan and an i tide pendent, sovereign,
    islamic and nonaligned state was established.
    Then it is up to the people of A fghanistan t(> form a Government of their own choice and select a Qualified Afghan as their leader and head of the state.
                                          Hazrat Prof Al-Mujaddedi.
