

v\
 \> W W %*>
^FGHAN
             INFORMATION
   CENTRE
             MONTHLY BULLETIN
No. 112         Tenth Year         July 1990
                             The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)   International news media                        •
        (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
   Founder          : Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B.  Majrooh
   Editor           : Sayed   Naim   Majrooh
   This Bulletin is Written Under the Responsability of A I C Editorial Board
 Annual Subscription                            Bank Account No. 1131354558001
 Institutions          : US$   100              Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK
 Individuals           : US$    70              Grindlays Bank PLC
 or equivalent Pakistan Rupe                    Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
 Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
AFGHAN INFORMATION
      CENTRE      
 Monthly Bulletin 
           No. 112            JulY 1990
        c 0 N T ENTS :
I       AFGHAN PERSONALITIES IN PAKISTAN 3 
II .        COMMANDERS MEET AGAIN INSIDE 5 
      -    Interview with Com. Haqani      
      -    Interview with Com. Qari Baba   
      -    Ahmadzai tribesman hold meeting 
Ill .         FAMINE INSIDE AFGHANISTAN 18 
      -    Situation in Herat              
      -    Situation in Farah              
      -    Situation in Badgh'is           
      -    Flood in refugee camp           
IV .  •                                    
        REPORTS ON REFUGEE REPATRIATION 24 
V                 SITUATION IN KANDAHAR 26 
                          MILITARY NEWS 30 
VI .  -    Kabul , Balkh , Baghlan, Paktia 
      -    Pakistani journalist killed     
***
***
* * *
               AFGHAN PERSONALITIES IN PAKISTAN
           A 26-member delegation of ex-Afghan politicians -and scholars, including former prime minister. Dr. Mohammad Yusuf, visited Pakistan during the first week of June. The delegation was composed of Afghans who had been involved in the resistance against the 'Kabul regime for the past several years in Western, Arab and other countries.
           During their stay in Pakistan, the members of the delegation endeavoured to hold lengthy discussions with various parties involved in the Afghan jehad. They tried to invite all mujahideen, tribal and political parties to a unified political program that enable the Afghan people to freely determine their political future without any foreign interference.
           The members of the delegation elected a six-member commission in order to coordinate its activities. The commission is composed of Dr. Mohammad .Yusuf, Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, Dr. Ferogh, Rashed Saljuqi, Sabahuddin Kushkaki and Abdul Hakim Tabibi.
           At th'e end of their visit, -the members of the delegation issued a statement regarding their activity and the future of Afghanistan.
           Following . are the main points of the statement:
                                           3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          1.      To create understanding between various privileged forces of the Afghan society, •including those whose participation was overlooked in the Consultative Council in Rawalpindi last year.
          2.  To introduce a comprehensive political
      programme that realises the basic objectives of the jehad:  To safeguard the independence and
      territorial integrity of Afghanisntan and to establish an unprejudiced system in compliance with the Islamic and Afghan culture.
          3.      To design a joint strategy that, cakes the new political conditions of our country into consideration, enabling the Afghans to 'freely participate in the political, social, economic and cultural affairs of their country without any discrimination and prejudice.
          4.      To create an atmosphere of understanding_ and peace for free and general elections in Afghanistan. This will enable the Afghans to transfer power to the people of Afghanistan without any foreign interference. As a result, this will normalise the political sityation in the country.
          Finally, the statement has called upon all mujahideen organisations to submit their views on the above plan within a month so that a new programme is implemented with the help of all healthy forces in the society.
                      *** *** ***
                                        4
          COMMANDERS MEET AGAIN INSIDE AFGHANISTAN
           The commanders of the Afghan jehad he id another meeting in a mujahideen base insi'de Afghanistan between June 23 and 25. The meeting was attended by various commanders of tl">e Afghan jehad. The AIC sent its special correspondent to the base in order to cover th.e procedings of the meeting. Here is his report:
           The Afghans are optimistic about any meeting or gathering that brings about a hope of peace and tranquility in their life. In the light of this hope I moved towards a meeting which was being held in an unknown area inside Afghanistan.
           Though the site of the meeting was not known, the identified expectations inspired me to leave for Miranshah (Agency Headquarters of North Waziristan) on my way to Afghanistan on June 23. I travelled by a mujahideen vehicle from Miranshah to a border post of Pakistani militiamen, who searched the vehicle and let it enter the Afghan territory. We then followed a rough track in a ravine inside the ocuntry. The frequent movement of mujahideen vehicles has turned the track into a road which was used by shepherds and cowherds in pre-war Afghanisntan. The track was guarded by uniformed mujahideen, each of whom welcomed the guests by raising his kalashnikov at a distance, of 50 metres. At 8:00 p.m. we reached a          place     which had been
      decorated with coloured flags and placards... The main gate carried the following writing:
5
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
     "WE WELCOME PARTICIPANTS TO THE COUNTRYWIDE COUNCIL OF MUJAHIDEEN COMMANDERS"
         Later on, 284 commanders gathered in a safe saloon where they began their session with the tecitation of some verses from the Holy Quran. Nobody was allowed to take his camera or tape-recorder to the meeting in compliance with the Religious justification given by some Commanders prior to the session of the meeting. Thus istening to the proceedings of the meeting Was the only option for people to know about the decisions of the commanders. The session continued till late night.
         When the people performed their prayer at the base the following morning, they asked each other about the decisions of the -night session. And when the sun threw its rays on the ravine, a loundspeaker announced that a 61-member council had been set up by 284 commanders of Afghanistan. The announcement added that the council was represented by two members from each province of the country. Kabul and three other provinces were however represented by four and three members accordingly.
         When the elected council began its meeting in a safe place, the remaining commanders and mujahideen moved here and there and talked about their local and national problems. Some 1,500 persons, who carried their identification cards on their chest, had gathered in the area on the occasion.
                             Interestingly, members of all ethnic groups such as Hazaras, Uzbeks and Turkumans, shared
                                        6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          their ideas about their homeland. However, the absence of Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar) commanders could be felt well in the gathering.
             Though the gathering was represented either on a large or small scale by each mujahideen organization, it was the first time in the history of the Afghan jehad that such a large number of responsible commanders made unanimous decisions on some issues.
             Most of the participants focused their attention on the collapse of the Kabul regime and the restoration of peace in Afghanistan. There was total consensus on these issues.
             When the morning of June 24 broke, there was   a rumour in    the base that    the   shiite
        commanders of Hazarajat wanted a thirty percent share in the elected council. This issue has also created a political gap between the mujahideen organizations in Iran and Pakistan. A lengthy discussion took place on the issue; some  participants    even tried  to  boycot the
        session. Some experienced commanders-, in their efforts, were finally able to hold the the last session of the elected council. The meeting of the   council was      attended   by  13    Shiite
        commanders out of 74 participant's.
             On June 25,      a spokesman of  the  council
        announced .the following decisions:
             To coordinate mujahideen affairs inside Afghanistan, and harmonise military operations against the Kabul regime.
             To ensure peace and security in the areas controlled by the mujahideen.
                                           7
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
       To take practical step for preventing internal hostilities and clashes between' the mujahideen.
       To set up a publicity committee for inviting all Afghans to jehad and unity.
      At the end of the meeting at 2:40       p.m..
  Commander Jalaluddin Haqani said:
      "Our important goal is to forge unity between the mujahideen and to ensure peace and security in the liberated areas of Afghanistan. I thank ail the people who participated in the formation of this council."
      While      the last group of the commanders
  were inspecting - a guard of honour in the base, the site of the meeting came under an attack of SCUD rockets. One rocket fell near 'the meeting stage, but it did not cause any casualties.
      During the sessions of4 the meeting, the AIC correspondent found ah opportunity to cqnduct interviews with some commanders at the base. Here are the interviews:*
  Interview with Commander Jalaluddin Haqani
      Following is the transcript of the interview ^JLth Commander Haqani:
            c;~ i
  Q. It was the second meeting which was attended by various mujahideen commanders during the past two months. What is the basic purpose of such gatherings?
                                  8
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       A. We held the first meeting to organize and co - ordinate our work, and we summoned the second meeting in order to divide our work and form a general council of the mujahideen. The first meeting was attended by 41 responsible commanders, while the second gathering was represented by 300. Unfortunately some people made useless efforts to sabotage the second meeting, but we were able to hold the meeting. The third meeting, which might result in some valuable decisions on Afghnistan, will be held within .two months in the '.country. This meeting has paved the ground for the consolidation of jehad and the unification of mu j ah idea a front?-, inside Afghanistan. Our basic purpose is‘ to create conditions which enable the Afghans to decide on their affairs without any foreign interference.
       QThere is a rumour that Shiite commanders lay great emphasis on the complex           issue  of
       percentage. They are reportedly planning to boycott the meeting. What are your views on
       this? '
       A. They demand that the council should be represented by the percentage of people acceptable to the Iran-based mujahideen. There are 13 Shiite members of the recently established 74-member council. Afghanistan is a nation; all ethnic groups have the right to live as brothers in this country. Afghanistan has not come into being on the basis of a certain language or race . I am confident that the mujahideen and commanders of our ' shiite brothers are aware of the fact that division is in the interest of the enemy. *
                                            *9
No. J.12
Tenth Year
July 1990
  These mujahideen commanders forced ' the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan. We should all           belive in the. fact that the
  Afghans do not accept the slavery of anyone whether it is in the form of Russian Communism or it is in the form of jehad by Iran, Pakistan, the U.S. or any other country.
  Q. What do you think about the rumour that there is a Pakistani hand behind the meetings of mujahideen commanders?
  A. Almighty is witness to the fact that the Pakistanis also th-ink of a foreign hand behind similar meetings. However, deep thinking and wide knowledge is required for the identification  of    the main       facts. These
  meetings were   held  on the Afghan soil. The
  security of     the   Rawalpindi      meeting was
  maintained by Pakistanis, but these meetings were completely organized by Afghan mujahideen. The new developments      show the      fact that
  Pakistan want an end to internal fighting and and a return of refugees to a free Afghanistan. This can be achieved through a mujahideen unity. The unity of the mujahideen should be respected by all those forces which support the Afghan jehad.   I believe that       such rumours
  cannot misguide those who know the nature and characteristics of the Afghans.
  Q. A number of Afghan intellectuals and former high ranking officials have recently arrived * in Pakistan from Western, Arab and other countries in order to meet various people regarding the Afghan issue . How do you view
10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        this development as well as the role of these people in future Afghanistan?
        A. We praise their efforts, if they have arrived here with their own will to end the miseries of their nation. All Afghans in every nook and corner of the world should play an active role in the freedom, reconstruction and prosperity of Afghanistan. It is the religious and national duty   of all Afghan believers to
        establish an Islamic and independent government and rebuild their country. But if they have arrived here at the advice of others, they should know the fact that the Afghans have no more patience to tolerate foreign orders and advices.
        Q. Will the current war lead to the fragmentation of the country?
        A. The political scene of the world has changed; the nations are moving towards freedom and unity. The changes in Eastern Europe; the unification of South and North Yemen, the unification of West and East Germany and the. consecutive uprisings on the Soviet soil respond   to the external         aspect of this
        question. Though inter-mujahideen differences is a matter of concern, efforts are being made in , order to create solidarity of the commanders. Local tendencies are becoming weak now.
         Q. Do you have any individual proposal for the settlement of the Afghan issue?
                                         11
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
 A. The establishment of the Mujahideen interim government was a step towards the objective upon ' the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan. Only a true unity can only ensure a single administration in Afghanistan under the present circumstances. Though the government of Zahir Shah had not introduced Islamic          laws in
 Afghanistan, the Afghan society depended on an Islamic framework. We should establish a structure that prevents violation of recognised social rules and Islamic principles. I think that the countrywide mujahideen council will lead to the establishment of a powerful military organ in the country. The circle of this organ will then gradually spread to other strata of the Afghan society. Hence, an independent powerful force will emerge out of the Afghan society; and this force will play an appropriate role in coordinating the administrative and political affairs of the country.
 Interview with Qari Baba
      Qari Taj Mohammad, popularly known as Qari Baba, was also interviewed by the AIC correspondent in one of the mujahideen bases inside Afghanistan.
 Following is the transcript of the interview:
 Q. Whrat is the purpose of your Ghazni to this place? Have you objective?
12
arrival from achieved the
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     A. I came here to attend the second meeting of the mujahideen commanders. We intend to consolidate and organize the jehad; we have made useful decisions in this regard.
     Q. You pointed out some drawbacks of the mujahideen. Is the Russian withdrawal not a factor for the current slow pace of the jehad?
     A. We began jehad two years prior to the Russian invasion of Afghanistan; we staged against atheism and Communism. The resistance of the Afghan people forced the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan. We will continue our jehad until there is the communist regime : in Kabul.
     Q. The mujahideen have not scored any major victories since the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan. Do you not think about a political formula?
     A. It is the duty of mujahideen 'commanders to consolidate the armed jehad. The political matters should be decided by our leaders.
     Q. Do the current meetings and gatherings have any political nature?
     A. People interpret these meetings differently, but we hold such meetings to consolidate the mujahidneen ranks.
                                  13
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
 Q. Will a Loya Jirgah, the historical and cultural tradition of the Afghan people, settle the Afghan issue?
 A. We reckon fruitful any solution that ensures the freedom of the Afghan people and the formation of an Islamic system in Afghanistan. The Afghans know their problems better than foreigners.
 Q. Could you explain the educational, health and social condition of people living in the areas under your control?
 A. At th,e beginning of jehad we set up schools and madrassas in some liberated areas. A number of students, who began their studies in these schools, are passing 12th grade this year. We have operated 62 schools and madrassas in various parts of        Ghazni where religious
 subjects are taught along with modern subjects.
     The people suffer from various contagious diseases in the area. There are no qualified doctors and medicines in the area.
     We have formed councils which decide local problems in various villages of the province. We have formed groups in various parts of the province in order to ensure the security of the local population. We do not have any social problems, because the residents have not left the area for camps outside the country.       The
 people, carry out normal agricultural activity in their respective areas.
 Q. You have reportedly distributed            the
                              14
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        arable land of the Sardeh Project in Ghazni. What are the criteria for the distribution?
        A. We appointed        a commission    for    the
        distribution of the land. According to the findings of the commission, landless people •were listd as the first, category of         the
        deserved people. The disabled people, widows and orphans were categorized accordingly. We have provided dwellings for some homeless families. We extend financial assistance to those people who cannot support their families.
        We have set up local committees to begin the repair work of canals, dams and karezes (underground water channels). We have not received any assistance in this regard. About' fifty percent of our agricultural and social projects have suffered damage.
        Q. What do you think about the current Afghan problem?
        A. We have a specific goal —' the freedom of Afghanistan, the establishment of an Islamic system and the prosperity of our people. We should struggle for any way that leads us *to these objectives. The goal is very important for us.
                         *** *** ***
                                     15
 Ahmadzai tribesmen hold meeting
     A meeting was held by the elders, religious scholars and mujahideen commanders of Ahmdzai tribe in the district of Azra (Logar province) from May 25 till May 28. The participants of the meeting established a council of the tribe to realise the following decisions:
     1.      To extend help and cooperation to Ahmadzai tribesmen and all Afghans in their efforts for unity.
     2.      To continue jehad unt'il the total collapse of the murderous and atheist regime in Kabul.
     3.     To adopt immediate measures for further-cooperation and understanding between* the mujahideen.
     4.     To prosecute and punish all thbse who commit robbery, plunder and murder in the area.
     5.      To punish all those who intend to establish links with the Kabul regime.
     6.     To respect private and public property upoij the collapse of the Communist regime, in Kabul.
                              16
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
             7.     To respect human rights in compliance with Islamic law.
             8.      To create congenial conditions for the Afghan mujahid nation to determine its destiny following the collapse of the Communist regime. In this connection, local and tribal shuras should be established.
             9.      To prevent cultivation of poppy and hemp (hashish) in the are*.
                                                                       ***

 Sr * *
             FAMINE INSIDE AFGHANISTAN
      Extreme scarcity of foodstuff has been threatening the northern provinces of Afghanistan for the past several years. Some residents of these provinces, such as Faryab, Badghis, Badakhshan and Herat, have lost their lives"due to food shortage in their respective areas. Locusts, enemy bombardment, drought and long distance from Pakistan have caused miseries for the people of these fertile lands of Afghanistan.
  Situation in Herat
      The famine has been also felt by Commander Ismail Khan of Herat who sent a letter to Peshawar on June 25 to seek assistance for the people of Herat.
      Following is the English translation of tire letter:
      Hunger and starvation have caused problems "for people in Herat. In particular, we . are unable on military fronts to eat more than once in 24 hours. We have not been able for the past one year to provide one pair of clothes for our mujahideen. We * have not received assistance from any organisation.On the other hand, the
                              18
  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Kabul regime send large amounts of money and arms to its militiamen who create enormous problems for our mujahideen. The regime seeks foodstuff and medicine from international organisations in the name of the residents of Herat, but these materials are distributed to only regime militiamen. Indifference "of donor organisations and the economic problems have annoyed me to the extent that I prefer death to life.
     Finally, 1 demand of all the countries of the world to perform their humanitarian duty by accelerating their assistance to the people and the mujahideen of Herat so that the life of hundreds of thousands of people is saved. I also reguest the mujahideen leaders to extend assistance to us and thus remove the threat to jehad in the province. Otherwise, the history and the people of Afghanistan will never forgive them. We assure you that we will continue our jehad till the last drop of our blood despite enormous problems.
                                               Capt. Mohammad Ismail
                                                               Herat
Situation in Farah
     The tate of deaths and diseases is increasing daily      in   Farah,   because  its
residents have not received any remarkable humanitarian assistance from a foreign country or organization.
                   This was stated by Haji Abdul Khalig, a mujahideen commander and tribal elder of Farah,
                               19
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 199h
in an interview with an AIC correspondent inside Afghanistan. He added:
     "Farah. is not only located at a long distance from donor centres, its plain area has created more problems for its people under the present circumstances. The enemy heavy guns can easily disrupt the irrigation system of the vast lajids in the province. It takes months and evenyears to rebuild irrigation' canals' and dams. The enemy has destroyed karezes (underground water channels) and forests during the past years of war. Grave economic problems have forced seventy percent of the residents to leave Farah for other countries. '
     "Various plant diseases have damaged the agricultural products of the province. Hundreds Df people, particularly children, have lost their lives due to contagious diseases in the area.
     "The children of the people have fallen /ictim to the devastating disease of Illiteracy. There are few madrassas in the area."
     According to Haji Khaleq, the mujahideen nave been able to encircle various regime positions in the province with their military supplies, but the regime is sowing the seed of division among the people ahd the mujahideen through its financial resources. The regime tries to exploit the needs of the people and establish links with them. These activities can be easily stopped by the mujahideen, if they possess required resources.
                              20
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Situation in Badghis
     Prior to the Afghan war, Badghis was one of the richest areas of Afghanistan in view of its valuable fruits and grains. The present conditions, however, have forced the residents of the province to leave their native villages for other areas in search of basic amenities. The 12-year war and the common border with the Soviet Union are the two factors for the migration of the people from the area. On many occasions, the Russians crossed the border and carried out brutal operations against the mujahideen in the province.
     Lai Saat, a mujahidoen commander in Badghis, made ,.iese comments in an interview with an AIC correspondent at a mujahideen base inside Afghanistan. The commander had arrived at the base from Badghis in order to develop jehad affairs in the country.
     Regarding the condition of the residents of Badghis, the commander said:
     "Though the war continues throughout the country, the diseases of plants have completely destroyed our products during th'e past three years. The livestock system has also suffered a setback in the area.
             ♦
     All crops, including vegetables and fruits*, are destroyed by swarms of locusts which appear annually and attack green crops in the area. The forests of almond and pistachio have turned inihs, barren lands in the province. Most of the presidents of the province were engaged JM1 agriculture prior to the war in the country.
No. 112
Tenth Year
 July 1990
 They were either killed or or forced to leave for other countries.
     "The war has caused damage to the economy of the province. Sixty-five percent of karezes (underground water channels), canals, dams and dwellings have been destroyed during military operations in various parts of the province. The destruction of irrigation system has damaged agricultural lands in the province."
     According to the commander, the Russians have- not conducted any operation from the' Soviet territory after their withdrawal from Afghanistan. Prio^ to their withdrawal, the Russians consolidated their border positions by establishing' several posts and installing more sophisticated weapons on the border line. For example, the Russians have- erected a kind of barbed wire on the borderline which informs the nearest post of the presence of a human being when he goes near it. Also, they have flattened ground in many places to easily see the marks of human steps.
     About internal differences, the commander said:
     "Though we have suffered great losses in the war, we have not received assistance from any country or organization supporting the jehad. There is no assistance, so there is no hand in our internal affairs. There are no groupings in Badghis, where all the mujahideen live in an atmosphere of brotherhood."
                                                                   *** **,* ■*••*•*
                              22
Flood in Refugee Camp
     During the night of of July 6, heavy rains caused destruction in the newly established refugee camp of Khishkey near Nowshera.
     According to an information received from the camp, several-hour heavy rains flooded the camp at 1:00 a.m. and forced the sleeping refugees to leave their destroying dwellings for safety. The flood destroyed around 3,000 dwellings of the camp. One child was killed and some persons were wounded in the unexpected flow of water. The residents of the camp suffered^ material losses, because they could not stop their flowing belongings in fear and confusion.
     Most of the residents of the camp come from the areas of Kuz Kunar, Dara-e-*Noor, Momandara and • Kama. These families arrived last year during t,he the severe fighting in Jalalabad.
     Among 7,000 families of the camp, around 3,000 have le’ft for other camps, such as Shamshatoo, Akora Khattak and Munda, in the province.
                          *** *** ***
                               23
                  REPORTS ON REFUGEE REPATRIATION
     On July 28, the voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees began officially from Pakistan on the basis of an agreement between the government of Pakistan and the United Nations.
     In this connection, our correspondent in Quetta (Baluchistan) visited Chaman in order to see the repatriation process in the area.
     Around 200 families have daily left main refugee camps in Baluchistan for, their dwellings in south-western provinces of Afghanistan     during the  past four   months.
Finally, the U.N. decided to officially announce the repatriation process in the province. Today (July 28), forty families are waiting for U.N. assistance on only one crossing point (Chaman-Spinboldak) out-of four points in the province. Between 35 and 40 percent of    refugees have returned     from the
camps in Baluchistan to the country without any U.N. assistance.
     Also, an AIC correspondent visited the border town of Torkham (N.W.F.P.) on July 29 in order to prepare an eye-witness report of the repatriation   process in the N.W.F.P.   Here  is
the report:
     Between 8:30 a.m. and 10:00     a.m., twelve
registered families    (108 members)     left for
their dwellings inside Afghanistan, while four unregistered families crossed the border without any U.N. assistance.
                             24
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
     The number of returnees increased on July 29, the second day of the repatriation process.
     Local residents in Torkham said that the number of 'returning refugees is much less than they expected prior to the official announcement.
                                        * * * * * * * * *

                             25
                       SITUATION IN KANDAHAR
     Dr. Gul Hussain, who runs a clinic in the area of Dand (Kandahar province) , has recently arrived in Peshawar. In an interview with an AIC correspondent, the doctor gave the following account of the situation in Kandahar.
Health Conditions
     Apart from some major clinics, there are three hospitals in Mohalajat, Arghandab and Arghandab of Kandahar. These hospitals and clinics can solve only thirty percent problems of the local residents. There are many diawbacks in the field of health in proportion to the large number of residents in the areas.
     Unfortunately, women are not treated in these clinics and hospitals due to prevailing traditions and conditions in the areas.
     Diarrhoea, dysentery, nephritis, smallpox, malaria, rheumatism and T.B.,are common dis eases in the area. There is no preventive pro gramme for the ever increasing percentage of T.B.
Repatriation Process;
20 and 30 vehicles have been daily refugee families from the camps in
                             26
                                                         Between transfering
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Baluchistan to Afghanistan for the past several months. The mujahideen do not oppose the return of these refugees to their dwellings inside Afghanistan. These returnees have not received any assistance to meet their basic needs or build houses inside       the country. About 35
 percent cf refugees have left the camps of Panjpai, Zangal ,  Surkhab,   Abdullah Khan and
 Loralai in Baluchistan, during the past several months prior     to the  U.N. repatriation plan.
 The largest number of families have returned from the refugee camp of Loralai. Most of the returnees are Noorzai and Achakzai tribesmen of Panjwaii, Nalghan, Maiwand and Arghanuab in Kandahar province.
     According   to the  U.N. repatriation plan,
 each ration pass holder can receive a cash of Rs. 3,300   and   300 kilograms of     wheat upon
 their return to the country. This assistance is very limited, as no plan has been designed for the transportation of the returning refugees. Owners of vehicle charge Afs. 5,000 per person as  fare     of   transportation.      There  are
 innumerable families who cannot bear the high fare to transport their their belongings and members.
     Though most of the refugees .are willing to return to      their          native areas inside
 Afghanistan,  lack       of congenial conditions
 discourage the process of repatriation in the camps of Baluchistan.
 Political Conditions:
     Clashes have continued between Pashtuns and Hazaras during the past several months in Uruzgan.
                             27
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
The Hazaras are backed by pro-Iran Nasr and Sepah as well as Sultan Ali Kishtmand on the Kabul regime side. The clashes may spread to other parts of the country, as Hazaras have made advances in the areas of D-:    'hopan, Daya,
Mizan and Jaghori.
     The Pashtuns of Uruzgan have called on the Pashtuns of Kandahar and Helmand to extend possible support to them. In this connection, elders and commanders of Kandahar held a meeting in the area of Spinboldak and decided that such clashes should, be prevented, as untimely religious and tribal clashes might cause damage to the geographical and national unity of the country.
               \
The participants of the meeting said that if Hazaras did not abandon fighting, the Pashtuns of Helmand should support the Pashtuns 'of Uruzgan in view of their close location. If not, the participants added, the mujahideen and tribesmen in Kandahar should should support the Pashtuns in the province. The issue has caused concern among the people of the area.
     The Hazaras seem fully united against the Pashtuns who are not willing to fight the war. If the Hazaras do not abandon their present stand and spread the. fighting to other areas, the Pashtuns will be forced to retaliate.
     More than 90 percent of the people of Kandahar support the establishment of an impartial government for peace in the country. They argue that such a government should be • headed by a person, who is Muslim, Afghan and loyal to the national interests of the country.
28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 The collapse           of the communist  regime,
 maintenance of peace, free and impartial elections and establishment of an Islamic national government is the sole aspiration of the people.
 ***
 * * *
 ***
29
                            MILITARY NEWS
Kabul
     According to travellers from Kabul, regime forces have been carrying out consecutive operations in Paghman for the past three months in order to' prevent mujahideen rocket attacks on Kabul from the valley. Though the regime has been able to capture some strategic positions,, such as Pir Boland, Dara-e-Zargar, Qala-e-Hakim, Qala-e-Malik and Tappa, it has not forced the mujahideen to fully evacuate the valley. Fighting still continues between the two sides in sensitive parts of the valley.
     The travellers say. that the regime has offered large amount of money to Jowzjani militiamen for capturing certain positions in the valley. Some 2,500 militiamen of Gelamjarn and Ismat Muslim are participating * in the operation in the area. The regime troops are backed by sophisticated weapons and aircraft in their operations against the mujahideen.
     Both sides have suffered heavy losses in the three-month fighting in the valley. So far, fifty mujahideen have been killed and around one hundred wounded; about 400 regime troops have been killed, forty tanks and vehicles destroyed and two war planes shot down.
                            30
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
     The regime has been able to reduce the pressure of mujahideen rockets on the capital through    the        recent operations. However,
 sporadic rockets on the city still show the activity of the mujahideen in rhe valley. Following are the rocket attacks on the city in June:
     On June 19, mujahideen rockets fell in Microrayan and Bibi Mahro. One rocket hit a city bus, killing two passengers and injuring three others.
     On   June         22, mujahideen rockets hit
 Darulaman, Kabul airbase and Kabul Polytechnic Institute. Two persons were wounded and one was injured.
     On June 24, mujahideen rockets fell at the presidential  palace. The      number    of the
 casualties was not known.
     On June 26, six mujahideen rockets fell on the houses near the premises of the Ministry of Interior.Three persons were injured in the incident. An important meeting was going on in the ministry when the rockets fell near it.
     On June 29, four mujahideen rockets killed
 one person and injured seven others in the
 residential quarters of party members near a
 regime base in Khair Khana Mena.
             ♦
 Balkh
     During the first of week of July, the
                             31
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
mujahideen carried out an operation againstregime posts on the Mazar-Shiberghan highway in the area of Temorak.
     In the operation that continued for two hours, the mujahideen destroyed two posts, killed ten regime supporters, injured three, captured eight and seized some light and heavy weapons     One   APC  and  one  jeep were also
destroyed. Six mujahideen were injured in the incident.
Baghlan
     During the first week of July, the mujahideen attacked regime posts in the area of Dahana-e-Ghori . The mujahideen destroyed three
posts, three tanks and two vehicles, killed more than 20 trodps and injured several others. Twelve soldiers surrendered to the mujahideen along with their weapons. The mujahideen also seized 30 kalashnikovs in the operation. Seven mujahideen were injured.
Paktia: Regime general killed
     On July 18, a general of regime air force was killed along with four high ranking officers near Farm Bagh, south of Khost..
     The general, identified as Abdul Rahman, was flying by a regime aircraft when the incident took place. The aircraft was intending
                              32
No. 112
Tenth Year
July 1990
to land at the airfield when it was hit by the mujahideen. The aircraft fell on a house and caught fire.
     The regime has confirmed the death of the general, but it says that the aircraft crashed due to technical defects.
     On July 20, the mujahideen of Commander Haqani captured thp strategically important post of Shalka in Khost. The mujahideen seized ten heavy weapons and captured 12 soldiers and officers, including an officer of the Special Guard. Casualties on the regime side were not known,, but three mujahideen were killed and 18 wounded in the incident. The mujahideen used a tank in the operation, but it was destroyed.
     It is the third occasion that the mujahideen captured the post. The regime has been able to recapture the posts three times in the past.
     On July 24, a transport aircrart was shot down by the mujahideen over Khost airfield. Thirty-one persons were killed in the incident.
                           *** *** ***
Pakistani journalist killed in acid attack
     A Pakistani journalist died of acid injuries at Islamabad Airport on his way to. London during the night of July 4.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Mansoor    Khan, the bureau chief         of
Islamabad's English daily "The De'mocrat" in Peshawar, had received injuries in an acid attack by unknown persons in Peshawar during the night of June 27.
     Mansoor Khan, 27, paid several visits to Afghanistan during the recent years of Afghan resistance against the Soviet invasion.
                           *** * * * ***
                            34
          A filthy dog ran up to a sufi master who made no attempt to drive it away . A bewildered disciple asked :
           - 0 Master with the purest heart ! How could you allow that dirty animal to come near you ?
          My friend ! answered the sufi , the dirt you saw in he external appearance of the dog is what I keep hidden inside myself . If his outside appearance is what I am on the inside , how could I reject him ? Any obstacle along the path is able to delay the traveller ; it may be a mountain , it may be a straw.
                    *** *** ***
      Sufism in the Modern World by
      Professor Majrooh
A