
^FGHAN     ^
  JNFORMATION QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
Nos. 127- 128- 129                    Uth    Year            Oct.,  Nov.  &  Dec.  1991
AFGHANISTAN
                        The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)    International news media
        (b)    Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
   Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
   Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription              Bank Account No. 1131354558001 
Institutions        : US$    100 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK         
Individuals         : US$    70  Grindlays Bank PLC             
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe      Peshawar - Pakistan            
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
 Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
   joqmm.smomjojov
         ccrmc
       Monthly Bulletin Nos.127 - 128 - 129 Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
CONTENTS:                                
I   - ZAHIR SHAH WOUNDED IN MURDEROUS    
    ATTEMPT                            l 
II  - SOVIET INVASION OF 1979          4 
III - MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION IN MOSCOW  6 
IV  - REACTION TO US-SOVIET              
     AGREEMENT ON NEGATIVE SYMMETRY    9 
V   - SITUATION IN BALUCHISTAN        12 
VI  - SITUATION IN PESHAWAR           16 
VII - SITUATION IN PROVINCES          20 
VII - A DISCUSSION WITH READERS       36 
                                               * + * *** %**
     ZAHIR SHAH WOUNDED IN MURDEROUS ATTEMPT
      According to reports from Italy, Zahir Shah, former king of Afghanistan, received some injuries as a result of a murderous attempt by an Angolan on November 4. The man, who possessed a Portuguese passport and showed himself as a journalist, attacked the former king with a dagger during an interview with the latter at his residence in Rome. The attacker was arrested on the spot.
      According to Italian police the attacker, a Muslim, has links with those Afghan organizations which are opposed to the return of the former king in Afghanistan. The attacker has told police that he is opposed to the return of the former king to Afghanistan.
      During the early days of the incident, the Italian interior minister visited the king at hospital and wished for his immediate recovery.
      According to recent reports, Zahir Shah was discharged from the hospital upon recovery from his injuries.
             ♦
      In a message published by the world mass media on November 15, Zahir Shah has thanked all world leaders who sent messages of sympathy to him upon his injuries. He has also thanked all sections of the Afghan society for their deep sympathy with him.
                                  l
Nos. 127-128-129
11 th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
      The incident received almost identical reaction from mujahideen, tribal elders and the Afghan nation.
      In this connection, Afghans in Baluchistan, the dwelling-place of two million Afghan refugees, held vast demonstrations to condemn the incident. The refugees, who had displayed portraits of Zahir Shah on walls, asked the Italian government to immediately expose the conspiracy.
      While condemning the incident, Haji Mohammad Shah Ghazi, a well known commander in south-western Afghanistan, said:
      "In fact, the attack on a grey-beard Afghan leader is an attack on the Afghan people. The Afghan people regard it as an insult to their prideful history. The plot should be exposed and the attacker should be handed over to the Afghan mujahideen for a treatment, so that nobody might attack Afghan leaders in future.
      Azizullah Wasifi, a former minister of agriculture and a tribal elder, described the incident as "a sign of desperation and defeat for terrorist elements." He said that those people believed in extreme measures who did not see any opportunity for their survival in a healthy and peaceful Afghanistan. They want to killed any individual who can play a role in the unity and peace of Afghanistan, he said. He said, "The return of Zahir Shah will not only ensure peace in Afghanistan, but will enjoy the support of millions of Afghans in the country."
      Our correspondent in Quetta said that thousands of refugees gathered in various mosques and prayed for the recovery of the former king.
                                  2
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Mujahideen commanders and tribal elders held a meeting in Peshawar to condemn the attack on Zahir Shah.
     Maulawi Mohammad Yonus Khalis, leader of his faction of Hezb-e-Islami, said:
     "The attack on Zahir Shah is an insult to the whole Afghan nation. Though we do not accept a government by Zahir Shah, we cannot tolerate such attacks. If we sit in a court of justice with the Russians, we can demand the life of Taraki and Amin as Afghans despite the fact that they were not Muslims."
     Pir Gailani of Mahaz described the attack an act of narrowminded people. He said, "Persons die but nations live for ever." He said that narrow-minded people carried out a murderous attempt on the king, because they could not tolerate the active role of Zahir in bringing peace to Afghanistan. He said that the former king was an elder of the Afghan people who respect their elders.
     When the former king came under the attack in Rome, Ali Ahmad Jibraili, spokesman of the Peshawar-based Shiite Shura-e-Itelaf (Coalition Council) showed his reaction in the following terms:
      "Zahir Shah is responsible for the current miseries. The attack by the defenders of Islam in Rome on Zahir Shah has proved the fact that believers will take revenges even if they live in iron palaces..
                                                            * * * * * * * * *
                                      3
        SOVIET INVASION OF 1979
       On Dec. 27, 1979 Soviet troops invaded Afghanistan, toppled down the regime of Hafizullah Amin and installed Babrak Karmal as the ruler of Kabul.
       When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, the Afghan people had begun a fifteen-month war against a Soviet puppet regime in Afghanistan. Certainly, Babrak Karmal and his Parchami comrades were part of such regime in Afghanistan.
       The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan transformed the war of the Afghan people into in a national uprising. The unarmed Afghan people resisted the Russian tanks in various parts of Afghanistan. As a result, each hill, desert and plain of the country turned out to be a resistance-front against the Soviet colonialists.
       The Russians committed extensive brutalities on the Afghan soil for almost nine years. They deprived hundreds of thousands * of Afghans of their lives and living facilities for their love of freedom.
       The Soviet intervention in Afghanistan was a bitter incident in the history of the country. The Soviets drove the Afghan nation towards the pit of death and transformed their land into ruins. Moreover, the Soviet aggression caused the migration of some five
                                    4
Nos. 127-128-129
11th Year
Oct.y Nov. & Dec. 1991
million Afghans to other countries. These refugees posses divergent political views and ideas which cannot comply with the historical basis and existence of a free and sovereign Afghanistan.
      Many aliens, who once could not cast a glance at Afghanistan, regard Afghanistan as a country without masters. They consider an independence of Afghanistan as a threat to them. Culturally, Afghanistan has transformed into a battlefield of alien ideas and thoughts.
      Following their defeat in Afghanistan, the Soviets, in a sense, have left the legacy of a merciless war for the Afghan people. The killing of Afghans still continues on our soil. The Afghans are burning in the fire lit by the Soviets and the Americans in Afghanistan over ideological and economic differences, though they suck each other. This is a such a great crime against the Afghan people that it will be remembered by generations for ever.
                                                            * * * * * *
                               5
    MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION IN
           MOSCOW
      A joint communique, which was issued at the end of the recent visit of the mujahideen delegation to Moscow, contained the following points:
           The despatch of Soviet troops to Afganistan was a mistake.
           The Soviets will participate in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
           If the mujahideen release Soviet prisoners, the Soviets will stops arms supplies to the Kabul regime prior to January 1, 1992, the deadline for stoppage of arms supplies to the belligerents by the U.S. and the Soviet Union.
           The Soviet Union agrees upon the establishment of an Islamic interim government in Afghanistan. After two years, elections will be held in the country under the supervision of an international body.
           The future interim government will decide upon all the accords reached between Afghanistan and the Soviet Union since 1978.
                                 6
 Nos. 127-128-129
 lllh Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
       The joint communique is the byproduct of the highly controversial visit of the mujahideen to Moscow. The visit remained as a controversial issue for the past several months among the resistance organizations in Pakistan and Iran. Some groups supported the idea of sending a delegation to Moscow, while others flatly disapproved the idea for various reasons.
       Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), was intially expected to lead the delegation to Moscow, but the idea was strongly opposed by hardline groups in the Afghan Resistance. For that reason the visit was suspended three times.
       Finally, through the joint efforts of the mujahideen leaders, Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, it was decided that Prof. Rabani would head the mujahideen delegation to Moscow, though Itehad-e-Islami (Sayaf), Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) did not send their delegates to Moscow. Jabha (Mujadeddi), Mahaz (Gailani), Harakat (Mohammadi), Jamiat (Rabani), Daya (Amin) and Harakat (Mohsini) and the Iran-based mujahideen organizations sent their representatives to Moscow. Thought the delegation appeared to be one body, the representatives of the Iran-based mujahideen organizations arrived in Moscow forty hours later than the arrival of the delegation of the Pakistan-based mujahideen in Moscow.
       The visit is a "great achievement" for those mujahideen groups which have sent their representatives to Moscow. They describe it a*s a valuable progress towards a political settlement of the Afghan issue. However, the opponents of the Moscow visit say that the Moscow communique does not contain any new concessions for the Resistance. They say that the communique is a repetition of the Soviet offers in their previous talks with the
7
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
mujahideen. For example, Prof. Sayaf says, "A government, which is formed by the Soviets in Afghanistan under any title, will be a puppet one."
Mujahideen Delegation in New York
      On October 28, Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), led a delegation to New York.
      Following participation in the sessions of the UN General Assembly, the delegation held wide ranging talks with Peres de Cuellar (UN Secretary-General) and leaders of different countries regarding a political settlement of the Afghan issue.
      The delegation was composed of representatives of Jabha (Mujadeddi), Jamiat (Rabani), Harakat (Mohammadi), Mahaz (Gailani), Daya (Amin) and Wahdat-e-Islami. However, it was not represented by Itehad (Sayaf), Hezb (Khalis) and Hezb (Hekmatyar).
Afghan Students Hold Demonstration
    . On October 15, students of Itehad-e-Islami High School held a demonstration near the residence of Prof. Sayaf, leader of Itehad-e-Islami. The demonstrators demanded the opening of their school and the salaries of their teachers.
      The students were, however, were beaten by guards of Itehad-e-Islami when they tried to move towards the residence of Prof. Sayaf. Two students were injured and sixty others arrested.
                                             *** *** ***
                                 8
      REACTION TO US-SOVIET AGREEMENT ON NEGATIVE SYMMETRY
      On September 13, the U.S. and the Soviet Union signed an agreement in Moscow to cut off arms supplies to their respective sides in Afghanistan.
      The announcement received a mixed reaction from various sections of Afghan society. In this connection, the AIC has gathered views and suggestions of the following Afghan leaders and intellectuals:
      Prof. Rasul Amin, Director of the Writers Union of Free Afghanistan (WUFA), said that the issue had been discussed for a long time. He said that an end to arms supplies was considered as a step towards an Afghan settlement. He said that the decision would be a hard one for the Kabul regime, if the Russians collected heavy weapons from Afghanistan. He said that India might send supplies to the Kabul regime, because Pakistan and Saudi Arabia supported the mujahideen. He believed that the war would be intensified between the two sides until January.
      He said that a decision by super powers could not influence an Afghan decision. The bloodshed, he said, would continue in
                                 9
Nos. 127-128-129
 11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
the country if the Afghans did not bring unity in their ranks and files. The agreements could be signed simultaneously with the beginning of political efforts for a settlement, he added.
      Qazi Amin Wiqad said that the decision was in the interests of the Afghan people. He said that the mujahideen would continue their jehad, whether they received foreign aid or they did not receive it. He said that the mujahideen would be victorious, if arms supplies were stopped to the Kabul regime, because it depends on Soviet assistance. He supported the decision and called it effective for national unity.
      Ashraf Ghani, an Afghan intellectual, said: "We cannot deny the fact that the Pakistan-based mujahideen leaders have not been able to tackle the Afghan issue freely. The challenge faced by the mujahideen is that they should give preference to the Afghan interests over the interests of others. If they are able to do so, they will achieve the success.
      "I deem it necessary to say that the U.S.-Soviet move will not only result in a failure to maintain peace in Afghanistan but will also cause heavy bloodshed in the country, if an end is not brought to the interference by other foreign countries, such as Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.
      Mohammad Hassan Wulasmal: If the U.S. and the Soviet Union really want an end to the bloodshed in Afghanistan, they should cooperate with each other to achieve the objective. If the UN exerts pressure on Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia regarding an end to their interference in Afghanistan, it may lead to peaceful conditions in Afghanistan.
                            10
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
      Sayed Shamsuddin Majrooh: The Afghan issue was a difficult one, because many hands were involved in it. Hence, the Afghans did not enjoy the opportunity to determine their destiny themselves. We cannot confine foreign interference to the Soviet Union and the U.S., becaus^ there are other countries involved in the conflict. The neighboring countries should sincerely extend their help in solving the issue for an end to the war in the country, because these countries provide shelter for the mujahideen and give weapons to them. This will play an important role in bringing an end to the war in the country. If the two sides do not receive supplies, they will be forced to ensure peace in the country. Motivation, money and arms play an important role in war.
                                                              * * * * * * * * *
                            11
       SITUATION IN BALUCHISTAN
Benon Sevan Visits Quetta
      On Nov. 21, Benon Sevan, Special Envoy of UN Secretary-General for Afghanistan, arrived in Pakistan to hold discussions with various mujahideen leaders.
      Following his talks with Afghan intellectuals and scholars in Peshawar, Benon Seven left for Quetta on Nov. 23. Our correspondent in Quetta reported the following activity of Benon Sevan in Baluchistan:
      Some 150 tribal elders met Benon Sevan at the residence of Haji Musa Jan Noorzai. The UN envoy explained the UN five-point plan to the elders.
      In a two-hour meeting, Benon Sevan said that all should seek peace in Afghanistan. He told the participants of the meeting that most of the countries had lost their interest in Afghanistan. He predicted a threat to the integrity of Afghanistan. He cautioned the participants to save their country from disintegration in a short period.
      Benon Sevan said that he would try to convince those who did not accept the UN plan.
                             12
Nos. 127-128-129
11th Year
* Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
      While explaining the structure of a broad based government in Afghanistan, Benon Sevan said that Afghans should think about the nature of such a government. He said that the Afghans should decide whether they wanted a loya jirgah or elections. He said that the UN would respect any Afghan tradition in this regard.
      In his expressions, Azizullah Wasifi, former minister of agriculture, said that the Russians were not solely responsible for the destruction of Afghanistan. He said that some other countries were also trying to destroy Afghanistan.
      Regarding Sevan’s fears of a threat to Afghan integrity, Wasifi said that an Afghan disintegration would lead to the disintegration of others in Asia.
      Prior to his departure for Moscow in early December, Benon Sevan, in an interview, said:
      "The UN five-point plan is a comprehensive mechanism for an Afghan settlement. The time has passed when some people regarded themselves as leaders of the Afghan nation. The Afghan people will achieve their goal through free elections. If someone forms a government for Afghanistan without our plan, it will lack a UN legitimacy. *
Pro-Zahir Shah Demonstration
      On Oct. 8, Malak Yar Mohammad Khan, some 3000 refugees held a tribal meeting in the refugee camp of Zangal in Baluchistan.
                             13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The meeting was addressed by well known tribal elders, such as Azizullah Wasifi, Abdullah Popal and Mohammad Amin Akhundzada. The speakers said that peace should be restored in Afghanistan. They called on the king to return to the country.
      The meeting was organized by Malak Yar Mohammad Khan, a tribal elder of the camp.
Religious Scholars Gather in Quetta
      On October 12, a number of Religious scholars, tribal elders and some mujahideen commanders gathered in Quetta to elect Jinab Baba, a Religious scholar of Kandahar, as their leader.
      The gathering was attended by prominent relgious leaders, such as Mullah Abdul Habib Akhundzada of Kandahar, Mullah Abdul Salam Jan Agha of Panjwaii, Sayed Matiullah, Sayed Noor Mohammad Shah Agha, etc.
      The election, however, could not take place due to night curfew in Quetta.
      The basic idea of the gathering was to empower Jinab Baba identify a future leader for Afghanistan. The participants wanted to follow the tradition of eighteenth century when Ahmad Shah Durrani was identified as leader of Afghanistan by a spiritual persons.
      Meanwhile, the central office of Jabha (Mujadeddi) take signatures from people on an eight-point paper regarding their allegiance to Mujadeddu. The move has been, however, deplored by many people.
                             14
 Nos. 127-128-129
 11th Year
 Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
Reugee Repatriation Continues in Baluchistan
      Despite food shortage and high prices in Kandahar city, a number families have left the refugee camps in Baluchsitan for their dwellings inside Afghanistan. A resident of Kandahar told our correspondent in Quetta that he saw some 150 families returning to Afghanistan on his way to Pakistan.
      Meanwhile, a number of residents of Kandahar have left for Quetta (Baluchistan).
                                             *** *** ***
                             15
  SITUATION IN PESHAWAR
Dr. Abdul Rahman Zamani Wounded
     On October 30, Dr. Abdul Rahman Zamani, an employee of Austrian Relief Committee, was wounded in a firing incident near Pabbi, east of Peshawar.
     Dr. Zamani was travelling from Mardan to Peshawar when unknown armed men opened fire on his vehicle. He and his brother were injured in the incident.
     Dr. Zamani was sent abroad for treatment by Austrian Relief Committee.
Influential Elder Killed
      On Nov. 12, Ghazi, an influential elder Tsunak (Kunar), was killed by gunmen in the area of Danish (Chitral).
      Ghazi was going to Chitral from Bajawar when his vehicle was attacked by gunmen near Lowari Pass.
      His sons, who accompanied their father on the trip, told AIC that six armed men followed them in a toyota pick-up vehicle to Lowari Pass. They said that they (the sons) informed the policemen on the top of the pass about the suspected. However,
                            16
Nos. 127-128-129
 11th Year *
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
the assailants overtook their vehicle at a distance and forced their father to go with them. They said that their father was then killed by the assilants near the pass.
      The sons said that they identified the murderers. One of the murderers is in the custody of Chitral police, they added.
IRC Coordinator Killed
      On November 25, Eng. Aziz Ahmad Osmani, Coordinator of the Language Development Programme of the International Rescue Committee (IRC), was killed by unidentified gunmen on Sayed Jamaluddin Afghani Road, University Town.
      Eng. Aziz was going to his office when gunmen opened fire on his vehicle near the office of Save the Children Fund. His six-year son and driver survived the murderous attack.
      The assailants were travelling in a brown land cruizer vehicle, the driver of the late Eng. Aziz said.
Political Activist Killed
      On Nov. 29, Ghulam Nabi Hadawal, an activist of Afghan Social Democratic Party (Afghan Melat), was killed in front of his residence in lower Tehkal.
      Hadawal was attacked with a kalashnikov by Noorullah (a resident of Surkhrud district of Ningrahar province) who lived in the area for some time. Noorullah disappeared from the area following the incident.
                             17
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Hadawal has left behind his widow, two sons and one daughter.
 Tribal Leader Wounded
      On November 30, unknown gunmen carried out a murderous attack on Noorullah Khan, leader of Union of Eastern Tribes, near the shrine of Lewani Baba in Nauthia, Peshawar.
      Maj. Noorullah Khan, a former teacher of Kabul Military Academy, was coming out of his office when an armed man opened fire on the former with his pistol. The attacker left the area without any arrest, but Noorullah Khan managed to take himself to the Lady Reading Hospital (Old City) by a rickshawa.
      Maj. Noorullah, set up his Union in 1983. He continued his political activity till the latest incident despite political and financial pressures. He made extensive efforts to unify various tribes of Afghanistan. In this connection, he organized several gatherings to achieve the objective.
      Maj. Noorullah, who enjoyed strong tribal support, favoured the return of Zahir Shah to the country. In view of his vast political knowledge, the incident has caused a stir among the Afghan intellectuals in Peshawar.
      Maj. Noorullah is the son of Gen. Walla Jan, an influential elder of Khugiani district, Ningrahar province.
 Commander Killed in Koh-e-Safi
      A commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) was killed in the area of Koh-e-Safi in early October.
                            18
Nos. 127-128-129
 11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
      The commander, identified as Lai Gul, was returning from a jirgah when a person opened fire on him with his kalashnikov in the area of Jalai. The murderer was captured by his mujahideen.
      Lai Gul, 40, began his jehad as a group commander of Maulawi Shafiullah in Koh-e-Safi. He then joined Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis).
      The commander led several guerilla oprations in the capital. He carried out several operations against in Bagram and on the road between Saroobi and Kabul.
*** ***
                              19
  SITUATION IN PROVINCES
Mujahideen offensive in Ningarhar
      On October 11, mujahideen launched an offensive on Jalalabad, the provincial centre of Ningrahar province. The offensive began after great preparations by the two sides. The mujahideen spent three months to transfer their weapons, ammunition and food supplies to their positions around the city.
      Those tanks and heavy guns boosted the morale of the mujahideen which had been captured by the U.S. and its allies Iraq and Kuwait during the Gulf War. According to some news reports, a major portion of these weapons, including fifty-five tanks, was transferred to Jalalabad. In addition, the mujahideen possessed innumerable ground-to-ground rockets. When the offensive came to an end, thousands of rockets were lying in the pits and ditches around their positions at the end of the offensive. This indicates that the mujahideen transferred sufficient amount of weapons to the area.
      In addition to over 3,000 volunteers of different countries, some 6,000 mujahideen took part in the long awaited offensive of the area.
      The regime sent 250 tanks, APCs and military trucks to Jalalabad from Kabul. A rocket brigade was also sent to the area to counter the planned offesnive of the mujahideen. Party
20
 Nos. 127-128-129
Uth Year
 Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
 activists and KHAD troops fought in the frontlines on the regime side. The regime deployed these forces in view of their stiff resistance capabilitity.
       The offensive continued with intensity between oct. 11 and
 16.
      A traveller, who has recently arrived from Jalalabad, was an eye-witness to the offensive in the area. He gave the following account of the situation:
      A rain of shelling began on the morning of October 11 from the souhtern, south-eastern and south-western directions of the city. The rain which continued for six hours on that date, was so heavy that nobody could move from one place to another. Nobody was aware about the fate of their near and dear ones during the shelling. The rockets hit the souhtern and south-western parts of the city, namely the old market of cattle, the bus stands of Chaparhar and Khugiani, Spinzar Cinema, Sra Mena and the houses on the two sides of the Torkham-Jalalabad road. The civilians suffered heav casualties in the heavy rocket attack of the day. I saw dead bodies of several shopkeepers who had lost their limbs. A butcher and his three customers were lying in their blood near Spinzar Cinema. I visited a limited area of the city by a bicycle, because nobody could move in the city for fear of death.
      On October 12, a rocket attack continued for four hours on the northern, north-eastern and western parts of the city. Mujahideen rockets and shells hit the modern buildings built in the eight-kilometer long area between the revenue office of Ningrahar and Darunta Dam. Though the rockets caused destruction and damages to the buildings, human losses were less than those on the previous day. The regime declared a state of
21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
emergency on the day. The number of the wounded was so high in the afternoon that there was no space for their treatment in Civil Hospital, University Hospital, Military Hospital and Police Hospital.
      All the shops remained closed in the city on October 13. Only tanks and military vehicles were moving in the city. At 10 a.m., a heavy rocket attack began on central Jalalabad, Dand Ghara, Grain Market, Pashtunistan Wat and Fruit Market. A kind of black smoke and dust raised from the city till 4 p.m.
      The day witnessed another incident when a rocket killed fifteen participants of a funeral ceremony. Some twenty-two people were burying a war victim when the rocket fell amongst them killing fifteen persons.
      Following the incident, the residents decided on October 14 to temporarily bury the dead bodies of their near and dear ones into their houses. Many people wore white clothes to prepare themselves for a sudden burial in case of their death by rockets. Many shells hitv various parts of the city on the day. There was an acute shortage of food and medical supplies in the city. Groceries remained closed for three days in the city. The regime paid an amount of Afs. 12,000 to each family of its political and military supporters luthe city. Some families received some foodstuffs.
      On October 15 and 16, the area between the hospital of Ningrahar Medical College and Darunta Dam remained under the target of the rockets. The rockets destroyed some three-storeyed buildings in the area.
                            22
Nos. 127- 128- 129
11th Year
Oct., Nov. c£ Dec. 1991
      Regime authorities announced that seventy civilians were killed in the rocket attack, but reliable sources claimed that 380 civilians were killed nad more than 550 wounded in six days.
      Though the offensive brought about heavy material and human losses, the beligerents suffered limited losses. A police commander said that the regime suffered 31 military casualties during the fighting.
      An AIC correspondent in Landi Kotal met some mujahideen who had returned from the area around Jalalabad. They gave the following picture of the situation in the area:
      The areas of Surkhrud and Chaparhar were the main fronts of the battle. Most of the mujahideen commanders were confident of a fall of the city in view of their lately arrived sophisticated weapons, but they acknowledged regime’s air supremacy on the tenth day of the offensive. Their positions were continuously bombed by regime aircraft during the offesnive. The civilians living near the battle fronts suffered heavy casualties. Twenty-eight civilians were killed only in Chaparhar.
      Regime aircraft dropped parachute bombs on mujahideen depots and supplies. These bombs exploded on the ground and covered a wide range of destruction. Regime jet fighters precisely hit mujahideen depots and supplies from a very high altitude. For example, a jet fighter bombed an ammunition depot of Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) in the area of Shpola. The bombing resulted in the explosion of over 10,000 rockets and shells in the depot. There were few casualties in the depot as most of the fighters had left for the frontlines.
                            23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Some important commanders, such as Dr. Gul Khan and Zabihullah, fourteen group commanders and more than 130 mujahids and civilians were killed. A number of foreign volunteers were killed in the operation. The mujahideen lost some 14 tanks and heavy guns.
Most of the mujahideen have left the area
     On Dec. 6, regime aircraft bombarded a mujahideen on the Peway Pass in the area of Shinwar. As a result, five mujahids were killed and six wounded.
Fighting in Gardez
      The mujahideen made great preparations in July and August to carry out a heavy operation on town of Gardez, the provinccial centre of Paktia. They received sophisticated tanks and heavy guns captured by the U.S. from Iraq during the Gulf War. They transferred the new supplies to their bases around Gardez along * with those captured upon the fall of Khost.
      On September 30, backed by a number of foreign Muslim volunteers, several mujahideen groups began a three-pronged attack on the twon of Gardez.
      On October 6, mujahideen of Commander Haqani were able to capture two^strategically important points on the pass of Sato. As a result, the mujahideen moved towards Ghalgai (south) and installed their heavy guns in the area to shell regime positions in the town.
                           24
 Nos. 127-128-129
11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
     On October 14, mujahideen began their operation from Saidkaram (east) and Zormat (west). The mujahideen captured all regime posts until they reached the village of Neelam in the direction of Saidkaram. They captured three posts in Zormat valley.
     The mujahideen continued their hold over the captured positions for a week. They also continued their attacks on regime positions in Gardez.
     Between October 23 and 28, the mujahideen softened their attacks to encourage evacuation of civilians from the town. Some 150 families left the town for Zormat and Kabul.
An escalation occurred in the fighting on October 30
      On Nov. 4, mujahideen groups in Ghalgai began their advances towards the town. They captured several regime posts on their way towards the town. They fought at a distance of five kilometers from the town. Also, the mujahideen made advances towards the town from Zormat.
      On Nov. 8, the regime sent reinforcements to Gardez through the pass of Tirah. The strategically important pass remained under the control of the hands of the regime during the entire operation of the mujahideen. Regime troops enjoyed full control over the road between Gardez and Pul-e-Alam, the provincial centre of Logar.
      On Nov. 10, regime aircraft carried an unprecedented bombardment of mujahideen positions around Gardez. In the bombardment that continued for three days, more than 110
                            25
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly .Bulletin
mujahids, including five commanders, were killed and many others wounded. Seventy-two mujahids lost their lives only in bunkers.
      On Nov. 14, regime troops backed by tanks and APCs carried out an attack against the mujahideen in the directions of Zormat and Ghalgai. The troops captured several positions in the attack.
      On Nov. 16, regime troops bergan an attack in the direction of Saidkaram, east of Gardez. On the same date, Najib arrived in Gardez to hold talks with the elders of Ahmadzai tribemen.
      On Nov. 18, regime troops captured most of its lost position around Gardez. However, a counterattack by the mujahideen forced regime troops to abandon some positions.
      According to refugees from Gardez, the town has been transformed into a ruin. All buildings have suffered damage and desruction in the mujahideen shelling and firing.
      Some 500 regime troops, including Mohammad Anwar Hasil (Governor of Paktia), were killed in the fighting.
      On *\e resistance side, 32 Arabs, some Pakistanis and 180 mujahids were killed.
      The intensity of the fighting has been confined to only shelling between the two sides in the area.
                            26
 Nos. 127-128-129
 11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
Kabul
      A female student of Kabul Medical College has recently arrived in Peshawar. In an interview with AIC, she gave the following account of the situation in Kabul:
      The prices of consumer goods are very high in the capital, though everything is available in Kabul. Such a situation is terrible for common citizens. Government employees receive wheat, edible oil, beans, tea and sugar free of cost, but others buy these items at high price in the city. One kilogram of mutton is sold for Afs. 1,700, while one piece of bread is sold at a cost of Afs. 50.
      The residents do not enjoy proper electric facilities in the city. They enjoy dim elecric light three days a week between 7 and 11 p.m. Shortage of oil is another problem for the residents. Widows and the disabled are the first deserved groups to recieve oil upon availability in city filling stations. Five litre kerosene oil is sold for Afs. 3,000.
      The residents dislike the Iranian move to airlift food supplies to Bamyan. They think that the move is aimed at creating sectarian differences between the people. Some quarrels took places between Shias and* Sunnis over the Iranian move.
The resdients want peace in the country
      She gave the yearn for When the residents ehard about the Iranian air supplies to Bamyan proviince,lcoupon holders.(who holds a coupon) omon The coupon holdersresidents do not enjoy
                            27
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 an electric facilitiesm, the residents cannot face the high prices.prices are was
Kunar
      Dozens of people were killed when Salafis attacked positions of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in various parts of' Kunar in November.
      In the fighting that continued for two weeks between the two sides, Salafis recaptured the area across the Kunar river between Asadabad (the provincial centre of Kunar) and Noorgal. Hezb-e-Islami, however, was able to continue its hold over Sarkani and Nawa Pass.
      Through the intervention of other mujahideen organizations, a ceasefire took place in the province. The belligerents were asked to respect to respect control of each other over their respective areas.
      When Hezb-e-Islami captured all positions of Salafis between August 19 and 24, the base of Karer along the Afghan-Pakistan border was the only remnant of Salafis in the province. The Salafis stored arms and ammunition in the base and carried out their operation recently against positions of Hezb-e-Islami in Kunar.                       •
      There werj three administrations in Kunar followng withdrawal of regime troops from the prvince. When representatives of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) left Kunar, Salafis and Hezb-e-Islami were the main contenders for power in the province. The two sides held elections in Kunar and
                            28
Nos. 127-128-129
 Utli Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
 refugee camps in Pakistan to establish an administration in the province. They spent large amounts of money on the elections to to expand their influence in the province. The two sides, however, did not declare the results of the elections and talked about their successes. The differences resulted in an operation by Salafis against Hezb-e-Islami positions in the province. Salafis captured Sarkani, Nawa Pass, Asadabad. Hezb-e-Islami’s hold was confined only to its Shinwar base in the valley of Shegal.
Kandahar
     According to travellers from Kandahar, security conditions are not satisfactory in the city. The residents of the city cannot move in the city with money. Regime troops plunder people in broad daylight. They troops also break into the house of the people at night and plunder their vlaubles and money. The deteriorating security conditions in the city have discouraged the people in the surrounding villages to shift their families to Kandahar.
     Meanwhile, some 150 regime troops stopped civilian vehicles in the area of Robat near Kandahar city on Nov. 1. The troops deprived all passengers of their money and watches on the road.
     On Oct. 30, four trucks carrying arms and ammunition to Tirinkot (Uruzgan) were attacked and captured by mujahideen of Commander Mohammad Nader Jan in the ?rea of Shah Agha Durahi in the Arghandab district.
     The commanders who expected the receipt of the supplies in Tirinkot (Uruzgan) have approached the Commander Mohammad Nader Jan regarding their arms and ammunition.
                            29
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      On Nov. 3, mujahideen shelled Kandahar airport with heavy guns-from their positions in the area of Rig. One aircraft was destroyed in the shelling.
      On Nov. 11, three burglars were killed by a women in the village of Zanziri, Arghandab district.
      According to a report from the area, the women opened fire with the kalashnikov of her husband when the burglars broke into her house at night. Her husband was away from the house when the incident took place.
      Following the incident, the women went to the mosque in the village and informed the people about the incident. When the father of one of the burglars knew about the act of his son, he immediately paid some money as a prize to the woman. He then moved to the site of incident and opened fire on the dead body of his son with his pistol.
      Meanwhile, regime functionaries and civilians held a pro-Zahir Shah rally in Kandahar. The demonstrators condemned the recent attack on the former king in Rome. The "shopkeepers of the city closed their shops on the occasion.
 Pakistani Baluchs return from Kandahar
      As a result of recent mujahideen pressure on Kandahar airport, a number of Pakistan’s Baluch Murree tribemen were forced to leave their positions around the airport and leave for their dwellings in Pakistan. Some 150 families of these tribemen have settled in New Quetta.
                            30
Nos. 127- 128-129
11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
      When the war began in Afghanistan, these tribemen left Pakistan for the provinces of Kandahar and Helmand to fight against the mujahideen in exchange for money and weapons. A number of these tribemen fought in the regime positions around Kandahar airport. However, they abandoned their positions and left for Pakistan due to the mujahideen pressure. Also, a large number of these tribemen have left Helmand for their dwellings in Pakistan.
Helmand
     On November 10, mujahideen attacked four regime posts in the district center of Girishk. The mujahideen destoryed four military trucks and captured several weapons in the operation.
Wardak
     Commander Mohammad Amin Wardak, in a report from Wardak, said that the residents were concerned about a food shortage in the province. He said that prices of foodstuffs were very high in the province. For example, a sack of wheat was sold at a rate of Afs. 26,000 in the province. He said that the residents faced severe economic problems in the province.
Balkh
      A commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) has recently arrived in Peshawar from Mazar-e-Sharif.
                             31
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
      Abdul Qudoos Jabarkhel, in an interview with AIC, gave the following account of the situation in the province of Balkh:
      Heavy air bombardment continues on the district centre of Daulatabad which fell to the mujahideen last month. On November 20, regime troops carried out an attack against the mujahideen to capture the lost centre. However, strong resistance from the mujahideen forced regime troops to retreat from the areas. Regime aircraft heavily bomb the centre.
      The mujahideen enjoy control over a vast area of the province. They regularly attack regime convoys on the road between Mazar-e-Sharif and Shiberghan. Regime’s hold is confined only to the city of Mazar, the sub-district of Dehdadi and the district centres of Balkh, Charbulak and Nahr-e-Shahi. The mujahideen enjoy totally control the districts of Shortep, Sholgara, Chimntal, Daulatabad and Charkunt.
      A discrimination against Pashtuns is a misery in the province. Uzbeks, Turkumans and some Tajiks dislike Pashtuns in the province. During the past thirteen years, the Russians have exerted pressure on Pashtun areas to encourage -their exodus from the province. In this connection, the militiamen of Rashid Dostam, who are also popularly known as Gelamjams, destroy Pashtun villages and houses in various parts of the province.
      Rashid Dostam commands three divisions of regime militiamen, mostly Uzbeks, Turkumans and Tajiks, in northern Afghanistan. Juma Achak is another regime commander in northern Afghanistan whose units are composed of Uzbek, Turkuman and Pashtun militiamen. Rashid Dostam and Juma Achak, who lead various .operations against the mujahideen in northern Afghanistan, have earned a lot of money during the past
32
Nos. 127-128-129
 Uth Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
several years of war in the country. These commanders have purchased many houses and shops in Mazar-e-Sharif.
      Few families of the province of Balkh have left for refugee camps in Pakistan and Iran. The residents of the province face innumerable economic and health problems.
      The residents do not enjoy any proper meidcal facilities in the province. Malaria, whooping cough, tuberculosis, dysentry, diarrhoea and pneumonia are the common diseases in the province.
      There are few educational programmes for the residents of the province. There are some madrassas and primary schools which cannot overcome the growing illiteracy in the province.
      The resdients have not received any kind of assistance from foreign agencies during the past years. Heavy floods and rains of the season have caused widespread destruction in the province. The rains have destroyed agricultural lands and irrigational systems in the province. This has created a famine-like situation in the province. High prices and low products have caused concern among the people about their survival. If they do not receive any foeign assitance, they will either loose their lives or leave for nighbouring countries.
      Followng is a price list of consumer goods in the city of Mazar-e-Sharif in November 1991:
Wheat                 P kgs. 1,500 Afs. 
Rice (first quality    Pkgs.    7,000 ” 
Rice (second quality) P kgs.    6,000 " 
                        33              
AFGHAN INFORMATION           Bulletin
Mutton   /kg.  1,600' 
Beef     /kg.  1,100’ 
Sugar    /kg.    600" 
Tea      /kg.  3,500’ 
Petrol  /litre 1,000’ 
Diesel  /litre   800" 
Chicken /head  2,500' 
Egg     /piece    50" 
Bamyan: Iranian Flights to Central Afghanistan
      During the last week of November, an Iranian transport aircraft dropped foodstuffs and blankets over the runway of Bamyan airport in central Afghanistan. While the Kabul regime was showing mixed reaction to the the Iranian move, the report was confirmed by UN officials in Kabul.
      As the residents of central Afghanistan face severe food and clothing problems due to heavy floods and plant diseases of the season, Iranian aircraft have transferred food supplies to the region.
      During the first week of December, several planes dropped foodstuffs in the region. Logically, Iranian aircraft cannot fly over the Afghan territory without the perimission of the Kabul regime. According to a reliable source, each aircraft carries an employee of Afghan Red Crescent Society.
      Political circles of the Afghan Resistance have paid serious attention to the latest Iranian move.
                                   34
 Nos. 127-128-129
11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
      Eng. Hekmatyar of Hezb-e-islami describes the move as "interference in the internal affairs of the Afghanistan."
      Maulawi Khalis of Hezb-e-Islami condemns the move and terms it as "a disgrace to the Afghan nation." He says that the Iranians fan up sectarian differences in Afghanistan to transform Afghanistan into a bloodbath.
      Mujahideen commanders of Kabul province have warned Iran to stop such kind of interference.
      Prof. Rabani of Jamiat does not think that Iran has dropped air supplies in Central Afghanistan. He says that the Iranians have denied it.
      The inhabitants of the central parts of Afghanistan are Shia Muslims. The Iranians have found many supporters in this region since the April coup of 1978.
                                  *** *** ***
A DISCUSSION WITH READERS
     The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was a factor for driving all Afghan individuals towards political affiliations. It took place at a time when political evolution was at a very low stage in the society. However, the immense majority of the Afghan nation fully understood two facts about the invasion. First, Afghanistan was a Muslim country invaded by an atheist power. Second, the invasion had turned Afghanistan into a Soviet colony. These two facts gave birth to different political trends during the years of Afghan resistance.
     As majority of the Afghan people was directly engaged in the war against the Russians, the determinig and decisive aspect of their political logic has remained under the influence of military strategy till the moment. Military attitudes have influenced even the logic of common man due to the prolonged Soviet-imposed war in Afghanistan. A whole generation of the people is unable to identify its national interests in the life of peace and war. It regards war as the only solution to all problems.
                            36
Nos. 127-128-129
11th Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
      The geographic location of our country and the sensitivity of our people to aliens may play a role in creating the above element, but each peiod brings about its own problems to the people who seek different resources to solve them (problems).
      A large number of Afghan analysts believed that peace would return to Afghanistan upon a Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. The event took place at a time when the Soviet Union and the U.S. (two super powers of the world) had brought an end to their war over their ideological and economic interests in the world. Certainly, the Afghan war was a product of the collision of these two contradictions. However, various developments indicate that we are not ready for such a speedy change in the country. In other words, the change is not in its full swing in our region. Afghans are killed and their houses turned into ruins like yesterday.
      Political and military experts say that media plays a vital role in war. For that reason, a number of Afghan scholars and intellectuals founded the Afghan Information Center (AIC) in Peshawar eleven years ago.
The AIC was the only independent organization of the time to inform the world about the the crimes of the Soviets and the puppet regime in Afghanistan. The Center took into account professional sanctity and national interests in its publications.
37
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Some people did not like the establishment of a free and independent organization, because they believed that ten or twelve Afghan fugitives would not be able to run such a Center. They thought that the Center might violate the prescribed objectives. Hence, the Center remained under skilful supervision until its director, Prof. Dr. Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh, was killed in his office on February 11,1988.
     The staff of the Center followed the path of freedom along with the conovy of the Afghan people. They gathered reports of bloody battles in the bottoms of high mountains inside Afghanistan. They also collected reports from hot refugee camps in various parts of Pakistan. What we wanted we published it, but submitted those materials to history which could cause a frown.
     When the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan, the Resistance continued its jehad against the Kabul regime, a product of the Soviet invasion. A crisis of internal differences hit the heavily armed society of Afghanistan. In addition, the regional and international friends of the Afghan Resistance followed a policy of understanding with the Soviet Union instead of a policy of resistance to realise their specific interests.
     Our readers can make a judgement on our cultural acitivity during the past several years. However, we must indicate that we, as homeless people, have been unable
                            38
Nos. 127-128- 129
Uth Year
Oct., Nov. & Dec. 1991
 to always present all materials to our readers. We cannot do this, because the sky is always cloudy in our world. These clouds may turn into rain, hailstorm and even lightning.
     The Centre has occasionally referred to the action on the stage, but it has not disclosed the identity of bad or good actors. We were aware of the acts behind the curtain but we had nothing to do with them, because there is a saying in Pashtu that "scorpions will bite those who move their fingers into the holes."
     Islam and Afghanhood motivated us to stand in the battledfront of resistance, while we received professionalism from our people and educational environment. Therefore, we openly declare that the major part of our activity continues within the sphere of the above law. We have occasionally taken slow and quick steps for the sake of our homeland, Afghanistan. If a bird cannot save its nest from an attack of.prey-birds, it will at least try to make a great noisea noise. We enjoy the same right. Our nest has been turned into a base of hunters for the past thirteen years, but we, despite overt and covert grumbles by some people, are proud to say that we have not been used as prey-birds by anyone during and after the cold war of world powers when media played a determining role in the world.
     We are determined to inform our readers about the situation in our coutnry. If you do not receive our
                            39
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -   Bulletin
publications regularly, it will mean that we face several problems besides the above factors.
Editorial Board Afghan Information Centre
                                             *** *** * * *
                            40