                   frn 2S 3 I] c
“ % —
^FGHAN        /f'
  JNFORMATION ? ^ "QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
Tenth Year
August 1990
                  The aims of the AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
    1. To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
  2. to make this information available in the form of articles, news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
      (a) International news media
      (b)    Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
  The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
      The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
 Founder : Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
 Editor : Sayed Naim Majrooh This Bulletin is Written Under the
 Responsibility of A I C Editorial Board
 Annual Subscription                                 Bank Account No. 1131354558001
 Institutions          : US$  100                  ,  Telex No 5210 GBNPEW   PK
 Individuals           : US$  70                     Grindlays Bank   PLC
 or equivalent Pakistan Rupee
 THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USE OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
 Office : 18 E,S J. Afghani Road, University Town, Peshawar. Phone : 40953 Postal Add: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
AFGHAN INFORMATION
CENTRE
Monthly Bulletin
NO.113
August 1990
CONTENTS :
I . AFGHANISTAN AMONG CHANGES                     2
          - Changes in Kabul
          - Situation in Kabul
II . HISTORICAL MONUMENTS OF BAMYAN              9
III . SITUATION IN THE SOUTH-WESTERN ZONE 14
IV SITUATION IN KHOST                    16 
V  INTERVIEW WITH TWO TRIBAL LEADERS     18 
   •                                        
VI MILITARY NEWS                         24 
   - Badghis,Baghlan,Kabul,Balkh, Ghazni    
   -Split in Iran Based Shia Mujahideen     
 ***
***
***
                AFGHANISTAN AMONG CHANGES
Changes in Kabul:
     When the U.S. and the Soviet Union began their talks on Afghanistan in the Soviet Union last month, the general impression was that the-two sides would announce an important development regarding the Afghan issue. Though the two sides did not openly reveal the real decisions of the talks, the negotiations harv^ paved   the ground     for closer understanding
between the two sides on the issue. They will^ probably move step by step towards realisation’ of that understanding.
     If we closely   study Soviet  policy or. the
12-year crisis of Afghanistan, we will conclude that the Russians have always kept informed the Kabul   regime of    their plans   prior to   any
agreement with the U.S. Then, the two sides (the Russians and the Kabul regime) have made joint efforts to implement their decisions. It is evident that important regime figures have always left for Moscow prior to the occurrence of a significant change    in the  country.   For
that reason, Najib stayed for a long time in Moscow, while Sultan Ali Kishtmand paid several visits to Moscow during the stay of the Kabul ruler. The joint Kabul-M.oscow efforts indicate that the Russians have kept the Kabul regime informed of any development in the U.S.-Soviet talks on Afghanistan.
                                2
AUCHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
These efforts also indicate that the two sides have begun work on the realisation of an understanding*
     These     signs show the fact that the
Russians had anticipated the development several months ago. Following the abortive coup attempt of Shahnawaz Tanai in March, the Kabul regime has been able to implement any Moscow-Kabul decision without internal opposition. Neverthless, the Kabul regime has been able to remove "extremists" from the party, government and army. The purges Jiave brought about great changes in the PDP.A -— a combination of the Khalq and Parcham factions.
     The name, manifesto and structure of the party underwent a icomplete change. This party, which gave birth to the criminal organisations of AKSA, KAM and KHAD, will not be able to erase its criminal effects on the minds of the people.
     The regime, however, endeavours to replace an indignant and militant party (which has come to power, through a. coup) by a party that is acceptable ■ to the people on national and international level.        In  this regard,  the
regime has tried to introduce changes in the government. The appointmen-t of Fazal Haq Khaliqyar as prime minister is an instance of these changes.        The  regime tries to keep
sensitive and key posts under its own control, but it will maintain its coordination even if it suffers a substantial blow and loses the key posts.
     For its own defence (or, as it claims, the defence of homeland), the regime enjoys total control over KHAD, army, policy and militia.
                                 3
No. 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
 These forces cannot be overlooked in a warring country, particularly Afghanistan, where increasing groupings and tribal feuds have jeopardised the issue of a united nation as well as    the wish of the Afghan people
 freedom.
     Politically, the regime has made some tactical and strategic retreats, but it has not been able to end the war and convince the resistance of coming to ai> understanding. Politicians and elected representatives lead armies in the developed world, but military forces and militarists .move political figures either forward or backward in the Third World like chessmen on a board.
 Situation in Kabul:
 Interview with a Regime Officer
     A military officer, whose family still lives in Kabul, has recently arrived in Peshawar. The officer, who did not disclose his name for family reasons, was interviewed at the AIC.
     Regarling Najib's Moscow visit, the officer, in his interview, said that the visit was interpreted differently by Radio Kabul and Soviet foreign minister Eduard Shevardnadze, in an interview in Moscow, The Radio announced that Na:ib left for Moscow for a "medical check-up," while Shevardnadze described the visit as Najib's "vacation" in the Soviet Ujiion.
                                 4
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     The officer said thatresidents of the capital had divergent views on Najib's visit to the Soviet Union. However, most of the people said that the removal of Najib would pave the ground for an impartial government in the country. The opposition, they argued, cannot reach any agreement until Najib is in power in Kabul. Among various rumours and comments, Najib finally arrived in Kabul during the fourth week of August, and announced that he would visit India on August 2*9. The residents then said that the Gulf crisis enabled Najib to prolong his regime for some time.
     He disclosed that Yagubi, minister of state security (WAD), Raz Mohammad Paktin, minister of interior, and Abdul Wakil, minister of foreign affairs, a-lso visited Moscow during Najib's Moscow stay.
     About the people's reaction to Watan Party (the new name of the PDPA), the officer said:
     "The residents cannot be deceived by such tactics and tricks.        Though   the Khalqis
 apparently have remained silent over the new name of the party, they oppose it secretly in their own circles. They think that it is a conspiracy to remove them from the scene. Also, the programmes of Najib are implicitly opposed by the supporters of Babrak Karmal, including. Mahmud Baryalai, Sultan Ali Kishtmand and Basharmal.     There is a rumour that these
 persons will be sent to foreign countries as ambassadors."
     According to the officer, there is a state of emergency in all ministries.
                              5
No. 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
All government officials, from deputy minister to section head, a,re on alert to control the situation. Most of the ministries, such as finance, communications, education, health, culture and information, public works, planning, mines and industries and justice, are functioning from 9 a.m. until noon. This situation has continued for the past four months in the capital.
     Besides, he said, all educational institutions, including Kabul University and Polytechnic Institute, have been closed for six months due to rocket attacks on the city.
     The regime has also closed dormitories due to rocket attacks and food shortage. v-Mental worries and lack of experienced teachers have lowered the educational standard of- all institutions in' the city. The educational standard of a university graduate is equal to the 10th class of the pre-war period,- and a student of 12th class is equal to the 7th class of the previous governments.
     The officer complained about the deteriorating conditions of security in the city. He said:-
     •"There is no security in the city where houses and shops are looted in daylight. Passengers are stopped i,n various parts of the city and deprived of their money and watches by security personnel. If the passengers refuse to pay money to the security personnel, they are arrested and branded as "extremists." The Kabul Airport road, which is controlled by the militiamen of Gelamjam, is not safe for traffic after 1p.m. The Jowzjani militiamen., who mainly
                            6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 guard the security, belt around the city, deprive passengers of their valuables upon entry to the city. Nobody dares move with over Afs. 1,000 in the city due to insecure conditions.
     "Conscription is again at its zenith on the city streets. Seventeen-year-old boys are captured for military service in various parts of the city. The exception is either for people who have reached the age of 40 or those who have completed military service twice in their life.
     According to the officer, various parts of the city come under ground-to-ground rocket attack from^Koh-e-Safi, Paghman, Shomali and Lalandar. The residents have dug underground tunnels in th'eir houses; they seek shelter in these tunnels j'when mujahideen rockets begin hitting a certain area of the city. The regime has launched a vast propaganda campaign against the mujahideen. This has caused fear among the residents who are mentally opposed to the presence of the regime. The maintenance of peace and establishment of an Islamic national government .in Afghanistan is the aspiration of the people in Kabul.
     When he was in Kabul, the officer said,
 Russian aircraft daily transfered arms and
 food supplies to Kabul. He said there was
 abundance of foodstuff in the city.
        ♦
     In this connection, he said that prices of consumer goods were lower than they were during the past months. He gave the following comparative price list:
                               7
No.' 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
I tern                April   August 
                      Af s .   Af s. 
Wheat Flour 7- 7 kgs. 1,300      800 
Rice        / 7 kgs.  3,000    2,600 
Rice(No.2)  / 7 kgs.  2,200    1,700 
Beans       / 7 kgs.  -        2,500 
Onions      / 7 kgs.  900        700 
Potatoes    / 7 kgs.  300        350 
Green Tea   /kg.      1,800    2,300 
Black Tea   /kg.      1,900    2,400 
Sugar       /kg.      300        300 
Mutton      /kg.      1,100    1,200 
Beef        /kg.      1,000    1,000 
Petrol      /galIon   -        2,500 
Diesel      /gallon   -        1,000 
Edible Oil  /cane     8,000    8,500 
Egg         /piece      25        40 
Soap        /piece               130 
               ***    *** ***        
                            8
            HISTORICAL MONUMENTS IN BAMYAN
        If immediate measures are not adopted for the preservation of Bamyan statues, parts, of the two main statues will collapse as a result of heavy rains and snowy water.
        This was stated by Dr. Abdul Wasi Najimi in an interview with AIC. Dr. Najimi serves with the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan's educational program. He recently returned from Saroyan to Peshawar.
       Dr. Najimi said he was very interested in preserving and visiting historical monuments. In "early 1990, he provided short-term training for a number of young Afghans, who had graduated from the Polytechnic Institute of Kabul. The students took special interest in the  training     in   order      to learn about
  architecture and archaeology. He accompanied his students on several Afghanistan visits to further     their    practical   knowledge    of
 archaeology. The visits were arranged by UNESCO.
      He said he was pleased when a U.N. program (Operation Salam) requested him to accompany its team to Afghanistan as representative of UNESCO.     UNESCO   asked him   to examine  the
historical monuments in Bamyan and submit his professional views to the agency.
                               9
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     He said that monuments of three periods could be found in Bamyan:   pre-Islamic, Islamic
 and 19th century periods. There are also Buddhist era monuments in Bamyan. Though the war has destroyed most of Afghanistan's historical monuments, the remnants of these monuments are still found in the country.
     Regarding repair of Bamyan monuments. Dr. Najimi said Bamyan was the 'scene of the severest fighting in 1988 which resulted in liberation of the province. Exchange of fire between Russian-Kabul troops and the mujahideen damaged the historical monuments around Bamyan prior to its occupation by the mujahideen in 1988 . When the war intensified in 1988, area residents, fearing bombardment and shelling, sought shelter inside the caves surrounding the statues and monuments of Bamyan. Russian-Kabul troops also used these caves as shelter during the past years of war in the country. These caves were valuable both for the mujahideen. and the Russian-Kabul troops in the area as sanctuary. The area also proved useful for local residents who built houses near these historical monuments to use the caves as shelter in case of bombardment. He opined that house-building in the area would create future problems.
     "The area of these monuments has^ transformed into private property," he added. "The soil of the land on which these monuments stand is useful for agriculture.              The
 agricultural use of this land will lead to its gradual destruction."
     When asked what measures had been adopted to prevent the land's destruction. Dr. Najimi said:
                          10
Tenth Year
August 1990
No. 113
     "We tried to raise the issue in one of the sessions of the Islamic Council of Bamyan. We asked the members of the Council to set up cultural committees for preservation of the monuments. Fortunately, they have been able to form such a committee of educated persons for the purpose. I am confident that this committee will effectively perform its function — the preservation and construction of the monuments — if it receives professional and financial assistance."
He added:
     "Prior to the war in the country, the government regularly dug drains around the big statues for the flow of snowy and 'rainy water. The system protected "r the statues from its destruction, because the water of hills did not damage the area around1* the statues. However, the drains have not beet** dug during the past several years of war in' the country. Hence, the flow of rainy and snowy water over the statues have erased the colourful painting on the upper parts of the statues. Even some statues are in .a state of collapse, because their ’ surrounding area has absorbed rainy water. If the engravings * and paintings collapse, it will be very difficult to stick them again on the statues. It will also be a difficult, task to install the statues after their collapse.
     According to Dr. Najimi, UNESCO has appointed two persons to prepare a report of all monuments in Afghanistan, especially Herat. The two persons have already submitted the report to UNESCO authorities.
11
No. 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
 The doctor said there was a UNESCO office in Kabul, but he did not know of that office's activities. He said he hoped UNESCO would urgently implement such programmes. However, he complained that UNESCO has always mentioned financial problems in its latest replies to his reports.
     He said that besides pre-Islam monuments, monuments of Ghaznavid, Ghori and Suri era were also seen in Bamyan.
     Regarding the conditions of people in the province, he said:
     "Generally. I found the situation very satisfactory in Bamyan. Foodstuff and* items of basic need were abundant in the town "of Bamyan. However, long winter, snowy season and rains usually damage crops in the provnce. The people should cultivate fast-growing seeds in the area."
     As the 12-year war has resulted in closure of highways and trade routes, the people of the province have left for neighbouring Iran in search of jobs and business, he said.          A
 limited number of Bamyan residents have sought refuge in Iran.
     About the presence of mines. Dr. Najimi said:
   > "During their presence in the province, the Russians planted mines around Bamyan airfield to protect themselves against mujahideen attacks on the field. The Russians had completely mined Shar-e-Ghulghula because they had established posts on the hills of the town'. 1
                                             1
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
The mines have killed several children following the Russian withdrawal from the province.  When we left the province, we came
to know that a mine clearing team had reached the area to clear mines in the town and fields of Shar-e-Ghulghula."
*** ***
***
13
           SITUATION IN THE SOUTH-WESTERN ZONE
     The AIC correspondent in Quetta visited different areas of Kandahar in mid-August. He also talked to various Afghans in Baluchistan. Here is his report:
     Fighting has almost subsided in Kandahar during the current year. The regime troops lead a life of siege in Kandahar; they are unable to launch offensives against the mujahideen in the province. On the other' hand, the mujahideen can attack regime positions in the province, if they feel necessary. Though there is no agreement .-between the two sides, clashes have automatically sgbsd^Jed in the province.
     The decrease in the fighting encouraged a number of Afghan refugees * in Baluchistan to leave for their native areas inside the country this year. The province of Kandahar^is fertile this year, because a large area of land was cultivated by the people.
     Internal clashes continue in some areas of the province, jeopardising the lives of civilians.
     On August 1, a clash occurred between the tribesmen of Noorzai and Achakzai in Spinboldak district. As a result, five people were killed and several injured. The wounded were admitted to hospitals in Quetta following the incident.
14
No. 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
     Besides, mines have killed and wounded several people when their vehicles hit mines on roads in the province. There are people in the liberated areas who commit anti-Islamic and anti-Jehadic acts for personal interests. The acts of these people have created problems for residents. In this regard, nine people were killed when commanders of all mujahideen organizations carried out an operation against several check-posts on the Kandahar-Spinboldak highway on August 2. The incident occurred when some occupants of the posts challenged the mujahideen decision to remove the posts on the highway. The occupants of the self-established check-posts reportedly took money and goods from poor people on the highway.
     Armed fighting has continued between Hazaras and Pashtuns in Uruzgan province for the past several months. The fighting has also spread to other provinces of the country. For instance, Hazara armed groups have captured the area of Dai Chopan from Pashtuns in Zabul.
     The effects of the fighting are also visible in Ghazni, where the mujahideen, who were planning to attack regime forces in Ghazni, instead had ■ an internal fight with Hazaras.
                               *
     According to reliable sources, the Kabul regime and some foreign countries are behind 'these anti-jehadic acts. These acts will pave the ground for the perpetuation of the Kabul regime.
                     *** * * * **♦
                         15
                   SITUATION IN K-iosT
     Khost has been under mujahideen siege for more than two years. Though the mujahideen could not fully tighten siege of the town, they were    able to liberate     some strategically
important areas, including Toraghara, in the main district.
     As compared to other parts of the country, there are still constant clashes around the town between the two sides.          Though   the
mujahideen shell enemy positions with rockets in the town, the residents suffer few losses due to their experience with the long siege. Residents regard the war as part of their daily life; they mostly use local tactics to protect their lives from the rocket attacks on the town, such as digging underground tunnels for their protection.
     Last year, general opinion was that the town would fall to the mujahideen after a heavy battle', but town residents say the fall would be a difficult one.
     The regime propagates to the residents that they (the residents) are fighting for a just cause in their area. The mujahideen are branded as weak fighters to the residents. The regime propaganda has impressed the local population to a great extent, though the life of the local people depends on warfare.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     The town receives' arms and ammunition by air despite precise mujahideen attacks on aircraft landing at Khost airfield.
     No changes have taken place in the party and government structure of Khost following the coup attempt of Shahnawaz Tanai in March. The regime arrested eight military officers in connection with the coup attempt, but some were released afterwards. The differences between the Khalqis and the Parcbamis continue on a lower scale, because the Khalqis expect a good future in opposing the coup attempt in March.
     Fighting intensified in Khost when the mujah deen captured four important posts near Khost airfield during the thirji week of August. In retaliation, the regime attacked the whole area with Scud missiles, recapturing two posts in the area and killing eight mujahids in the base of Zhaw^r (Commander Haqani).            The
intensity of the fighting has caused an increase in mujahideen losses.
     The issue of refugee repatriation is propagated as an important event by the regime in Khost. It says that the issue is part of international agreements.              Meanwhile,
mujahideen organizations demonstrated in Miranshah (the agency headquarters of North Waziristan Agency) against refugee repatriation to Afghanistan. Most demonstrators raised slogans for the continuation of jehad in the country.
                    *** *** ***
                                17
       INTERVIEW WITH TWO TRIBAL ELDERS Interview with Naim Kochai and Khan Kakozai
     The AIC published in. its July issue a short news item about the tribal council of Ahmadzai tribe.         In this issue, we have conducted an
interview with Haji Naim Kochai and Khan Kakozai, two well known elders and mujahideen commanders of Ahmadzai tribe, regarding the council and the revival of tribal ^movement in Afghanistan.
     Following is * the transcript of the interview with the two commanders:
Q. What is the basic purpose of the tribal council of Ahmadzai? ,
Naim: The formation of a national Islamic government in an independent-Afghanistan is the sole' goal of our nation. In this connection, each social and political group can follow any prominent path to achieve the goal. Ahmadzai is an Afghan tribe which is scattered in key parts of the country. The unity of the ^ribe may lead to the coonsolidation and coordination of jehad. We need          a unified  centre  to
maintain peace and security in the liberated areas. This centre may also help us solve the internal problems,of our people.
18
No. 113
Tenth Year
 .August 1990
 Khan: There was a dire need for unity during
 the. past twelve years of war in the country. Almighty Allah says we should all join our hands for the sake of unity. As our political circles did not perform the task, we decided to begin the process of unity from Ahmadzai tribe and spread it to other parts of the country.
 Q. How many elders are members of the Ahmadzai tribal council, and what is the number of armed mujahideen in the tribe?
 Naim:  The council is composed of. 105 elders.
 The council leads thousands of armed and unarmed people.
 Khan: The council is composed of tribal elders, mujahideen commanders and scholars. We cannot achieve? our goals without such social organization.
 Q. Has the tribal council of Ahmadzai established links with other tribes of Afghanistan? If so, has it faced any problem in the Pakistan refugee community?
 Naim:    We contacted neighbouring tribes to
 follow our example in forming tribal councils in their respective areas. In a very short period, we were also able to establish links with the tribes of south-western provinces to establish similar councils in their regions.
19
            AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
We have taken this initiative to solve the problems of our country.         The   mujahideen
organizations should not oppose our efforts in this respect, because they also want unity among the people.
Khan: We want that the whole Muslim nation should unite itself against the enemy. We will carry out our struggle to achieve the goal, whether someone is happy or sad.
Q. Do you think that your tribal council will have any effect oil the present Afghanistan situation?
Naim:  Similar  unions will  change  the  present
situation, if they are accepted practically throughout the country.
Q. What will be the; standpoint of your tribal council, if an Afghan settlement is- sought on the international level leading to establishment of an impartial government in the country?
Khan:   We  want  an Islamic government in
Afghanistan, and we will oppose anyone who does not realize this objective.
Naim:  Islam  is  the  religion  of  millions of
Afghans, and Afghanistan is the dwelling-place of all these people. Nobody enjoys the authority to identify himself as the representative of the whole nation.
                         20
No. 113
Tenth Year
                                               Auqust 1990
We will support any Muslim Afghan who follows the specific objectives of jehad and takes true steps for the formation of an independent Islamic government in the country.
Q. Will you participate in any jirgah that seeks a solution to the Afghan problem?
Naim:    We are the grandsons of brave
forefathers', natives of a heroic homeland and heirs of a rich history. If we seek Afghan and national ways to solve our problems, we can easily qvercome our difficulties. In fact, loya jirgah (grand assembly) has always solved our naional problems during our long history. We will fully support any attempt for convening similar jirgahs in the country.
Khan:   Our   initiative will facilitate the
convening of loya jirgah, if it is backed and followed by other tribes in the country.
Q. Do you think that a state of confusion will prevail over the country following the collapse of the regime in Kabul? What measures will you adopt in this respect?
          •
Khan:   The  tribes   have  their  own   laws for
particular conditions.         If    the   central
government collapses in the country, each tribe should send its competent eld-ers to the capital to supervise the central power of Afghanistan for a short period.
                         21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Q. Will you support someone who stages a coup and declares an Islamic government in Kabul?
Naim:  I must say that coups cannot solve the
Afghan issue, because such attempts can be waged by those people who enjoy powerful positions in the Kabul regime. Obviously, the hands of such people are red with the blood of the Afghan people. Hence, it will be treason with the aspirations of the Afghan martyrs to support such action. It will be a crime against the lofty objectives of jehad to back such elements. Without practical measures, a so-called Islamic government cannot serve the wishes of the Afghan people.'* A change of face cannot lead to restoration of peace in Afghanistan. I must add that ^oups have always brought sufferings and miseries to our people.
Khan: We can think about any solution which is acceptable to the Muslim people of Afghanistan. We back any settlement that leads to the restoration of peace in the country.
Q. You do not have any chief for your tribal council. What format will you follow to choose the chief?
Naim:  Representatives of  the tribal council of
Ahmadzai have been elected by their respected clans. The representative^ will then elect a chief for the council.'' We will also seek the consent of the whole tribe regarding the election of the chief by the council.
                        22
No. 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
Q. What kind of services have you rendered to your tribe? Have you received any kind of assistance?
Khan:  What we have is for the tribe. 'We have
not received assistance from any donors.
***
***
 ***
                      MILITARY NEWS
Badghis: Extensive Mujahideen O^er^i<o<
     On August 12, under the command of Capt. Ismail Khan, some 2,000 mujahids of Herat and Badghis carried out a joint operation against regime posts and installations around Qala-e-Nau, the provincial centre of Badghis.
     In the operation that continued- for two days, the mujahideen captured the bases of Qala-e-Chishma-e-Dozdak, Yahya Kr.an and Khomari, and captured about 400 kalashnikovs.
     On August 16, the mujahideen .launched another operation on the security posts around Qala-e-Nau, capturing several. They seized 1,200 light and heavy weapons, one tank in working order, two ,radio communication sets, seven medium mortars and three machine-guns. A unit of local militiamen joined the mujahidec...
     In these operations, the mujahideen were able to set up their positions at a distance of three kilometres from the provincial centre. The mujahideen asked regime troops to surrender to the mujahideen; around 700 regime soldiers and militiamen have' surrendered so far.
                       24
 Baghlan: Sayed Kayan's positions attacked
     Mohammad Asef, a commander of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in Baghlan, recently arrived in Peshawar.                He said that the
 mujahideen of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi), Mahaz (Pir Gailani), Jamiat (Prof. Rabani) and Itehad-e-Islami (Prof. Sayaf) recently carried out a joint operation against the bases and posts of Sayed Kayan (who support the Kabul regime) in the Kayan valley. The mujahideen captured three bases of Sayed Kayan supporters.
     The commander said the war has caused-v-great problems for the people of Tala and Ba'rfak districts. He saidprices of consumer goods are much higher than in past years.
 Balkh
     On July 31, the mujahideen attacked regime posts in Chim*-al district, killingnine regime troops and capturing 14 others. Three persons were killed and eight wounded on the mujahideen side.
 Kabul
     On August 2, the mujahideen carried out an .extensive* operation against            recently
 established posts in Paghman district. The mujahideen captured the posts of Seh Gunbad, Koti-e-SitarA and Takhtshah.
                                25
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Over 35 regime troops were killed and 13 others joined the mujahideen. Twenty-two mujahids were killed or wounded.
Ghazni
    On August 4, regime troops attacked the areas of Qala-e-Qazi, Qala-e-Hassan a,nd Qala-e-Adam Khan in the vicinity of Ghazni iV order to establish a five-kilometre security belt around the city. The mujahideen, however, resisted the regime forces, killing 20 soldiers and injuring 21 others. The regime troops did not succeed in establishing the belt.
                        *&*, *** ***
 Split in Iran-based Shia Mujahideen
     A 'it-! :     in    Iran-based    mujahideen
 organizations      became      visible      when
 representatives of Shura-e-Itefaq, Harakat-e-Islami, Sepah-e-Pasdaran and Jabha-e-Mutahid, announced, in an August 15 Peshawar press • conference, that they did not have any links with the newly established Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami (Islamic Unity Party). They said they transfered the headquarters of the eight-party Coalition to ’ Peshawar (Pakistan) from the Islamic Republic of Iran.
     Representatives of the four organizations said they could not join Hezb-e-Wahdat because it was composed of some criminal and unpopular elements. They said they would join the new party if the Iranian authorities appointed acceptable persons in the new party.
     Last year, the government of Iran sent a delegation to Afghanistan to unite Shia organizations in the country. The Iranian authorities sent this delegation to dissolve the eight-party Shia Coalition in Iran and found a strong party in the name of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami (Islamic Unity). The Iranian initiative received a positive response from some Shia organizations, but Harakat (Mohsini) and Shura-e-Itefaq avoided joining the newly established Hezb-e-Wahdat.
     In this way, the eight-party Coalition of the Iran-based, mujahideen organizations split into two parts, 1. e - Hezb-e-Whdat-e-Islami and
27
No. 113
Tenth Year
August 1990
the Coalition. The Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami is composed of the organizations of Nasr, Sepah, Dawat and Nohzat. The former Coalition is composed of Sfiura-e-Itefaq, Harakat-e-Islami Sepah-e-Pasdaran and Jabha-e-Mutahid. Hezbulla, the ninth organization of the former Coalition, has transfered its bases to Herat inside Afghanistan.
                     *** *** ***
                         28
            Sufism and the Modern World
       One cold winter, a Fool of God was walking naked among well-clad peocle in the frozen streets of Ghazni.
       ~ 0 Lord! he prayed, give me a thick warm robe and make me happy like Your other creatures.
         I have created a 'warm sun, came the Voice. Go and lie in its rays.
       -     0 Lord! said the Sufi, have You nothing better to offer?
       -     Go! answered the Voice, and wait ten days. A robe will be given you.
       At the end of the tenth day a very poor man came with a robe as his personal present. But it was patched together out of a hundred different pieces of worn-out. material.
       -0 my Almighty God! said the madman, did You need te-n days to patch all these rags together? Are all Your infinite treasuries exhausted, that You had to collect those old rags? And tell me, where did You learn such bad tailoring?
From the book
"Sufism In The Modern World" by Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh
*
*
*