^FGHAN
   jnformation
   Centre
              MONTHLY BULLETIN
Nos. 121-122 11th Year April - May 1991
Kunar - Asad Abad - April 20. 1991 Photo: AIC
 i
                        The aim$ of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
  1.    To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
  2.    To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, !
        tapes, photographs and films to:           ♦                    ;
 (a)
 (b)
International news media
Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
  i
  *
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.                       '
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in. any way its independence.
  Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription              Bank Account No. 1131354558001 
Institutions        : US$    100 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK         
Individuals         : US$    70  Grindlays Bank PLC             
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe      Peshawar - Pakistan            
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS ! MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.         |
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
            AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
   I               Monthly  Bulletin
   'i
  • i
   | Nos. 121 -122               April - May 1991
   CONTENTS:
   I PARIS CONFERENCE ON AFGHANISTAN
  . i
   j
   II. SPIES MEET IN GENEVA
   HI. POST-WAR SITUATION IN KHOST
       - Khost Commanders Shura Reject Geneva Deal
   IV MILITARY SITUATION
       - Logar
       - Kunar
       - Kandahar
       - Helmand
       - Herat
       - Mazar-e-Shari!
       - Takhar
       - Kunduz
       - Faryab
       - Baghlan
       - Ningarhar .
  1
  5
  8
22
23
23
25
29
31
31
32
35
36
37
37
41
***
***
***
          PARIS CONFERENCE ON AFGHANISTAN
       Naim Majrooh, Director of AIC, attended a one-day conference organized by Bureau Internationale d’Afghanistnan (BIA) in Paris on April 15.
       A number of Afghans and their international supporters, including delegates from the Soviet Union, the U.S. and the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), participated in the conference. The conference was, however, not attended by representatives of Pakistan, Iran and the Kabul-based National Salvation Committee of Prof. Mohammad Asghar. The absence of these delegates reduced the significance of the conference to some extent.
       The speakers mainly talked about the following issues:
 1.    The impact of the fall of Khost on the resistance and the Kabul regime.
 2.    The impact of the Gulf crisis on the Afghan issue.
 3.    A political or military settlement of the Afghan issue.
 4.    General situation in Afghanistan
       The Director of the AIC was the first speaker of the conference who talked in detail about the above points.
       The organizers of the conference hosted a dinner in honour of the participants. Among the Afghans guests,
                                1
Nos. 121-122
11th Year
April - May 1991
 Humayun Asifi (a former diplomat who lives in Paris), Dr. Jalil Shams (an Afghan business in Switzerland), Dr. Sayed Makhdoom Rahin (representative of ANLF in Iran), etc. made these suggestions:
        A limited number of Afghan intellectuals should offer some sacrifices in order to seek a way of salvation for Afghanistan. They should form a coalition government with Najib. Najib should resign from his post after one or one and half years and let these persons run the affairs of the government for a transitional period. This interim set-up will pave the ground for holding elections and ensuring peace in Afghanistan. However, a ceasefire should take place and the refugees    should return    to the           homeland prior to the
 establishment of such a set-up.
        The suggestions of these Afghans received mixed reaction from other participants. In this connection, the AIC director said:
        "I  think that the   Afghan       intellectuals enjoyed few
 opportunities to actively participate in the Afghan struggle during the long years of the war. As a result, their active participation remained weak politically and socially. This strata of   the society has  been not able to form a strong
 unified centre. For example, a few intellectuals will not only represent   the intellectual strata of    the society, but will  be
 also unable to attract the full support of other strata of the society, such as commanders and elders.
        "Besides, such a move, without international guarantees, may serve the strategic interests of KHAD and legitimise the regime of Najib. It will also cause a blow to
                                  2
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
       the political future of those intellectuals who have played an active role in the jehad. So, it will cause a blow to the reconstruction process of future Afghanistan. We still enjoy proper opportunities, because the commanders, tribal elders and finally the nation want to form a joint council with the educated strata of Afghanistan regarding a positive solution in the interests of the country."
       "If a smal group of Afghans (the Kabul-based Salvation Commitee) is invited for participation in the conference, why these intellectuals cannot dare establish themselves amongst their victimised compatriots.
       "The proposals made no indication to the role of Zahir Shah, former monarch of Afghanistan. Some parties involved may favour such a weak government in Afghanistan due to their opposition to Zahir Shah."
       Finally, the suggestions were found baseless, because it was influenced by the recent political campaign of the Kabul regime in Europe.
       According to an information of the AIC, a delegation of the same persons visited Peshawar recently and held iscussions with, the leaders of three moderate mujahideen organizations. The leaders told the delegation that the Soviets should guarantee Najib’s resignation after a short period. They also told the delegation that the proposals should receive the approval of the former king.
       Leaders of the Peshawar-based moderate organisations also seem to be engaged in efforts for finding a political solution to the Afghan issue.
                                    3
Nos. 121-122
 lllh Year
April - May 1991
      The recent announcement by the U.S. government regarding its intention to discontinue assitance to the Afghan mujahideen in 1992 has further drovn the mujahideen towards a political realism.
      Wide contacts are underway covertly and overtly regarding a political solution of the Afghan issue. We will publish a report on these developments in our future issue.
      The Editor
                                                      * * * * # *
          SPIES MEET IN GENEVA
        According to rumours from Europe, a high ranking delegation of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) led by Gen. Durrani met Gen. Yaqubi, regime’s minister of national security (WAD) and members of his entourage in Geneva on April 13.
        The meeting was held at Geneva Intercontinental Hotel. It was attended by by Gen. Durrani (chief of ISI), Janjua (ISI), Ahmad Gul (ISI) and Qazi Hussain Ahmad, leader of Jumat Islami Pakistan on behalf of Pakistan. The Afghan delegation was represented by Gen. Yaqubi, minister of national security (WAD), Gen. Ishaq Tokhi, advisor to Najib and Firdaus Khan Momand, an elder of Momand tribe.
       When the first session of the meeting began between the two sides, the Pakistani delegation indicated that it wanted to discuss the issue of POWs. The Pakistani side, without making any reference to the subject of the meeting with the Kabul regime, expressed desire to see the POWs prior to the meeting. The Kabul regime thought that the Pakistani side might discuss the issue of Pashtunistan.
       During the session, Gen. Durrani proposed that his government was prepared to recognise the government of Najibullah, expel the organizations of Jabha (Mujadeddi), Mahaz (Gailani), Harakat (Mohammadi) and Jamiat (Rabani) from the territory of Pakistan and send the refugees to Afghanistan, provided the Kabul regime formed a coalition
                                           5
Nos 121-122
lltlx Year
April - May 1991
       government with the organizations of Hezb (Hekmatyar), Hezb (Khales) and Itehad (Sayaf). The proposal was, however, rejected by Gen. Yaqubi who argued that his governmentcould not     make a deal with          only  three
 organizations, because all organisations based in Iran and Pakistan had fought against them. The Afghan delegation argued that all these organization were armed and enjoyed military capability. The Afghan delegation proposed that it would keep the issueunder consideration, if all the organizations were prepared for such a decision.
       The Pakistani    side also proposed        that   Hezb
 (Hekmatyar), Hezb (Khales)and Itehad (Sayaf) should form a government in Khost, which, and the Kabul regime should promise that it would not carry out air bombardment and Scud attacks on the establishments of the government. In response, the Pakistani side would guarantee an end to rocket attacks on Kabul, Jalalabad and Gardez. This was also rejected by the Kabul side.
       Also, the Pakistani side proposed that a government
 could be formed by the above three organic ‘‘ms, if the first
 proposal was not acceptable to the Kabul side. This
 government, the Pakistani side, argued could begin talks with
 Najib and reach an agreement. The Kabul side rejected the
 proposal and said that it would not allow anybody to form a
 government on any part of Afghanistan. The Kabul side said
 that such a government would be brought under air
 bombardment and Scud attacks.
              •
       At the end of the meeting, which continued till May 19, the two sides declared their readiness for continuing their negotiations.
                                           6
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
        Gen. Yaqubi reportedly said later on:
        "The government of Pakistan wanted to hold discussions with us for the past four months. They found the opportunity upon the fall of Khost. When we were ready for discussions, Geneva was appointed as the site of negotiations. We thought that Pakistan would have some new proposals, but we felt at the beginning of the meeting that they (Pakistani delegation) had arrived        their without any
 preparation. The members of the Pakistani delegation looked at each other, and this showed that they were not ready."
        The meeting caused large hues and cries among the political circles of the mujahideen.
        In one of his interviews following his recent - resignation from the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), Maulawi Khales said, " I feel that a deal is underway on Afghanisntan."
        Hekmatyar rejected any meeting of Pakistan with the Kabul regime in Geneva.
        There are confirmed reports that the two sides met in Geneva, but details of the meeting were not known.
                                          ** «« **
7 "
             POST-WAR SITUATION IN KHOST
       The fall of Khost was a big victory for the mujahideen in their military life. Compared to a military victory, it was a major political victory for the mujahideen, because Khost was a political and party stronghold of the Kabul regime.
       Zarghun Shah, AIC correspondent, visited Khost on the twelfth day of its fall to the mujahideen. He gave the following account of the situation in Khost:
       Direct confrontation had ended in Khost when I reached the town on the twelfth days of its fall. Everything, whether living or dead, told its own story in its own language in the town.
       In fact, it is the professional duty of journalists to give a true coverage to the miseries of Khost. However, it is difficult, even impossible, to paint a true picture of an area which comes under the fire of two hostile warring forces.
       Besides, there is another serious problem in Afghanistan. When the mujahideen or the regime captures an area, an Afghan journalist cannot collect and publish all facts about the situatiQn in an area. In other words, he cannot perform his professional duty well under such circumstances.
       Therefore, I draw the attention of the readers to the following points of the situation in Khost:
                               8
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -    Bulletin
       During the 16-day fighting in Khost, between 183 and 200 mujahids were killed and from 400 to 600 wounded. On the Kabul side, around 170 were killed and between 600 and 800 were injured. Four mujahideen tanks were destroyed, but the regime lost 36 tanks, nine aircraft, 800 light and heavy weapons and a large quantity of ammunition and foodstuffs to the mujahideen.
       As a whole, the mujahideen captured 2,100 regime troops, including seven generals, 16 colonels and 164 other officers. The regime also lost a large of local militiamen and civil employees who were allowed by the mujahideen to leave the areaalong with their families.
       For the first time in the Afghan jehad, the mujahideen did not kill any POWs in Khost. The mujahideen treated well some 1,500 prisoners. They kept them as guests, and invited delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to visit and register them.
       The area of Khost can be divided into two parts.
       The central part of the town comprises military, economic and government offices and establishments. The buildings of this part of the town were marked with holes of bullets and shells. I saw walls of many buildings which had suffered damage in mujahideen rocket attacks.
       I did not see any office equipment in the town. (On my way to Khost, I had seen eighteen heavy trucks loaded with office equipment in the area of Ghulam Khan, a village on the Afghan-Pakistan border. The vehicles were apparently transferring office equipment from the town to Pakistan.) I
                                9
Nos. 121 - 122
 11th Year
April - May 1991
       saw damaged office equipment on various streets in the town.
       I saw the wreckage of 54 aircraft, including three helicopters, at the new and old airbases in Khost. I also heard about a trader who had paid Rs.            20,000 for the
 wreckage of an aircraft lying in the vicinity of the town.
       I observed full secure conditions in Khost, because I did not see any unarmed man in the town.
       There is an orchard of almond trees in Khost, but I saw many destroyed       trees there. This had   diminished the
 beauty of the town.       The destruction had  transformed the
 spring of these trees and plants into a sad autumn.
       I met young men, mostly students of religious madrassas, on the streets of the town. Most of these students, who were between the ages of 18 and 20, had worn caps of the Afghan army officers. They also bore medals and insignia of the regime forces on their shoulders and chest. When I asked Juma          Din (a Mangal tribeman) about    the
 reason for wearing the cap of a regime army general, he. said that he had worn the cap as a sign of heroism. He said that he was proud of the victory.
       There was a commercial market in Khost. There were hospitals, scholls, airbases, nurseries, kindergartens, military bases, a cinema,' a radio station, a bank, etc. The Afghan governments had built Khost according to a modern master plan.
                            10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       The mujahideen guarded important points, such as Takhtabeg, Komanadani (central command), new airbase, old airbase and Khost workshops.
       Most of tee points of the town were controlled by the mujahideen of Commander Haqani. In addition, men of Mahaz (Gailani) and Hazb. .(Hekmatyar) enjoyed secondary position in their control over the town.
       On April 15, six mujahideen councils held a meeting in Khost. The participants of the meeting decided that a Shura (council) should be formed for the administration of Khost. The contents the decision were, however, not known.
       The second part of the town comprised houses located adjacent to the town. Most of the civilians, who supported the regime, lived in these houses. These houses have also faced the fate of Asadabad (Kunar), Kunduz and the agricultural projects of Ningrahar.
       I saw hundreds of houses which, except, their muddy walls, lacked any residential characteristics. This site presented the picture of a graveyard. There were no living beings in these houses. Only I saw three hens on the walls of these houses. Most of the residents of the houses had left for Miranshah (North Wazlristan Agency), Khardand (Kurram Agency) and Tanai (south-west of Khost). Anyhow, I saw only mujahideen in Khost.
       Most of the central players of the Khost game had moved towards Miranshah during the last days of Ramazan. The regime fired Scud rockets on the town.
                            11
Nos. 121-122
11th
April - May 1991
        I left the town in the company of four mujahids and reached the bank of River Shamal, south of Khost. I saw many people who were waiting there for their turn to cross the river by heavy trucks. An old man said that a number of children and women were drowned during the past several days, he said. Also, many mujahids lost their rifles when they were crossing the river. Many persons were drowned in the river during the fighting in Khost.
        We experienced heavy rains when we reached Miranshah. ( We saw over-flowing drains in every nook and corner of Miranshah.) I saw some fifty tents in the desert beside the well-built offices of Commander Haqani located inside Pakistani territory between the border villages of of Ghulam Khan and Saidgi. My mujahid companions told me that the new tents belonged to the Hindus who had arrived from Khost after its fall to the mujahideen.
        We moved to the tents and met a number of Hindus there. A 60-year Hindu, Bhagwan Singh, said:
        "We lost eveiything. We reached here only with our clothes. We do. not have any food or household items. We received the tents fromrefugees upon our arrival. There were seventy-two families in Khost; fifty-eight moved to Miranshah and the rest to Khardand. Jowzjani militiamen plundered valuables in our temple in Khost. I do not know what happened later on. I wish to return to my homeland. The non-Hindu refugees have relatives here to help each other, but we do not have any relatives or friends here."
        We then moved to the new camp located at a distance of one and half kilometers from the tents of
                             12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Hindus. Most of the residents did not have tents for their families. There were 210 families in the camp where each family lived under a signle tent.
       A 58-year woman, who came from the area of Lakan (east of Khost), said that she had lost her husband three and half years ago in the war. She said:
       "War is   a misery. My husband,      Aza Khan, was a
farmer. I had two sons, three daughters, four grandsons and two   daughters-in-law-sons.    I have not  received   any news
about my sons for the past twenty days. My daughters-in-law and   grandsons  are still    wfth me. You  should     make any
announcement through a radio station, so that my sons, if they are alive, contact us."
       She did not want to say something about the situation in Khost during its fall to the mujahideen. She was, however, worried about her two grandsons suffering from pneumonia. They were lying on the ground without any household items.
       I talked  to five     people in the  camp.     They were
concerned about the fate of their near and dear ones. They did not take interest in any discussion, because the life was tiring for them.
       I also witnessed the same condition among other refugees who lived with their relatives in the camp of Machas, east of Miranshah. When I asked an old man about his problem, he became angry and said, "My problem is none of your business."
                             13
Nos. 121-122
11th Year
April - May 1991
       I met some 430 civil and military officers at the well built madrassa of Commander Haqani in Miranshah. Between 12 and 15 persons had been accommodated in each room of the madrassa. The Kabul officials expressed satisfaction over the treatment they received from the mujahideen, but most of them were worried about the fate of their families.
       In another part of the madrassa, I saw some 1,100 regime soldiers and Jowzjani militiamen, between the ages of 16 and 20. They seemed to be psychologically strong. I also met twenty-eight regime prisoners who had been imprisoned in Khost on charges of their cooperation with the mujahideen. They were happy, because they were going to be released very soon.
       The deserted streets of Khost and the refugees camps in Miranshah created several questions in my mind. In order to find answers to the questions, I preferred to talk to former regime officials and a mujahideen commander.
       On the first day of Eid, I met Col. Gen. Mohammad Zahir Solamal, deputy minister of defence, Maj. Gen. Ghulam Mustafa, chief of the political affairs of the armed forces, Maj. Geri. Mohammad Qasim, commander of artillery of Gard-e-Khas (special guards),Maj. Mohammad Azam, a commander of air force, Lt. Gen. Gul Aqa, commander of the Twenty-fifth Division (Khost), Lt. Gen. Shirin, commander of militia units in Khost and thirteen colonels in a stronghold of Commander Haqani. Here are the questions and the answers:
       Q: What was the reason for the fall of Khost?
14
AFGHAN INFORMATION        -   Bulletin
      COMMANDER HAQANI:            We   have carried out
 several attacks on Khost in order to narrow down the area of regime activity, but we decided this time to capture the town. We have always tried to diminish the losses of civilians and those of ours, and I am happy to say that it happened according to our wishes.
      For the first  time we used eight T-55 tanks    in the
 battle of Khost. Between 1,600 and 2,000 mujahideen took part in the fighting; I commanded 1,400 mujahideen in the offensive. Also, gradual decrease in the air activity of the regime enabled the mujahideen to move close to the regime units in the town.
      COL. GEN. MOHAMMAD ZAHIR SOLAMAL: War has defeat and victory. Government units based in Khost were very strong, but loss of air connection with Kabul and shortage of heavy weapons and ammunition were the main factors for the fall of the town. In addition, local militia
 units paid their attention to their houses instead of security posts inside the town. This led to the fall of the town.
      Question: Is   the talk of the fifth column     in the
 government forces correct?
      HAQANI: It     is wrong to say that regime forces in
 Khost wanted the mujahideen to capture the town. Khost was captured by the mujahideen. The residents of Khost had become tired of the Kabul regime.
      LT. GEN. GUL AQA: Though talks had continued between the mujahideen and high ranking regime officials for a long time, nobody could play the role of fifth column in
 Nos. 121-122
11th
April-May 1991
 the battle.
        Question: There are reports of an involvement of Pakistani troops in   the battle of Khost.      What  do you say
 about such reports?
        HAQANI: These claims are made by the Kabul regime in order to cover its defeat. The Afghan mujahideen do not want to liberate their people from the clutches of the Russians and hand them over to others.
        Question: What will be the fate of the PO’Vs?
        HAQANI: The International Committee ■ of the Red Cross       (ICRC) has already visited   the  people  imprisoned
 during  the battle of  Khost. They are well treated like Afghan
 guests.   If somebody  wants to bring   and  end to his support
 for the regime, he will be released.
        MAJ GEN. MOHAMMAD QASIM: Certainly, we are treated like respectable guests here. We enjoy all facilities, including radio sets and annewspapers. We can live together and visit each other.
        MAJ GEN. MUSTAFA: We were with our firends in Khost; we are also with our friends here.
        Question: Some high ranking political personalities say that high rankihg regime officials should be tried in courts. What do you say about this?
        HAQANI:        The         Peshawar-based     mujahideen
 organizations has nothing to do with this matter. It is related
                                     16
AFGK/iN INFORMATION          Bulletin
 to those commanders who are involved in their jehad inside the battlefied. We have declared amnesty to them. It is a sin in Islam to break a promise of- amnesty. It is also contrary to our Afghan customs to torture a guest or prisoner psychologically or physically.
        Qeustion: Have you extended any kind of assitance to the civilians of Khost?
        HAQANI: Prior to our last and decisive offensive against Khost, we advised the residents to evacuate the town. We also informed them that they could take their light weapons with them on their way to safe places. We transferred the children and women of regime supporters to safe places through our vehicles. We also hired other vehicles for this purpose. They have received basic amenities.
        Question: There are rumours that pressure is exerted on you to try the generals and other high ranking officials in courts or hand them over to someone else. What do you say in this regard?
        HAQANI: There is no considerable pressure in this regard. The Afghan jehad has reached the stage of its perfection and victory. If an amnesty is declared to somebody, a maltreatment will be contrary to our social behaviours. Nobody else has the right to decide upon their fate.
        COL. GEN. MOHAMMAD ZAHIR SOLAMAL: We believe that the life and death of an Afghan general or officer is not a significant issue. However, under our specific conditions ways should be sought which lead to peace and
17
Nos. 121-122
11th
April-May 1991
 tranquility in Afghanistan. We are ready to play a constructive role in this regard.
        Question: Property of civilians, including Hindus, was plundered in Khost. Why did it happen?
        HAQANI: It is not correct to say that all belongings of people were plundered in Khost. Some people plundered the civilians in the garb of mujahideen in some places. These people had been sent there for this treacherous act to discredit the mujahidneen politically.
        Ids a matter of profound regret that the Khost offensive was started by 2,000 mujahideen, but the number exceeded 10,000 upon entry to the town.
        I am highly concerned about the maltreatment of Hindu property and temple, but I have directed relevant committees to solve the problems of Hindus seriously.
        Question: Besides the continuation of the Afghan jehad, what is your plan for ensuring peace ip Afghanistan and solving the Afghan issue?
        HAQANI: The Afghan issue is a grave problem. When we initiated the formation of the Nationwide Shoora of Mujahideen Commanders, we wanted to form a powerful organ for the country. We believe that a collapse of the Najib regime is the first step towards solving the Afghan issue politically. The following principles should be respected in order to achieve the objective:
                             18
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -    Bulletin
 1.    A grand nationwide     shoora  (council) of well known
       mujahideen commanders, unprejudiced people amongst the organizations, tribal elders, intellectuals of Afghan jehad and opponent of the Soviet invasion inside the country should be formed.
 2.    The shoora should       form  an elected or selected
       commission to run the country for an interim period.
 3.    Foreign interference   should  be stopped prior to the
       above process.
 4.    Finally, it is upto the Afghan • nation to decide upon the formation of their future Islamic government.
       Question: What is your answer to the above question, generals?
       COL. GEN. MOHAMMAD ZAHIR SOLAMAL: If the mujahideen and the Kabul government jointly work on the plan, it will, I believe, bring the two sides closer. Die Afghan people want peace now.
       MAJ. GEN. MUSTAFA: Negotiations is the only way to bring an end to the Afghan war. The war will continue in the country unless all the parties involved resort to tolerance.
       MAJ. GEN. MOHAMMAD QASIM: I consider the above plan as a reasonable step.
       LT. GEN. GUL AQA: We need persons who can take step in this direction.
       Question: Can we call the Afghan armed forces as pne-party army?
                            19
Nos. 121-122
11th Year
April-May 1991
       MAJ. GEN. MUSTAFA: Yes, it is a party army to some extent, but an army cannot be called as a party army.
       Question: If a political solution is sought and the high ranking officers of the armed forces leaves the battlefield for some time, will the remaining army respect the principles of a new government in the country?
       LT. GEN. MUSTAFA:            It depends upon the
 mechanism of the political solution.
       Question: Will the fall of Khost renew the process of the structure and formation of the Afghan armed forces?
       MAJ. GEN. MOHAMMAD QASIM: The armed forces has its own accountability after each failure. However, success is basically difficult until the army does enjoy the support of local people. The Afghan armed forces should try to seek the support of the people on an Islamic and national basis.
       Question: As a commander of the 25th Regiment of Khost, what is your argument for the fall of Khost?
       LT. GEN. GUL AQA: The answer to this question is very difficult, but local charateristics can be considered as an important factor for the fall. Also, unpleasant weather, indifference of local militiamen to their duties, etc. led to the fall of the town.
              •
       Question: Are you happy over the treatment given to you here?
                           20
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -    Bulletin
       COL. GEN. SOLAMAL: The mujahideen took my machinegun when I met a group commander of Commander Haqani at a base in Saroobi. Since then, we have been treated well on the basis of humanitarian principles. We feel ourselves ds honourable guests in the guest-house of a Pashtun mujahid. This treatment is amazing.
       Question: Why did the government loose the town of
 Khost?
       COL. GEN. SOLAMAL: As a deputy minister of defence, it is difficult for me to talk about the subject in detail. I arrived in Khost four days prior to its fall.
       Question:   Gen.   Shahnawaz  Tanai,   former  defence
 minister, waged an abortive coup attempt on March 6, 1989. What was the impact of the incident on the army?
       COL. GEN. SOLAMAL:               Those   persons   are
 accountable to the people who occupies key posts. I opine that the Afghan issue cannot be solved by changes pf people. It needs a national formula. If the people do not accept Najib, how can they accept Tanai?
       The attempt did not envisage any collapse of the government. It only contained dislikes of some people and reflections of serious sentiments. The armed forces brought the situation under full control within eighteen hours. At present, there are no signs of the impact on the important sections of the army.
                          21
Nos. 121-122
11th Year
April- May 1991
 Khost Commanders Shura Reject Geneva Deal
        Following reported talks between Kabul and Pakistani authorities on an exchange of Khost POWs in Geneva, the commanders shurra of Khost issued this communique:
        Following the fall of Khost, international efforts are underway to find a political settlement of the Afghan issue and give a political prestige to the regime of Najibullah. The battle of Khost showed that Najibullah did. not enjoy any power, so he should be removed from the scene.
        It is observed with regret that a number of unathorised elements have launched diplomatic efforts regarding the POWs captured during the battle of Khost. The commanders of Khost are responsible for the affairs of the area, and nobody else has the right to interfere in this respect.
        The POWs were treated well according to international principles and rules. Though they were criminals and needed trials,, they were welcomed as quests without causing any damage to their lives and property. In this connection, we invite international organizations to visit and interview some 5,000 POWS (including generals).
        Once again we declare that POWs are like guests with the mujahideen. Though they are loyal friends of Najib and have not surrenderd to the mujahideen under any agreement, they are exempted from trials. However, their future, release and trial depends upon the reaction of the Najib regime and the Russians.
                                    ** . «* «»
                            22
         MILITARY SITUATION
       Logar
       Regime forces capture Lashkar-e-Isar
       On April 22, regime forces began an overall offensive on mujahideen positions in the area of Tangi Waghjan.
       On April 24, regime forces captured Lashkar-e-Isar (force of sacrifice), the main base of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in Logar, brining the route of Tangi Waghjan under its control. The route had been under the control of the mujahideen for a long time when it was opened for traffic by the regime recently.
       Lashkar-e-Isar was a well equipped base of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in Logar. Between 1,200 and 2,000 armed mujahideen were employed for the base upon its establishment in the area. The base was equipped with many light and heavy weapons. There were huge quantities of ammunition at the base. The base provided several training facilities in various kinds of military - affairs to the mujahideen. Also, volunteer mujahideen from Muslim countries received training to the Afghan cause.
       The base was militarily important, because it was located near the southern outskirts of Kabul. Its close location to the capital enable the mujahideen to carry out
                            23
Nos. 121-122
11th
April - May 1991
 attacks on the capital and retreat soon to the base.
         According to some mujahideen sources, armed men of five mujahideen organizations did not play any active role in resisting the regime offensive. Itehad-e-Islami (Sayaf) and Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) were the only organizations which resisted the regime offensive.
         Between 4,000 and 6,000 Jowzjani militiamen and troops of the ministries of defence, interior and national security (WAD), backed by air and ground guns, took part in the offensive. The offensive was commanded by Gen. Mohammad Nabi Azimi, deputy defence minister. Col. Gen. Azim Zormatai and Col. Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostam. The operations were led by Gen Immamuddin.
         A mujahid, who has arrived from the battlefront, said that air force played a pivotal role in the offensive. Regime aircraft bombarded mujahideen positions until the chains of regime tanks touched the ground of the positions.
         Some mujahideen, who did not want to surrender to the regime side, resisted regime forces till their last breath. Some lost their lives by jumping into flooded River of Logar to avoid a capture by the regime side. Neverthless, some mujahideen were captured alive.
         On the fourth day of the offensive, the regime-run Bakhtar News Agency claimed that some Pakistanis and Arabs were captured. The agency described the offensive as a great victory for the armed forces, ft also called the victory as a revenge for the fall of Khost.
                             24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Some reports say that differences developped between commanders of Hezb-e-Islami and Shahnawaz Tanai. There were rumours last year that some Hezb commanders had strongly opposed the nomination of Tanai as chief of the base. Itis also believed that some regime agents established links with regime forces and invited them to attack the base.
       The capture of Lashkar-e-Isar will not only enable the regime side to enjoy control over the Kabul-Gardez highway and Tangi Waghjan, but will also create difficulties for the mujahideen to move on their supply routes, especially in the desert of Baboos.
       The Kabul regime has given the awards of king Amanullah to its four generals as a reward for their successful role in the offensive. Three generals have been promoted to a higher rank, while nine colonels have been promoted to the rank of major-general. Some 400 soldiers and officers have received promotionsalong with rewards.
       Some one hundred mujahideen were reportedly killed or wounded. Regime forces captured a large amount of heavy weapons. Losses on the regime side were not known.
       Following the completion of the offensive, regime forces moved towards Gardez, the provincial centre of Paktia.
      Kunar
      Explosion kill 1.000 in Asadabad
      Some 1,000 people were killed or wounded in an
                           25
Nos. 121-122
11th
April - May 1991
 explosion which rocked the town of Asadabad (provincial centre of Kunar) on April 20 at 5:30 p.m.
        Some eye-witnesses gave the following account of the incident during a visit of an AIC correspondent to Asadabad (Chaghasarai):
        One witness said that he was standing at a distance of 400 metres from the site of the incident when a large flame of fire rose from the building of Dawat Hotel, formerly known as Asadabad Hotel, along with a heavy sound. The explosion destroyed an area of 200 metres on every direction. It destroyed 140 houses and shops, four oil storages and three vehicles in the area.
        There were shops, including three arms and ammunition shops, on the ground floor of the building. The first floor was the headquarters of the police section                           of
 Salafis led by Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman. The second floor was   kept for                      guests. There were      reportedly 36 sacks of.
 explosives in one of the shops on the ground floor.
        Afghan mujahideen organizations described the incident as a Scud attack by the Kabul regime initially. They said that  the attack                     was launched with a Russian-made Ballistic
 missile.
        Very fe*v people said that they had heard the sound of a Scud missile. .
        Another                     person said that a       Hino truck stopped  in
 front of the building of the hotel at 5:00 p.m. He said that there were no traces of the vehicle following the explosion.
                                           ■26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Radio Kabul described the explosion as a byproduct of intra-mujahideen conflicts. The number of deaths was higher than 400, because many persons succumbed to their injuries either in hospitals or on their way to hospitals.
       Dead bodies of 270 persons, including Arabs, were buried at first.
       Some people said that 63 Pakistani travellers were also killed in the incident. The Pakistanis, who had arrived in the area from Chitral and Peshawar, were staying at the hotel when the unfortunate incident happened. Most of the residents of Chitral has been using the route of Asadabad for the past two years due to transport problems on the Chitral-Peshawar road via Lowari pass.
       The mujahideen of Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman suffered heavy casualties in the incident. The explosion also killed civilians.
       Smoke was still rising from some dead bodies when the AJC reporter saw them 36 hours after the incident. He saw bones of burnt children and women.
       The heat of the explosion was so strong that it melted metal goods a. a distance of 200 metres. This indicated that Scud (which has a destructive impact effect) did not cause theexplqsion.
       Three persons were killed and several injured when a clash occurred between the supporters of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatryar) and Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman. in the area of Salarbagh near the provincial centre of Kunar on May 19.
                                     27
Nos. 121-122
11th
April-May 1991
       The clash occurred when mujahideen of Hezb captured a base of Hezb (Khales) in the area. The mujahideen of Hezb (Khales) sought the help of the mujahideen of Mauilawi Jamil-u-Rahaman who could not convince the men to Hezb to abandon the base. During the same night, Hezb men opened fire on a patrol vehicle of Maulawi Jamil-ul-Rahman, killing three persons and wounding two others.
       Hayatullah Khan, a liaison officer of Salafis, said that six positions of Hezb (Hekmatyar) surrendered to the Salafis along with their weapons..
       He said that Hezb men blocked the road in the district of Sarkani and opened fire on the personnel of Salafis.
       Also, he said that Eng. Ghaffar, a commander of Hezb (Hekmatyar), opened fire on Commander Abdul Rauf Khan of Salafis in the area of Kjiiwa on May 23. The losses were however not known. A delegation has been assigned the task in Peshawar to interrogate the matter. The delegation is composed of. Eng. Ahmad • Shah (deputy leader of Itehad-e-Islami), an Arab (Abu Ibrahim, brotherof the late Abdullah Izam who died in a car explosion in Peshawar) and a Pakistani (Shabir Ahmad, provincial chief of Jumat Islami Pakistan in the North-Western Frontier Province).
       Hayatullah said that mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar). attacked the headquarters of the Islamic emirate of Kunar in Asadabad with heavy guns and rockets. As a result, one person was killed and seven wounded. The incident occurred during the presence of the delegation in the town on May 23.
                                     28
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
       He said that Hezb men also attacked the district headquarters of the emirate in Sarkani. In retaliatiion, emirate troops encircled the base of Hezb in the district and captured it with all its heavy arms.
       On May 24, Hezb men fired rockets from their positions, on Nawa Pass on the Afghan-Pakistani border at the positions of the emirate in Sarkani, Narang and Asadabad. One person was killed and two were wounded in the area of Sarkani.
       Hayatullah said that the emirate troops captured the pass at 2:00 p.m. on May 25.
       He said that the situation was calm in Kunar where Hezb had only one base in the valley of Shegal (Asmar district). He also said that Hezb sent some 1,300 men from various places in Pakistan to the area under the command of Kashmir Khan, Maulawi Hashem and Eng. Wahidullah to strengthen its position in the province. However, the reinforcements could not prove useful for Hezb.
       He added that Maulawi Faqirullah, the provincial chief of Hezb in Kunar, and Haji Ghafoor, an influential figure of Hezb in the province, declared their allegiance to the Islamic emirate of Kunar.
       When the first confrontation took place in the province, some NGOs were able to shift their offices to Pakistan. Some other organizations are however concerned about the uncertain situation in the province. They may suspend their acticity in the province until the situation is normalised there.
2$
 Nos. 121-122
11th
April - May 1991
       Kandahar
       Mujahideen launch attacks on Kandahar
       According to a telephonic call from our correspondent in Quetta, some mujahideen organizations began an operation on the city of Kandahar on May 15. The mujahideen used heavy weapons in their attack on the Kandahar airbase and Qishla-e-Jadid (new fort).
       On May 16, some dissident members of the Khalq faction, including Gul Mohammad Khan (chief of Khad), through their connections with the mujahideen, moved their tanks to each gate of the city in order to surrender to the mujahideen. However, regime forces knew about the plan and stopped the movement of the tanks.
       Regime aircraft strongly bombarded mujahideen postions and caused damaged to the frontline positions in three directions of the city.
       A bomb killed ten persons and injured many others at a mujahideen position in the district of Danad, known as Mishkozai.
       On May 22, Haji Miohammad Ali, chief of a donating agency in Quetta, in a telephonic call, informd AIC that hundereds of shopkeepers, elders and other people of Knadhar proceeded to the area of Silo and held a joint jirgah with the mujahideen. They told the mujahideen that their rocket attacks on the city had caused the killing of innocent people.
                                    30
AFGH/IN INFORMATION      -    Bulletin
       There are rumuours in the refugee camps of Baluchistan that Pakistan wants to transfer Khaqa Sharif to Pakistan from Kandahar. Mujahideen say that is the part of the regime’s propaganda against the mujahideen and Pakistan.
       On April 28, in a telephone call, our correspondent in Quetta said that twinty two mujahideen and civilians were killed when an armed clash took place between the mujahideen of Commander Mullah Naqibullah (Jamiat) and Commander Haji Assadullah (Hezb, Hekmatyar) in the district of Arghandab. Our correspondent said that the incident took place when Commander Mullah Mushk of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) attacked a group of Commander Mullah Naqib of Jamiat. Five persons were, killed in the initial clash. This led to a heavy clash' of heavy weapons between the supporters of the two sides in the area.
       Meanwhile, fighting has erupted between the mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) and Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in the area of Daman. The local commander of Mahaz (Gailani) has also joined the fighting.
       Helir.and
       A report from Helmand sayes that Commander Bahlol of Mahaz (Gailani) and Commander Dad Mohammad Khan of Jamiat (Rabani) jointly fought against Commander Haji Faizullah Khan of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in the province. They expelled the latter from their respective area. However, Haji Abdullah Khan, another commander of Mahaz, has expressed his support to the commander of Hezb.
                           31
Nos 121-122
11th Year
April-May 1991
        A report from Quetta (Baluchistan) said that two supporters of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) were killed at the bus stand of the city.
       Herat
       According to our correspondent in Mashad, the Kabul regime has begun a* heavy offensive in the district of Zindajan on May 4.
       Some 5,000 regime militiamen and soldiers, backed by armoured vehicles, are taking part in the offensive to recapture the district headquarters of Zindajan which fell recently to the mujahideen.
       So far, 300 regime troops have been killed. Mujahideen casualties are very low, because they are in a defensive position.
       Heavy air bombardment continues in the area. Regime aircraft have also bombarded U.N. depots of foodstuffs.
       Mazar-e-Sharif
       A commander of Harakat (Mohammadi) in the district of Sholgar has recently returned from the area. In an interview with AIC, he gave the following accounts of the situation in the province of Balkh:
       Roods and rains of the year destroyed many agricultural lands and residential areas in various district of
                             32
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -   Bulletin
 the province.     These floods and             rains, which were
 unprecendented during the past 30 years, destroyed agricultural products and caused damage to livestock breeding in the province.
       Also, a heavy flood on April 4, destroyed wheat crops in the district of Sholgar. The rice and wheat products of the district exceeded the needs of the residents during the past years, but the people may face a food shortage this year.
       The mujahideen enjoy full control over most of the districts, such as Sholgar, Charbulak, Chimtal and Charkunt. The regime only controls district centres and bazaars in the districts of Shortipa, Daulatabad, Balkh, Daulatabad and Nchr-e-Shahi. The remaining territory is controlled by the mujahideen in these districts.
       On April 28, mujahideen of all organizations carried out a joint attack on regime postions in the districts of Chimtal and Charbulak. As a result, the districts fell to the mujahideen who also inflicted heavy losses irr life and material on the regime.
       Regime aircraft carry out bombardment on civilian and mujahideen targets once a day in the districts of Sholgar and Charkunt. In retaliation, the mujahideen conducts two or three attacks on regime positions in Dehdadi, Dehdadi airbase and the eighteenth Division in Dehdadi. The mujahideen carry out two rocket attacks weekly on provincial headquarters and the headquarters of KHAD inside Mazar-e-Sharif. Also, the mujahideen carry out two or three attacks on the gas pipeline between Shiberghan and Mazar weekly.
                             33
Nos. 121-122
11th Year
April - May 1991
        The mujahideen cut off the pipeline and set it one fire. The regime side stops the supply of gas in order to put out the fire.
        The regime has established security posts, each at a distance of two or three kilometres, along the pipeline in order to prevent mujahideen attacks on it. During the past several years of war, the mujahideen have cut off the pipeline more than one hundred times.
        The fall of the district of Chimtal to the mujahideen will cause the complete stoppage of gas flow to Mazar. The regime may try to recapture the district in order to continue the supply of gas to Mazar. Fearing enemy air bombardment, the civilians of the area forbid the mujahideen to cut off the gas pipeline. The mujahideen respect the wishes of the civilians in this respect.
        The civilians are very cooperative to the mujahideen. They help the mujahideen in the form of money, domestic animals and foodstuffs. The mujahideen of the province totally depend upon the civilians, as they do not receive any kind of assitance from the Peshawar-based organizations.
        The economic problems of the people are increasing day by day. They cannot cultivate their lands for many reasons: their irrigation system has been destroyed; they are unable to receive chemical fertilizer, improved seeds and tractors; the prices of horses and oxen are very high; there are no secure conditions; and there are inter-party differences. These factors coupled with regime’s air bombardment have also caused a reduction in the products of livestock. In addition to low products of rice and wheat, a
                             34
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        reduction has also taken place in the products of Qaraqul skins, carpets, etc.
        Tribal and sectarian clashes have calmed down in the province. Apparently, there are no signs of such differences amongst the people of the province. In the past, such differences were at their apex in various parts of the province. Clashes occurred between Pashtuns and non-Pashtuns, between                   Shias and Shunnis and between
 organizations. These clashes claimed many precious lives in the province and forced many families to seek refuge in other areas.
       Here is a comparative price list of consumer goods in Mazar and Sholgar in April 1991:
                 Sholgar   Mazar            
                  Afs.      Afs.            
Wheat            /7kgs.     1000       1300 
Rice,No.lQaulity /7kgs.     2000       2500 
Rice,No.2quality /7kgs.     1300       1800 
Onions           /7kgs.      400        600 
Firewood          /7kgs       40        100 
EdibleOil        /16kgs.   14000      10000 
Mutton            /1kg.      900       1300 
Beef              /1kg.      600        900 
Sheep             /head    30000      45000 
Chicken           /head  300-500 1000-15000 
                           35
Nos. 121-122
lhh
April-May 1991
        Takhar
        Mujahideen capture Khwaiaghar
        According to four mujahideen organizations, the district of Khwajaghar fell to the mujahideen on May 15 as a result of an operation by the mujahideen of Jamiat (Rabani), Mahaz (Gailani), Hezb (Khales) and Itehad (Sayaf) on the headquarters.
        Commnader Ahmad Shah Massoud, chief of Shura-e-Nazar (supervisory council), said that the mujahideen captured hundreds of light and heavy weapons in the operation. Ten mujahids were killed and 60 wounded. A regime militia general was also captured.
        On May 16, regime forces hit the area with Scud rockets, killing seventeen persons.
        On many occasions, Shura-e-Nazar (supervisory council) has declared that Takhar is completely a free province in Afghanistan. However, its northern areas, such as Yangiqala, Rustaq, Chahab, Darqad and Dasht-e-Qalaas, is still controlled by the Kabul regime.
        Reportedly Commander Massoud received a large amount of money and weapons during his last visit to Pakistan, it was believed that he would carry o, f successful operation to -capture Salang and other areas. However, recent developments shows that he is in a state "f confrontation with the Kabul regime and the other mujahideen groups in the province of Takhar.
                            36
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Kunduz
       Mujahideen, .capture Pasht-e-Archi
       Sources of Hezb (Hekmatyar) and Jamiat ( Rabani) reported that their mujahideen captured the district headquarters of Dasht-e-Archi in Kunduz on May 10.
       The mujahideen captured 400 weapons. Some one hundred regime troops surrendered to the mujahideen, while a large number of them fled to Kunduz city.
       Faiyab
       Mujahideen capture Qaisar district
       On May 7, the mujahideen captured the district headquarters in Qaisar, killing 125 regime troops and capturing many heavy and light weapons. Also, 28 mujahids were killed and 62 wounded in the operation.
       The mujhideen control four districts and subdistricts in the province of Faryab.
       Baghlan
       Interview with a mujahid of Hezb
       Abdul Karim, a mujahid of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), who arrived in Pe. .awar on May 6 from Nahrin (Baghlan), was intervieved recently at the AIC.
                             37
N'os. 121-12?.
11th
April - May 1991
        In his interview, he said that all the areas of Baghlan, except the provincial center, were controlled by the mujahideen. Hesaid that few people had left the province where foodstuffs, medicines and other consumer goods were cheaper than other parts of Afghanistan. He said that the residents of the province were psychologically depressed despite those preferences.
        He said that fighting continued between Commander Abdul Hai Haqjo of Jamiat (Rabani) and Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in the district of Nahrin for eight years. The fighting had begun in the area when Eng. Salim, a commander of Hezb-e-Islami, was killed along with his two mujahids in the area of Dawaii by Jamiat men. In the summer of 1990, the mujahideen of Commander Haqjo drove 30 families (450 persons) of Hezb supporters from Nahrin. These people live in the area of Laqayee. Some 300 people, including Mullah Abdul Wahid, Mistry Said Ahmad and Eng. Salim (Hezb) were killed in the various clashes between the two sides in the area.
        Abdul Karim said that area control and collection of revenues are the main factors of conflicts in the area. There is a coal mine in the district of Nahrin which is exploited in an unskilled manner. The mine has been given at a lease of twenty million Afghanis to a trader by Commander Haqjo.
        He said that Bashir Chahabi, a commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), captured some important points in the Jamiat-controlled area of Yangi. In retaliation, Commander Massoud gathered his people from various provinces to recapture the lost positions. As a result, Commander Bashir retreated to Khanabad, taking ten hostages with him.
                             38
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       According to the mujahid from the area, Commander Massoud arrested fourteen activists of Jamiat, including the mayor of Taluqan, on charges of designing a plan for his murder. Also, a large amount of money was captured from these activists. They had reportedly received the money for election campaign in the area.
       Our readers remember that Commander Massoud and Hezb (Hekmatyar) signed an agreement last year to hold elections in their respective areas. Both Massoud and hezb wanted to make Baghlan elections as ideal elections for the whole country. The elections has not been held so far in the area.
       He said that the election commission for Baghlan was represented by Izami, Khadim and Eng. Osman on Hezb side, while Jamiat was led by Maulawi Shah Saee and Haqjo.
       He said that regime forces were unable to go outside the urban area in Baghlan. The mujahideen killed five regime supporters and captured ten arms recently in an operation on Twelfth Street in the city.
       Regarding the Salang highway, he said:
       "The road between Shomali Salang and Pul-e-Khumri is controlled by Hezb, while the remaining highway is controlled by Shura-e-Nazar (supervisory council). The mujahideen do not want to block the supply routes of the civilians.
       "In addition, the road between Shomali Salang and Kunduz and the road between Samangan and Pul-e-Khumri
                            39
 Nos. 121-122
 11th
  April - May 1991
             are guarded by some ten thousand militiamen of Sayed Kayan (religious leader of Ismaelia sect). Except Mohammad Qul of Hezb (Khs'js), nobody fights against the militiamen of Sayed Kayan. ’rominent mujahideen commanders and regime authorities spend their days and nights in the guest
| 1          house of Sayed Kayan.
i
                    "Some months ago, Sayed Kayan proposed the establishment of an army corpse to Najib in the area, but local mujahideen commanders wrote to Najib and cautioned |            him that the move might create tribal problems. The issue
             therefore remained in a cold box."
i                     '                                                   .
                    He said that it was interesting to note that the U.N. has established a store of relief goods for the Kabul regime and the mujahideen in Mazar. Each commander receives a quantity of seven kilograms at a cost of 700 Afghanis. The |             commanders    then deliver  the goods to the residents in their
I            respective areas.
I            .                       ‘  •
j (                  The   mujahid  gave the following price list in the area:
Item              Afghanis 
Wheat      /7kgs.      800 
Rice(No.l) /7kgs.     2000 
Rice(No.2) /7kgs.     1800 
EdibleOil  /7kgs.     4000 
Firewood   /7kgs.      200 
Onions     /7kgs.      400 
Potatoes   /7kgs.      400 
                                    40
AFGHAN INFORMATION            Bulletin
Coal
Mutton
Bread
Sugar
Tea
Kalashnikov
Z-l
Cannon,75mm
BM-lRocketLauncher
KalashnikovAmmunition
/7kgs.    200 
/kg.      600 
/piece     20 
/kg-      500 
/kg-     1200 
/piece 300000 
/piece 150000 
/piece 600000 
/piece 600000 
/round     15 
       Ningrahar
       The Mujahideen and the Kabul regime have been making military preparations for the past one month in the province of Ningrahar. In this connection, the situation was closely followed by an AIC correspondent who gave the following picture of the situation in the area: Two regime convoys, each of some 200 vehicles and tanks, have, reached Jalalabad from Kabul between May 1 and 6. The regime has sent major air supplies to its forces in Jalalabad. It has also sent many heavy weapons, including Lunar rockets, to the city.
       Regime forces are consolidating their pos tions around the city. A large number of women and children have been taken to various areas.
       Regime aircraft have been bombarding mujahideen-controlled areas in the province for the past fifteen days.
                           41
Nos. 121-122
11th Year
April - May 1991
       Regime aircraft has severely bombarded the areas of Chaparhar, Hissarak, Rodat, Ghanikhel and Momandara.
       The bombardment has no parallel during the past two years. The number of causlaties is not known, mujahideen have suffered heavy losses in the areas of Samarkhel, Inzari (Nazian) and Ningrahar Agricultural Project. The mujahideen frequently move in these areas.
       On April 5, two vehicles were destroyed when the mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) shelled 200 vehicles carrying various goods in the area of Ghulam Dag.
       Following the incident, fifteen mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) were captured by the mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami
       (Khales) in the area. A commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) had allowed the vehicles to move in the area when the owners of the vehicles paid the customs.
       Collection of customs is one of the main factors of inter-mujahideen differences in Ningrahar, because around 150 vehicles loaded with commercial goods reach Torkham from Jalalabad and Saroobi. The mujahideen charge between Afs.800,000 and 1,600,000 on each vehicle.
       In this connnection, three vehicles were destroyed when they hit land mines on the pass of Pewi on April 8. The incident led to a clash between two groups; three mujahids were killed.
       On April 10, Amanullah, a Pakistani engineer, said that he had sawed spare parts of some 5,000 vehicles and
                            42
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
tanks during the past several years. He also said that he had < sawed the equipment of the tarcoal factory of Ningrahar (& i large construction project in Ningrahar).
       There is less economic pressure on civilians by the ; mujahidneen in the liberated areas in the province, because the mujahideen transport their basic amenties from Peshawar to the area. However, rivalries have increased between the commanders. For example, a district is controlled by four administrators. In this connection, Hezb-e:Islami (Hekmatyar) has appointed one district administrator and Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) has appointed two district administrators for Haska t Mena. On April 7, a bomb exploded in Farm No.2 f (Ningrahar Canal), killing two mujahids.                        i,
                    On May 7, regime aircraft bombarded residential areas f' along the Jalalabad-Torkham highway, killing several persons. ||
Asad Abad Disaster - April 20 - 1991 Photo: AIC