POLITICAL SETTLEMENT & GOVERNMENT
IN EXILE,
BY
IIAZRAT PROF. SIBGHATULLAH
AL-MOJADDEDI
/
IN THE NAME OF ALLAH THE MERCIFUL THE COMPASSIONATE
In the end of his address, Hazrat Al-Mojactdeai prays for tht success of Mujahideen.
POLITICAL
SETTLEMENT
&
GOVERNMENT IN EXILE
HAZRAT PROF, SIBGHATULLAH AL-MOJA13DEDI
Published by
Directorate of The Afghanistan Jehad. Cultural and Publication Committee Afghan National Liberation Front. PESHAWAR.
HEARING CONFERENCE IN WEST GERMANY: POLITICAL SETTLEMENT: GOVERNMENT IN EXILE:
Prof. Sibghatullah Al-Mojaddedi, Leader of the Afghan National Liberation Front, after returning from his tour of West Germany, Switzerland and Denmark, addressed a mammoth gathering of the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen in the premises of the Head Quarters of the Afghan National Liberation Front, on 8 April, 1986, at Peshawar.
Dear Mujahideen, Muhajreen, distinguished guests and my colleagues, Assalam-o-Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah-i-Wa Barakatuh. First of all I would like to thank you for gathering here and providing me the opportunity to
3
speak to you about my tour. In this meeting, I am going to briefly explain my tour of some European States, and invite your attention to some important problmes concerning the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajreen. It may be known to you that Pir Sayed Ahmad Gailani, the leader of Mahaz-i-Mili and I were invited by Political Committee of the Parliament of West Germany to attend a hearing Conference regarding the Russian atrocities in Afghanistan, where a large number of people from the freedom loving nations and also some members of the West German Parliament were present.
We were warmly and enthusiastically received by the Government and people of West Germany and the participants of the Conference. A crippled Afghan child and an Afghan Muhajir lady with her burnt body who had become the victimed of the Russians bombardment exhibited the Soviet atrocities in Afghanistan to the Conference. I fully explained the awful position of the Afghan Mujahid nation and the Russian’s aggressive policy against them and also called the attention of the Conference to those thousands of women, children and aged people who have become the victimized of the Russians atrocities. This brutal action of the Russian expansionists, was seriously condemned by all the members of the Conference including the Communist members present in the Conference. A Russian military officer who has defected from the Red Army and is living in Europe also approved my statement, and gave account of several instances of the Russian cruelties in Afghanistan. I had also a meeting with the members of the Political Committee of the German Parliament, and the Parliament later on discussed the Afghan issue for a full day in detail. I also attended two more Conferences in Geneva
4
in regard to the problem of Afghanistan. The Government and the people of West Germany, Switzerland, Denmark and the representatives of the other freedom loving nations present in the Conference were extremely kind and sympathetic towards the problem of Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen and assured us that all the freedom loving nations would stand up for the Afghan freedom fighters, and would extend every kind of assistance to our resistance against the Russian invaders. The representatives of the freedom loving nations also promised us that they would keep the world informed through their media regarding the Russian brutalities in Afghanistan, and would further draw their attention for support of the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen.
In Denmark, I was invited to attend the Afghan -Denmark-Friendship Association where I talked about the Afghan problem and found the people of Denmark very much conscious concerning the Afghan issue.
I am highly proud and also congratulate you that the Afghan Mujahideen have got a deserving reputation abroad for their spirit of scrifice and devotion in their resistence against the Soviet Super Power. Before the Russian aggression, Afghanistan was little known to the people abroad but, today, every body throughout the world is well aware of the heroic struggle of the Afghan Mujahid nation. It is a vivid fact before them that the Russians have never been so badly injured in their bistory, as today they have seriously suffered in Afghanistan. The whole world even the leftists are critical of the Soviet for such a barbarous act against its neighbouring non-aligned state. I am confident that under any circumstances the Afghan Mujahid nation
5
would never give up their struggle against the Russian invaders until , the last Russian soldier withdraws from Afghanistan. The Russians, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are invited by their puppet Babrak or they have come on their own initiative must evacuate Afghanistan.
POLITICAL SETTLEMENT :
In regard to the political settlement of the Afghan issue which is a burning topic of the day, I would like to deliberate it briefly. It may bd known to the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen and also to the free world that it was the resistance movement of the Afghan Mujahid nation that ultimately forced the Russians to come to the round table talks. We shall therefore, continue our jehad against the invaders till they withdraw then-troops from Afghanistan in the frame-work of the four point troops withdrawal principles already laid down by the United Nations. Th,ese are the withdrawal of the Russian troops, the restoration of non-aligned status of Afghanistan, recognition of the legitimate rights of the Afghans people for their self-determination without foreign interference, and the return of the Afghan refugees to their homeland with honour and dignity. We must also be grateful to all those freedom loving nations and to the people who are collectively and individually trying for the political settlement of the Afghan problem through the mediation of the personal representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations.
In my opinion, for the withdrawl of the Russian troops from Afghanistan, we must continue our Jehad against the aggressive forces, sincerely support those
6
who are in search of ways and means for the political settlement of the Afghan issue, and cordialy welcome those friendly and peace loving nations who assist the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhqjireen, politically, economically and militarily, merely on humanitarian bases.
/ would also like to draw the attention of all of you once again, that whatever, we do and struggle for, is to liberate Afghanistan in accordance with the wishes of the Afghan	Mujahid nation, and whatever, we expect from
our friends and freedom loving nations in our struggle and just cause is, to support us without pre-terms and conditions. This is our policy which we strictly follow since the	begin ing of our Jehad against the Soviet Social
Imperialism.
However, those who are against the political settlement of the Afghan issue and the assistance from the peace loving nations to the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen under the aforementioned circumstances may actually not be desirous to settle the Afghan problem and to fetum to their homeland with peace and honour.
GOVERNMENT IN EXILE
Though, a lot of work has been done through the United Nations and Mr. Diego Cordoviz, the personal representative of the Secretary General, for the political settlement of the Afghan issue in the past few years and the final stage would be discussed in the Geniva Conference to be held on 5th May, 1986, for which I am quite optimistic that the problem of Afghanistan may be settled, in favour of the Afghan Mujahid nation.
7
But the critical question to be answered before the Afhan Mujahideen and Muhajireen return to their homeland is, who will form the Government, what type of Government and how it will be formed. This question, I have also put before the Leaders of	Organi-
zations at Peshawar on several occasions. However, so far no concrete action has been taken for answering this question, in my case, I assure the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen, that power is not my objective, my sole aim and objective is, to fight for the liberation' of Afghanistan, and serve the nation after the liberation of the country, not as their leader or head of the state but, as ordinary citizen of Afghanistan. It is for the Mujahid nation of A fghanistan to choose their leader and form the Government of their own choice based on Islamic principles and / would be the first person to follow him sincerely.
Now my humble request to the leaders of the Mujahid organizations once again is to choose their leader whether it may be through the elections of their own organizations or through the Muhajireen residing in the Refugees Camps or possibly through a Loya Jerga (Great Council) in which the representatives of the- Afghan Muhajireen (Refugees). Mujahideen (freedom fighters) intellectuals and spirituals, from inside Afghanistan, and those who are living in Pakistan, Iran, Europe, America and else where would participate. By this way the formation of Government in exile, before returning to Afghanistan, another possible tug of war for power would be prevented.
Finally, I express my profound gratitude to the President General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, Prime
8
Minister Muhammad Khan Junejo and Sahib Zada Yaqub Khan. Minister of External Affairs for their strong stand on Afghan Muhajireen and for supporting their just cause in the political arena and providing ways and means for the political settlement of the Afghan issue under the four basic manifesto for the withdrawal of the Russian Troops from Afghanistan and the return of the Afghan refugees with dignity and honour. I am also much grateful to the people of Pakistan for providing shelter for their Afghan brothem on humanitarian ground.
Wa Salam-o-Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah-e-Wa Barakatuhu.
9
SUMMARY OF THE SPEECH OF
PROF.. SIBGHATULLAH ALMOJADDEDI
DELIVERED AT A PUBLIC HEARING INITIATED BY THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE GERMAN BUNDESTAG ON THE SUBJECT OF THE “SIX YEARS OF WAR AND OCCUPATION IN AFGHANISTAN”
DATE: MARCH 18th & 19th, 1986
11
HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN
During the past six years since the invasion of Afghanistan by the Russian Red Army, which has been strongly resisted by the Afghan people, Afghanistan has suffered a lot of ruins, destructions and calamities. The whole country, without any exceptions, has been converted into a hell. As it is beyond the scope of this speech to enumerate all that is happening in my country, I am not trying to talk to this gathering about all the aspects of the' Afghanistan problem. My other colleagues shall shed some light on the matter. So, I would like to draw your attention to the following few points:
1. One of the major atrocities that the defenceless
Hazrat Al-Mojaddedi and Peer Sayed Ahmad Gailani in the Parliament of West Germany.
13
people of Afghanistan encounter is the indiscriminate bombardment of their homes and villages from ground and air by the ruthless Soviet army. When the freedom fighters (Mujahideen) attack the invaders and when the Russians are inflected a heavy blow, which is always , the case, Red Army units bombard the whole region and destroy everything in that area. They butcher women, children and old people. They even do not have mercy on the animals and cattles. They do this to revenge then-defeat and to. intimidate the rest of the people. Ever since their intervention in Afghanistan, the Soviets have been conducting mass murders of civil populations as a result of their frustration at the battlefield. However, by now Soviets have chosen to conduct massacres as a calculated measure both to specify civilians and to reduce the population. They now use special commando units to kill civilians and massacre entire village populations.
The highways which often go through fertile cities, villages and woods (for example Kohdaman and L-ogar) the Soviet army has chopped all the trees and has levelled to the ground all the villages and houses in distance of three kilometres all along these highways. They have done this in order to drive the people out of the vicinity of the highway. Their purpose is to safeguard against the gallant attacks
of the Afghan Mujahideen, who use these villages and towns as their shelters and places of hiding. This policy of the Soviet army has forced the poeple to migrate to big cities and to neighbouring countries. As a result the people are faced with a variety of problems of poverty, homelessness and hunger.
14
3. In order to deprive the Mujahideen of the pleasure of hide and shelter and to bar them from their logistic means, the Soviets have used the policy of indiscriminate destruction of the whole villages, cities and towns. According to their scorch policy they also bum crops destroy dams and kill peasants, and hinder the people from their daily normal activities. They force the people to leave their houses and towns.
Acts of atrocities that the Soviets have persistently committed in the course of raids in rural areas of Afghanistan are so shockingly barbaric and in such a large scale that it certainly remains beyond human estimate and comprehension.
Little is known to the outside world of the genocide that the Krimlin rulers have so viciously undertaken in our beloved homeland, and it will still remain so unless adequate efforts are made by international organisations towards carefull study and doccumentations accounting for at least the major cases of violations of personal and social rights of the Afghan pet>ple by the Red Army and their rulers.
I shall take time in this brief presentation only to account of some of the methods and practices of the Soviet forces following their raids of rural areas; what they have indulged in and continue to practice, perhaps at this very moment. What I am listing here is exclusive of the routine and indiscriminate bombing and artilary shellings of towns and centers of populations:
Burning and distroying mosques, stabbing to death
is
or shooting religious scholars and destroying religious documents.
—	Lining up of the elderly as well as the youngsters for questions followed by machinegunning them to death.
—	Entering dwellings and strafing its inhabitants to death without reservations to infants, children or women.
—	Throwing handgrenades into conjested quarters of civilians.
—	Spreading bobytrap and toy bombs in and around villages.
—	Poisoning water supplies and resources, burning harvested agricultural products and killing livestock.
—	Pouring fuel on individuals or groups of children and burning them alive in the presence of their parents, or throwing children on wood piles set on fire.
—	Hanging infants on tree branches and stabbing them with bayonets in presence of their parents.
—	Eviscerating pregnant women with bayonets.
—	Slitting the throats of a group of children one by one in front of their parents.
—	Running over villagers with tanks, and so on.
-4. The people who are living in those areas which
16
are not under Russian occupation are suffereing from the lack of food, medicines, and other vital items of living. Most of these independent areas are on one hand mountainous and on the other-it is difficult to reach them the food, grain, and other materials because of lack of roads and transportation.
Therefore one of the major problems that our Jehadi Organisations encounter is sending these foodstuffs, grain, and other materials to the areas, where they are mostly needed. Because on one side these items are very scares and insufficient and on the other it is transported by mules and other animals, which are mostly destroyed by Soviet air bombardment before reaching their destination.
5.	In these independent areas, the public service, which is usually supposed to be carried out by the government do not exist at all.
Health, agricultural, educational and cultural activities have been stopped altogether. Inspite of a great strive by the Jehadi Organisations, such activities in these aforementioned fields do not seem satisfactory.
6.	The people living in those cities, which are under Russian occupation have different problems, ^ot withstanding the lack of food, medicine and other living vital materials, these people are suffering from congestion of -large number of people in small houses due to internal migration caused by Russian bombardment of the rural areas. They also have a
17
great number of other difficulties of which I shall point to only a few of them.
a.	They are arrested without any trials.
Those arested, men and women, are subjected to arbitrary punishments ranging from cruel measures of torture to execution.
Tortures, which often take place under direct supervision of Soviet advisors, include electric shocks, prevention of sleep, beating and kicking the inmate in the stomach and face, pulling off the hair and finger nails, placing prisoners in small cages for months, and even cutting off fingers and limbs, during interrogation, of prisoners destined for execution.
b.	The houses are searched any-time without any reliable. reason. During this search they take, by .force, anything they find valuable.
c.	Taking children away from their parents by force and even through kidnapping and sending them for long terms to the Soviet Union is another barbaric and cruel measure taken by the Krimlin rulers against our nation. Some children are incour-aged and even trained as spies and skilled assassins. This is an effort by the Soviet social Imperialists to bring about a generation completely devoid of then-traditional beliefs and love of their country and countrymen. This perhaps could impose a most lasting damage of Soviet atrocities on our nation, as it is a vicious effort to distroy the best and most
18
precious of our resources — our children.
And still the most ruthless act of the Soviet Red Army is this that they take out all the youngester and old ones of the cities which are under thier control and send them, against their will to fronts to fight their brothers. Unfortunately most of them die in their first encounter against Mujahideen and those who are lucky enough surrender to Mujahideen and come to Pakistan or go to Iran. Therefore* they are intentionally separated from their families and other relatives. One of our problems is the accommodation and rehabilitation of these people.
Another problem that we face is providing them with proper education. They need to be educated in schools and universities, the provision of which is our main problem.
Finally I did not go into detail because I don’t want to take much of your time. But if there is a will among you to help the suffering people of Afghanistan who are not only fighting for independence of their country from the atheist forces of Soviet imperalism, but who are also fighting for the cause of freedom and justice, we are ready to give you any kind of required details, statistics and other information about our projects.
The struggle of Afghan people is the struggle of all those who believe in freedom, justice, individual liberties, human dignity and in Almighty God. It is the sacred duty of peaceloving free people to help Afghan Mujahideen
19
morally and materially and do not let them alone in their stmggle against a super imperialist power of the world, the Soviet Russia.
Thank you
ENLIGHTENMENT.
The Russians, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are invited by their puppet Babrak or they have come on their own initiative, must evacuate Afghanistan.
Power is not my objective, my sole aim and objective is to liberate Afghanistan, serve the nation not as their leader or head of the state but, as an ordinary citizen of Afghanistan.
My Afghan brothers ! Elect your leader, and form your Government in exile, before you return to Afghanistan so that the tug of war for power would be prevented.
Whatever, we do and struggle for, is to liberate Afghanistan with the wishes of the Afghan Mujahid nation, and whatever, we expect from our friends and freedom loving nations is, to support us without preterms and conditions.
PROF. AL-MOJADDEDI