Afqhan
  INFORMATION
         Qentre
MONTHLY BULLETIN
Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993

                     The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CERNTRE are:
   1.  To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.  To make this information available in the form of articles news, but I tins, tapes, photographs and films to:
       faj International news media
       (b) Individuals, International private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisian organization and is not affiliated to any particufat resistance group.
       The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
 Founder : Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor      : Syed Naim Majrooh
 This Bulletin written under the Responsability of A.I.C Editorial Board
 Editorail Board:
                       i.   Zarghoon Shah Shinwari
                       ii. Ostade Abdul Hamid
                       iii. Ostade Syed Hisham
                       iv.  Moulana Habib ur Rehman
                       v.   Nasir-ul-Mulk-Jalala
                                                 BANK ACCOUNT NO. 1131377299051
 Annual Subscription Institutions                      : US$ 100
 Individuals                       : USS 70
 or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No. 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRICIATED.
Office : 18 E, S.J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953
Postal Add:: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
     AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
          MONTHLY BULLETIN
 Nos. 138 - 141 SEPTEMBER 1992 - JANUARY 1993
       CONTENTS:
 I.    THE NATION IS ASKING?
 II.   NEW PRESIDENT OF AFGHANISTAN                   £•
 III.  KABUL: A CENTER OF CONTRADICTIONS              |1
 IV.   KABUL AMONGST POVERTY, DARKNESS &
       FACTIONAL CLASHES.
 V.    GEN - DOSTUM'S STOPOVER IN ISLAMABAD           38
 VI.   27TH DECEMBER                                  40
 VII.  REPORT F.ROM NORTHERN PROVINCES                43
 VIII. CLOSURE OF AFGHAN.OFFICES IN PAKISTAN        . 53
 IX.   YOUR LETTERS AND OUR MAGAZINE                  ^6
             THE NATION IS ASKING?
       About 15 years back when the Khalq and Parcham factions usurped political power by staging a coup d’etat, a one-party dictatorship was imposed on the Afghan people. Like the Soviet Union, the state bureaucratic capitalistm influenced the economic and political policy of the regime. After a few months, Hafizullah Amin said. "I am happy today that Afghanistan has entered into the era of socialism". In fact these claims were those absurd intellectual sentiments which existed for years in the Afghan society due to the presence of a backward economic system and other political factors. Although methods of a particular economic school laid behind this thinking, a party, which call itself as a vanguard of the toilers, had jumped into the field of struggle politically. In addition, the
                                                   1
AFGHAN IN FORMA TION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Soviet super power resorted to military intervention to implement the thought.
     But the events clearly showed that this economic and political policy faced serious problems and finally suffered a shameful defeat. It was the Afghan brave Sind heroic nation which, by offering the sacrifice of millions of people, forced the Russians to leave Afghanistan and topple the puppet regime in Afghanistan. Hence, they did not allow a foreign ideology to rule the people in the practical arena. The Soviet puppet regime collapsed in 1992 on the day when it had been installed in Afghanistan fourteen years ago. The communist regime was replaced by the Peshawar-based party leaders as per the Peshawar accord signe'd on April 24, 1992. These leaders have enjoyed the backing of many countries, from the U.S. and Saudi Arabia to other countries of the region.y
     The Peshawar accord envisages three phases:
     1.   Transfer of power from the former regime to Sibghatullah Mujaddedi.
 Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
      2.   Transfer of power from Mujaddedi to Rabani after two months.
      3.   Establishment of a government for two years after convening an assembly by Rabbani during his four month term.
      Regardless of the fact that the contents of the Peshawar accord have any resemblance with Afghanistan events or not, the accord itself shows that the mujahid leaders have been considered as the only heirs of the Afghan nation.
      The term assembly was interpreted differently by the moderates and the fundamentalists. The moderates considered' it a Loya Jirga (grand assembly) while the fundamentalists deemed it as the Ahle Hal-o-Aqd Shura (council of wise men). As a fundamentlaist organization like Jamiat enjoyed hold over the government, and some of our close allies deemed the idea in their interests, the fundamentalists won the battle. Finally, the Shura, despite a long delay, decided on Decemeber 30 that President Rabbani was elected for two years.
3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      All mujahid groups in Pakistan and Iran have agreed upon the holding of the Shura. But most of the organizations such as Mahaz, Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) Hezbe Wahdat, Jabha and the National Islamic Movement of Gen. Dostum boycotted the Shura over the mechanism of the shura. Undoubtedly, the principle of the shura exists in the Islamic history to elect a head of state shura but we have not either seen or heard that the president of an Islamic country was elected by the Shura. Also, the current century pick up parliament, prime minister and the head of state as a complete political power to solve complex problems and assign reponsibility to the people to consciously or voluntarily cooperate with the government.
      The experiences gained in the past years have proved that the leaders of the Afghan mujahid did not agree on a unique political method and did not adopt a common stand. Some Jehadi groups consider Jahad and the understanding of Islamic principles as the the criteria for the election of a person. Yes it is a Jehadic victory, but the current situation reveals the fact that strength end force a question of,
                    . ,     4 :
Nos. 138-141                September 1992-January 1993
 discussion in today’s Afghanistan. For example, the militia units of Gen. Dostum have proved their strength in the struggle of political power .
 The torture will decide whether Prof. Rabbani convened the Shura properly or not, but it is clear now that the decisions of the Shura-e-Hal-o-Aqd are not acceptable to the Afghans. The first opposition came from the Islamic groups who deemed the Shura as the only solution to the problem. Since the Afghan society has survived hundreds of problems, it also has a lively knowledge.
 It was a question of the past that some people were the vanguards and leaders of the caravan yesterday. However, Afghanistan of today has its own demands. Unless the political and social forces of the Afghan society realize these demands, it is difficult and impossible to take out the wrecked boat from the storm.
 Political experiments are continuously imposed on the Afghan people by foreign countries, but they result in failure. A cause for a failure is the specific structure of the
                            5
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthy Bulletin
Afghan society and the sensitivity of the Afghan political character to foreigners. In fact, we have not only reject the British and the Russians on our soil, but the Afghans have also not made a political compromise with the Iranians and the Greeks.
The Afghan people has their own specific national and historical traditions for their hard days in their long political life, such as the Loya Jirga.
All Afghan Muslim rulers, such as Ahmad Shah Abdali, Mirwais Khan, Amir Shir Ali, Amir Amanullah and others, have invited jirghas to seek a unified opinion of the people during the hard days when the Afghan people faced similar questions of national entity. Now when new realities have appeared in Afghanistan and the world, they should be realized in the form of a jirgah.
All the Afghan tribes enjoy equal rights on their soil, and their participation in each political system should be the bottomline of such a system. As there is not a single central authority, the UN should help our people in this Afghan
                           6
Nos. 138-141                September 1992-January 1993
process in view the present situation. The UN should not let the Afghan people die in the war of power struggle.
If the present situation continues, the Afghan people has the right to ask the U.S., the regional powers and t he Mujahideen groups one question: In the past the Kabul regime and the Russians did not allow the nation to determine its destiny, but who are the people who have usurped the Afghan right of self-determination today?
Zarghoon Shah Shinwari
AICAsstt: Editor
                         7
 NEW PRESIDENT OF AFGHANISTAN
     Burhanuddin Rabbani, chief of Jamiat was once again elected as the Afghan president for another two years.
     He was elected on June 28, 1992 as per the Peshawar accord for four months. At the same time he was also assigned the task to convene an Afghan assembly . The Jamiat leader failed to fulfil the task during the period. Hence on June 28*, 1992 the leaders of the Afghan mujahideen decided to extend for 45 days the period of Rabbani. Prof Rabbani invited some 1335 representatives from several Afghan provinces to convene the proposed Hal-o-Aqd Shura. The shura held its first session on December 15, 1992. Following that the sessions of the shura were postponed for some days. Finally on December 30, 1992, it was announced that out of 1335 persons,
8
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
916 voted for him, 59 voted against him and the remaining 360 walked out the session as a token of protest.
     When the government announced the election of President Rabbani for two years, rockets hit the city killing dozens of innocent civilians.
     Out of nine mujahideen parties, Jamiat, Harakat of Mohammadi, Harakat of Mohsini and Ittehad-e-Islami of Sayaf attended the sessions of the Shura, while, Mahaz, the shiite Hezb-e-Wahdat, Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis), Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and Jabha boycotted the session.
     The northern alliance, (National Islamic Movement) led by Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, reportedly played an outstanding role in the said session, but no news was broadcast on the role of the movement in the session.
     Based. on reports from the north of Afghanistan, a 156 member delegation of the Islamic National Movement arrived in Kabul to take part in
                          9
Nos. 138-141
September     1992-Jan 1993
the sessions of the Shura on December 22, 1992. The selected or elected representatives of many provinces of Afghanistan did not take part in the sessions of the Shura. In this connection, Nangarhar, Kunar and Laghman can be citedy as an example.
      As per a telephonic report on December 31 from Kabul, the session for the election of the president was held at 10:30 a.m. in the main hall of the interior ministry. Maulawi chaired the session. After some movmenets Rabbani raised from his chair and cast his vote into a wooden box covered with green velvet. He immediately announced that he was a candidate for the presidency of Afghanistan. There was no rival candidate. Though Pir Gailani and Maulawi Khalis had announced their candidature, thir representatives did not attend the shura, accusing Prof. Rabbani of bribing the delegates of the Shura. President Rabbani thus became the president.
                          10

                                                                                                                                                                                                           , (', ,4, • i: /
:)U
       KABUL: A CENTER OF CONTRADICTIONS
      Following fourteen years of devastating war in Aighahistan,'I ^reaeh^^             a  time   when1
 fighting was going on in three parts of the city. , ;
           In the past Kabul was a cradle of knowledge, cUlturef ci vilization arid beauty like ^Switzer land in

 Europe. ' However, it!i- has suffered destruction than Beirut. Beirut was divided by one
 green line, but there were several green, red and black lines in Kabul. The1 resdients of the city were divided on the basis of race, language and groupings.

  siu D.toj sw          itituiG
  jiar/Thie^strategicallyj ** important 1 n^untalns sUrrouiiding^the city werebad been occupied by the' Jowzjanimilitia forces and units of the defence ministry. They were commanded by Ge^lkiji^ Gen. Homayon, Gem Assadullah Markhor, Gen.
 Momin OTV/^ flot-i' UdiKa; JTcitV r =.           :'M>
                              11
r AFGHANINFORMATION CENTRE -,Monthly Bulletin
     Jamiat enjoys control over the central parts of the city while Hezb-e-Wahdat and the Harakat of Mohsini control the areas from Shah Du-Shamshera Wali and Sar-i-chowk to Chehelstun, Bagh-e-Daud, and the Kabul Polytechnic Institute. The western part of the city is controlled by a a variety of factions and groups. The mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) have their strongholds in southern Kabul.
     One day at 9 a.m. we wanted to go to Mirwais Maidan in western Kabul. But we were stopped by the Sunni mujahideen who advised us to abandon the idea.
                           • • . •
     Utilizing our journalistic cards, we went to a stronghold of Hezb-e-Wahdat lopated at a distance of twenty meters from the Sunni post. We told the fighters of Hezb-e-Wahdat that We wanted to visit the areas .of Darulaman, Mirwais Maidan and Chehelstun. After two hours of discussion, three mujahideen accompanied us to visit Chelstoon. When we reached Aqa Ali shams, we came across a calsh between two mujahideen factions. Sounds of
 Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
heavy weapons were also heard in Rishkhor. Wemoved towards Mirwais Miadan, passing destroyed houses in Karta-e-Char.
      When we reached Mirwais Maidan, we saw it was totally under the control of the Shiite groups. Children aged 10-12 carried weapons, including rocket launcher and machine guns. Their looks at the by-passer indicated signs of force. Shops in the area were either completely destroyed or partially damaged. The remaining ones presented a deserted outlook. Some shops had only essential foodstuffs. Houses located on the both sides of the road stretching from MirwiSe Maidan up-to Bagh-i-Bala Hotel had suffered damage. We insisted on a visit to Silo but were unsuccessful to get a permission.
      We met a cigarette-seller in the Bagh-i-Bala square. He said:
"Many people have been mercilessly killed on linguistic, religious and political basis in this area. The noses and the ears of the people were cut here. In addition to plundering the property of the people,
                               13
    AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE -         Bulletin
 women were raped. I have lost three of my family members during the past four months. If I find an amount of 50,000 Afghanis, I will ‘never stay here. I’ll go to Iran or Pakistan. I am a Shiite Muslim, but . the division of Afghans, on religious basis is a great treason. ; -.? The, plan of the ... disintegration of Afghanistan designed by our neighbours is being implemented by sorne ?pld.-out ^ements-,"nn« ,,. ,.
firit 111 gi| Oiffi            bS-fSXibu!.            0.4
     f The Kabul Inter-continental Hotel is place worth seeing in Kabul. Utilizing a great approach, we were able to visit the hotel for twenty minutes.
            t .» tcj    * ~~ U^>U d'.rv» A            Ji . % ’
  While pointing to some armed mujahideen, a guard
  of the, hotel complained that the situation was the same each day. He said, "These armed youths daily
 OJ : ;; U CK''*/O.IcUJ . * V *    : \i.'teXJ U'~J     .iChJil
 eat here without any payment.” .. .... ud„Ji8
  , ,T We .reminded him about the plunder of various kinds of goods at the hotel. He: said that self-
             °             . .       • JJlfrta b.*. 1 . caiHij \.t€.
  protection is a bsic question for everyone in the city.
 The. plundered goods, he said, are considered as
    pooi-y ueie.                                                         .
 . ii ..v i t* Di IU j.iJ , i                           i >• :• •. i J i i Vi-i
                                                                                                    OT.-'/yeiqoeq yfli lo .eiqooq lo v;!ioqo?q oiij g
  fi ii? . ^ i ? o i si f i 3 i , o i J ? • f u' 14 i 11 j
         flfii bn.r; rfiiaon eriT ai.;r..>bnp(q ci [loi.hbhn
Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
      At 3 p.m. we reached Share Nau. In every square, between six and eight Panjshiri youths had taken position behind the soil bags. Some of them searched cars and asked drivers whether they had any weapons.
      A photographer near the Qawa-i-Markaz hospital said that night curfew began after 9 p.m., but incidents of plunder and murder daily took place in the area. The houses of the rich plundered. He said that a person was kidnapped from his street and his belongings taken away. When his neighbours reminded the kidnappers about their Islamic spirit, they said that they were punished for their sins.
      We spent our fourth night in a safe place located at a distance of forty meters from the interior ministry in Share Nau. We sayed at the residence of . a high ranking official of the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
At 10 p.m., severe fighting started in the city while we were talking to each other. I asked the official about the daily occurrence of such fighting. He did
                        15
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 not describe the problem as a serious one, saying that it was usual during the night. •
       In the morning we went to the Shahada Market where foreign currencies are changed. Sixt per cent shops were closed. Two mujahids equuipped with heavy machine guns guarded the Market. Suddenly I heard a heard a loud cry. The people ran here and there. In the meantime, a jeep bearing the photograph of Gen. Dostum appeared in the area. The occupants of the jeep bought grapes from a fruit-vendor and left the area after paying the money to the vendor. Their departure dollowed hustle and bustle again.
       We found a Hindu in the Market .to tell us something about the situation. The Hindu accepted but he set two conditions for the talks. First talks should be held in his house, and second his name should not be disclosed. We accepted the conditions and went with him to his house at 2.30 p.m. located in Shahrara. When we entered his house, he first showed us all of his rooms and added that armed persons broke into his house last night to plunder
                            16
Nos. 138-141
September                         1992-Jan1993
valuables. He said that this was done in his front of him.
      The Hindu added that he was no more able to live there. He said that he was sorry to say that he was millionaire the previous day, but he became a poor person then?
      The following day we decided to meet official sources at different ministries. Our long association with Jehad enabled us to visit all areas on time.
      At 10:00 a.m. we went to the ministry of foreign affairs. We were sitting in the office of the secretary to the administrative vice president. After each ten minutes, aperson would come and appoint himself in accordance with the division of appointments made amongst various mujahideen organizations.
            ♦
      Interestingly, some of the newly appointed diplomats did not know about the location of their
                          17
  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
respective country on the map of the world. They even did not know the capital of the country as well.
     The secretary told one of the new diplomats to write his bio-data, but the diplomat said that the secretary should yrrite it. The two discussed the issue for some time.
     At 2 p.m., we left for the ministry of information and culture. We spent 30 minutes in the office of the deputy minister because he had left the office to receive Prof. Mujaddedi. A mujaheed entered the office having a sheet of his appointment sought help from the secretary of the deputy minister regarding the remaining process, but the secretary replied that Chakkari (the minister) had instructed him to inform him (Chakkari) concerning new appointments. The mujahid replied that he was a mujahid and an educated Afghan. The problems which I have suffered during the years of Jehad for the sake of Islam and the country you and your minister can not dream about it, he said.
                          18
Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
     He emphasized that he had waged jehad for fourteen years and studied for. sixteen years. • He said that it was his legal right to be appointed as an employee. He said that he was aware of the fact that many people had become as a result of a comprosmie, but they could not disapporve his appointments.
Three Positions, Interviews and Places:
     During our stay in Kabul, everyone felt that the city had been encircled by politically or ideologically distanced forces.
In this connection, we interviewed, people representing the three forces, i.e. Mujahideen commanders, Jowzjani militia and their allies, and the Shi’ite Hezb-e-Wahdat. Here are their answers:
     Question No. 1: Is there one government in
Afghanistan?
           ♦
     Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, Chairman of the Council of Commanders and the Council of
                                19
  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Religious Scholars:   No, there  is no Islamic
government government in Afghanistan. There is no peace in the country. There is no government even in Kabul.
     An official of the department of political affairs of the National Islamic Movement said that his militiamen waged uprising against the former communist government to set up an independent, national and islamic government in the ocuntry.
     A well known commander of Hezb-e-Wahdat described the chaos as a result of selfishness, he said that that the establishment of a government acceptable to the people was one of the basic objectives of Jehad. He, however, regretted that they have not achieved the goal.
     Question No. 2:        There  are several
governments in Kabul where people are arrested and imprisoned in private prisons There is no security for the property and honour of the people. Who do not take an against these people?
 Nos. 138-141
                                        September 1992-January 1993
      Haqani; Foreigners are involved in such incidents. Also, the remnants of the former regime are inovlved in these incidents. There are peole among the mujahideen who use the . Afghan people as scapgoats in order to further their ambitions and serve the.interests of their foreign supporters. No logic can accept the fact that a nation can wage Jehad but it cannot govern. In fact, the government is run by people who have not waged jehad.
      Offical of the National Islamic Movement: You are aware that we have deployed our forces in military bunkers outside the city to defend the people. We thought that a bright chapter will open in the. history on the arrival of the Mujahideen in Kabul. The chaos is a consequence of the differences existing between various mujahideen factions. The only solution to the problems is participation by all in the government.
      Commander of Wahdat: It is a matter of concern that our fellow countrymen, particularly the. residents of Kabul, live in such a condition. Some people, who received money from foreigners, get
                           21
  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
plots from their foreign masters. Afghanistan is a common dwelling of all ethnic groups where the rights of each group should be safeguarded according to their social existence.
     Question No. 3: Now efforts are underway for convening the Halo-Aqd Shora (council). Can the Afghan problem be solved through it?
     Haqani:     The Hal-o-Aqd  Shura is the  best
mechanism for electing a leader in an Islamic society. However, prof. Rabbani takes Afghanistan on the brink of another war by misusing his transitional administration. I support the idea of the Shura, but I deamnd the formation of Shura in which the Afghan scholars and clergy are elected by people.
     Official of the Movement:     The idea of the
Hal-o-Aqd Shura is a foreign word unknown to the Agfghans. Preferably, a Loya Jirgah (grand assembly) should be convened, because it is as a historically accepted tradition of Afghans. I believe
                       22
September             1992- -Jan 1993
Nos. 138-141
that all non-Afghan ways are doomed to failure in the Afghan society.
      Wahdat Commander: Whether they convene Loya Jirgah or Hal-o-Aqd Shura, the* question remains about the euqal participation by the nation
                                                           in it.
                  Question: Thre are signs that the current
chaos takes Afghanistan to disintegration. Do you believe it?
      Haqani: Undoubtedly the present conditions are the hard days in the Afghan history. But those who want to disintegrate Afghanistan for the sake of their power do not possess practical and jehadic power in our society. OUr nation proved its unity during the period of jehad. Still, if these developments continue the responsibility will lie upon those who have turned Afghanistan into a hunting-ground for their own interests.
      Movement Official: Afghanistan is a united
            country All Afghans are brothers. We should feel
                       23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
the danger of the disintegration of Afghanistan, but, as far as we are concerned, we will work for a united Afghanistan, an Afghanistan where the rights of all
       *    '          W 4*        «
people are safeguarded.
      Wahdat Commander: If our jihadi leaders and commanders recognize their Islamic and national responsibilities and respect the rights of each other, no one could divide our country having thousands of years old history.
24'
     KABUL AMONGST POVERTY, DARKNESS AND FACTIONAL CLASHES
      At the end of November, snow covered the high peaks of mountains around the city; the cold wind rising from the peaks created tremendous problems for' Kabul citizens, particularly the poor. The snow had also caused high prices in the city. Here are the prices:
Firewood            77 kgs.    1,000 Afghanis 
Wheat Flour         /70 kgs.  25,000    it    
Diesel              /4 litres  3,000    •I    
Bread               /240 kgs.    100  '7. M   
Potatoes            77 kgs.    1,800    M     
Beef                /kg.       1,400    ft    
Meal in Restaurants /person             II    
         •                       600          
     We spent two days with some Mujahideen in the west of the Kabul city. We saw children who
25
                 AFGHAN' INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
came there for finding a loaf of cold bread. They begged the mujahideen to give them a loaf.of bread.
     One of my colleagues embraced a small child, having brown hair and blue eyes, and asked him about his parents. The child replied that he did not know his mother and father. He stayed with his maternal uncle. But he always reminded us about the killing of his father, mother and elder brother by a rocket.
     The following day we had our launch in a restaurant located in the center of the city. The guests were surrounded by beggars who were justified the begging by complaining about the food shortage in the city.
     We observed many differences in the city. Kabul in Darkness:
     From November 18 till 29, there was no power and light in Kabul. It has been stated that it. is for
                              26
Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
the first time in the past twenty years that Kabul citizens were kept without electricity.
     Sources close to the Kabul Islamic government say that Mujahideen guarding the road in eastern Kabul has cut-off power supply to the city. They say that they demand salary for guarding the electric pylon on the road.
     A correspondent of the Afghan Information Centre, who was in Kabul at the time, says that the Kabul government has started talks with Ghulam Hussan Khan Karokhail for the protection of electric pylons on the road. Karokhail’s men also guarded the electric pylons on the road during the Soviet presence in Afghanistan. But now mujahideen commanders have set up posts on the Kabul-Sarobi-Naghlu-Maheper-Ghazi Band high-way. They have indicated that they will never allow government to repair electric pylons if they are not equipped with weapons and provided with necessary resources.
                               27
AFGHAN INFORMATION           Bulletin
 Was it a Coup?
      On Dec. 5, the National Islamic Movement known as Jowzjani militia, carried out a sudden operation in Kabul.
      At 10.30, the militiamen stationed in Bala-Hesar and the Maranjan hill in southern and southeastern Kabul moved towards the city and disarmed mujahideen in Sayed Noor Mohammad Shah Mena, south of the city. Simultaneously soldiers stationed in the Kabul Khawaja Rawash International airbase moved towards the city. The two forces in complete coordination collected arms from the supporters of Jamiat in key areas of the city and took some of Jamiat fighters away.
      During the day, people in some parts of the city were distributed leaflets saying that Rabbani had fled away while Ahmad Shah Massoud had been arrested.
28
 Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
     An eyewitness told our correspondent that the Jpwzjani militia by carrying out such a surprised act has drawn the attention of the Rabbani government to the fact that the role of the militia in the Afghan developments is of great importance.
     A delegation headed by the deputy chief of Jamiat left Kabul for Mazar-i-sharif to hold talks with Dostum. After the talks the militiamen stopped their operation at 3 P.M in the city.
     Radio Kabul radio in its news service announced that Gen. Homayun, a commander of the Jowzjani militia, met Rabani and drew his attention to the militia operations in the city. He added that the action took place due to a misunderstanding. He assured Rabani of withdrawing his forces from the respective areas.
     Also, on December 21, armed men of He^bi-Islami, staged their attacks on the Kabul city from
                         29
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
western and southern sides. They started firing rocket from Rishkhor and Bagrami areas on the city. In addition, they occupied some posts of Jamiat in the east of Kabul, such as the military academy and the industrial area of Puli-Charkhi. The fighting intensified when some sources reported the news of a new alignment between Hezb-e-Wahdat, Hezb-e-Islami and Jowzjani militia.
      Some eyewitnesses did not rule out the possibility as armed men of the three parties were seen walking together in Bala Hissar, the Maranjan hill and other places. They reportedly carried joint activities against the government, but the temporary coalition did not continue for a long time.
      During the fighting many civilians were either killed or wounded. Hundreds of families left their houses for Jalalabad to seek refuge in Pakistan.
      The Kabul-Jalalabad highway remained blocked for four days because of the fighting. The
                          30
 Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
 fighting ended when Saudi, Iranian and Pakistani ambassadors met their like-minded mujahideen in Kabul.
 Jamiat Vs Hezb-e-Wahdat:
      Following severe armed clashes in August, Kabul again suffered a destructive fighting on December 6.
                                     *
      The fighting continued up-to 8th of December, leaving behind over one thousand Afghans dead and thousands other injured.
      The fighting started when Jamiat supporters opened fire at car carrying a leader of Hezb-e-Wahdat in Taimani, north east of Kabul. As a result two persons were killed. After a short while,
 members of Hezb-e-Wahdat started their attacks on Jamiat men in Chindawal, Cinema Pamir, Bagh-i-Bala and other parts of the city. The two sides used
                             31
A FGFIAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Bulletin
in these fighting heavy weapons such as missiles, rockets, mortars, etc. against each other. Many houses as well as government officeswere destroyed. The Shia-inhibited area of Chind^wal was burning consecutively for two days. Many houses of the area were razed to ground. Many residential dwellings were destroyed in Nauabad, Barikot, Sharara, Badam Bagh, Bagh-i-Bala and the Asmai mountain. Many inhabitants of the areas were either killed or injured.
      On the first day of the fighting, the supporters of Hezb-e-Wahdat occupied many posts from the Shur-i-Nezar, but when forces loyal to the former regime generals took part in the fighting, Hezb-e-Wahdat men were forced to withdrawn from many places. Apparently the Jawzjan militia was neutral in the fighting.
                         32
Nos.138-141
September 1992-January 1993
 A Heavy Fine:
       Several weeks back when we arrived in Kabul for collecting information, I met a trader at Sarai Shoba area in Pul-e-Mahmud Khan. Afghan traders smuggling foreign goods from this area to Pakistan. The trader, who identified himself as Lai Khan, said that he had been inolved in the business since the Zahir Shah era
       He said that on July 16 a Russian jeep stopped there and five men equipped with rocket launchers and hand grenades proceeded towards him. They informedhim that their leader wanted to ri^et him. He was forced into the jeep and took him to an unknown area. He spent 24 hours there in fear. At 11 p.m., three persons arrived there and gave hima list to check the names of famous Afghan traders. They also told him to pay them one hundred thousand Afghanis, if he he wanted to remain alive. They justified the demand by saying that the new government had been confronted with numerous economic difficulties. He swore that he was .unable to find such a large amount of money but they beat
                     33
        AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      him. He finally agreed to pay the amount for his
 safety.
 Hezb Attack Mansur:
      In the second week of November 1992, Nasrullah Mansur, a deputy chief of Harakat • (Mohammadi) was captured by men of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatvar) in Char Asiab, south of Kabul city .
      Escorted by several vehicles, he was travelling from Kabul to Gardez, but he was stopped by Hezb men who had taken position along the road. Ignoring their command, the men attacked his convoy, killing four guards and cuasing injury to others. He was also captured.
      Mansur, who is also the governor of Paktia, carried about 400 million Afghanis for electing members for the Ahle Hal-o-Aqd shura. He had reportedly received the money from Rabbani in order to spend them on electing proper persons for the shura.
                                 3«
September          1992-Jan 1993
Nos. 138-141
      Following'the incident, some elders left Kabul for Char Asiab as mediators to see the release of Mansur. After his release, Mansur returned back to Kabul and denounced his arrest by Hekmatyar men an illegal act. he also termed it as contrary to the principles of Islam.
Clashes in Jalalabad:
      On November 5, a car carrying Khial Noor, a commander of Ittehad-e-Islami, was attacked near Torkham in the area of Kamkay Daka. No one was either killed or injured, but two cars were set on fire. Prior to the setting on fire of the two cars, the commander and his bodyguards were arrested. The commander was sent to Jalalabad.
      The attack was reportedly carried out by Commander Shomali of Mahaz. Commander Shomali says that he carried out the attack in response.to a bomb blast in his office in Jalalabad some time ago. The blast had injured two persons. The Nangrahar Council decided that the man responsible for the blast should be arrested and
                              35
       AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
punished. As a result, Shomali attacked Khial Noor. His stronghold was also destroyed in Momandara.
     In another incident in Torkham, two employees of Operation Salam were killed in the area of Surkh Dewal on the Jalalabad-Torkham highway. Their vehicle was also taken away by the murderers.
     On Dec. 31, Sikandar Khan, a commander of hezb-e-Islami, was attacked and killed along with his men in Saroobi. His murder is believed to be an issue of inter-commander differences. However, some others sources say that he was killed for violating the decisions of the Nangrahar Council.
Bloody Power Struggle:
     During the last week of December Kabul witnessed a new but not a lasting coalition. A new coalition came into being between two hostile groups such as Hezb-i-Islami led by Hekmatyar and the National Islamic Movement headed by Gen. Abdul
                            ' 36
Nos. 138-141                September 1992-January 1993
 Rashid Dostum. It was also reported that the Shiite Hezb-e-Wahdat had also entered into the new coalition. The main goal of the new coalition was to fight against Jamiat-i-Islami government. In this connection, these groups along with Mahaz and Jabha issued the following statement on December 31, 1992:
      "The convocation of the Ahle Hal-o-Aqd Shura should be postponed and the power be transferred to the Leadership Council. If this shura was not postponed, we will not accept its decisions. In this connection a commission be formed in order to decide on the convocation of the said Shoura, because the present Rabbani’s shura does not represent nation. Those who take part in the sessions of the Shura will bear the responsibilities of its aftermath."
      The statement carries the signatures by people from the five parties. Except this statement, the parties have not made any comments on the new coalition.
                        37
     GEN. DOSTUM’S STOPOVER IN ISLAMABAD
     Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, General Commander of the Jowzjami Militia and Chief of the National Islamic Movement stopped for some hours in Islamabad on Nov. 8 on his way to Saudi Arabia to perform Omra.
                                     m
     Accompanied by 50 high-ranking military and political colleagues, he held wide raning talks with Pakistani authorities on issues related to Afghanistan and the region.
     It is worth mentioning that Gen. Dostum had also visited Pakistan earlier, but Pakistani
                      38
  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
authorities had remained silent for along time over it.
Dostum drew the attention of the Afghan neighbours and allies of the Afghan jehad when they felt that his forces were playing a determining role in the Afghan, events.
     Leaders of Afghan organizations have reacted differently towards the visit, but Afghan government has adopted silence over it. Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis) and Ittehad-e-Islami (Sayaf) has described the visit of Dostum to Saudi Arabia as an unexpected act. They have expressed their displeasure over the visit.
                        39
      27TH DECEMBER
      The thirteenth anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan coincided with December 27, 1992.
      Tremendous and countless sacrifices of the Afghan people as well as the Geneva Accords forced the last Russian soldier to leave the Afghan land in February 1989. The Russians withdrew from Afghanistan at a time when their proposal for a transitional government was rejected. The leaders of the Peshawar based mujahideen then formed a government in Rawalpendi which lacked the support of the Afghan people. The Rawalpendi government remained outside the country till the end.
                         40
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      In another phase, Benon Sevan, UNSecretary-General’s Special Envoy for Afghanistan, tried to set up an interim government in Afghanistan. The efforts took a long time, but their result proved to be harmful.
      The envoy, on the insistance of foreing parties involved in the Afghan conflict, forced Dr. Najibullah to resign at a time when conditions for a power vacuum £nd the continuation of of civil war existed in the country.
      Perhaps the optimism of Mr. Benon Sevan and unnecessary interference of various forces caused a bloodbath in Afghanistan.
      The coalition between Abdul Rashid Dostum and Ahmad Shah Masoud played an outstanding role in the collapse of the government of Najibullah.
      Another important development was the Peshawar accord on 24 April 1992 aimed at distributing the power among the mujahideen leaders. The accord instead of putting an end to the
                         41
Nos. 138-141                September 1992-January 1993
war added more fuel to it. Today Afghanistan is such a sample of the human history which can not be seen on the globe. Afghans in the course of history have bravely defeated their enemies, but we will see whether leaders of some Afghan parties will be able to keep Afghanistan a united country or not?
   REPORT FROM NORTHERN PROVINCES
       A business man who has recently arrived to Peshawar from the northern provinces of the country gave the following of the situation in the
 tom
 north:
        I have visited most of the northern provinces of the country. There are eight provinces, such as Ma^ar, Jowzjan, Faryab, Samangan, Baghlan,
 /4k y,. /!                     ii} : .. • irvt • ' . • ^r|i
  Kunduz, Takhar and Badakhshan, in northern Afghanistan. All brother tribes such as Turkiiman,
  Pashtun, Uzbek, Tajik, Hazara and others live
  no ilcim • Hit o         . r ■■ v .:    i^|
  together In these provinces. In the course of the ' bistory we have not heard about a clash of one group against the other. Afghanistan was a common "dwelling of all ethnic groups. .
YX3V
C'-ZtV V \j.i \
                          43
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Like in other parts of the country, regular administrative organizations do not exist in districts and sub-districts in the north of the country. Besides, contacts have not been restored between district and province. The administratoprs enjoy no control over their respective districts. Only on the level of province, in provincial capitals, a shaky administrative organization can be seen. Administrative and professional employees do not regularly attend their offices. They come once or twice a week and receive their salary at the end of every month. Only military men are more disciplined than than civil servants.
       Districts are being governed by a powerful organization. Local inhabitants lead their life under the umbrella of the commanders of Sayed Kayan and Dostum.
       People face with severe economic problems. Prices are very high. There is limited job opportuniteis. There is a shortage of basic amenities and unemployment has reached its climax. The salary of government employees is very
                         44
 Nos. 138-141
September             1992- Jan 1993
 low in comparison with price hike. The employees do other jobs to feed their families because the salary is not enough to meet their basic daily requirements. Commanders of Dostum and Sayed Kay an are the rich people in the north. The farmers have cultivated a very small portion of their land, while the remaining agricultural land has remained arid. They cultivate their lands with very primitive tools, because the cost of modern tools such as tractor is very high. For example the owner of a tractor charges 8000-10,000 Afghanis for one-hour ploughing. Chemical fertilizer is not available everywhere. If available, the price is very high. In addition dams and canals have suffered damage. These problems coupled with the lack of essential goods has directly effected the production volume
      A regular educational programme does not exist in districts and sub-districts. Former educational institutions have been completely destroyed and refugees have not yet resettled. The district centres has no connections with the remainng parts of the district, In some parts, boys are gathered in mosques where teaching is carried
                       45
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 out irregularly. In provinces too, since March and April, all educational institutions have been closed.
       In districts people face with severe health problems, because pre-war health centers have either been destroyed or are not functioning. The centers have not been rebuilt. Shops for selling medicines have been opened in some areas where non-qualififed persons are sell medicines in order to make money . Money is important than health. Now the inhabitants of these areas are suffering from many diseases such as TB, typhoid^ cough, malnutrition, skin diseases, etc. ? .
      In winter, the prices of fuel and firewood have gone up. In the past people's requirements were met through income earned via agriculture and livestock. Now, migration from one place to another have caused limited agricultural actity. i All provincial capitals are over-crowded. The area ■ of cities has expanded without any municipal plam The crowdy centres have cause an increase in the rent of houses. There is a shortage of powersupply,
 Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
hygienic drinking water and other essential requirements.
     Rich persons of some provinces have established trade relations with some central Asian republics. The great portion of their trade contain smuggling of dollars to these republics and Moscow. The cost of one US dollar is 950-1050 Afghanis in Mazar, while it is purchased in Central Asian Republics and Moscow Against 1300 and 1400 Afghanis respectively. The traders offer a bribe of 300,000-500,000 Afghanis to the Russian Consulate in Mazar.
     Since April many Kabul citizens have left the city for northern provinces of the country. Many officials from the former regime also went there. Majority of the supporters of Najib and Karmal have already left for Central Asian Republics, Moscow and India. The people of the Central Asian Republic mal-treat Afghans and hate them. Majority of the Kabul citizens say in in Mazar, Puli-Khomri, Kunduz and Jowzjan.
                             47
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      A camp has been built in Puli-Khomri for new refugees but they live in houses with the local people. At the beginning, government employees, military officers, traders and shopkeepers donated money to them to buy foodstuffs. Likewise, a portion of the money coming to Afghanistan from Russian is sent to the north yin the name of these refugees.
      The supporters of Dostum, Kayan and the
former communist regime who call themselves as
the founders of the National Islamic Movement do
not mention federal system in their discussions.
Some of them even reject it. They say that
federalism was interpreted by the Afghans as the
disintegration of Afghanistan while they strongly
oppose the disintegration of the country. They
apparently lay stree on unity and peaceful solution
of the Afghan problem. The supporters of Dostum
and Kayan say that they did not insist in the past
Ijoo on a federal type type of system. They say that
some groups of the coalition made the demand,
encouraging us to follow the idea. Now we want our
friends to abandon their insistance on federalism.
Apparently the supporters of Dostum and Kayan
                              4P
Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
deny their friendship with Karmal and their membership in the Parcham faction, but supporters of Karmal are clearly seen in government offices. Karmal stays in Mazar and Pul-e-Khomri.
      The forces loyal to Gen. Momin patrol the highway stretched from Salang up-to Doshi, while the Kayani forces are have been deployed on the highway from Doshi to Samangan and Baghlan. The forces of Ddostum guarding the Tashqurghan-Mazar-Jowzjan high-way. Robbers deprive passengers of their valuables on the Kabul-Mazar-Kundoz highway.
      During the first days of chaos in Tajikistan, money were collected in Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Mazar, Samangan and Badakhshan to send it to the Muslims in Tajekistan. Also Tajiks coming to the north were trained armed in these provinces. They were equipped with heavy and light weapons and
sent back to their areas.
        0
      Also the supporters of the Movement claimed that that they had contacts with some famous
                              49
  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 commanders in south-western zone of the country. In the north all tribes live peacefully, but top positions are occupied by Uzbeks, Tajiks and Hazaras. Turkumans, Arabs and Pashtuns occupy are not appointed in high posts. Besides, Uzbeks, Tajiks, Hazaras and some Arabs have enjoy military supplies.
     Many refugees have recently many arrived from Tajikistan to Samangan, Mazar, Kunduz, Baghlan and Takhar, but most of these refugees live in Samangan and Kunduz. A camp has been set up for them in Tashqurghan. In Kundoz, the refugees have been housed in all educational institutions. The responsibility of the refugees numbering 80,000 persons has been assigned to Dostum and some other organizations. The refugees during the cold winter have faced with many problems. A limited number of World organizations have also started rendering their humanitarian assistance to the refugees. This assistance is not enough.
     The only route to Tajekistan from Afghanistan is the bridge on the Oxus connecting the two
 Nos. 138-141
September 1992-January 1993
countries in the Hairatan port. All the refugees in Kunduz have crossed the river through locallocally made boats. The Tajik refugees have left behind all of their belongings. They have reached Afghanistan empty-handed. A very limited number of them have transported some of their movable properties. They are selling their precious things such as carpets, rugs and gold to meet their daily requirements. They try to receive weapons in exchange for their goods. With the coming of the Tajik refugees, the populations of the city has grown, the prices of essential commodities have gone
Prices in Afghanis in the Kunduz province during December 1992:
up.
     7 kgs wheat
     7 kgs of good quality rice 7 kgs of other kinds of rice 16 kgs of vegetable oil 7 kgs of fire-wood 1 gallon of kerosene
                                                        1,600
 3.500
                                                       2.500 20,000
                                                          500
 2.500
                             51
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
1 gallon of diesel     3,000 
1 kg sugar               700 
1 kg meat (ship)       1,400 
1 kg meat (caw)    900-1,000 
1 egg                    60. 
Prices in Afghans in Mazar-i-Sharif during   
December 1992:                               
 7 kg wheat                            1,200 
 7 kg high quality rice          3,000-4,000 
 7 KG other kinds of rice        2,600-3,000 
 1 kg meat (ship)                1,200-1,300 
 1 kg meat (caw)                        '900 
 1 sugar                             500-600 
16 kg vegetable oil                   18,000 
 1 gallon diesel                 2,000-2,500 
 1 gallon kerasin                2,000-2,500 
 7 kg fire-wood                          600 
                        52
  CLOSURE OF AFGHAN OFFICES IN PAKISTAN
      The Pakistan government has decided to close down all political, cultural and military offices of the Afghan mujahideen by 31st January, 1993. Also, all unregistered foreing NGOs will be also closed until the deadline.
      This report was carried by all Pakistani newspapers on January 1, 1993. The report says that if the said parties or NGOs violate the order they will be treated according to the law.
      The reaction of the leaders of the Afghan
        . -0 '
 mujahid groups in this connection was very saddening, because there is no peace and cenral government in Afghanistan. For this reason, it is a hasty step taken by the government of Pakistan. It
                          53
      A FGHAN     INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 is also contrary to the fourteen-year hospitality extended to the people of Afghanistan.
       An Afghan government spokesman however termed the decision of the government of Pakistan as a good will gesture, saying that it will prove helpful in the restoration of peace in Afghanistan.
       Pakistani newspapers writes that the move is aimed at those Arabs and volunteers who were engaged in military training and warfare inside Afghanistan during the past fourteen years. These people have been registered as terrorists with their governments and their life is in danger.
       Also, on January 17, 1993 the newspapers of Pakistan carried a story on the opening of an office of Dostum in Islamabad. Furthermore, hundreds of Afghan refugees are migrating from Kabul and other cities of Afghanistan to Pakistan, because there is no peace and security in the cities. There is a shortage of food stuff and fuel, and rockets daily hit the city. Some rockets were fired on the Kabul
                        54
Nos. 138-1-41            September 1992-January 1993
city during the past week causing great losses to the people.
     Oot of two million inhabitants, two-third of them have left the capital. A major portion’have left for northern provinces of the country, while the remaining have migrated to Peshawar where the Afghan Refugees Commissionerare issues ration cards to them. Ministers and high-ranking officials of the former Afghan government are amongst the newly arrived refugees in Peshawar.
5B
Clashes in Farah:
     On Nov. 28, fighting began in Farah between the supporters of the local Mujahideen Shura and the Shiite Hezb-e-Wahdat. party for three days.
     Fighting flared up when fighters of Harakat (Mohammadi) were searching a car belonging to Hezb-e-Wahdat. ‘The three-day severe fighting resulted in the killing of 160 persons, and injury to 340 others.
                          56
 YOUR LETTERS AND OUR MAGAZINE
       A large number of Afghans have sent their letters to our Centre. Ee read them carefully and found that the contents of many letters were alike. Although the letters were not according to our policy, we publish the most critical ones:
       "If you are a really an independent cultural organization aryl do not depend on any foreign country, why do not you publish reports as in the past? Previously when a rocket hit Kabul you dried about the diestruction of the city and the violation of human rights.                         •     • a
                                                     . >
       "Besides Kabul the whole Afghanistan faces civil war, insecurity and lawlessness. Who. do not tel the BBC and the VOA that they are unware of the destruction in the country. They do not know that that dozens of people are daily killed in the clashes
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 between Hezb-e-Wahdat, Jamiat, Jowzjani milita and Ittehad. Do they know that public and private property is plundered by the armed groups?
       "What kind of a profession and journalism it is? when a rock hit a house, the BBC shouts that Hekmatyar destroyed the city. However, it does not say anything about the plunder in the city to avoid displeasing the mujahideen of the northern coalition. TA strong smeel of prejudice is rising from your reporting to the BBC.
 Note: Dear brothers, your letters were published. We have cut off of our relations with the BBC and the VO A since February 1989. We have published these reports in our MOnthly Bulletin. The BBC and the VO A have their own correspondents in Kabul. It is the duty of these correspondents to report to their radios whatever they like. We hope that you will save us from some heavy national responsibilities.
                          58