AFGHAN
               INFORMATION
           QENTRE
                          The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
               1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
               2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
                    (a)    International news media
                    (b)    Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
               The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
                    The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
             Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
             Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription Institutions            : US$    100
Individuals             : US$     70
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
    AFGHAN INFORMATION
             CENTER
          Monthly Bulletin No. 130 -131 January - February 1992
CONTENTS
 I.   FOUR ANNIVERSARY OF PROF. MAJROOH’S MARTYRDOM 1
 II.  AFGHANISTAN IN A NEW STRATEGIC POSITION      10
 III. 15TH FEBRUARY A GLORIOUS DAY IN AFGHAN HISTORY 14
 IV.  NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN     17
 V.   SITUATION IN KABUL                           21
 VI.  REPORTS FROM PROVINCES                       28
 VII. COMMANDERS SHURA HODL MEETING IN KHOST       32
 VIII AFGHAN EVENT IN PAKISTAN                     37
      FOUR ANNIVERSARY OF PROF. MAJROOH’S MARTYRDOM
        On February 11, 1988, Prof. Dr. Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh, founder of the Afghan Information Centre (AIC), and a noted scholar of Afghanistan, was martyred by terrorists on the premises of his office in Gharibabad near Peshawar University. Who killed him, and why?
        It is not a simple matter to find a complete answer to the above question, because Afghanistan was the battlefied of a fierce bloody war during the past thirteen years.
        Following the April coup of 1978, the coup leaders arrested and killed Afghan intellectuals, scholars, literary figures and social personalities in Afghan cities, branding them as "opponents of the revolution and agents of agents of bourgeoisie."
        Afghanistan had a different economic situation when the coup took place in the country. Compared to the rural areas, the cities were the main centres of learning and modem education in the country. For this reason, educated people from various parts of the country had gathered in the cities. The massacre of this strata of the Afghan society was a loss of the educational asset of the Afghan people. The coup leaders also began their activities in rural areas to perpetuate their regime, and eliminate or enslave the people. They arrested and killed mullahs, elders and influential persons, branding them as "agents of feudalism."
        The purpose of the whole madness was to disrupt the evolutionary pace of the Afghan society rapidly, so that the Khalqis
                               l
Nos. 130 -131            11th Year      Jan.  & Feb.  1992
 and Parchamis, the so-called vanguard of the working class, remain the only organizations in the Afghan society. They wanted to immediately implement the Russian-copied decrees for the national enslavement of the Afghan people. These acts provoked the people in cities and villages to wage an uprising against the rulers and safeguard their faith and traditions.
        In their history, the Afghans have fought- against their enemies beside carrying out their productive activity in the country. However, the new regime, the product of the April coup, had such a brutal and criminal natur that the people were forced to leave their homeland and migrate to other countries. It is a new development in the Afghan history. The Afghan nation will loose many things in this unprecedented process of their history.
        The process of the exodus of people continued at a slow pace from the country, but the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan forced people to question the existence of their homeland. Also, fine treatment with Afghan refguees in neighbouring countries encouraged mass exodus of people from their country. The rulers of these countries treated Afghan refugees well under the slogan of "Islamic fraternity and humanitarian sympathy." In this*way, a main contradiction, namely the war between the Russian communism and the freedom resistance of the Afghan people, superseded all internal and external contradictions in the Afghan society. All people, from a poor farmer and worker to a trader and professor of the country, stood either by one side or the other in this national war.
        Majrooh was a person among Afghan intellectuals and literary figures who left for Pakistan in February 1988 to reform the resistance. When he arrived in Pakistan, the Afghan refugees, did not have a national party, front or organzation to safeguard their
                                 2 '
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
• rights. He about ten months to study the situation.
         In 1981 he founded a free and independent cultural centre in Peshawar. The first publication of the centre appeared in April 1981.
         During this period, the rulers of our neighbouring countries were engaged in forming groups in the resistance of the Afghan people. The local people were engaged in providing shelter to their Muslim neighbours. In order to defeat the Russians, the international opponents of the Russian communism did not follow their democratic principles in practice; they did what some special agencies wanted. The reason was clear, because the puppet regime of the Russians had turned the Afghan soil into a fire for its people. The regime turned the villages into deserts. When the people began mass exodus from their country, their villages were transformed into ruins. The Afghans basically left their country to safeguard their religion and independence, but they gradually abandoned their main objectives due to some basic needs, certain environmental problems and various ideas in neighbouring countries.
         Prof. Majrooh was writing his book "Ego-Monster" during this period. His book is on a traveller who comes across many incidents He writes that the traveller spends some time in seclusion to study the situation thoroughly. However, unpleasant incidents daily occur in the refugee community. His traveller asks each section of the refugee community to explain the term ’refugee.’
                  •
         His traveller meets an old man who led a better life than other refugees. The man says that absence of leadership has caused the migration of people to other countries. If these wandering people do not find a leader to show them the destination, they will lead a
                                    3
Nos. 130 -131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
 miserable life, the old man says. He tells the traveller that he wanted to become a leader, but he did not enjoy the support of all people.
        Majrooh’s traveller then proceeds to the tents in the desert where he asks Afghan children to tell him something about the life of a refugee. The chidren say that the "blue sky" and "bright sars" have been accompanying them to the area since their departure. They also tell him that the stars embrace each other in the sky, but they play with each other in the desert.
        His traveller sees a group of women who are going to a distant spring to fetch water for their families. The traveller went to the tired women and asks them about their homelessness. The women tell him that everything is unfamiliar for them on the foreign land. It is impossible for us to adapt ourselves to all these unfamiliar things, they say. They say that they become much tired to fetch water for their families from such a distant place. They say that the water of the spring causes diseases among human beings.
        The traveller then meets a grey-haired lady who says, "Look, there is a small cemetry near the tents, but it is expanding day by day." The lady tells the traveller that the refugees has buried many children and old persons in the cemetry, but she says that the burial is temprary. She asks the traveller when they (the refugees) will take back the bones of their dead people to their ancestral cemetry.
        Majrooh’s traveller knows that there is a sense of homelessness in the refugee community. The traveller says that the refugees want to move towards their destination, but they do not have the means to do it.
        The traveller then decides that the refugees should express
                                 4
AFGHAN INFORMATION             Bulletin
their views and pains through a source.
       Prof. Majrooh, who was a traveller in the convoys of refugees, held meetings of literary figures and intellectual persons at his AIC despite, as he always said, "disagreement of rulers." The staff of the centre collected the works of many poets and writers who had expressed their hatred for the puppet regime and the Russians. The centre translated these materials into Pashtu, Dari, English and French and sent them to Afghans and the world. Though the centre had limited means and professional skills, a sense of awareness was growing gradually among the Afghan refugees. All those Afghans came under pressure who, having no party affiliations, carried out cultural, social and political activities for an independent Afghanistan. A number of these Afghans were killed, several remained confined to their houses, and others preferred to abandon their residence here. A few intellectuals accomapnied the convoy of Afghan refugees under heavy pressure. Prof. Majrooh was one of these intellectuals who, according to him, "remained in the mourning valley."
       In his address to the refugees, Majrooh’s traveller says that the life of the dragons (monsters) depends on continuous warfare, bloodshed and subjugation of people. He says that they (dragons) incite people in their own area to fight against each other, if they do not find an enemy out of their dominion. The traveller says that the dragons will die, if they are unable to implement their plans of bloodshed in case of a genuine peace among the people. He says that the dragons do not want the release of prisoners inside the country, they rather wish to capture the foreign lands. They create problems outside their dominion, but they do not wage a revolution internally. The traveller says that the dragons always protect themseves against the change (revolution) to futher their interests. A revolution will
5
Nos.  130 -131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
result in their death. The traveller thus warns the refugees that a person will bring great misery to the people and render great services to the dragons, if he does not wage a revolution of knowledge in his house and creates tensions in the houses of other people.
        It is a fact that we can hardly find an example of the specific nature of the Afghan revolution of freedom. On one hand the people fought the Soviet aggression, and, on the other, they lost their blood in the infighting between the groups. Instead of self- reliance, these groups, which had been formed outside Afghanistan, were influenced by their regional and international partners. The history of national liberation struggles in the third world has shown that an allied movement cannot lead an uprising by the people. The Afghan uprising, a product of Afghan nature, was also driven towards impurity at the behest of others.
        Fortunately, new developments took place in the world after the elaspe of eight years. The Soviet leadership talked about their withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Afghan people needed a strong national leadership at this crucial juncture, but internal differences and foreign interference led the nation to further dissentions.
        Majrooh believed that ego is the main enemy of human being in his individual and social life. He addresses it as dragon (monster) in his book. The horror of the ego monster of Afghan rulers drove the people to foreign countries. He says that new rulers emerged among these refugees with their ego monster.
        In his book, the refugees say that they might face another miserable phase in their life, if they do not choose a leadser immediately They say that the blood- thirsty wolves will eat them m the desert. These wolves, which enter the tents of the refugees in
6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE -    Bulletin
 the garb of uncultured human beings, steal their chicken. Hence, the wandering people decide to choose a leader for themselves, but they come across many power-hungry persons who cannot not make a discrimination between the right and wrong.
        Each of these "power-hungry" leaders had one message with them. They promised the refugees that they would defeat the enemy and establish a system in the country. The wandering refugees listened to and followed some blind leaders.
        Majrooh’s traveller tells the refugees that they have forgotten their desert life in view of their obedience to the claimants of leadership. He questions them whether they do not see their friendship with the local wolves. He tells them that these leaders go to foreign countries, collect large amounts of money in the name of poor refugees and hand them over to local wolves. The local wolves then gives an amount of this money to the leaders who pay very little amount of money to the refugees.
        In his book, Majrooh narrates the dream of a refugee to his fellow men.
        The refugee once dreamt of a destroyed Ghazni with complete dust over it. He saw green bushes over the shrines of saints and leaders. All men of learning and wisdom were resting in the ground. Suddenly he saw a man with a white sheet among the bushes. The man was Hakim Sanai as he came towards him. Hakim said that he was concerned about some people who have rised as leader among the refugees.
        Majrooh’s traveller saw increasing power-show by the leaders through their local wolves. These leaders rented splendid houses to
                                 7
Nos. 130 -131 11thYear Jan. & Feb. 1992
receive people and built underground cells for prisoners. As a result, the refugees were divided into several groups under the new leaders. They criticized each other and then started killing among themselves. They shed the blood of each other, but their worries increased about their blind leaders. The refugees tried to seek another option. Some tried to choose an undisputed person as their leader and assign the rule of their country to a prudent and noble person. For this reason, they invited a clever person who had been forgotten by the wandering refugees. He was the sovreign king who opened the gates of the city for the dragon and isolated sat silently in a corner.
       Prof. Majrooh, who was accompanying the convoy of refugees, saw that the convoy was threatened by internal divisions instead of the aggressive enemy. The pioneers were gradually leading the convoy towards dangers.
       In order to guid the wandering refugees towards their destination, Majrooh decided that the AIC, as a cultural centre, should collect the views of common people, so that they create necessary conditions for deciding the future leadership of Afghanistan. In this connection, the centre carried out a six-month survey in various refugee camps to know their opnion. The result of the survey was published in the issue of July 1987 of Monthly Bulletin. Beside other activities by the AIC, the result of the survey, which was a bitter experience for many influential people, threatened the future of the centre with tragic incidents.
       Though the independent publications of the AIC have had a great value for the friends of the Afghan jehad, the staff of the centre, in their meetings, conferences and social and cultural activities, have moved towards the destination side by side with its prideful nation.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       The death of Prof. Majrooh might have encouraged the enemies of freedom to believe that terror can stop the movement of convoys. However, it is wrong to have such an opinion, because the society raises new sons in its folds with the elapse of time. These sons raise the the voice of people according to the demands of the time and encourage a nation to rise against the tyrants.
Though martyrdom of Prof. Majrooh deprived Afghanistan of a noted personality and caused a great loss to AIC, we hear the voice for which he shed his blood.
^                           yU  ^ yU yN
4* ^ 4* ^ ^        4* 4*  v 4^ 4^       ^    ^   4*
        AFGHANISTAN IN A NEW STRATEGIC SITUATION
        In an unexpected press conference on January 27, Mohammad Siddiq Kanjo, Pakistan’s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, announced a change in the Afghan policy of his country. Pakistan, he said, fully accepts the UN five-point plan for an Afghan settlement. He also declared his country’s support for convening an Afghan assembly.
 The announcement came twenty days after a meeting between Gen. Asif Nawaz, Chief of Pakistan’s Army Staff, and Gen. Abdul Wali, son-in-law and cousin of Zahir Shah, in Rome. The two leaders discussed various ways to solve the Afghan issue.
        Meanwhile, Gen. Hamid Gul, former chief of Pakistan’s military intelligence, was removed from his post recently. Gen. Gul was a strong supporter of a military solution to the Afghan issue.
 Moreover, rumours from Kabul say that talks have continued on various levels between the Kabul regime and all mujahideen organizations during the past several months. Simultaneously, the neighbours of Afghanistan are gradually improving their relations with the Kabul regime. In this connection, the present ties between Iran and the Kabul regime is an example of this fact.
 The shift in Pakistan’s Afghan policy is in fact an unexpected event, because Afghan mujahideen played an important role in
                           10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
implementing its policy of self-defence during the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan. Besides, General Ziaul Haq, former military ruler of Pakistan, extended full assistance to the ideological friends of some particular religous parties of Pakistan among the mujahideen. Hence, the influence of these parties is clearly visible on the fronts of the Afghan jehad. However, the recent stand of Pakistan is not only a product of the current developments in the world but it has also brought about the following three major facts:
First, It is widely said that Gen. Asif Nawaz, Chief of Pakistan’s Army Staff, is a supporter of democratic system.
       Second, The IJI government, which is a government of industrialists and traders in Pakistan, makes extensive efforts to further industrialise the country.
       Third, Pakistan has lost its strategic importance for the U.S. following the new developments in the region. Hence, it tries to transform itself into a new economic and regional power.
       The world witnessed two major events during the past year, i.e. the damage to the strong Iraqi army and the emergence of independent republics, within the Communist empire of the former Soviet Union. These two events had a great impact on Pakistan.
       Pakistan, which is a strong military power in the Islamic world, has always remained a rival of India in the region. However, it has lost its impprtance in the eyes of its Western allies due to the absence of their rival in the region. The West does not want the emergence of another power in the region, especially coupled with a radical threat. In addition, the IJI government is confronted with the opposition of Pakistan People’s Party that enjoys support in the
                           11
Nos. 130 - 131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
society. For this reason, the government of Nawaz Sharif prefers practical steps to election slogans to avoid the politics of might.
        Pakistan is confronted with a new economic situation as a result of the collapse of the Soviet empire. In this connection, the Central Asian Republics, which have remained dependent for years on the Soviet economy, do not have an advanced economic system. On the contrary, there are innumerable private light industries in Pakistan where major industrialists enjoys a special status in the government of the IJI. As the products of these industries do not fully atrtract regional and world markets due to their inferior quality, they are stored in various godowns of the country. There is a good market for these products in Central Asia. If there is peace in Afghanistan, Pakistani products will be available on cheaper prices than those of other countries.
        Though Afghanistan has lost its strategic imporance, it has gained great economic signifiance in the region. Pakizstan and Afghanistan will jointly benefit from this importance, if there is a stable system in Afghanistan.
        The recent statements by officials of Pakistan’s Foreign Office indicate that they believe in the fact that Afghan mujahideen organizations are unable to create a political unity for a government and peace in Afghanistan. With their 13-year experience of guerilla warfare, these groups may create some obstacles for peace in the country, but if a government acceptable to the people is formed in Afghanistan, some mujahideen can oppose such a government militarily or politically. Political activity is a recognised right of any Afghan under a democratic government.
        The change in Pakistan’s Afghan policy has removed a great
                            12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
obstacle for an Afghan settlement. However, there are many ups and downs on this thorny path. There is a need for more practical steps on this path, because Pakistain and Afghanistan are travelling in the same boat. Our prosperity and misery depend on each other. The persons, who tell the old stories of the strained relations to the people, talk about the time when the world was a battlefiend between socialism and capitalism. These are the out-dated arguments for the continuation of war and military superiority, because each reasonable Afghan knows that our countries can lead a healthy life through mutual respect.
                                                   vl#                     *!>          vU vt#        vL#  vf>
                                                                            ^ 4^ 4^ 4^ ^               4^ v 4^
                            13
     15TH FEBRUARY: A GLORIOUS DAY IN AFGHAN HISTORY
       The third anniversary of the completion of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan falls on February 15, 1992. This day is a product of great sacrifices in the history of Afghanistan. The people waged their struggle at the cost of their lives to attain their freedom. Each tribe and ethnic group, according to its capacity, exalted the banner of freedom in every corner of the country. The struggle resulted in the killing of hundreds of thousands of Afghans. The war transformed the whole country into ruins.
       Apparently, the Soviet withdrawal took place according to the accords signed by the external parties of the Afghan war and the Kabul regime in Geneva on May 15, 1988. It was regrettable that the heroic nation of Afghanistan was not represented by any Afghan in the talks conducted by Pakistanis, Americans, Russians and the Kabul regime.
       The accords had many shortcomings to fully ensure the national interests of Afghanistan. In addition, a violation of its principles by its parties led to the continuation of three-year war in the country. Again, innumerable Afghans were killed, and some towns, such as Jalalabad, Gardez, Zabul and Kandahar, suffered heavy damage. The warring sides received more destructive weapons from their allies. They used these weapons with full generousity on their land.
       These attempts, however, could not disrupt the equilibrium
14
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
of this tragic war in the country. The analysis of many people did not turn to be true. Neither Kabul was captured in two weeks, nor the mujahideen suffered a defeat. Despite the elapse of three years, each side talk about the defeat of the other. Everybody tries to defend himslef in his position.
        A bitter and unacceptable reality, which gradually emerges from the current war, is an increasing threat to the national sovreignty of a unified Afghanistan. There are two reasons for this harmful process.
        First, the armed struggle of the Afghan people against the Russians and their puppet regime could bring about a national leadership in the country. The people could not choose a national leader to gather around his person and entrust him the rule of the country. Beside their assistance to the Afghan resistance, the parties involved in the Afghan conflict divided the Afghan nation into different groups to further their national interests. Each tried to strengthen its friends according to his wish. In this way, a collapse threatened the Afghan society, which depended on strong tribal relationships. Due to the lack of socio-economic change in the society, the individuals of the society got involved in ideological issues. However,* economic balance and imbalance of the past remain intact. So, we can say that ideological issues has affected the tribal structure of Afghanistan, but it has not caused any heavy damage to its foundations. Beside testing new ideas for the past thirteen years, Afghans are again paying their attention to their past institutions.
        Second, a. great change took place in the international and regional situation without the knowledge of the analysts of the regime and the resistance. The disintegration of the Soviet empire
                           15
Nos.  130 -131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
resulted in the emergence of independent Asian republics.
        If the trends of separatism cross the borders of the former Soviet Union, we cannot rule out their negative impact on Afghanistan. In such circumstances, a new unwanted geographical problem will threaten Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, India and Afghanistan. According to the latest reports from northern Afghanistan, a certain group of the Afghan resistance is engaged in chewing gums with the republic of Tajikistan. Such a move is harmful to the national sovreignty of Afghanistan, and poses a threat to the countries of the region.
        Furthermore, regional police has lost its importance due to the Gulf War. In this regard, Pakistan lost its importance as a frontline state against Russia in the eyes of the U.S. Pakistan is left alone in the region along with its political and border issues, a legacy of the the regional and international conflicts during the cold war. A realistic approach by Pakistani leaders, who are to some extent free from the chains of tanks, might bring an end to many imbalanced regional moves, because the interests of their country lies in a peaceful sovreign Afghanistan. A stable and sovreign Afghanistan is more important for a united Pakistan than that in the past.
        Anyhow, keeping in view the epxeriences of their long history, the Afghans should accept some new realities, because the establishment of a independent political system -- a system that guarantees the rights of all sections of the Afghan society — in a united and free Afghanistan is the most crucial question for each Afghan. We can then say that Fifteenth February is the day of the liberation of Afghanistan from the Russians, and the Afghan nation will take pride in it.
                           16
               NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN
      A revolt was staged by regime some militiamen in northern Afghanistan in January. The regime temporarily lost some militia units, but an immediate bombardment of militia units around Hairatan prevented more revolts in the region. Several troops were killed or wounded in the bombardment.
      Reports from northern provinces of Afghanistan say that contacts are under way at various levels on both sides of the Oxus. It means that high ranking officials of the Kabul regime enjoy strong rleations with government authorities in central Asian countries acorss the Oxus. Also, powerful mujahideen groups on this side of the border try to open a new chapter of negotiations with their fellow ethnic groups in Uzbekista, Tajekistan and Turkumanestan about their future issues.
      The AIC received reports on the above developments.
      A mujahid, who has lost a leg in an internal clash in northern Afghanistan, has arrived in Peshawar during the second half of February. Here are his views:
      The provinces of Kunduz, Samangan, Jowzjan, Badakhshan, Faryab, Balkh, Takhar, Badghis and Herat, which share a common border with the countries of central Asia, are culturally, economically and politically more backward than the areas across the Oxus. Though the peoples on both sides of the border have common
                            17
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
relations, they lack the vitally important principle of a national entity.leaders in all these countries are people who have repaired reofrmed ideology like the Kabul regime. For this reason, the raod between Kabul Hairatan and Pul-e-Khumri and Shaer Khan port , whcih were vitally important for Afghan government for its trade with the Soviet Union, the imortance of the roads have inceased several folds. For example, the government authorities of these countries follow an ideology which is identical to that of the Kabul regime. The Kabul-Hairatan and Pulikhumri-Sher Khan Bandar highways were commerically important for the government in Kabul, but its significance has highly increased in the present circumstances.
       The above two highways pass several provinces in northern Afghanistan. The main road from Kabul to Pulikhumri (Baghlan) is divided into two roads, i.e. the road between Pulikhumri and Sher Khan Port via Kunduz, and the road between Pulikhumri and Hairatan Port via Samangan. The eight provinces are mainly inhibited by Uzbeks, Tajiks, Pashtuns, Hazaras, Turkumans and Hazaras. The road between Kunduz and Pulikhumri is dominated by Pashtuns, but most of these people have sought shelter in neighbouring countries following the April coup of 1978. *
       Ninety percent of regime troops in these provinces are engaged in maintaining the security of the two highways. The remaining troops guard regime bases in these provinces. The regime has deployed various forces in the whole region to ensure the security of the two highways.
       For example, Jowzjani militiamen guard the road between Sher Khan Port and Kunduz, while the road between Kunduz and Pulikhumri is controlled by the Sayed Kayan militia, Jowzjani militia and armed units of the Ministry of Defence.
                            18
 Nos. 130 - 131
 11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
       Accordinly, the road between the last border post of Baghlan (Rabatak and Chashma-e-Sher) and Pulikhumri and the road between Pulikhumri and Jabalsaraj are guarded by the militia units of Sayed Kayan. The road between Rabatak and Hairatan Port is guarded by Jowzjani militiamen and units of defence ministry.
       The two highways witnessed complete insecure conditions during the past four months. Jowzjani Sayed Kayan militiamen plundered government and private goods on the highways. As a result, the regime faced a shortage of consumer goods in Kabul beside innumberable complaints by traders.
       The central government in Kabul directed Lt. Gen. Juma Asak, regime commander of northern zone, to take ncessary measures for the safety of all convoys on the two highways. In this connection, Asak ordered troops and tanks of the defence ministry to escort the convoys. He also replaced deputy, Maj. Gen. Momin (a resident of Andarab) with a Pashtun general.
       In retaliation, Jowzjani militiamen blocked the road between Kunduz and Sher Khan Port. Gen. Momin opened fire on the new general who was injured in the incident. The following day, regime aircraft bombarded positions of Jowzjani militiamen along the road between Hairatan Port and Kunduz. In this way, a major part of regime militiamen led by Lt. Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostam and Maj. Gen. Sayed Jaffar Naderi staged a revolt against the units of the defence ministry under the command of Lt. Gen. Juma Asak.
       In Kabul, Najib directed high ranking officials, such as Gen. Ghulam Farooq Yaqubi (minister of national security), Gen. Aslam Watanjar, Raz Mohammad Paktin and Lt. Gen. Manukai Mangal, to visit northern Afghanistan. They spent three days in northern
                            19
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Afghanistan.
        According to reports, major militia units were controlled by Abdul Rashid Dostam (an Uzbek), Sayed Jaffar Naderi (a Hazara) and Momin (a Tajik), whereas the command of the units of defence ministry was in the hands of Pashtun generals in northern Afghanistan until February 15.
        The reports said that mujahideen groups in the region jumped into the field to exploit the inter-regime differences. With its comparatively strong position in the region, the Supervisory Council of the North developed contacts with Jowzjani militia, Sayed Kayan militiamen and Gen. Momin. However, these contacts took a different direction when disarmamet of Pashtun mujahids began in some areas. The people described it as a threat to the very existence of Afghanistan.
        An traveller says that there is no internal clashes between the mujahideen in northern parts of the country. Only a few clashes have taken place between the Supervisory Council of the North and Jamiat (Rabani) in some areas. The last clash took place between the Council and Commander Abdul Hai Haqjo of Jamiat in the district of Ishkamish. The clash resulted in the killing of eleven persons and the capture of some people by Haqjo. The Council says that it clashes with its opponents to force them respect its rules in the areas under its control, so that the residents live in peace and tranquility.
v   v   v
           SITUATION IN KABUL
Iran sends supplies to Kabul:
       On January 9, two Iranian transport aircraft carrying foodstuff and clothes landed at Kabul airport. The items were immediately distributed to the residents of Kabul.
       Iranian aircraft have been transporting various supplies to the province of Bamyan in central Afghanistan for the past two months. Iran has also sent a quantity of foodstuff to Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
       The Iranian Charge de Affairs in Kabul says that Iran will continue its humanitarian aid to Afghans until they can.
Najib Restores Zahir Shah’s Property:
       In a decree in January, Najib restored the property of former king Zahir Shah. His property had been confiscated by the Kabul regime after the April coup of 1978.
Interview with Kabul Trader:
        A trader, who has recently arrived from Kabul, gave the following account of the situation in Kabul:
        The residents of Kabul face numerous problems, such as food
                                  21
 Nos. 130 -131
 11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
and fuel shortage, mujahideen rocket attacks, frequent house-to-hourse searches and plunder, in the city. Everybody has a thirst for peace in the city. An attempt for an Afghan settlement is a matter of pleasure for them, but they are disappointed when they hear about an obstacle in peace efforts.
        Corruption is at its apex in educational, administrative and military institutions of the regime. Bribery is a common practice in all educational, administrative and military institutions. Bribes are accepted by people of all ranks—from a peon to a minister in nonmilitary offices and from a soldier to a general in military units. Everybody tries to make money.
        Office attendance is very poor in government offices in the city. The employees leave their offices at 1:00 p.m. instead of 4:00 p.m. Some eighty percent employees attend their offices only four or five times a month. They pay half of their salary to their office heads to show them present on the attendance register. They sell various things or do hard work to earn bread for their families.
        Despite their hard work, the employees cannot solve their fuel, food and clothing probelms in winter. Most of them collect waste paper,etc. on the roads of the city to meet their fuel needs.
        Rents of houses are extremely high in the city. Afs. 10,000 is the lowest rent of a muddy house in the city. A three-room houses is rented by two three families; A seven-member family tries to live in one room of the house.
        Due to high prices and food shortage, the residents cannot visit their relatives in months. They visit them on occasions of sorrows and joys. The employees receive cash money, because they
                                   22
AFGHAN INFORMATION        -    Bulletin
have not received their ration since August. The cash cannot meet fouth portion of their ration needs. On the contrary, the regime has stored large amounts of foodstuff for its military personnel.
        The educational standard is very low at educational institutions in the city. Lack of qualified teachers and poor attendance is the main reasons for the lew standard. The students cannot attend their institutions regularly. They do physical work to support their families. There are many factions and sub-factions in the Homeland Party. Both the Khalq and Pacham factions try to attract people to their ranks. Najib tries to remove doubtful military and civil officers from key posts in the government. He removes military and police commanders in every six months in Kabul and in the provincial centres, escpecially when knows that they have established links with Karmal, Kishtman or Khalqis. Karmal is under house arrest in Kabul. The regime keep an eye on his visitors. Najib tries to please both the Khalqis and the Parchamis by offering them high posts. He tries to show himself as an impartial person, but he cannot free himself from the influence of party members.
        The ministry of state security, formerly known as KHAD, is the only reliable body of the regime. In order to further their influence and accumulate their financial resources, the members of this body try to have a say in certain programs. Its high officials try to prevent Najib from dealing directly with the people. They even create obstacles in Najib’s promises with the people. They think that they deserve all concessions. For example, they are sabotaging Najib’s promise regarding the formation of tribal militia units.
        Lack of insecure conditions is another problem faced by the residents of Kabul and other cities in the country. Regime militiamen plunder houses of people in the provinces of Jowzjan,
23
 Nos. 130 -131
11th Year
.ton. & Feb. 1992
Balkh, Kunduz, Parwan and Kabul. In particular, the notorious militia units of Rashid Dostam, popularly known as Gelamjam militiamen, have plundered innumerable people in these provinces. Though they conduct the security of highways and cities, they have created insecure conditions in the areas by plundering people in the name of searches. They have even forced girls at gun point to go with them to their posts.
       Last year, the residents, including Parchamis and Khalqis, complained to Najib against the excesses of Gelamjam militiamen. As a result, some regime units forced these militiamen move to the regime posts outside Kabul. These militiamen, however, re-entered the city. As they live in the apartments on Jada-e-Maiwand, they have again created a law and order situation in the area. They deprive people of their money and watches at night in the area. For this reason, nobody moves in the area at night. Even taxi-drivers dare not move in the area after 7:00 p.m. Regime troops recently carried out two operations in the area to force these militiamen out of the city. Similar practice is also common in northern provinces of Afghanistan. Najib cannot exert more pressure on these militiamen who constitute a major portion of the regime troops. As the leaders of these militiamen have earned a lot of money, they have bought posh houses in Mazar-e-Sharif, Jowzjan and Kabul.
       The residents are optimistic about a political settlement of the Afghan issue. They detest Najib, but they are also disappointed with the mujahideen. If the current efforts for an Afghan settlement fail, it will affect the morale of the residents. There are rumours that Najib will purge in his party and remove key persons from their posts, if the current efforts end in a failure. Some people say that Najib might dissolve the Homeland Party and form another party.
                                   24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       On December 27, (anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan), supporters of Zahir Shah held a second meeting in the city. The meeting continued only for two hours. The residents did not attend the meeting in large numbers, because they were afraid of the consequences ( arrests by KHAD) after the meeting. Also, 'they preferred to stay at their houses for fear of mujahideen rockets, which is a common practice on such days.
       The banks of the city do not have sufficient amount of money. In order to fill the gap, the regime is reportedly planning to to print and circulate currency notes of some 3,000,000,000 Afghanis. This will result in total inflation in the country.
       The Russians and the Central Asians try to transfer foreign money to their countries. They receive dollars through Afghan traders in Kabul. Some Russians were also seen in Sarai Shahzada (exchange money market) where they bought dollars in exchange for millions of Afghanis. The regime also tries to collect dollars from its available sources, such as government hotels, industries and the Ariana Afghan Airlines. The regime tries to bring down the value of dollars in the balck market:     In this regard,  the regime has
announced that it will punish those people who violate the government rate of Afs. 1,300 per dollar.
       The people cannot receive more than 50,000 Afghanis a day from the banks of the city. If a person needs one million Afs, he can receive this amount in twenty daily visits. Obviously, you cannot buy anything with 50,000 Afghanis in the city.
jJC 5jC                   JjS 5jC iJS          5}C              JfC
25
Nos. 130 -131
11th
Jan. & Feb. 1992
PRICE LIST OF CONSUMER GOODS IN JANUARY 1992
Item                          Price in Afghanis            
Wheat Flour                              nkgs.       2,500 
Rice (No. 1)-                 n kgs.                 5,000 
Rice (No. 2)                  n kgs.                 4,000 
Rice (No. 3)                  n kgs.                 3,000 
Firewood                      n kgs.                   800 
Potatoes                      n kgs.                 2,000 
Onions                        n kgs.                 4,000 
Sugar                         n kgs.                 4,900 
Mutton                        /kg.                   2,200 
Beef                          /kg.                   1,500 
Green Tea                     /kg.                   4,500 
Egg                           /piece                 40/50 
Petrol                        /litre                 1,800 
Kerosene Oil                  /litre                 1,200 
Diesel                        /litre                   900 
Normal Hotel Meal             /person                 1400 
Khair Khana-City Taxi Fare                           1,500 
Khair Khana-City Minibus Fare /person                   50 
         Meanwhile, Commander    Iqbal Shah, a  mujahideen 
commander in Paghman, says    that the war has caused vast 
destruction to the district.
        In a recent interview with an AIC correspondent, he said that the war has caused destruction of all houses in the area, where some 2,000 families lived prior to the war in the country. In addition, agricultural lands and karezes (underground water channels) have
                                   26
AFGHAN INFORMATION        -    Bulletin
suffered damage due to the war. The side valleys of Zargar, Pashai and Paghman are controlled both by the mujahideen and the Kabul regime. However, the mujahideen enjoy full control over the side valley of Arghandi. There are some 200 families in the lower part of Arghandi.
        There are several units of Gelamjams (Jowzjani militiamen) who guard regime posts in the area. The posts of these militiamen are located close to those of the mujahideen in the area. In November* 1991, thirty-six Gelamjams surrendered to one Commander Ghulam Sakhi in the area. A number of the militiamen left for Pakistan without a mujahideen escort. As a result, they were captured by the mujahideen of Commander Amanullah of Wardak. Six militiamen were killed on the sport, wherewas the fate of the remaining was not known.
                                                          ikU ijj
                                                                                  ^
27
REPORTS FROM PROVINCES
Kandahar
       Heavy agricultural agricultural continues in Kanadahar, though the residents have cultivated more poppy crops in the province. There is abundance of foodstuffs in the province, because there is a free exchange of goods between Kandahar and Pakistan.
       There is a lack of security in some parts of Kandahar city. In this connectioon, the residents of Hazrat Babaji and Mullah Alam Akhund are under the constant pressure of burglars and regime troops at night. Regime troops enter the houses of the people in the name of house-search, but they plunder them.
       On January 24, mujahideen ground-to-ground rockets various parts of the city. As a result, dozens of people were killed or wounded.
       Meanwhile, mujahideen rockets caused heavy damage to the building of a woolen factory, east of Kandahar city. The fire of the rockets burnt down many products of the factory.
       During the first week of December, Commander Nematullah, district administrator of mujahideen in Spin Boldak, began an operation against regime posts around Kandahar airbase.
       As a result, 15 mujahids were killed or wounded. The wounded were evacuated to hospitals in Quetta, Baluchistan.
                           28
              .L
              \
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        During the second week of December, mujahideen forced regime troops to accept their demand regarding the removal of a security post near Kharqa-e-Sharif in Kandahar. The troops accepted the demand following mujahideen shelling of their positions with rockets and mortars in the area.
        In another incident, regime authorities closed two new cinemas when a mujahideen rocket killed three women in a house in the city. The mujahideen carried out the rocket attack to exert pressure on the regime to close down the new cinemas in the city. There is one cinema in Kandahar.
        On January 14, an internal clash occurred in the district of Arghandab when Commander Mohammad Nadir ambushed and killed another commander in the area. Following the incident, an exchange of shelling between the mujahideen of the two commanders resulted in injuries to three mujahideen.
Helmand
       During the first week of February, Commander Maulawi Mohammad Rasul Akhundzada of Harakat clashed with commanders of other organizations backed by regime troops in various parts of
Helmand,
       According* to a report from our corespondent in Quetta, Commander Maulawi Ata Mohammad of Jamiat, Commander Haji Bahlol of Mahaz (Pir Gailani), Commander Abdul Rahman of-Hezb (Hekmatyar) and Commander Yahya (Hezb) backed by regime tanks
                          29
Nos. 130 -131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
 and troops attacked the positions of Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada in the districtrs of Maiwand, Grishk and Lashkargah. The regime troops captured positions of Maulawi Akhundzada in Marja and Deh Adam Khan but lost them due to the renewed attacks of the latter.
        In the clashes that continued till February 10, some 70 persons were killed and more 200 wounded on both sides.
        On January 20, an exchange of fire took place between Commander Maulawi Abdul Ghafar of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) and four other commanders in the area of Maiwand. The fire did not result in any casulaties.
 Farvab
        A traveller, who has recently arrived from Faryab, says that the residents of the province face different kinds of economic, health and eductional problemns in their daily life. He gave the following account of the situation in the province:
        The economic life of the people is terrible, because they cannot cultivate their lands. Due to the lack of security, natural disasters and shortage of seeds, chemical fertilizer and oxen, many people are unable to carry out agricultural activity in their respective areas. Besides, a severe reduction has taken place in the products of those who cultivate their lands on a limited scale in the province. Swarms of locusts destroyed many crops in the province this year. There is no agricultural activity on seventy-five percent land in the province.
        A ninety-five percent reduction has occurred in livestock
                          30
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 products, such as Karakul skins, rugs and wool. These were the main products of the province prior to the war in the country.
        The regime solves food problems of its supporters in the towns, but it does not pay any attention to those who do not support it actively. Obviously, the residents of the rural areas also face many economic problems. They have not received any UN assistance. Food is also a problem for the mujahideen in the province. They carry out occasional attacks on regime posts and convoys to capture foodstuff and weapons and solve their economic problems.
        Illiteracy is at its apex in the liberated areas, though regime authorities run a few schools in the towns under their control.
        There are many health probelms in the province. There are few clinics to meet the needs of the people. Tuberculosis, pneumonia, cough, dysentry, diarrohea, small pox, malnutrition and skin probelms are common in the province.
        The traveller said that prices of consumer goods were very high in Faryab. He gave the following price list in Faryab in February 1992:
 Item                                          Price in  Afghanis
Wheat Flour     n kgs.       2000 
Rice (No. 1)   /7 kgs.       5000 
Firewood     • /7 kgs.    500-600 
Animal Fat     /7 kgs.      13000 
Salt           /7 kgs.  1000-1200 
Edible Oil     /16 kgs.     30000 
Raisins         Hkgs.        3000 
                          31
       COMMANDERS SHURA HOLD MEETING IN KHOST
        On January 28, the Nationwide Council of Mujahideen Commanders held its third meeting in the area of Zhawar in southern Khost under the chairmanship of Commander Haqani of Paktia.
        The meeting decided to continue the armed jehad in Afghanistan, form an Islamic government in the country, oppose the UN five-point plan and hold future meetings of the Council.
        There were some rumours in Peshawar about the absence of some commanders in the meeting. In this connection, in an interview with an AIC correspondent, Commander Haqani, Chairman of the Council, said:
        "As. the commission for supervision and administration of the Council had decided that 600 commanders had the right to attend the third meeting of the Council, we invited those commanders to third meeting. The meeting was attended by some 584 commanders of Afghanistan. Some commanders of northern parts of Afghanistan could not reach the venue of the meeting due to weather problems. Some have their own views on the political developments.
        "Some commanders are under the influence of resistance groups, though the Council is independent of the organizations based in Iran and Pakistan in its viewpoint."
 Regarding the UN Plan. Commander Haqani said:
        "The organizations of the Afghan resistance have their own
                            32
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
views on the UN plan. The moderates support the plan. Jamiat, which is in fact a supporter of the moderates, acts according to its interests in the plans between the moderates and the fundamentalists. The organizations of Sayaf and Khalis want the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Hekmatyar wants the formation of an interm government by weak Afghan personalities, so that they are removed easily and replaced by his government.
        "The Council has not presented any perfect plan for an Afghan solution, but we try to take a similar step after another meeting. However, I must say that it is difficult to implement the plan, because three of its five points do not correspond to Islamic principles."
        When asked about his opinion on the right person for a transfer of power in Kabul, Haqani said that there were many groups who wanted power in Afghanistan. He said that there was no powerful force in Afghanistan to run the country. We should continue the war, so that Najib is forced to invite the mujahideen for a government, he said.
        Haqani favoured the idea of a grand council of persons of all sections in the Afghan society. He said that such a council should form a government in Afghanistan. He, however, said that the Nationwide Council of Mujahideen Commanders was opposed to the suggestions of some persons who wanted a replacement of the Kabul regime by a a weak interim government. He said that such a suggestion would drive Afghanistan towards disintegration.
Khost POWs Released:
        On January 21, an AIC correspondent visited the base of
                           33
Nos. 130 -131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
 Zhawar in southern Khost to watch the release of 1200 POWs by Commander Haqani of Paktia. The POWs had been captured by the group of Commander Haqani upon the fall of Khost to the mujahideen ten months ago.
        In a ceremony, Commander Haqani awarded certificates of discharge to the soldiers and delivered a speech to them. He said that they were being released in accordance with an amnesty declared by the mujahideen ten months ago in Khost.
        Commander Haqani disclosed that the town of Khost was defended by some 5,000 armed persons. He said that a large number of local militiamen left the town for Pakistan along with their families when the mujahideen declared an amnesty for regime supporters at the beginning of the Khost battle. He said that the mujahideen captured two thousand and five thousand armed persons upon the fall of Khost. He said that his group captured some 1,700 troops, including 190 officers and five generals.
        Haqani said that a large number of soldiers were released for health and other reasons. Some soldiers, he said, .escaped their detention centres.
        Regarding regime officers and generals, Commander Haqani said that he would decide their cases within some days. He, however, added that he had pardoned them.
        Commander Haqani praised the honesty of the POWs during their detention and asked them to pardon if a mujahid had unconscously mistreated them.
        Haqani announced that he would provide clothes to the
34
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 soldiers and pay money for their journey to their areas. He, however, asked the soldiers that they should not join the ranks of the Kabul regime. The soldiers chanted the slogan "Death to the Kabul Regime" during his speech.
        The AIC correspondent said the POWs had little complaint about the treatment o/ the mujahideen despite the fact that most of them had been suffering from stomach and chest problems. He said that five POWs had died of dysentry and pneumonia in the base.
        Some 450 POWs were released by the mujahideen of hflahaz (Pir Gailani) following their capture in Khost.
 Ningrahar
 Afghan Traders Open New Route
        Since early January Afghan traders have been using a new route to transport their goods to Peshawar from Jalalabad. The route runs through the difficult road between Qilagai in Kuz Kunar and Nawa Pass on the Afghan-Pakistani border.
        According to reports from the area, between 40 and 60 trucks carrying television sets, refrigerators, utensils and fruit daily leave Jalalabad.
        The last regime post is located in Yasin Baba, where regime militiamen charges between 600,000 and 1,000,000 Afghanis on each vehicle as custom duty. The militiamen daily receive millions of Afghanis. The amount is distributed among the commander of the post, the general commander of the route and KHAD employees.
                                  35
 Nos. 130 -131
11th Year
Jan. & Feb. 1992
        The transporters also pay heavy charges to the mujahideen who have set various check-points on the route. The amount is distributed on the bases of percentage between the mujahideen.
        The main route between Torkham and Jalalabad for the past three years. Afghan traders and tribal traders of Pakistan tried their best to open the main route, but it was not allowed by the mujahideen.

          AFGHAN EVENTS IN PAKISTAN
Baluchistan
Refugees Hold Demonstrations
       Between January 10 and 18, supporters of Zahif Shah held demonstrations in various refugee camps to express their support for the tallks between Gen. Abdul Wali, son-in-law of Zahir Shah, and Asef Nawaz, Pakistan
Chief of Army Staff in Rome. The speakers described the talks as a fruitful step towards an Afghan settlement.
       On December 17, some 150 tribal elders, including Shia elders, organized a meeting in Quetta in connection with the arrival Haji Karim Khan Alizai and Sado Asil from Rome. The elders suggested that a commission should be set up to meet mujahideen leaders in Peshawar regarding an Afghan settlement. They said that the commission would design a policy following its meeting with the leaders in Peshawar.
Refugees Leave for Home:
       A number of refugees are daily leaving their camps in Baluchistan for. their dwellings inside Afghanistan. The holders of ration passes receive Rs. 3,300 and some sacks of wheat from UN officials inside Afghanistan. They received the UN aid on Pakistan territory previously.
                                   37
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        Meanwhile, six members of a refugee family . were killed when their vehicle was drowned as a result of a flood in the river of Tarnak on January 27. The driver of the vehicle, identified Najib, was also drowned in the water. Ironically, a child survived the floody water.
        The family was returning to Afghanistan when the tragic incident occurred in the area.
        There is a lack of security in the refugee camp of Surkhab. Several incidents of burglary were reported to have occurred in the camp.
Armed Men Plunder AIG Cashiers:
       On January 26, armed men deprived two cashiers of the Afghan Interim Govemment(AIG) of Rs.950,000 in Quetta.
       According to a report from Quetta, the cashiers were attacked near the sub-office of the Education Ministry of the AIG. The cashiers were coming from a bank to pay the salaries of the staff of the Education Ministry when the incident took place.

 Mary
A
USSR
USSR
 \
rterghan
 16
 : JOZJAN MShariV
 I RAN jx
                                                                                                                            ( Torgor«JiVr.-^A/)G H , $
                                                                                                                                                                         AR/TAB
                                                                                                                                                                             oimana
 BA LKH
  ;sAwangan.
5«»r.gcV .       TAKHAR '
Toluoan BADAKHSHANj,-' /
/
                                                                                                                   X
 BA^HLAN - . .    \
ighljn Jadid
 /
PQalai Ndw
r
 I HERAT
                                                                                                                                                                                          G H 0 R ...... ...
 F G H A N I
         (       'S         : KUNAR ^
 BAM.yam Y■..yct^nkat) -LAGHMAN     /
 BAM YA N U--^r7KAp,sA            /
> \
T       N
J a mm u ^
 /
 ‘ ') and
    /
 / . • • Cease fve"
    nn,./ /KABUL*. . ■ ' • '
^WARDAK /               . vNANGARHAF
N
 UDW5AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peshawar
/
                                                                                                                                                                                                ISLAMABAD i 0 1
>>
o
7s
 m
 ZJ,
/UROZGAt
 Ghazni j
 v.
 G H A
   t
FAR AIH
 (
  -32
• Las h ke/gor
pakIistan
RAN
 /
 N I M ROZ
----
JP' H E L M A N D
 K A N DA HAR/ ( )
                                                                                                                                                   faktikaJ
                                                                                                                                      Z A B U L j<rs^/
./—S
* fekkfc
 Quetta
                                                                                       AFGHANISTAN
     ■ International boundaries
            Kashmir district boundary. Prov/Admm boundaries
V
 Major roads
 Railways
 Rivers
 0       50     100     150     200