                   AFGHAN
              JNFORMATION
    QENTRE
 _____MONTHLY BULLETIN
     No 98 Ninth Year May 1989
    Address: ISe s.j. Afghani Road, University Town, PESHAVYAR-PAKISTAN P. O. Box: 228   - T<*lephone:40953. - Telegram: AF1C
                 The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
                 1.        To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate 'and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
                 2.        To make this information available in the form of articles, news bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
                   fa) International news media,
                   (b) Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
                 The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
                 The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
      Founder: Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor : Sayd Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription      Bank account No 1131354558001 
Pakistan : Rs        400 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK        
Abroad   Dollar :    50  Grmdiays Bank P L C           
                         Peshawar Pakistan             
         THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD I BE APPRECIATED.
             AFGHAN INFORMATION
                   CENTRE
              Monthly Bulletin No. 98      May 1989
       gewgaws
        I    Resistance Fails To Block Kabul-Jalalabad Road      1
        II   Regime Launches Jalalabad Counter-Attacks           5
        III  Kabul University And The Decline Of Education       8
        IV   Soviet Looting Of Natural Resources                13
        V    Agricultural Development At A Standstill           16
k
        VI   A Report From Inside Kabul                         19
                                                     A
        VII  Reports From The Provinces                         24
        COVER PHOTOGRAPH:
        Children studying in the vins of a mosque in South-West Afghanistan
                 RESISTANCE FAILS TO BLOCK KABUL-JALALABAD ROAD
                 The blockade of the Kabul-Jalalabad highway by the mujahideen has remained highly controversial. From most accounts it has not been completely blocked during much of the battle for Jalalabad which began in the second week of March.
                 On the other hand, the regime has also not gained complete control over it: a regime convoy was attacked on 3 May resulting in the destruction of two armoured vehicles and 16 trucks. On 10 May, another regime convoy was attacked in the Silk Gorge, Wresmin Tangay.
                 Nevertheless during May at least three Communist regime convoys were able to reach Jalalabad from Kabul along the main road linking the two cities, taking advantage of confusion amongst the different mujahideen groups responsible for keeping the road closed.
                 Since October 1988 the mujahideen have been attempting to block the road along a 70km stretch from Sarobi in Kabul province to Sorkhakhan bridge in Laghman province.   Three parties, Jamiat (Rabbani),        Mahaz
            (Gailani) and Bezb-Islami (Khales), have been carrying out the operations on a rotational basis, each blocking the road for 15 days at a time.
                 Following the mujahideen assault on Jalalabad which began in March this year, the importance of the blockade has increased. While the road remains open, the regime is able to resupply Jalalabad.
                                        - 1
Ninth Year
May 1989
No.98
            If the road had been closed effectively, it would have made it much more difficult for the regime to defend Jalalabad. There are only two other ways the regime can bring in supplies, and then only in limited quantities.
            The first is by helicopter from Kabul (the airport-at Jalalabad has been unusable since the middle of March - no transport planes or helicopters can land there) directly into the city. Such sorties are vulnerable to mujahideen ground attack, and payloads are comparatively small.
            The second is to take material from Kabul to the provincial capital of Laghman, Mehthar Lam, by helicopter? from there the road to Jalalabad is open.
            There are several problems that the mujahideen face in their attempts to keep the road closed.
            Insufficient military expertise means that they are unable to make the best possible use of the men, equipment and ground at their disposal. Poor organization within a group can hamper operations.
            There is a lack' of co-ordination and trust amongst the different groups responsible for blocking the road. Each party accuses the others of failing to carry out the mission properly.
            A particularly vulnerable time for the cnujahideen is the change-over period when one group has finished its 15-day period of duty, and a fresh group comes up to take its place. These change-overs rarely go smoothly; on the last change-over *in mid-May there was a period of at least five days and possibly as many as 10 when the road was not being blockaded effectively at all points.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                  A contributory factor to this is the time it takes to get men and equipment up to the positions overlooking the road. The journey time is two to three days, and much of the way has to be passed on foot or by horse. It would require extremely precise logistical planning to ensure that all the equipment and men were in place at the right time; at present this precision is not being demonstrated.
                  Some commanders have complained that they have not been receiving enough arms to'do the job. They think that not enough importance is being attached to their role.
                  If the Mujahideen Interim Government is to play a serious part in the Resistance, then one of the things it must be able to demonstrate is the ability to form and command a united military force.
                  Such a united force would be effective along the Kabul-Jalalabad road, Where thus far party differences and difficulties in co-ordinating have restricted the success of the blockade. If there was one united force responsible for guarding the road, it would be easier-to enforce a 24-hour a day, 7-day a week blockade. ’
            f Further problems encountered by the mujahideen include allegations that some members of the Resistance have accepted large sums of money from the regime to keep the road open.
                  For as long as no united and effective strategy is produced by the mujahideen to close the supply routes to Jalalabad, the task of the mujahideen who are trying to capture the city is being made more difficult than is necessary.
No.98
Ninth Year
May 1989
           If the mujahideen are serious in their wish to take Jalalabad, they must be serious in their attempts to close the city's supply routes.
           According to recent reports, the mujahideen have ’.ucceeded 'in blocking the highway in the Silk Gorge area urinq the second half of May.
           The Kabul regime has already launched several attacks to open it but have failed so far. With reports of a major build-up gf regime forces in the Sarobi area, the caning weeks, may see an intensification in regime efforts to open the road - which is considered to be Jalalabad's life-line -. and equally intense mujahideen efforts to overrun the regime defences in Jalalabad.
                        * * * * *

                                  _ 4 _
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                    REGIME LAUNCHES COUNTER-ATTACKS IN JALALABAD
                  Reports reaching the AIC from the areas surrounding ' Jalalabad indicate that small units of the Kabul regime, escorted by small mountain tanks, are laying ambushes for mujahideen and then quickly retreating to their positions.
                  These tactics have been employed several times since 22 May, in Saracha and Khush Gumbad to the south-east and east of Jalalabad city.
                  The mujahideen in these areas say that these hit-and-run tactics- - previously favoured by the Resistance themselves - are now being used by the regime. The troops involved Are mostly Jowzjani militia who do not have fixed positions and posts. The regime is also using low-flying gunships in these operations.
                  According to the mujahideen, it has become increasingly difficult to get intelligence reports from inside Jalalabad: now those who are sent to the city to gather information never return.
                  Acute shortages of food existed two months ago in Jalalabad, but the situation has now improved. Some supplies come from Laghman province to the north, and some are brought in by government convoys from Kabul.
                  On the night of 7 May a convoy of 120 vehicles arrived in Jalalabad, and on the morning of 14 May a 40-vehicle convoy made it through, according to sources in
e&ei \ysM
T69Y rltni/i
8P.0/1
      Jalalabad. The mujahideen are not confirming these reports.
           The city is surrounded by mujahideen, but in spite of a trickle of daily desertions to the Resistance from regime troops and militia, a stalemate exists and the defensive lines are the same as they were 40 days ago.
           Before the battle for Jalalabad began, it was thought the city would fall quickly to the mujahideen:
      * In February, Professor Mojadidi, now president of the Mujahideen Interim Government, said that the life of the Kabul regime would be two months.•
      * On 18 March the interim government Minister of State Security, Haji Din Mohammad, said that Jalalabad would be in mujahideen hands by the middle of May.
      * On 20 March Foreign Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said that the Kabul regime would fall within weeks.
      * On 26 March, Professor Mojadidi said that Jalalabad would fall within days.
           But instead the Jalalabad fighting and siege has dragged on, and many civilians have fled the city.
           The battle has reached a stalemate, with both sides testing each other's defences and exchanging artillery and rocket fire daily.
           Khush Gumbad,^ 2 km to the east of the city, which is of strategic significance to both mujahideen and the Kabul regime, has seen some bitter fighting in May. It was captured by mujahideen during the first days of the Jalalabad battle. It is the bridgehead for* the
                                  - 6 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           mujahideen, with regime forces holding positions to me west, north and south.                              '    f
                In order to close this breach in their defences, the regime launched several attacks in May to capture the area. On 10 May a major regime assault resulted in the taking of Khush Gumbad from the mujahideen. But the next day the mujahideen counter-attacked and retook the area.
                On 18 and 28 May the regime again attempted to recapture the area but failed.
                               * * * *
  I
 \
   I
_ n
                 KABUL UNIVERSITY AND TOE DECLINE OF EDUCATION IN AFGHANISTAN
              Professor Hamidullah Amin of the Department of Geoscience at Kabul University arrived in Peshawar as a refugee four weeks ago. He talked to the AIC about the state of education in Afghanistan with particular reference to the university in Kgbul.
              "The number of experienced teachers has decreased in the university. They have been replaced by those educated in the Soviet Union or those who support the Communist Party.                  1
              "Before the April 1978 coup there were 800 university teachers. Today, 450-500 of these are missing, having been killed or fled the country.
              "Before the Soviet withdrawal there were 30 Russian advisers in the university; one for the rector of the university, one for the dean of each faculty, and one (occasionally two) for each department. Now there are no advisers directly involved in the university. Khalq party .members have complete control over all affairs. The university is no longer an academic institute, it is a political one. .
              "In the past the university possessed an academic atmosphere. Today it is nothing but a tool for propaganda. It exists to fool people that Kabul has a university. But it no longer imparts knowledge; it is there to enlist students into the party and the 'revolution'.
                                        - 8 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                . "It has lost its academic value. During the Russian presence, great emphasis was laid on the Sovietization of the university. Appointments and the academic programme were controlled and administered by Soviet advisers. Now it is controlled by party members.
                  "Despite some opposition from senior teachers, a lot of work has been and still is being done to Sovietize academic affairs.
                  "The number of students in Kabul University and other higher education institutes is not more than 10,000, of which 65% are girls. Before the coup, girls made up 10-15% of the total.
                  "Girls outnumber boys because most boys are conscripted into the army. If you are 17 years old you cannot seek higher education until you have served in the army.
                  "Educational standards are at their lowest point ever. Party members are admitted into the university without taking the entrance exams which others must pass. Until this year a third of the places were reserved for party members. We were aware that most of those given places had not even finished their high school education. Although that system has been stopped this year, the regime uses all means at its disposal to admit its members to the university.
                  "Nobody from the provinces is coming to Kabul for admission into the university and almost all students are from Kabul. The regime tried to bring students from other provinces by holding a course for 800 students in order to admit them into the university. But only 120 students turned up for these courses; they were then admitted to the university.
No.98
Ninth Year
May 1989
               "During the Soviet occupation there was a large number of Today Communist Party members from Iran who worked in the university and in radio and television. Even now most of the intelligence work is done by its members. There were also Today teachers and students.
               "Palestinian students attended the university, and a limited number of East Europeans studied languages -Pushtu and Dari. In the university of Ningarhar, especially in the medical college, there were large numbers of students from Pakistan's North West Frontier Province and Baluchistan.
               "Before the Communist coup, Kabul University had many agreements with the United States, European and Arab countries through which these countries provided financial" help, support in constructing buildings, in the translation and printing of books and the training of teachers.
               "We used to send students and teachers for higher education and research to these countries, but after the coup all these agreements were dropped.
              ' "The only help the Soviets extended was in providing books on Marxism and Leninism and the biography of Brezhnev. At Kabul, 2,000 scholarships were offered to Afghans, but only Communist party members took advantage of it.
               "The Faculty of Engineering was run on American funds. It had a very high standard, and many students from abroad came to the faculty. Many of its graduates went on to work in Middle East countries.
               "After the coup the Communists, acting on Soviet instructions, began a campaign to wind up the faculty. They began by taking away small tools from the workshops.
                            -TO-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           and then removed large laboratories. In the end only the building and some huge machinery that could not be shifted remained.                            *
                "Thus equipment worth millions of dollars was stolen on the pretext that since the Polytechnic duplicated the engineering faculty, the latter was a waste of money. In truth the two could not be compared. The standard at the university was far higher.
              The Soviet theft of valuable books and museum pieces
                "The Kabul library, which was a rich palace of knowledge and learning, besides ’ having many printed books, had 400 valuable manuscripts. Of these, 200 sure now missing.
                "The Communists set up a censor board to examine the Kabul university library. Under the pretext of saying that the works of Western literature should be burned, many books were stolen. Many others were taken from the public library. It is believed that between 300 and 800 Koranic and literary manuscripts were stolen from 'the public library. It was said that these works were acquired by the Russians through members of the censorship board and were taken to the Soviet Union*.
                "In- the same manner a large number of historic relics and coins were stolen from Kabul museum by the Soviets and high-ranking members of the PDPA (the Afghan Communist Party). In particular many relics which'were awaiting registration by the museum authorities possibly as much as 80% - disappeared.
                "At Tela Tapa in northern Afghanistan excavations in 1980-81 resulted in the discovery, of. large numbers of gold coins, necklaces, bracelets and' other items. The Russians published a book about the excavation, giving
No.98
Ninth Year
 May 1989
         details of what was found, with photographs of the objects uncovered. Later, this book was withdrawn from sale, and copies were taken away. Most of the relics are now missing.
              Civilians ask for guarantees from the mujahideen
              "In Afghanistan, the anti-regime Afghans in general and the people of Kabul in particular, wish to see the mujq iideen meet certain conditions. These are:
              "First, during rocket attacks on the city, the mujahideen should only target military bases and installations, and the airport. Hitting civilian targets only damages the mujahideen cause, because 90-95% of the population are pro-mujahideen anyway, and the regime is able to make maximum propaganda out of civilian casualties.
              "Second, the blockade of food supplies to Kabul harms pro-mujahideen civilians more than regime supporters, whose needs are met by the government. It is the neutral people who undergo all kinds of suffering.
              "Third, whenever the mujahideen capture sortteone, or somebody surrenders to them, they should be treated well as this will encourage more defections.
              "Fourth, whenever the mujahideen liberate an area from the regime, they should secure and safeguard all administrative documents, buildings and other things.
              "The mujahideen should welcome new refuae.    seeking
         asylum, because everybody, on different level;; • has made sacrifices."
                            * * * * *
                                       - 1 o _
SOVIET LOOTING OF AFGHANISTAN'S NATURAL RESOURCES
              Formerly Professor of Geo-Science at Kabul University, Dr Ghulam Rasool Akbar spoke tr the AIC about the way ’ in which the Soviet Union has exploited Afghanistan's mineral wealth.
              "Afghanistan is rich in minerals. For example, there are copper a;.’3 fuller's earth mines in Logar, gas, lapis lazuli and other mines in northern Afghanistan, and uranium in south-west Afghanistan.
              "But the Afghans have not derived the benefits of these mines - they have gone to the Soviets.
              "Between 1930-1959, which was considered to be the Western phase of development in Afghanistan, some research was carried out by geologists. Since that period, the Soviets have tried to prevent western geologists from surveying the country. This has been particularly true in the northern areas.
              "In the past 20 years geological contracts were signed with the Soviet Union. Mine survey reports were all sent to Russia; the ministry in Kabul responsible for geology and mines has no reports and surveys of its. own mines.                                                - *•
              "The emeralds of the Pansher, the lapis lazuli of Badakshan, and the rubies of Jegdalak have been taken to the Soviet Union.
              "The Soviets also wanted to buy. extremely cheaply gold and sulphur contained in the diggings thrown up from
lNo.98
May 1989
       the Logar copper mines. Due to widespread opposition, that plan was shelved.
            "In the north, there were gas meters on the pipeline running between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan, but the Afghans were not allowed to take the readings. Even Soviet-trained Afghan engineers cannot evaluate their own country's resources because the Soviets have not shared any scientific knowledge-or research.
            "While Afghanistan has plenty of gas, the Afghans have been unable to make use of it. Instead, to provide fuel they have had to use up their forests."
            Hie treatment of new refugees
            Dr Akbar also spoke to the AIC on the subject of new refugees coming from regime-controlled areas into Pakistan. .
            "Anti-Communist and anti-Russian Afghans hope that' the mujahideen will unite and form a government that will represent the aspirations of all Afghans and that will have the support of the nation.
            "The United Nations can also play a role by sending more forces for monitoring security and disarmament. This vill help clear the way for an 'interim government and eventually lead to elec’ 'ons.               -
            "The new refugees who are now arriving in Pakistan are called "Saqa^-20 refugees" by the people here, aecause they have been forced to become refugees by the mujahideen rocket attacks. They are being ridiculed here.
                                           - 14 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                 "But 90-95% of the people living in Afghanistan in general and in Kabul in particular are opposed to the Kabul regime.
                 "They are undergoing great hardships. Conditions in Kabul have deteriorated to the level of the first four months of the Communist Coup. Conscription, imprisonment, threats, fear and economic difficulties have increased.
                 "Because of this, some Afghans have . left for neighbouring countries to seek refuge and join their compatriots. These people should be welcomed, and given a place in the ranks of the longer-established refugees, so that those who are left behind in Afghanistan do not become fearful of the mujahideen.
                 "Even now the majority of Afghans are still living in their own country. It does not mean that they are all supporters of the regime.
                 "Those who are coming out are facing great hardships. They are leaving behind their houses and all their household goods. They are also paying exorbitant prices to the-guides who'help them in coming out.-
                 "Some have had to pay as much as 85,000 Afghanis (approx. US dollars 440.00). These payments have to be made to the security posts. The guides have connections with the officials at these posts and bribe them in order to be allowed to pass.
                 "Because of the money that can be made, the regime people who want to be appefnted to these security posts also have to pay large bribes to the higher authorities. A bribe of 300,000 Afghanis must be paid to secure these jobs.."
                          * * * * *
                                   - 1 s—
No.98
Ninth Year
May 1989
             AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AT A STANDSTILL IN AFGHANISTAN
            Professor Abdul Qahar Sameen, who has 28 years of teaching experience, was the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture at Kabul University before seeking refuge in Peshawar. In an interview at the AIC, he spoke about the state of agriculture in Afghanistan.
            "Before the Communist coup in April 1978, it was the aim of the government to increase agricultural production by at least 50%, a target that the country was well on the way to achieving.
            "But after the coup, agricultural production dropped by about 50% and livestock breeding by 40%. Irrigation dams, canals and qarez (irrigation channels) were destroyed and villages devastated, which greatly affected agriculture.
            "In many fields, orchards and grazing areas the regime scattered mines, ,causing farmers to leave for the big cities or to become refugees in Pakistan or Iran. Constant bombardment also affected farming, forestry and livestock.
            "In spite of the fact that 5 million Afghans have fled the country, agricultural production is not enough to feed the present population (approx nine million).
            "At present there is no research being carried out on agriculture or its propagation; the farms have been paralysed and farmers and labourers are all roaming in the big cities. '
                                          *        r
            "When the Russians came to Afghanistan, certain projects were launched through the Ministry of
                                           - 16 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           Agriculture, such as chemical fertilizer research. But this did not produce any results. The Russian advisors could not provide answers because of the continuing' war; due to lack of experiments on soil, water, seeds and fertilizers, they failed to find out what kind of fertilizer suited what kind of seed and soil.
                 "Another drawback was that the advisors did not have professional qualifications and experience, only knowing how to further their military and political objectives.
                 "Likewise, there were Russian advisors with us in the Faculty of Agriculture but they too were not professional and did not help us in our work. They were there for political reasons only.
                 "Whenever I held a seminar on agricultural research and related topics, students 'belonging to the Communist Party would complain to these advisors that I was quoting examples from America and other Western countries.. They did not know that most of the agricultural research was being done in the West.
                 "In the past decade no assistance has been given to the Faculty of Agriculture, or indeed to any other faculty. They did not even provide us with chemicals for use in our laboratories. We used chemicals that had been provided by the United States; after these supplies ran out, no more work was done in the laboratories.
                 "There used'to be agricultural colleges in Helmand, Farah, Baghlan, Mazar-i-Sharif, Ningarhar and Maimana, but now they exist in name only. Only in Mazar is there a very limited amount • of training going on at a very substandard level. The standard at Kabul University is also rery low.
-17-
No.98
Ninth Year            May 1989
              "Because no agricultural research and analysis has been carried out since the Communist coup and the subsequent Soviet invasion, several agricultural projects have failed to meet their targets. The Ningarhar Farms Project, for example, has suffered because of the presence of a stony sub-strata and soil salinity.
              "During Zahir Shah's reign and then in Daoud's time (1973-78), large projects were planned for the north of the country. However, these were stopped by the Russians. One reason was that they would have used the waters of the Oxus river (which follows the borderline between Afghanistan and the Soviet Union). At present the Soviets use .these waters for their own lands.
              "the large projects that are to be launched in the agricultural sector as part of Sadruddin Agha Khan's Reconstruction programme will not. produce good results as they stand. This is because there is first a need for research on the different regions of Afghanistan, for analysing the soil and seeds and then providing the necessary fertilizers to suit the physical and climatic conditions of that particular region. Only if this is done will good results be forthcoming.
              "It will not 'work if seeds that have given good results in Pakistan or other parts of the world are sent to Afghanistan without first testing and analysing to see whether they are suitable.
              "Such practical experiments require peace and security in Afghanistan before they can be undertaken. For now, best results will come from small projects like village    developments,  road construction, and thi
        rebuilding of roads, aqueducts and qarez."
                                 * * * * *
                              -18-
                             A REPORT FROM INSIDE KABUL
                   At the beginning of            May an American
              journalist,writing for the New York Times, returned from a seven-day stay in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, having been smuggled into the city by the mujahideen of Commander Abdul Haq. The following is the reporter's assessment of the current situation in the city.
                   "I met 12 people who were working for Abdul Haq and the mujahideen inside Kabul. Abdul Haq says that he has between 5,000 and 10,000 people working for him inside the city. The majority of them are passing back routine information that they pick up in the course of their jobs.
                   "There are others who deal with weapons smuggling, for example. Their duties are more specialized, *and they are working all the time for the Resistance, at the same time as doing their jobs within the regime.
                   "The people in Kabul hate the regime but they are also not sure about the mujahideen. Most support the Resistance, but only because they see the mujahideen as being the lesser of two evils.. They are thinking of survival, and. they see the _ best chances of that in working with the mujahideen.
                   "They know that Jalalat?ad was a mistake. /They* know that Najib is playing propaganda games, to boost the image of the regime by highlighting the mujahideen's failure to take the city.
                                   -19 -
No.98
Ninth Year
May 1989
              "Every night on television for the seven days I was there the news consisted either of a speech by Najib stressing the strength and solidarity of the regime, or reports from Jalalabad.
              "Regime morale has been strengthened by Jalalabad, people said. Before Jalalabad, one man told me, the Khalqis and Parchamis (the two main Afghan Communist party factions) were like mice looking for a hole. Now they are 'sticking together.
              "They feel that the regime is in a stronger position now, but there was no talk of the government launching offensive operations against the mujahideen.
              "They thought that the mujahideen were only damaging themselves. They are disillusioned with the mujahideen at the moment. They want the mujahideen to do something.
              "There is a very business-like attitude amongst the civilians. The lower ranks within the Communist party do not owe allegiance to Najib. They are just sticking there to see what happens. If the mujahideen launch an attack on Jalalabad that is more successful, that will change their minds.
              "The civilians-talk about the shortages, the rockets and the situation in Jalalabad. They have an incredible thirst for news, because they are locked in. They listen avidly to the BBC Pashtu services.
              "They wanted to know whethei it was true, as the Communist regime, claimed, that the Pakistanis were around Jalalabad. They wanted to know what the Americans were doing, and whether they were going to help the mujahideen win.
                               -20-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                 "The women asked whether the mujahideen were bad people. They wished to know how the mujahideen were going to treat them if they came into the city.
                 "There was a general feeling that if anyone could co-ordinate the mujahideen efforts it was the commanders. Abdul Haq's appeal seems to rest in his interviews that have been broadcast on the radio.
                 "Civilians told me that they did not really know what was the attitude towards them of Ahmad Shah Masood, the major mujahideen commander in the north. The people fear the unknown.
                 "Najib talks about the mujahideen as if they would kill everyone in Kabul. When Abdul Haq comes on the radio and says that he will not harm them, they listen. They need reassurance.
                 "Hit-and-run attacks are not enough to make the government collapse. There is no way the mujahideen can take Kabul unless there are mass defections.
                 "The people can see through Najib. They are worried about their survival. Some wanted to leave Kabul, but to do that they need the help of the mujahideen.
                 "A lot of people are trying to get out of the city through the province of Logar in the south. The regime is asking all the men to show their identity cards to prove that they are from Logar. Women are interrogated separately. If they do not have the right identity card, they are turned back. It is possible to get through these check-points by paying bribes.
                 "The members of Abdul Haq's network think that Najib has made deals with the Shias in Kabul. They have heard all the rumours. They discounted the idea that Anwari,
                                           ~ 21 -
No-98
Ninth Year
May 1989
       the Shia Resistance leader, was a major figure in the Kabul underground working to overthrow the regime. There is a definite 'us and them' attitude between’ the Sunni and Shia muslims.
             "They said that Commander Ahmad Shah Masood had people who were working inside Kabul. The people who back him are from the Tajik ethnic minority, they said. They discounted the possibility of Hezb-Islami (Hekmatyar) people working inside the city.
             "In the city there are long queues for bread, petrol and diesel seven days a week. There are a lot of goods available in the-black market bazaars, which stock canned goods, eggs and other products. These are brought into Kabul from Pakistan by mujahideen entrepreneurs. However, they are so expensive that very little is sold, and the shopkeepers are all complaining that they cannot make a living.
             "Most shops have their own generators, because there are frequent power cuts.
             "On one occasion I saw a woman wearing a burkha (the traditional dress which covers the head) climbing up into a tree to cut firewood for cooking.
             "Aeroplanes were constantly flying overhead. The mujahideen said that a lot of convoys were coming down the Salang. They said four in every five trucks were bringing in weapons and ammunition. A few days before a big convoy, of hundreds of trucks arrived in Kabul. It made little difference to the living conditions for the civilians, as most of the supplies are taken by the army.
             "The gasoline in particular goes very quickly. On the way out of Kabul we were delayed by five hours while the mujahideen looked for fuel. They had coupons for the
                              -22-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           gasoline, but they couldn't find anywhere that had .fuel for sale.
                "The military presence is very strong all over the city. There were a lot of check-posts. Many of the soldiers were very young - in the park you could see boys of 15 or 16 years of age walking around in uniform.
                "Scud missiles were being fired from near Darulaman. I saw between two and four going off each day. One man told me that pointing to the path of the missiles was the easy way to teach children which way was east.
                "Apart from 45-60 rockets that had fallen on the anniversary of the Conmunist takeover, there was not much rocketing of the city by the mujahideen. It is a great propaganda tool for the regime if any civilians are-killed in rocket attacks."
                              * * * * *
                              -23-
                           REPORTS FROM THE PROVINCES
             SHURAS IN PAKTIA
             Gommander Sultan Zaman, of the Jaji district in Paktia, provided the following news from the area.
             "After most of the province had fallen into the hands of the Resistance, the mujahideen of all parties, with the agreement of the local commanders, formed shuras (councils) in the different districts to deal with regional problems and issues. Tribal elders, mujahideen leaders and intellectuals participate in these shuras.
             "We will act in accordance with the decisions of the shuras and the Mujahideen Interim Government until the Communist regime is toppled and a mujahideen government is formed.
             "Most of the mujahideen in Paktia have gathered around Gardez, the provincial capital, which they are now besieging.
             "Nearly all of Paktia is controlled by the mujahideen but the refugees still cannot go back. Their houses lie in ruins, and many areas are mined, including farmland and roads. The refugees will not go back until these areas are cleared, the houses rebuilt and the Kabul regime has fallen."
                                    * * *
                              -24-
                THE MEDICAL CLINICS OF THE COUNCIL OF THE NORTH
                 Dr Vtolid is in charge of medical care in the Central Zone of the Shura-i-Nezar (Supervisory Council) of the Jamiat (Rabbani) party. The central zone consists of the provinces of Parwan, Kapisa, Bamian and Kabul.
                 "There are 20 clinics in the central zone in which 104 people are involved in the treatment of patients. There are 10 qualified doctors.
                 "Treatment is available for all kinds of ailments and injuries. There are x-ray facilities, and a dental clinic has been opened. The greater part of the necessary medicines are provided by donor agencies, but some are bought on the open market.
                 "Some 60% of the wounded are victims of mines laid on the roads. Patients come from regime-held areas as well as mujahideen-held areas for treatment.
                 "Of the wounded, 70% are mujahideen, 12% male civilians, 10% children and 8% women. Among the sick, 40% are mujahideen, 30% male civilians, 20% children and 10% women. Of those who are vaccinated, nearly 97% are children and the rest women.
                 "We have a total of 84 beds at our disposal. On average, we admit three patients per day. In total about 600 patients approach us daily for treatment.
                 "To help in the control of certain diseases, we are publishing a bi-monthly magazine, "The Health", which gives instructions for the prevention of some diseases. The magazine is distributed to people in the central zone as well as being sent to other provinces."
                                  * * *
- 76 -
No.98
Ninth Year
May 1989
             DEVELOPMENTS IN BAGHLAN PROVINCE
             Maulavi Ataul. Haq is the general representative of the Harakat (Mohaimedi) party in Baghlan.
             "Two days after the Soviet withdrawal, the mujahideen captured the district centre of Andarab when most of its militia ran away.
             "We have two objectives in Baghlan. First we want to evacuate all the defenceless people living near the government-held areas before we attack the city of Pul-i-Khumri. The second is that we want t6 clear all the mines from the farmland which at present cannot be tilled.
             "We are trying to form a united shura so that we can tackle the problem of evacuating the civilian population to safer areas, and so that together we can plan an all-out attack on Pul-i-Khumri.
             "We have already contacted different organizations, including Shura-i-Nezar (the Supervisory Council of the North).
             "Our shuras are meeting once or twice a week to plan a joint strategy against the regime in north Afghanistan.
             "In order to alleviate our food problems we have already contacted other provinces like Kuncjuz, Samangan and Takhar to help clear mines. We want to exchange agricultural produce and other commodities. The aim is to create a kind of common market."
                                        * *
                              -26-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                MILITIA
                In the first week of May a militia commander of the Kabul regime joined the mujahideen, bringing with him 400' men and five armoured vehicles and tanks.
                Obaidullah Khan, who was fon.^rly a mujahideen commander, h$d gone over to the regime side. He rejoined the Resistance in the Girishk region of Helmand.
* + +
                MUJAHIDEEN GAINS AROUND KHOST IN PAKTIA
                On 2 May, the mujahideen took the post of Murghan in i Khost district. Six soldiers were captured. On 12 May, the mujahideen captured seven posts. In these operations four tanks and armoured vehicles were seized intact, and 25 militiamen joined the mujahideen. At Sawaki post, the mujahideen took six tanks and armoured vehicles and six other vehicles.
                                                            *            it             *            *            *
                              -27-
                    Sufism and the Modem World
         Serving Mother better than serving God
         Kharraqani relates:
         Two brothers had a sick mother. Each night in turn one cared for the old lady while the other served God. One evening one of them asked the other to stay in charge of the mother and let him be in the service of God for a
   second consecutive night. This was granted.
         In the middle of the night, when he was deep in prayer, a Voice came:
          -       Your brother has entered the full grace of God and now your fate is entirely in his hands.
          -      Hew is that possible? asked the pious man, when he is serving a mortal and I am serving he Eternal Creator?
          -       Because what you are doing is for God's sake, and He does not need it, but what your brother is doing for your mother is something which she needs.
                                                        From the book "Sufism In The Modem World" by Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh