

  j^FGHAN
          INFORMATION
        QENTRE
                MONTHLY BULLETIN
Tenth Year
• w’l* i *— -
                        2 1

> >•
                                                               c t
Shah Salim. Afghan—Commanders meet for the fir Traditional setting.
 t r

                         The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
     1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
     2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
          (a)    International news media
          (b)    Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
     The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
          The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
    Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
    Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription              Bank Account No. 1131354558001 
Institutions        : US$    100 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK         
Individuals         :US$     70  Grindlays Bank PLC             
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe      Peshawar - Pakistan            
    THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
   Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
           AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
Monthly Bulletin
 No.115
 October 1990
CONTENTS :
 CMMANDERS MEETING IN SHAH SALIM
II . COMMANDERS PRESS CONFRENCE - Interview with commanders
III
 AFGHAN REFUGEES IN IRAN
 23
IV
 SITUAION IN KABUL
 28
V . MILITARY NEWS
           - Zabul
           - Commander Zahid Killed
           -*AIG Administration flees
 31
***
* * *
***
                      COMMANDERS MEETING
     Naim Majroon, Director of the AIC, paid a visit to Shah Salim (north of Chitral) between October 12 and 14          to attend a meeting of
mujahideen commanders in the area.
     The Countrywide Council of Mujahideen Commanders, which had been elected in the second meeting of mujahideen commanders in Zhawar (Paktia) last July, organised the meeting in the area on the Afghan-Pakistan border near Topkhana            (south-ea-st of
Badakhshan) .
     Interestingly, Commander Masoud attended the meeting along with some commanders of northern .Afghanistan.        In addition, the
commander met Prof. Rabani, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami, along with all members of his executive council in the area. Besides Arabs, a high-ranking Pakistani delegation flew, three, times by helicopter to         the area to hold long
discussions with the commander.
     Some forty well known commanders, including ten Shia commanders, had been invited to the meeting independently of their parties. The prominent participants of the meeting were Ahmad Shah Masoud , Maulawi Jalaluddin Haqani (Paktia), Abddl Haq (Kabul), Qari Taj Mohammad (Ghazni), Sayed Jagran (Shia- Ghazni) Mullah Malang (Kandahar) , Mohammad Anwar (Jigdalik, Kabul), Amin Wardak {Wardak), Capt. Nazari of
2
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Hezbullah (Shia- Herat), Khalifa Abdul Wahed Naqshbandi (Paktia), Belal Nairam (Paghraan, Abdul.Hai Haqjo ( Baghlan ) Ikramuddin (Kabul )
     The commanders, who represented various environments, expressed satisfaction over the the meeting which continued from October 9 till October 14. The commanders, in its last session on October 14, issued a joint statment:
Following are the main points of the statement:
1.   To design a unified strategy for military operations in the country.
2.     To establish nine administrative zones throughout the country.*
3.     To ensure security in the mujahideen-controiled areas.
4.   To establish a joint administratve centre for the coordination of mujahideen activities and affairs in Peshawar and Quetta.
     In my interviews with various commanders, I found that most of the commanders opposed Masoud's visit to Pakistan, though Jamiat-e-.Islami, the Arabs and Pakistani authorities laid emphasis on his visit to Islamabad. The commanders of the meeting told him that they would not object to his visit to Islamabad for his personal reasons.    However, they informed
him that he could not represent the Council, because a commission had been set up by the commanders for such a purpose.
                                     3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     When all the commanders left the area in the afternoon of October -14, I was the last person to hear from Masoud that h'e would not visit Pakistan.     However, I came to know on
 October 16 that Masoud had left for Islamabad by military helicopter. The commander held several meetings in Islamabad with high ranking Pakistani and foreign officials besides Afghan leaders.
     Masoud attended subsequent commanders' meetings in Peshawar following his arrival from Islamabad. Newly arrived commanders, such as Baz Mohammad Khan (Bamyan), brother of Maulawi Mohammad Qul (Baghlan) and Mohammad Mousa (Maidan) also participated in the meetings. Various commanders presided over the meetings which mainly focused on military affairs and a joint strategy.
     Commander Masoud visited Pakistan for the first time after twelve years of war with the Russians and Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar). During this time he had been able to earn an independent position by establishing the Supervisory .Council of northern Afghanistan under his command. Following is a summary of some results of his visit -to Pakistan:
 - Commander Masoud received huge quantities of weapons and equipment as well as large amounts of money. This has brought his independence under question, which will obviously reduce his reputation.     This assistance is reported
 conditioned to his unity with Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar).
     Despite his early claims that Hezb-Jamiat differences were deeply rooted in the ranks of the mujahideen and could not be solved by the
4
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
 two leaders,  an agreement was                signed between
 the two parties      to               resolve their internal
 conflicts through elections in the areas under their control. Will he be able to bring an end to the conflicts?
 - His name has been mentioned with cautious
 respect by the regime media in the past. However, his   visit  to Pakistan has provided
 sufficient arguments for the regime to call him a foreign puppet.
 - In the past he used his absolute power and
 authority in maintaining discipline among his mujahideen.      It   was                quite    a difficult
 experience for him to meet commanders who regarded themselves as                   equal     in rank to
 himself.
     In the past, mujahideen organisations in Iran and Pakistan have represented their commanders and mujahideen. However, this is the first time that the commanders have emerged in the form of the Council to speak 0£ their own behalf.      It was the    primary duty of
 mujahideen organisations, particularly, the Afghan Interim Government, AIG, to solve the problems of internal clashes and insecurity in the liberated areas. Their failure in these problems obliged the commanders to coordinate their activities and design joint strategies.
     The meeting in Shah Salim reflect an important subject—the political role of the Council of Mpjehideen Commanders. There were two opinions:
 1. The Council of Mujahideen commanders should confine their activities to the military field
                              5
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 of jehad under the leadership of political parties . They should let the leaders pursue political activities, otherwise they (the leaders) might foil any political participation by the commanders.
 2. Besides military activities, the Council of Mujahideen Commanders, taking the experience of the organisations, the sensitive conditions of the country, the regional and international situation into consideration, should play an active role in coordinating all strata of the Afghan society for the determination of the political destiny. In this connection, the tribes, religious scholars and intellectuals of Afghanistan should independently initiate the formation of councils in the country. Then, each     strata     should      introduce     its
 representatives who would have        rights and
 powers equal to those of the commanders and leaders and should participate in a large shura (council) in order to decide all issues, including • political leadership. None of these organisations could alone decide the future of Afghanistan.
     In Peshawar, efforts are underway to confine the role of the Council to the first option. A campaign has been launched to prevent the Council from adopting the second option.
     The AIC, in the past issues of its Monthly Bulletin, has shed light on the tribal characteristics of Afghan society. Some of the political organisations have tried, either consciously or unconsciously, to transform the tribal system into a party system.
6
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
To date all assistance has been given through these unnatural structures which has furthered the divisions within Afghan Society. The lack of openness and trust between Afghan leaders, especially with the secret assistance received, has also furthered these divisions. Until there is open internal and external support for a National Movement which would include leaders and representatives of tribes, ethnics and commanders, scholars, politicians, the intel1igensia and members of the ulema. Recently, various tribes of Afghanistan have endeavoured to restore their tribal shuras and create a joint council of all Afghan tribes. This move can        be accelerated      with the
colaboration of     the Council of Mujahideen
Commanders.
                           * * *         .> Jr*           ***
n
               COMMANDERS PRESS CONFERENCE
         On October 16, prominent mujahideen commanders held        a press conference  at the
Political Office of Commander Abdul Haq in Peshawar.
     The conference, which was attended by Afghan and foreign journalists, was led by Maulawi Jalaluddin Haqani from Paktia, Qari Baba from Ghazni, Mullah Malang from Kandahar, Khalifa Abdul Wahed from Paktia, Sayed Jagran from Hazarajat, Mohammad Anwar from Kabul, Amin Wardak from Maidan and Maulawi Siddiqullah from Koh-e-Safi in Kabul.
     At the outset. Commander Haqani delivered a short speech regarding the Countrywide Council of Mujahideen Commanders which recently met in Topkhana oh the Pak-Afghan border near Chitral under the chairmanship of Commander Ahmad Shah Masud. He said that the participants of the meeting discussed the five-point program which had been approved by the commanders meeting in Zhawar this year.          He said that the
participants unanimously expressed tneir solidarity with the program.
     Following are the questions raised by various journalists in the conference:
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
0. Eng. Hekmatyar, in consulatat ion wit ISI (military intelligence of Pakistan) is planning to launch a major offensive on Kabul. He says that the offensive will be launched jointly by all mujahideen groups against Kabul.
Commander Haqani:  We  are personally  unaware of
such a programme. However, the commanders held discussions to coordinate mujahideen operations throughout the country and implement them at an appropriate time. We never want the killing of innocent people. Again, I must say that the commanders have not made any decision regarding 1 he offensive.
(>. Has Pakistan exerted any pressure on you to participate in such an operation?
haqani:   We  are not the hand-made commanders of
Pakistan. We are the military leaders of Afghan mujahideen-.       We fight inside our
homeland for the sake of Afghanistan. We have waged jehad of our own will, and there is no pressure on us by Pakistan.
Q. Why did commanders of llezb-e-Islami not attend your recent meeting?
Haqani:  Some of his commanders attended our
previous meetings. They did not participate in the recent meeting, because we have not specified the objectives of the Council. We hope that they will participate in our future meetings.
                                 9
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
Q. What will be the role of mujahideen leaders, as you are apparently attaining more and more power?
Haqani:    There will be no change regarding the
issues of arms and ammunition and cooperation. So far, no decision has been made in this
respect.
Q. Why did Commander Masud leave for Islamabad?
Haqani:    It was  Masud's personal decision to
visit Islamabad for his own affairs. The Council did not ask him to go. His visit to Islamabad was not on behalf of the Council.
Q. The Mujahideen Interim Government was not led by Shia, leaders. Is the Shia partcipation in the Council tantamout to an agreement, and do Shia commanders receive proper supplies?
Sayed Jagran:   The mujahideen commanders pursue
an indpendent policy and program. We have attended the mujahideen meetings to design a joint strategy for our operations inside the country. Why we did not participate* in the Interim Government is upto the politicians. Our supplies continue without any change.
Q. What do you think about the attempts of a coup in Kabul in March?
                             10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Mullah Malang(Kandhar):  I personally think that
there were no links between Tanai and Hekmatyar prior to the coup attempt in March. When the Khalqis feared arrests by Najib, they declared rebellion against      him and exploited the
Hekmatyar card for their protection. There is no difference between Najib and Tanai. It will be treason to the nation, if Najib is welcomed by a particular group following a show coup attempt in future.    Gen. Tanai has joined the
mujahideen only to work for the consolidation of the Communist Party in Afghanistan.
INTERVIEW WITH WELL KNOWN COMMANDERS
     Naim Majrooh, Director of AIC, visited the area of Shah Salim (north of Chitral) on the Afghan-Pakistan border to cover the meeting of the Countrywide Council of            Mujahideen
Commanders in the area. During his stay, he found an opportunity to interview various commanders in the area.
Following are the interviews          with the
commanders:
Commander Ahmad Shah Masoud said that the Afghan jehad has taken on an offensive form instead of its defensive strategy during the presence of Russian troops in Afghanistan. The mujahideen waited for a long time in the hope that the resistance organizations would forge unity and wage a valliant struggle against the enemy.
                               II
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 However, the long delay and internal situation forced the commanders to establish a united centre aimed at carrying out a joint struggle against the enemy.
     While elaborating the importance of the meeting,   the commander said that it    was  the
 first gathering of the Afghan jehad which was attended    by well known commanders     of   the
 country.   He said that he was optimistic about
 the bright future of the gathering.      He said
 that he was confident that the meeting of the commanders would bear postive results for the country.
     He said that he did not think that the mujahideen leaders, who wished for the victory of Islam and freedom in Afghanistan, would oppose the commanders' meeting.             Prof.
 Mujadeddi and Prof. Rabani hav           already
 expressed their support, he said. The meeting was attended by commanders who enjoyed influence   in their respective areas    on   the
basis of their j ehad and  not their   
affiliation.                           
 The commander said   that the Council 
 established to continue armed jehad until the collapse of the Kabul regime and to maintain security in the mujahideen-controlled areas of the country.           The    establishment    of
 administrative organs for the security of liberated areas covers the political aspect of the Afghan jehad in the country. Hence, the the commanders could not be excluded from the political horizon. They will carry out military and political affairs simultaneously, he said.
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
He however emphasized that the commanders would not interfere in political affairs which should be carried out by the leaders.
     The commander did not approve the concept that the mujahideen should launch an overall attack prior to the creation of a political leadership. He said that the mujahideen had both political and military problems, but the meeting might solve their problems in the military field. He repeated his statment that some political affairs should be carried out by the resistance leaders, so that a unified political leadership acceptable to all the strata of the Afghan people might be created. Such a political structure should take the place of the Communist Regime following a collapse in Kabul, he said. He said that the commanders' would be forced to decide upon the political affairs, if the leaders failed to introduce a proper political structure to the people of the country.
     The commander said that his Supervisory Council (which operates in 13 provinces) would wcrk together with the Countrywide Council. If the Countrywide Council carries out its task in the present manner, there will be no need for the Supervisory Council, he added.
     According the commander, the participants of the meeting have fortunately designed a particular strategy in the military field. The commanders have special programmes regarding security conditions following the collapse ,!of the regime ’in the capital. The mujahideen will organise their programmes (the contents of which he did not specify) in Kabul in order to prevent any losses to the citizens of Kabul.
13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     The commander, in reply to a question, ruled out his plan to go to Islamabad.
     Commander Masud did not answer to questions about         Jamiat-Hezb  differences,
Shahnawaz Tanai, etc.
Qari Taj Mohammad,     known as Qari Baba, an
outstanding commander from Ghazni. He said that the commanders, in their recent meeting which was also attended by Commander Masud, discussed various matters regarding their jehad in the light of Islamic principles. They held unanimous views, he said, on the the coordination of their operations and the maintenance of peace in the liberated areas of the country.
     He said that the commanders did not discuss the issue of the leadership, because they considered it as the issue of the whole nation. Though the commanders have launched a struggle against the puppet regime, they will give the right to elect a leader to the nation, he said.
     The commanders hoped that the political leaders would support the Council of commanders and other similar councils, because           the
unification of operations and activities would lead to the downfall of the Kabul regime and the restoration of peace in the country. The leaders should pay attention to the miserable condition of their opressed nation.
     According to Qari Baba, his mujahideen excavated a 20-kilometre long canal which was started in Zahir Shah time in Ghazni for the miserable people of the area.
14
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
The land, which is irrigated by the canal, was distributed to widows, orphans and other deserving people of the area.
     The commander complained of financial problems regarding the operation of Sardeh Dam. He said that he could not pay the salaries of the technical percsonnel who left their jobs due to financial problems. He said that he approached various foreign organisations regarding his financial problems, but he received a cool response from them.
Commander Abdul Haq said that the lack of a unified military strategy and the non-existence of proper security conditions in the liberated areas were the main problems that led to the establishment of the Council. The Council was also established to exert pressure on the resistance leaders to draw their attention to their responsibilities concerning a proper solution to the Afghan issue.
     He said that we’ should ensure national unity following the withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan.     All Shias, Sunnis,
Pashtuns, Uzbeks, Tajiks, Turkumans, Nuristanis and other communities should sink their differences in the larger interests of the country. The puppet regime should be replaced by an Islamic system through a joint programme.
     Unless, the mujahideen unify and coordinate their activities, internal clashes could not be stopped in the country.      The commanders and
other Afghan communities should enjoy a joint political plan and understanding prior to the
                                15
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 collapse of the Najib regime either through a coup or joint operations.
     The commander said that most of the mujahideen commanders were        not   consulted
 regarding the planned operation on Kabul by Eng. Hekmatyar.      The   operation  will   bear
 positive results, if Eng. Hekmatyar consults all commanders and all people involved in the issue. If commanders and persons involved in the issue are not consulted, it might create many problems for the nation. It might lead to internal fighting on various tribal and religious grounds.
     The Countrywide Council       of  Mujahideen
 Commnders will soon unify the activities of the mujahideen in each aspect of their jehad. The Council will establish        an    office in
 Peshawar for the organisation of their affairs, but the .office will not be used for all activites and programmes.
 Capt.Nazari, a commander of Hezbullah (Shia) in Herat, said that ten commanders of his Shia organization attended the second meeting of commanders in Zhawar in July this year. The participants of the meeting set up three commissions for the administrative, security and military affairs of the Council.        As a
 member of the administrative commission, he tried to invite various commanders of the Afghan jehad to the fold of the j Council.    He
 said that the participation of the commanders of the Supervisory Council of Masoud in the meeting near Chitral is a testimony to the efforts of his commission to attract more commanders to the Council.
                              16
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
He said that- efforts would continue to attract the remaining mujahideen commanders to the Council.
     According to Nazari, the commanders try to establish a military unity and a united centralism focusing on the views of all cmmunities in Afghanistan. He said that the unification of military programmes could fill the gap created by sectarian and tribal differences in the country. This, he said, could stop the propaganda and interference of the enemy.
     He said that a coup attempt might weaken the enemy in the interest of a certain organization, but it would not bring about peace and security in the country. Preferably, all commanders should be consulted about some major offensives, particularly Kabul, so that simultaneous operations    might   be launched on
regime positions throughout the country. Still, we continue our discussions with the supporters of coup attempts in Kabul.
     The commander said that Afghan women should be given the right to participate in the elections, because they have fought along with their men in the war. He said that there were divergent    views of      the _   Peshawar-based
resistance leaders regarding the           female
participation in the election.
     Nazar'i said that     the      Council would
implement its military and security plans in three or four months. Simultaneously, the Council has sent a delegation to the resistance leaders to   request them  to form a political
unity in a short period.
                             17
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
If the leaders fail to establish a united leadership within one month, the members of the councils of commanders and elders would sit together to decide upon the leadership.
Mohammad Anwar of Jigdalik in Kabul said that collapse of the Kabul regime was the wish of the mujahideen. He hoped that the outstanding commanders of the Council would establish a joint command in the vicinity of Kabul to carry out joint operations against regime positions around the city.
     According to the commander, he intends to discuss the implemention of Eng. Hekmatyar's plan regarding the downfall of the Kabul regime. Also, we do not want to create mental distantes between the mujahideen and the Kabul citizens who have always helped us during the long time of jehad in the country, he said. He hoped that the citizens would enthusiastically participate in the operation for the collpse of the Kabul regime. However, he said, that the implementation of. the plan should be delayed until the commanders unify their operations following the establishment of a joint command around Kabul.
     The commander said that an understanding between the commanders is a pre-requisite for the collapse of the Kabul regime. ■ The commanders should hold unanimous views of their affairs under the present circumstances.
                              18
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
Majid Agha, mujahideen commander in Panjwaii district (Kandahar), said that the Council would score successes, if it followed its early decisions.
     The commander said that a shura (council) was established by the mujahideen commanders of Kandahar prior to the operation on Tirinkot in Uruzgan. The shura, he said, designed a joint strategy for the operation on Tirinkot which resulted in the victory of the mujahideen. He added that a two-member court decides on various cases in Kandhar province.
     The commander disclosed that the farmers of Helmand faced food shortage in the province. They have decided to grow more poppy crops in the province this year.
Haji Mohammad Shah Ghazi, mujahideen commander in Farah province, said that he wished for a true unity between the mujahideen.        He said
that the gathering of mujahideen commanders was a wish of the people, because the unity could bring postive ■ effects on the solution to the Afghan issue.
     About the siutation in Farah,. the commander said that the regime controlled only the provincial centre of Farah and the district centre of Bala Baluk. The remaining areas, he added, are ’controlled by the mujahideen despite limited military supplies. He complained about the deteriorating condition of agriculture and health in the province.
                                 19
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Commander Amin Wardak, who was interviewed in Peshawar, said that the mujahideen should have established a countrywide council in place of a consultative council prior to the withdrawal from Afghanistan.       Then the Afghan Interim
Government came into being which did not bear any positive results. For that resons, the mujahideen commanders decided to establish a countrywide council in the country.
     The first meeting of the commanders decided that a commission should be established to invite all commanders to attend a large gathering.     In   the second meeting, the
commission sent two persons. Dr. Najib Baba and Cdr      Akhtar    Mohammad,   to   contact the
Supervisory Council of the North to participate in the gathering of the commanders. In this connection, another meeting was held in Shah Salim to' pave the ground for the formation of of a Grand Council.              The scholars,
intellectuals, tribal elders and others should be provided an opportunity regarding the settlement of the Afghan issue.
     Regarding the position of various mujahideen organisations on the commanders meetings. Commander Wardak said that the organizations wanted to introduce their members to the Grand Council on the basis of their parties. However, the commanders knew the other mujahideen commanders better than the leaders of the parties. It was first decided that ten commanders from each provinceshould attend the commanders' meetings. This is a very good idea, because responsible persons from all parts of the country would collect precise information and adopt necessary measures according to the objective conditions.
                               20
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
     The      commander      appreciated      the
administrative capability of Commander Masoud in his area, but he said that the mujahideen of other regions have scored remarkable successes in other parts of the countries. He said that experience of a certain area could not be implemented for the formation of the Grand Council, because Afghanistan is divided into various cultural, sectarian,         tribal and
linguistic bonds. We should try to follow the positive results of various areas and design a joint strategy in the country.
     Asked what role the commanders meeting has played regarding the formation of the tribal unions of Afghanistan, the commander said that all councils working for the unity of Afghans should follow the useful ideas of all stratas of the Afghan society. He said that nobody could lift the heavy load. He added that neither moderates nor radicals could solve the Afghan problem individually.
     The commander expressed optimism       about
the restoration of peace in Afghanistan, if foreign aid to all Afghans is stopped.
     He said that he was unhappy over the Noble Prize recieved by Gorbachev, because the Russians still continue their crimes in Afghanistan.
     The commanders should coordinate their operations and strategy in the country. He disclosed tfrat the fifth department of KHAD had carried out activities to create dissention among the mujahideen. He said that the move could not be stopped by two or three commanders. He proposed that an extensive programme should be launched in this regard.
                             21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
According to the commander, the Grand Council of mujahideen commanders should be represented by all stratas of Afghan society.            The
commanders will seek ways which can be implemented in the country. For instance, the division of Afghanisntan into various zones was an appropriate measure. mujahideen should launch an extensive programme to neutralise KHAD's activities for creating dissention among their ranks.
***
***
***
                     AFGHAN REFUGEES IN IRAN
     There have been various rumours about the Afghan refugees in Iran for some time. In this connection, the AIC          sent its      Quetta
correspondent there        to collect precise
information about the condition of Afghan refugees in that country.
     The correspondent said that he met various strata of Afghan refugees in Iran, where they suffered great hardships du<= to their economic and social problems in that country. Some refugees -lived in deserts where they did not have       water, medical and educational
facilities. They did not regularly receive sufficient kerosene oil, wheat and sugar to meet their demands. Hence they worked in secret places on low wages to earn bread for their families. If found they were however arrested and driven to Afghanistan or refugee camps as punishment by the Iranian Pasdarans. It was difficult for refugees to move freely from one place to another; they could hardly receive a permit to travel. Most of them complained that they had not • received any Iranian, Afghan and international assistance. They said that even the International Committee of the Red. Cross had not opened any hospital for them.
     According to the ' correspondent, the refugees in Iran were concerned about their future, as they did not expect any success on the part of the resistance leadership.
                                      23
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
 They said that religious scholars, tribal elders and intellectuals should be involved in the efforts for the solution of the Afghan issue.
     The correspondent gave the following account of his visit to Iran:
     I left Quetta on September 18 on my way to Iran. Having travelled, for twenty-two hours, I reached a border post of Taftan Iran, where each Afghan individual is fully examined in a government camp prior to his entry to Iran. Interestingly, such a practice of close examination is not common in other parts of the world. I spent about 12 hours in the camp to obtain relevant documents for my movement in Iran.
     When I reached the border city of Zahedan, I met innumerable Afghan Baluchs who had sought refuge in the city. The Afghan refugees did not have the right to     run a shop or another
 business in the city.    I saw only seven-year
 old children who could sell cigarettes in the city.      I myself met 60 Afghans who were
 arrested by the security officers on charges of earning bread through hard work in the city. The officers also arrested an Afghan mullah who was selling religious books in a corner of the city. Later one, the security officers snatched the instruments and books and drove them away to Afghaistan. I met some tribal elders, such as Haji Sher Mohammad Qari (Tokhi tribe, Kandahar), Maulawi Dost Mohammad (Tarin tribe, Helmand), Haji Dost Mohammad (Baluch, Nimroz), Haji Hayatullah (Kakar tribe, Herat), Mauladad (Alokozai tribe, Kandahar) and Dr. Agha Mohammad (Tajik, Kandahar) , in Zahedan.
                                      24
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
Mohammad (Tajik, Kandahar), Mohammad Nader (Tajik, Herat), Haji Khalil (Popalzai tribe, Herat), Fahmi (Temori, Herat), Ghulam Sakhi (Kakar tribe, Herat) and Sofi Abdul Raouf (Alakozai tribe, Herat). All of these elders expressed their support for a national Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     I met a number of Afghan refugees from northern Afghanistan in Turkuman Bandar, north of Tehran. They lived near Russian Turkistan and could view programmes of Soviet television stations. These people, who weave carpets to support their families, were totally illiterate.
     Some years ago, there were no sign of a living being in the border area of Robat located between Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran. However, many goods from the international market are found in the new bazaar of the area. In view of its certain characteristics, the area is used for smuggling.
     I saw limited educational activity among Afghan refugees in Iran. There were a few madrassas run by Jamiat where Persian was the medium of education. Pashtu was taught as a subject in some madrassas. Interestingly, I met many Pashtu-speaking children of Afghan families who could not understand Pashtu; they even spoke Persian at home.
     The Tranians have built some hospitals for Afghan refugees in their camps, but these hospitals lack qualified staff and medicine.
     Most of the Afghan refugees in Iran have lost their Afghan characteristics;
25
                   AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 These elders, who complained of their hard life m Iran, said that they would prefer, to suffer the Kabul regime's atrocities to the life in Iran. They said that the people should gather around a national and Islamic personality, enabling the refugees to return to their dwellings and spend their nights in the shadows of a national and Islamic government.
     I visited an Afghan camp in Taisia, north of Zahedan.      The  camp,  which looks like a
 prison camp had been built of concrete, andcould accommodate 5,000 people. Most of the Afghans, who are arrested in the nearby towns, are brought to the camp where they wait their fate.
     I left for Mashad after seven days. There were many Afghans in the city who had come from central and south western parts of Afghanistan. I found a limited number of Afghans who were engaged in shopkeeping. The life of the Afghans in Mashad was better than those in other parts of the country.
     Then I visited the towns of Taibat, Turbat-Jara Khaf and Barjand where the Afghans had rented houses for their families. The Afghans were mostly engaged in hard labour in those areas. A number of Afghans had been expelled from Barjand when I reached the town. I also saw the hospital of the town which had been built by the Afghans sentenced to hard labour. Thousands of Afghans spend a hard life in the deserts located in the north of Barjand between the Afghan-Iranian border.
     In faiabad, I met some Afghan elders, such as Maulawi Tabib (Ishaqzai tribe, Herat), Mamur Ghausuddin (Alokozai tribe, Herat), Akhtar
                             26
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
there are many Afghans who do not wear Afghan clothes; they do not pay any heed to their customs. Some children who attend Iranian schools have been greatly influenced by the shia school of religion.
     The Iranians have set up three show camps in Taftar. and Taisia. The Iranian authorities arrest refugees in the cities and send them to these camps for the inspection of certain donor agencies. Thus, it is shown to the people that the refugees live in modern camps and enjoy proper food arrangements. These refugees are allowed to leave the camps after a few days staying in its hostels.
     Most of the Afghan refugees in Iran were Pashtuns. Some Afghans, who have received special 'concessions from the Iranian government, enjoy special relations with the Iranian intelligence.
     Following the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, most of the mujahideen commanders of western provinces, particularly Herat, have close links with the local militia units of the Kabul regime. Regime militiamen on the Afghan-Iranian border usually receive their food through Iranian Pasdaran (guards).
                        *** *** ***
                            27
                       SITUATION IN KABUL
     A traveller, who      recently arrived in
 Peshawar from Kabul, said that there are shortages of food and fuel in the capital.
     The traveller, identified as Zazai, lived in the Fifth District of Kabul.            In  an
 interview with the AIC, he gave the following account of the situation in the capital:
     The regime has opened schools following a long vaction due to mujahideen rocket attacks on the city. The students may get admission to the university, if they pass the entrance examination following      graduation from high
 schools. However, they are sent to military units if they fail the entrance examination. The number of girls is very high in the unversity. Students are encouraged by regime supporters in schools to join the ranks of the "defenders• of revolution" after school hour^ at a monthly salary of 12,000 Afghanis. A number of students have joined those forces to solve their economic problems.
     Most of the mujahideen rockets hit civilian targets in the city. In this connection, I am witness to a rocket incident in Karta-e-Char, which resulted in the killing of four children and injuring three women and one man. The children were travelling in a taxi car which was hit.
                              28
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
     The residents of Kabul are tired of Jowzjani militiamen in the city. The citizens have complained frequently against their misdeeds, but nobody can prevent their inhuman acts in the city.       These  militiamen take
weapons, watches, money and other valuables from the people in various parts of the city. They kill those who refuse to give anything to them.
     Food shortages have again hit the capital. The residents received edible oil and flour for comparatively cheap prices from the mujahideen-controlled areas in Maidan last year. However, the prices are again high in the capital. For instance, seven kilograms of wheat flour was sold for Afs. 600 last April, but the present price is Afs. 1,000. Similar increases have occurred in the prices of vegetables and edible oil. The food shortage has also affected coupon holders in the city. They receive their rations only once in two months. A family receives three litres diesel/kerosene oil which cannot meet their demands.' The high prices and low salaries have forced government employees to quit their jobs and sell various items at the roadside.
     The residents also face fuel shortages in the city. The regime receives limited supplies of oil and food from the Soviet Union via Hairatan (Mazar-e-Sharif) . The civilians can only receive ten litres of fuel a week at Afs. 200 per litre. Fuel Prices on the black marcket ace two or three times higher.
     After the announcement of a big offensive on Kabul by Hezb-e-Islami the people are very afraid for their safety.       However as their
economic condition is so poor many of them can
                           29
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
not afford to leave the city, though a few have
Mujahideen Attack on Kabul :
     There have been rumours of' a mujahideen offensive on Kabul since August. In this connection,some mujahideen groups transferred supplies to their positions to launch the attack. Finally, during the first week of October, Kabul came under          a   three-day
mujahideen offensive from two directions, i.e. Khjakve-Jabar and Arghandi.
During the fighting. Radio Kabul claimed that the mujhideen had attacked from the directions of Arghandi, Khak-e-Jabar and Logar, but had suffered heavy losses due to stiff resistance by the regime troops. The Radio claimed that 18 group commanders and innumerable mujahideen were killed in’ the operation. On the other side, the mujahideen described             their
operations as normal activity.
***
***
***
                         MILITARY NEWS
Zabul
     On September 17, the mujahideen of all organizations began an overall operation on regime positions in the provincial centre Qalat.
     The mujahideen transferred their heavy guns and tanks to the area from neighbouring provinces. When they bega.n their attack on the town, regime reinforcements moved from Kandahar for its defence, but were besieged by the mujahideen near Kandahar in Shahr-e-Safa.
     So far, the mujahideen have captured'eleven tanks and APCs, 35 vehicles, 29 heavy weapons and 225 light weapons. They have destroyed 43 tanks and vehicles. The exact figure of regime casualties is not known, but 250 troops were killed and 60 executed by the mujahideen at the beginning of the fighting.
     The     mujahideen captured .one        Mi-8
helicopter and destroyed another in the area of Shahr-e-Safa on October 2. They also captured six crewmen of the aircraft
     In an interview with the AIC correspondent in Quetta, Col. Mohammad Zarin, a pilot of a helicopter, said that he was instructed by Gen. Asef Delawar (who repaced Gen. Uloomi in Kandahar) to evacuate a wounded            regime
militia commander in Shahr-e-Safa to Kandahar.
31
No. 115
Tenth Year
October 1990
     He said that when he flew to the area, his helicopter was hit by a mujahideen Stinger rocket at an altitude of 350 metres. He said that he informed Kandahar about the incident and asked for another helicopter and then landed safetly in the area where he was captured by the mujahideen along with two other pilots, Faiz Mohammad and Homayun. When a second          helicopter flew from Kandahar, it
 landed at a distance of two kilometres from the wreckage of the first one.           However, the
 mujhideen captured the other helicopter after wounding two crewmen. Mohammad Zarin said that he was      forced by mujahideen to fly the
 helicopter and take them to their position in the area. The aircraft suffered damage due to overload when it landed near the mujahideen position.
     Regarding orders of air bombardment, the pilot said that such orders were issued to the commander of the air force following consultations betweem the defence minister, the chief of army staff and the chief of military intelligence.
     He said that positions in Kabul, Mazar-e~ Sharif, Khost, Jalalabad, Ghazni, Zabul and Wardak were bombarded by aircraft flying from Bagram airbase. There aircraft, are Mig-21s, Su-22s,  Mi-35s, Mi-17s , Mi-8s and transport
 planes.
     First lieutenent Qiamodin, Captan Mohammad Zahir, Nasir Ahmad and three other crewmen are detained by the mujahideen of commander Haji Abdurrazeq the minister for Haj and Islamic afairs of the AIG in Kandahar.
32
 Ningrahar: Commander Zahid Killed
     Zahid Ibrahimi, chief commander of Hezb-e-Islami iEng. Hekmatyar) in Ningrahar province, was killed           along with his seven group
 commanders in a village of Rodat district on October 5.
     The commander was discussing a plan for an operation with his group commanders when three BM-14 shells fell amongst them.     As a result,
 eight commanders, including Babrak and Haji Nausher Khan, were killed.
     Following the incident, regime forces in Jalalabad' launched attacks on mujahideen positions in the north-east and south-east of Jalalabad. The regime forces, which made some advances in the areas of Surkh Dewal and Shiwa, faced severe resistance from the mujahideen afterwards.
     Commander Zahid was one of the most important commanders of Hezb-e-lslami who has carried out major operations against the Kabul regime since the beginning of jehad in the country.
 Kunar: AIG Administrator Flees
     On October 26, the supporters of Maulawi Jamil-ul-Rahman drove out Commander Zaher, district administrator of the AIG in Khas Kunar, and took the control of the area into their hands.
33
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     According to reports from the area, the Wahabis encircled the area in early October and asked the AID administrator to hand over to them the suporters of one Ajab who had been killed in an incident with the Wahabis in lower Kunar.
     Ajab enjoyed an independent position in the area despite his light links with the Wahabis. He collected taxes from vehicles in the area which led to the incident between his men and the Wahabis.
                        *** *** ***
                                      34
October 1990 Shah Salim, Afghan/Pakistan border. Departure of the Commanders after their historic meeting.
