         Jr <c Oil
                                                         ON rfrttntA , LO(*'t& , ATlW*.

 ^FGHAN
   INFORMATION
    QENTRE
      MONTHLY BULLETIN
   No. 91 Eighth Year October 1988
Chaghasarai .Kunar provencial capital under the control of Mujahedeen
                                                      (PhotorS.Naim Majrooh)
Address: 18e s.j. Afghani Road, University Town, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN P. O. Box: 228    - Telephone:40953   - Telegram: AF1C
                The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
                1.       To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
                2.  To make this information available in the form of articles, news
                                                                  ♦
          bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
                  (a) International news media,
                  (b) Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
                The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
                The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
     Founder: Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor : Sayd Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription Pakistan     Rs.       400
Abroad       Dollar :  50
Bank account No 1131354558001
Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grmdlays Bank P L C Peshawar Pakistan
        THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
         AFOH AN INFORMATION CENTRE
     Monthly Bulletin NO. 91   October 1988
   CONTENTS
   I   A Report From  Kunar Province                      1
   II  Commander Masood and Professor Rabbani in the
        Pansher Valley                                    9
   III The Situation  In Logar Province                  12
   IV  A Report From  Paktlka Province                   16
   V   An Interview With Conmander Anwar                 21
   VI  Military News                                     23
          KUNAR PROVINCE NCW UNDER MUJAHIDEEN OCNTROL
        Naim Majrooh, Director of the Afghan Information Centre (AIC), recently visited Kunar following its fall to the mujahideen. Here is his report:
        On October 16, I left for Nawa Pass (the border point between Afghanistan and Pakistan) via Mohmand Agency. From here I walked into Afghanistan on the road which leads to Nawa. This had been built during the period of President Daoud. However, the road is not used by vehicles due to land and anti-personnel mines planted by regime troops during their operations in the area. The road has been transformed into a path used carefully by passers-by. We reached the district of Sarkani in five hours. There were few families in Sarkani on this side of the Kunar river.
        I crossed the river on the Nauabad bridge and reached the main road to Kunar. For the first_time, I saw mujahideen vehicles moving on the road. A captured regime truck took me into Asadabad (Chaghasarai).
        When I entered the town, I saw smoke and flames rising from one of the houses. Signs of plunder were evident throughout the town. The shops were lying vacant and their doors had been broken open. The signs of              r
   mujahideen rockets and bullets could be seen on the walls of buildings. Most of the buildings, including the residence of the governor, had been destroyed. Some             *
   buildings had been set on fire. The mujahideen had crowded into the town, occupying houses and government buildings.
                                  - 1
No.91
Eighth Year
October 1988
        Thousands of communist leaflets and books were littering the streets and government buildings. They had been burned and tom into pieces by the mujahideen. There were destroyed tanks and vehicles everywhere. The mujahideen tried to repair damaged vehicles and tanks. We saw underground trenches in houses and government buildings. This exemplified the harsh, difficult and unpleasant life led by regime supporters in the town.
        I contacted various commanders and asked what were the reasons for the regime evacuation. The commanders Wahidullah of Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar), Hazrat Rahman of Hezb-e-Islami (Maulawi Khales) and commanders Matiullah, Abdul Jabar and Said Walid Majrooh of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) gave identical answers. When the mujahideen destroyed a large enemy post in Shigal between Asadabad and Asmar, they intensified their pressure on Asmar. On October 1, hundreds of regime troops surrendered to the mujahideen along with a large quantity of arms and vehicles. This demoralized regime, troops in the province. They came under mujahideen pressure from all sides and were forced to choose the only way of retreat - to Ningahar.
        During the night of October 10, a mujahideen patrol entered the town which was being evacuated by the last regime troops. When a large number of people entered the town, five people were drowned in the river while crossing it in a boat.
        On October 11, the retreating troops were attacked by the mujahideen in the area of Tsaukai. Several vehicles and tanks were destroyed by the mujahideen in the attack. The troops were finally able to reach the district of Khiwa in Ningahar province. The troops are stationed now in the areas of Khiwa and Salampur. They are not allowed into Jalalabad, because the regime wants these troops to consolidate the security belt of
                               - 2 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
    Jalalabad. However, families of high-ranking officers have been accommodated in school buildings of Jalalabad. Most of them though are living on the desert of Salampur.
         Thirteen persons have been killed and six wounded in mine blasts in the area between October 1 and 17.
         On October 15, a land-mine destroyed a mujahideen vehicle in the area of Shinkorak between Shigal and Chaghasarai. .
                                                 l
         On October, 19 two APCs (captured by the mujahideen) were blown up by mujahideen mines in Shigal.
         The mujahideen say that the whole of Kunar is free, and there is not a single regime post in the province.
         The mujahideen have established an interim council to run the administrative affairs of the province. Each organization is represented by three members on the council. They have formed defence, security and finance committees for this purpose. Ghulam Rabbani of Jamiat (Prof. Fabbani) has been elected as the chief of the council. He comes from Nuristan. He is assisted by Hazrat Rahman, who comes from the Mohmand tribe and is affiliated to the Hezb-e-Islami party of Maulawi Khales. Wahidullah of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), of the Shinwar tribe, is the secretary of the council.
         However, the mujahideen are confronted with another problem, namely the presence and the demands of the Wahabi group led by Maulawi Hussain (Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman).
         In the past, Maulawi Hussain was affiliated to Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar). He worked for Muslim Youths during the period of King Zahir Shah. During the period of President Daoud, he left Pech (Kunar) and came to
                                                3 -
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
  Pakistan. In the last few years, he has been able to draw the attention of the authorities of the islamic fundamentalist Wahabi sect in Saudi Arabia and other countries of .the Middle East. He works for Wahabism in Afghanistan and seek financial assistance from Saudi Arabia and other countries.
       At present, the Vfahabis enjoy great influence. Following the evacuation of Kunar by regime troops, the Wahabis entered the town from their nearby positions and took over the stores of foodstuff and government buildings.
       The Wbhabis have put the following demands to the seven resistance organizations in Kunar:
       1)      The council should accept ten religious scholars and five commanders of their group.(The seven Resistance Alliance parties each have three representatives on the council).
       2)      The chief of the council should be appointed from their group.
       3)      They should run the committees of defence and finance.
       4)      The mujahideen of Kunar should ask the Pakistan government to recognize their group led by Haulawi Hussain (Jamil-u-Rahman).
       A member of the Wahabi group, in the main mosque of Chaghasarai oh October 18, said: "Still, the province of Kunar is not fully free. Kunar will not be free unless we conduct purges and eliminate nationalist elements and tribal relationships.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          For the first time, I saw that most of the people prayed in the manner of Wahabis in the mosques. The people had abandoned the manner of prayer conducted by their fathers and forefathers.
          All of their demands have been rejected by the mujahideen. The Wahabis have been t6ld that the mujahideen will accept three members of their group on the council despite the fact that their organization does not er.joy an official status. They have also told them that tne chairmen of council committees are elected by the members of the council. The mujahideen have said that they do not have the right to ask Pakistan to recognize the new group. That is the job of the Resistance Alliance, the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (IUAM).
          Before the mujahideen took control of the town, irresponsible elements committed destructive acts such as looting, cutting electricity lines, unnecessary firing of ammunition (in which two women were killed) , and destroying important government papers and documents.
          In order to solve the problem, an Arab team of the Wahabis went to Kunar to persuade its members abandon their demands. The team, however, did not succeed, and returned disappointed to Peshawar. Similarly, a team from Afghan refugee camps in Bajaur and Jandool left for Chaghasarai to sort out the differences. However, it was unable to gain their co-operation. This is still a great problem.
          When the regime troops evacuated Asadabad, the civilians fled to the mountains. These people sent a delegation to the mujahideen asking for permission to reenter tneir houses. However, the mujahideen informed them that they should wait until they could guarantee their safety.
Eighth Year
October 1988
No. 91
          The council has asked the residents to prepare a. list of all those who worked in technical fields with the regime. The mujahideen want to employ these people again in their relevant field. The council assured the residents that their lives will be protected. On the other hand, the council has advised all those who were regime militiamen to seek refuge in Pakistan if they are afraid of trial or imprisonment by the mujahideen in the area.                                  .
          Meanwhile, Said Noorullah Emad, General Secretary of Jamiat (Prof. Rabbani) and the interior minister of the mujahideen interim government, left for Chaghasarai on October 19, and addressed people in Friday prayer in the main mosque of the town.
          According to him, the leaders of the seven organizations should do their political business in Pakistan.
          "I have arrived here as the interior minister of the mujahideen government. It is my duty and that of the government to ensure security and run affairs,” he said.
          "Foreign blue-eyed elements intend to approach ;.your province and help you, but you should neither accept their assistance not permit them to enter Kunar."
          .On October 19, I left for Peshawar through Marawara and Ghakhi Pass leading to Bajaur Agency. ' •
          During my stay in Kunar, I talked to people from various walks of^life. They said that the people of Kunar .were the 'first to begin resistance against the Communist regime some days after the April coup of 1978.
          Similarly, this is the first strategically important province to be liberated. The people of this province
                                      - 6 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         request that all international and aid agencies do the following:
              1.      The residents of the province are confronted with various types of mines in the province. The mines have been planted by the regime troops around their posts and establishments. In addition, regime troops, have mined all the routes in the province. Russian aircraft have also dropped anti-personnel mines throughout the province. They want the. areas to be cleared of mines. In this connexion, the commanders of their* respective areas should produce maps of the mined areas and collect various types of mines existing in the piovince. It is proposed that persons who have experience in diffusing mines should be introduced to the U.N agencies concerned for additional training. The commanders express their readiness to help in this respect.
              2.      The people will suffer from a food shortage in the near future, because they cannot cultivate their fields due to mines, lack of seed, fertilizers and equipment such as tractors. Captured food stores will last for only two months. The people should be assisted soon to clear- their fields and begin cultivation.
              As most of the water channels have been destroyed by enemy bombardment, attention should be paid to building canals, etc.
              The roads and bridges have been destroyed. The roads should be cleared of mines and rebuilt. This will facilitate the movement of the people in the province.
              The mujahideen have captured some bulldozers and rollers in the province, but are unable to use than due to lack of skilled personnel, batteries, etc. Therefore, a workshop should be established. The mujahideen are
                                      - 7 -
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
        still working on the road leading frorti Nawa Pass (Pakistan border) to Sarkani district.
             6.      There is a hospital with beds and furniture in Chaghasarai, but there is a lack of medicine and medical staff. The mujahideen have only been able to establish a clinic in the hospital at Asmar. Medical facilities are badly needed throughout the province.
             7.      The mujahideen are planning to restore their own educational system in the spirit of Islam and Afghanistan instead of Marxism. There are thousands of families, including 3,000 of regime militiamen, in the province who should have educational facilities.
              The mujahideen are planning to turn Kunar into a symbolic model of reconstruction in Afghanistan. Therefore, all humanitarian organizations are asked to help as soon as they can.
             (On October 1 Asmar in Kunar was captured by mujahideen of all organizations. One thousand officers and soldiers surrendered to the mujahideen. 1500 light and heavy weapons, and 20 tanks, armoured vehicles and trucks were seized. Thirty regime soldiers were killed and 50 wounded. Six mujahideen were killed and 30 injured. Civilians and the families of militia who were living in Asmar have come as refugees to Pakistan).
                                * * * * *
                                      - 8 -
                   THE SITUATION IN THE PANSHER VALLEY
             Time Magazine reporter Tony Davis spent September in Pansher. His trip coincided with the visit to the northern areas of Jamiat party leader Professor Rabbani. This is his assessment of the situation:
             Masood is concentrating militarily on next year. That and Rabbani's visit has led to a drop in the number of operations which has given rise to speculation that he has done a deal with the Soviets. He denied that, and I believe him.
             As regards the military situation, Keshim and Taloqan, the capital of Takhar province, have fallen but the regime are holding out in Bargh Zahira. Their forces consist of the regime army and a large number of fighters belonging to Sarza (Organization of the Workers of Afghanistan). In the same area there is a militia commander, Samad, who used to be a Jamiat commander. He operates in Takhar from Taloqan to the border. The Soviets probably supply him from across the border.
             Masood could make a move on one of three places. The first is Kunduz where the airport is still in regime hands. By all accounts the city is divided. The mujahideen have a lot of mobility inside the city. They have not been pushed out. It may not be contested, but both sides have a presence in the city. Masood could complete the job.
             The second is Bargh Zahira, which has a garrison of 600 men. Masood thinks he can take it, and he has contacts with people inside so it might surrender.
                                               9 -
No.91
Eighth Year
October 1988
           The third and most interesting possibility is Faizabad, the capital of Badakshan province. It has been reinforced by 400-600 Afghan army men who pulled out of Jurm. Faizabad is the only major city in the north-east under regime control.
           On the political side Rabbani's visit was important for two reasons. First, it reinforced Jamiat unity and put an end to the rumours that Masood is thinking of joining the government or joining Hekmatyar. I saw Masood and Rabbani together many times. They have a good relationship and I would be surprised if there are any problems.
           ■Rabbani's visit was also a syirbolic one - the leader of the Alliance can walk around freely 75k from Kabul and there is nothing that the regime can do. There was some ineffective bombing. Masood was worried thy might try and stage a big bombing raid. They let people enter the Pansher but they stopped people leaving for the duration of the visit.
           The brother of Mohammad Ismail Tariq, Khalid, came up and had meetings with Rabbani and Masood, so Laghman is an area of influence for Masood and Jamiat. Tariq was the number two to Masood in the Council of the North, the deputy secretary-general. (Tariq, a Jamiat commander, was killed in Laghman on August 12).
           Masood said that the interim government was totally unrepresentative and could have no future in Afghanistan and if Kabul fell it would have no place.
           Masood says that the jirga is not a possibility. Both he and Rabbani effectively say the same thing. Elections are the best way, after there is peace, says Masood. Rabbani says that elections ideally should be free, but to talk about elections under the present
-10-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 circumstances is extremely difficult and to organize them may even be impossible. He proposes strong military administrative units to control the situation, establish law and order, and then prepare for elections after that. Both Masood and Rabbani emphasize military power.
      Training is going on in a number of places to form an army of 10,000. Masood hopes it will expand. For example, if regime forces defe'ct they may be absorbed into it.
      An army would have three purposes. One, to attack the regime. Two, to establish an organized force tc prevent looting and rioting if Kabul falls. Three, they want Jamiat to be the strongest and most organized military force in the country. They hope that other parties will join them in the formation of this army. They are trying to occupy the middle ground between the monarchists/traditionalists and the extremists, like Hekmatyar. They are inviting people to join them, and they are saying that if you don't, remember this we have the organized power. That is their strategy.
      Masood said that there should be limitations as to who could join this initiative. For example, anyone who who has let down the people of Afghanistan - he meant Zahir Shah - would not be accepted by Jamiat.
*
*
★
*
★
                      THE SITUATION IN LOGAR PROVINCE
      Canadian Journalist Arthur Kent went to Logar for 2 weeks on October 10, to Kolangar, a village near* the provincial capital, Pul-e-Alam. This is his report of the general situation there:
      The road from Kabul to Paktia which passes through Logar is under control of the mujahideen. They are checking vehicles coming from both sides. They are stopping government traffic. Only civilian traffic is allowed through. The government troops sit in their posts and watch the mujahideen checking the traffic and there is nothing that they can do about it. They are very short of ammunition. They have to save their ammunition for the next mujahideen attack.
      The government forces control only about 5 square kilometres around Pul-e-Alam.
      The mujahideen group of Jabha (Mojadidi) here, led by Assadallah Falah, is strong, as are those of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar),‘ Jamiat and Sayyaf. However, they too are- short of ammunition and have taken advantage of the consequent lull in the fighting to do some autumn planting.
      People in the villages around Pul-e-Alam are 100m from the government posts and are living with the danger of being in the middle of a fight between the regime and the government.
      Mortars and rockets are used in the fighting, and often civilians are injured. In spite of this of the many
                            -12-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 civilians I met independently of the mujahideen, the majority support the mujahideen. They hide their weapons, rent mules, horses and trucks to them, 4nd do everything they can to assist the mujahideen. Although it is said that there are government spies it is inpossible to find people who do not think that' the government should be attacked. People hope the government will fall quickly.
      Soviet supply helicopters land at Pul-e-Alam on average four times a week. On October 1 Commander Falah shot down with a Stinger a gunship protecting a supply helicopter. The helicopters keep very lew to the ground or close to the mountain so that the Stinger deflects into the earth.
      The mujahideen themselves are having supply problems. The road goes to within a 7-hour walk of their base. They complain that they are not getting enough ammunition; also with winter coming they are not getting enough clothing, food, or boots.
      The civilians in Kalangar and Pul-e-Alam say food is very expensive. The outlook for the winter is bad with prices rising. Meat is very scarce.
      They are already at work rebuilding the irrigation canals and ploughing land, while planting of winter wheat is now complete. Only 15% of the area's agricultural land is under work. The rest is dry and uninhabited. The people who own this land are still in Pakistan. When the Soviets were in the area they destroyed the irrigation systems in places outside their own area. Only farmers inside the Soviet zone were a." lowed to have water.
      Many fields are still mined. The roadways are mired by both Soviet and mujahideen mines. The mujahideen have no means of clearing these mines. Because the Soviets have left no maps and the mujahideen never made any,
                                13-
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
they must now start from scratch to try ahd find these mines. These roads are unusable by vehicles, but horses and people can travel on them. The mujahideen are able to travel by bus and truck for 20k from the government post on the way to Kabul. They can drive to Baraki, Ghazni, close to Paghman and close to Maidan Shah in Wardak.
      The regime has one main base in Pul-e-Alam. This is 1 km long and 200m wide. Around this there are 20 small posts. The regime has been pushed back to its last
position. From here it can only fall.
           \
      The mujahideen have regular meetings between the commanders of the four major parties in the area: Engineer Falah of Jebh (Mojadidi), Jamiat (Rabbani), Itehad   (Sayyaf)        and Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar). In
addition the tribes from each village have appointed three representatives and this council meets at least each week.
      There was one major clash when I was there. A man named    Rasool defected with two others from the
government. They took a BTR 80 armoured personnel carrier and surrendered to Jamiat. They had made a previous arrangement. Rasool, before joining the government had been a member of Jebh and had been given weapons and support. When he joined the government he had taken weapons and details of Engineer Falah's positions and this had resulted in the deaths of many mujahideen.
      Falah was very angry, because he thought Rasool would be set free. Falah surrounded the headquarters of Jamiat, saying he would stop any move to let Rasool out. He wanted to punish Rasool. The matter is still a source of disagreement. The mujahideen and tribal council are trying to find a solution. This is a distraction for the mujahideen in their main occupation of attacking the government.
                               - 14-
                  AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     The mujahideen are very discouraged about the political situation in Peshawar. They say there is not a strong enough leader there to take over an administration in Afghanistan. Everyone hopes that once the regime collapses there will be a loya jirga in which the mujahideen and civilians in Afghanistan will be able to decide a future course.
                 A TRIP TO THE LIBERATED PROVINCE OF PAKTIKA
      Malim Abdul Hamid Toryalai, an AIC correspondent, recently visited Paktika following its fall to the mujahideen. Here is the report:
      On October 17, I left Peshawar and reached Azam Warsak (South Waziristan Agency). I visited the branch office of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) there and met 303 soldiers captured by the mujahideen.
      Then, I proceeded to Sharana (the provincial capital of Paktika) where I saw various items captured by the mujahideen. I spent four days in Sharana. The mujahideen fully controlled the whole province.
      Enemy air bombardment and ground shelling has destroyed 60% of houses and 90% of lands in the province. Karez, the underground irrigation channels (the most common form of irrigation in Afghanistan), had been destroyed.
      There were two types of mines in Sharana, known as Guarantee and Threadlike. The regime troops had mines around their posts. They had also mined the internal area of a post prior to its capture by the mujahideen. The troops had mined the area around all regime vehicles in the area.
          ♦
      Eid Mohammad, responsible for the financial affairs of the mujahideen, said that the mujahideen established a council to carry out an operation on Sharna. The council is still operating in the area.
                             -16-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     According to Eid Mohammad,the mujahideen captured 130 soldiers and officers and killed 130 others in Sharana. One jet fighter was shot down. The mujahideen seized 3,000 light and heavy weapons, 102 vehicles, four APCs and tanks, 3,000 sacks of rice, wheat and sugar, 250 beds, hand bags, carpets, shoes, tape recorders, radio sets, 2,000 cartons of ammunition, 100 head of sheep, 25 head of oxen, 20 generators, 20 large radio communication sets, two television sets and some other equipment. The mujahideen returned 30 captured women to their relatives.
     Seven mujahids were killed and 35 wounded. Three women were killed by enemy bombardment.
     Eid Mohammad said that the mujahideen captured 450 soldiers and officers from Urgun garrison in the area of Tauda China. They intended to defect to Ghazni.
     I interviewed Said Sulaiman Gailani ( a prominent leader of Mahaz, Pir Gailani) in a mujahideen base in Sharana:
     Q: What do you know about the fighting in Sharana?
     A: Prior to the operation on Sharana, the mujahideen established a council. According to the decision of the council, the mujahideen began their operation on October 2. In a three-day operation, the mujahideen succeeded in capturing Sharana with its 38 posts. The mujahideen killed 130 regime troops and captured 150 others. In addition, the mujahideen seized 1,500 light and small weapons and 130 vehicles. The mujahideen distributed the captured goods equally.
     Q: What will the mujahideen do following the fall of Paktika?
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
      A:  The  whole  country is our homeland. We will
 continue our jehad until the last foreign soldier leaves our country. In this connexion, I went to Ghazni and discussed the strategy of a united progrannie with several commanders, including Commander Qari Taj Mohammad.
      Q: What do you say about a political settlement of the Afghan issue?
      A: The Afghans are a.peace-loving nation. I favour peace in Afghanistan. However, I must say that war has been imposed on us. If we or others want to restore peace in Afghanistan, the authority should be given to the people. As the whole nation has waged jehad, it should be taken into confidence regarding peace in the country. A loya jirga should be convened for the formation of an administration followed         by elections   in a    free
 ’Afghanistan. It was part   of our peaceful policy that we
 released regime officers    and soldiers in Urgun. We also
 handed over their children and women to them.
      I interviewed Commander Fateh Mohammad who shed light on the situation in Paktika as following:
      "Following the liberation of Paktika, I am planning to fight in Ghazni or Gardez.
      "I command some   1,500 armed mujahids      in    the
 province. The organization (Mahaz) has given me only 55 weapons. The remaining weapons have been captured by our mujahideen in various operations against the enemy.
      "Engineer Ahmad Shah has been appointed as head of the Resistance Alliance interim government. However, our opinion has not been sought for the appointment.
                            -18-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      "Diego Cordovez is trying to solve politically the Afghan issue. We accept anyone who intends to bring peace in Afghanistan selflessly. We support a loya jirga in Afghanistan. If we capture the capital, we will treat the Communists and regime supporters on the basis of Islamic law.
      "There is no clinic or qualified doctor in Sharana. Attention should be paid to the building of karez and water channels. There are no schools in the province. We need to operate schools for our children in accordance with Islamic and Afghan principles. The humanitarian organizations should take necessary steps in mine clearing in Sharana and Urgun. The mines have so far killed and injured many people in the province."
      During the trip, I interviewed the following soldiers who were captured, along with many others, by the mujahideen.
      SAID HANIF said that he came from Farah province and was in Urgun for eight months. Urgun was under constant mujahideen pressure prior to its fall. Regime troops had mined the area around their positions. The mines have killed several regime supporters in the past. Each soldier received a monthly salary of Afs 2,000. When we surrendered to the mujahideen, each soldier received Afs 2,000 as pocket money from Mahaz (Pir Gailani).
      IZATULLAH said that he was a mujahid in his village in Badakshan Province. One day, an enemy force invaded their village, captured him and took him to Kabul. He was interrogated under heavy torture. When the investigators failed to get anything from him, he was sent to Rishkhor garrison. He was then transferred to Urgun where he cooked food for soldiers in the Artillery Battalion.
                            -19-
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
      "The food was not good, and stomach problems were common. There were mines around our posts. Several soldiers of the battalion were killed by the mines. There were six Soviets in Urgun. They left in April for Kabul."
      MOHAMMAD HAMED, 18, said that he came from Chardehi district (Kabul Province). He was captured in Kabul city when he was shopping there with his mother. He was then sent to Urgun.
      "Weapons were only given to us during night for patrol. When we received immediate orders to leave Urgun, we left towards Sharana. However, we were warned through mujahideen loudspeakers to surrender ourselves on the way. We laid down our arms and surrendered to the mujahideen."
      DARYA MOHAMMAD, 18, is a resident of Stan Village in Khiwa district (Ningahar Province). He said that he was captured in his house in Reg-e-Shah Ahmad Khan by a regime search party. He was transferred to Kabul where he spent three and half months in the Education Regiment. He was taken to Urgun by air along with other conscripts. There were 1,500 soldiers and officers in Urgun garrison. He surrendered to the mujahideen with other soldiers on October 5.
*
*
 ' *
*
*
            INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER MOHAMAD ANWAR OF JIGDALAK
      Mohammad Anwar, the outstanding commander of Jamiat (Prof. Rabbani) in Jigdalak (Saroobi District, Kabul), was interviewed by the AIC on October 24.
      Regarding military situation, the commander said:
      "The organizations of Jamiat (Prof. Rabbani), Mahaz (Pir Gailani) and Hezb-e-Islami (Maulawi Khales)in Saroobi district have decided that each organization should block the Kabul-Jalalabad highway in turn to put constant economic, political and military pressure on Kabul and Jalalabad.
      "There are two objectives of the mujahideen pressure and operations on Kabul: first, to force the enemy either to desert or' retreat; and create good discipline among the mujahideen enabling them to ensure the security of Kabul following its fall of Kabul.
      "Second, to prevent sporadic operations (rocket shelling) which are exploited by the regime in its propaganda against the mujahideen. The mujahideen have not attacked non-military positions.
      "Until now, the mujahideen have carried out their operations on enemy security belts around Kabul in order to narrow the enemy's field of action. As winter is approaching and mujahideen activity is decreasing, the mujahideen have decided to defend their fronts and establish their political and social system. They have established a vast council for the security and order in Kabul in future.
No.91
Eighth Year
October 1988
      "The mujahideen are planning to block all supply routes to Kabul, such as the Kabul-Jalalabad, Kabul-Gardez, Kabul-Kandahar and Salang highways.
      "We request the residents of Kabul to consolidate their links with the mujahideen and extend their cooperation so that the mujahideen are not forced to use destructive military means to capture Kabul. The citizens of Kabul should resist, hold demonstrations and strikes and cease all co-operation with the regime.
      "Militarily, the mujahideen have forced the enemy to pull out of Afghanistan. However, they have been unable to create a united political system. Najib and the Communists are claiming to be Muslims now, which is a victory for the mujahideen and defeat for the Communists.
      "We requested resistance organizations to make efforts for the establishment of a united leadership acceptable to the Afghan nation. The leaders, who enjoy the confidence of the nation, should give’ authority to the nation."
      The commander said that his mujahideen carried out a successful operation oh the Kabul-Jalalabad highway recently. The mujahideen blocked the highway for ten days in Saroobi district.
★ * * * , *
                             -22-
MILITARY NEWS
URUZGAN
      On Septerrber 28, the mujahideen of Jabha (Prof. Mojadidi), under the command of Aziz Agha, brought down an enemy helicopter in central Uruzgan.
      On September 30, Nader, chief of KHAD (state secret police) in Dara-e-Noor sub-district, was killed along with three KHAD activists near the mountain of Qala-e-Shahi. A rocket killed Nader when he was inspecting a post on the mountain. The post also caught fire.
      On October 8, the mujahideen carried out operations on militia posts in Kuz Kunar district, Islampur and Lamatak. Two posts were destroyed and 15 enemy troops killed. The mujahideen seized 13 kalashnikovs, one PK machine-gun and a large quantity of ammunition in the operations.
NINGAHAR
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
      On October 14, under the command of Khandad, the mujahideen of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) attacked a regime militia battalion in the district of Momandara.
             .                         t
      The mujahideen, who carried dut the attack in collaboration with two officers of the battalion, destroyed the battalion and its surrounding posts, killed 42 enemy troops and captured 135 weapons along with a large quantity of ammunition and foodstuff.
      On October 12, the mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets on Jalalabad airport and military posts in the area of Khush Gunbad. Three troops were killed and one post was destroyed.
      On October 7, the mujahideen, in an operation in. Landi Khyber and Sarhadari, closed the Jalalabad-Torkham highway.
      The following day, they destroyed one tank and one vehicle on the highway. Fourteen soldiers and three officers were killed in the incident.
                                   BALKH
      On October ' 3, regime posts were attacked by the mujahideen of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in the areas of Momandan and Baghshor.
      The mujahideen killed seven regime militia and captured eight kalashnikovs along with a large quantity of ammunition.
                             -24-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     On October 5, an enemy convoy moving from Mazar to Shiberghan was attacked by the mujahideen of Commander Akhtar Mohammad of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in the area of Amalkhel between Balkh and Shiberghan.
     In the two-hour attack, the mujahideen destroyed one tank and one vehicle, and killed ten enemy troops.
     On October 10, the mujahideen of Commander Haqani hit an enemy transport aircraft in Khost. The plane crashed in the area of Ghlang, 12 kilometres north-west of Khost.
     On October 9, 600 armed regime troops were captured by the mujahideen in the district of Zormat.
     The troops had left Urgun following its fall to the mujahideen. They were planning to reach Gardez (the provincial centre of Paktia) via Zormat.
     On September 23, the mujahideen shelled regime posts of the Kharlooti Regiment in Zazi Maidan. Several bunkers were destroyed.
     On September 25, mujahideen of Harakat (Maulawi Mansoor), Jamiat, Mahaz and both Hezb-e-Islami parties captured the district centre of Zormat.
     The mujahideen captured three APCs, four tanks, six 76mm cannons, seven ZPUs, eight DSchKs, 12 mortars and 350 light weapons. Some 100 soldiers and militia were
                                  PAKTIA
                             -25-
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
killed. Some 40 militia families and 150 soldiers surrendered to the mujahideen.
     The area was subsequently bombed by Soviet aircraft, killing two mujahids and two children and wounding 30 mujahids and four civilians.
     On September 26, regime positions were shelled by the mujahideen in the district of Said Karam. As a result, 12 troops were killed and 30 wounded. Two tanks and two vehicles were also destroyed.
     In retaliation, enemy troops shelled mujahideen positions in the district. One mujahideen heavy gun was destroyed.
      On October 6, the mujahideen of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) began an operation on regime posts in the sub-district of Mita Khan.
      The mujahideen captured the posts and killed 53 troops. Some 450 regime supporters -surrendered with their weapons to the mujahideen. Eight mujahids were killed and three wounded.
PAKTIKA
                            -26-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                                 KANDAHAR
      On October 15, eight Soviet jet fighters flew from Shindand air-base and bombed the heavily-populated village of Sinzari in Arghandab district.
      The bombardment destroyed 30 houses and killed innumerable children, wonen and old men, forcing the villagers to seek shelter *n other areas of the district.
      Meanwhile, enemy aircraft bombarded houses near Loya Minara. Two children and one woman were killed and several injured.
      On October 15, the mujahideen of all organizations jointly attacked regime positions in the area of Takhta Pul near Kandahar air-base.
      The mujahideen captured Takhta Pul, seizing 16 heavy and light guns and six vehicles and one tank in working order. Nine mujahids were wounded.
      The losses of the enemy troops (mostly militia of Esmat Muslim) were not known. However, they were chased by the mujahideen to the Kandahar air-base.
      Since October 17, enemy aircraft have been bombing mujahideen positions in the area of Tor Kotal between Kandahar and Talkhta Pul. So far, 14 mujahideen, including two commanders, have been killed and 30 wounded.
      On October 24, regime troops attacked the area of Tor Kotal. Two enemy tanks were destroyed and one tank captured by the mujahideen.
                            -27-
ESgRth Year
October 1988
No. 91
                                                        /
\
      On October 1, an enemy force of 20 tanks supported by Jcwzjani and Esmat Muslim's militia, carried out an operation on mujahideen positions in the desert of Makian near Takhta Pul.
      During the fighting, several militia of '.smat Muslim surrendered to the mujahideen, and the Jcwzjani militia were forced to retreat to Kandahar.
      The mujahideen . captured 20 vehicles, 10 antiaircraft guns and many light weapons.
      On September 27, the mujahideen killed two regime soldiers near the regime posts of Loya Wiala, 3 kilometres north of Kandahar city.
      In retaliation, Jcwzjani militia encircled the residents of the area and opened fire can anyone who appeared in front of them. As a result, 35 children, women and old men were killed and 70 wounded. The militia also killed four soldiers.
      On September 30, the mujahideen rocketed enemy positions in the area of Mirza Mohammad Khan Qalacha in Kandahar.
      In the three-day attack, the mujahideen destroyed three posts and killed and wounded many soldiers. A number of soldiers surrendered to the mujahideen along with light and heavy weapons and ammunition.
                            -28-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     On September 24, the mujahideen captured the district of Hazarjoft after a long siege. The operation was conducted by the mujahideen of all organizations under- the command of Maulawi Abdul Hakim. The mujahideen seized five tanks, one vehicle and one tractor along with foodstuff and equipment. One mujahid was killed and three wounded.
     On October 11, the mujahideen of all organizations carried out an attack on regime positions in the district of Nad-e-Ali and Hazarjoft.
     The mujahideen destroyed nine posts, killed and injured many troops and. captured four troops. They also seized one heavy gun, some light weapons and a large quantity of ammunition. Regime troops were forced to evacuate the districts.
     Meanwhile, the mujahideen of all organizations attacked the posts of Bolan and Changir in the district of Musaqala.
     As a result, 12 militia were killed and one 76mm gun, one mortar, one heavy machine-gun, some light weapons and a large quantity of ammunition and foodstuff were captured.
     On October 12, two helicopters were destroyed in the area of Sarband in Kanjaki district. Mujahideen rockets hit the helicopters when they landed to provide food supplies to regime troops in the area.
                            -29-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      In retaliation, enemy aircraft heavily bombed the whole area of Sarband. Four mujahids were killed and 42 wounded.
      The regime is only present in Kalat, Lashkargah (the provincial centre of Helmand) and Girishk. The rest of the province is controlled by the mujahideen.
ZABUL
      A jet fighter was recently shot down in Zabul. Fighting continues in Qalat (the provincial centre of Zabul) where the regime only controls Bala Hissar (the fort). The mujahideen control the rest of the province.
FARAH
      On October 2, the mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) shelled regime positions in central Farah. Some 30 regime supporters were killed.
      Meanwhile, the mujahideen shot down one jet fighter, killed 20 regime soldiers and captured three posts in the outskirts of Farah.
            •
      The mujahideen have captured several posts ■ in the district of Bala Bluk, and are continuing' their operations on regime posts established recently around Shindand air-base.
 - 30 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The regime only controls the district centres in Gulistan, Khak-e-Safed and Qala-e-Kah in the province.
 KABUL
      On October 7, in a combined operation on regime posts in Dehsabz district, the mujahideen of various organizations seized 22 kalashnikovs, two PK machine-guns, one Zigoyak, two mortars and a large quantity of ammunition. The mujahideen destroyed the posts near the Polygon.
      The mujahideen are continuing to rocket Kabul. On 19 October a rocket killed 9 people, including three Soviets, and wounded 19, at the airport. There were unconfirmed reports that two helicopters were also destroyed. Two military transport aircraft were reported to have been damaged by rockets the following day.
      On September 30, the mujahideen, under the command of Zabet Shomali, carried out an attack on Spina Thana, a security post of Kabul. Several bunkers were destroyed and five regime soldiers killed.
      A retaliatory enemy bombardment forced the mujahideen to retreat to their positions. Two mujahids were wounded.
      Ch October 1,     1,000 Jamiat, Mahaz and Khales
 mujahideen under Commander Anwar attacked security posts in a 25-kilometre area between Wrishmin Tangai (the gorge) and Mashali Thana. The Kabul-Jalalabad highway was closed off* throughout the seven-day operation. The
                                - 31-
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
 mujahideen captured the posts of Wrishmin, Lakai, Toot, Dabili Pul, Band, and Kani China.
      On October 1, The mujahideen seized some light and heavy weapons along with a tank in working order. The mujahideen set the tank on fire, because they were not able to transfer it to their positions.
      On October 2, the mujahideen captured the post of Dargu. That morning, an enemy ground force arrived from Kabul via Saroobi and attacked the mujahideen. However, the force retreated after losing several vehicles and tanks. At 5 p.m.another force moved from Jalalabad, but was forced back to Jalalabad.
      On October 3, two enemy forces moved from Jalalabad and Kabul to the area to end the mujahideen blockade of the highway. However, they retreated back to their bases due to the resistance pressure.
      On October 4, two ground forces again appeared from opposite directions, but were not able to open thd highway despite a bombardment by jet fighters. The mujahideen also captured another post in the area.
      On October 5, the mujahideen blew up a bridge near Masha1 Thana and defeated another invading force.
      On October 6, the mujahideen destroyed the building of Masha1 Thana. On October 8, the 'enemy succeeded in reopening the highway.
      In total, the mujahideen destroyed 15 tanks, six vehicles and one bulldozer. They killed or wounded 200 enemy troops, and captured 15. They seized 85 kalashnikovs> one goryunov, two mortars, one zigoyak, five PK machine-guns, four radio communication sets and two DSchKs
                               - 32-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      On the mujahideen side, two mujahids were kiiled and 15 wounded. Four civilians were wounded. One mujahideen BM-1 and one 75mn gun was destroyed.
      A Japanese journalist, Miss Noko Nanjor, was killed by a Soviet mine.
      On October 1, the mujahideen of several organizations captured the posts of Qala-e-Rustam and Qala-e-Shah Mohammad. The mujahideen seized one tank and one heavy gun along with some light weapons. One mujahid was injured in the attack.
      On October 23, under the command of Rahim Wardak, the mujahideen of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) attacked regime positions on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway in Saroobi.
      The mujahideen captured ten posts in the operation. Enemy losses were not known, but three mujahids were killed and 12 wounded.
 GHAZNI
      On October 11 and 13, mujahideen attacked the posts of Band-e-Sarda, Char Diwal, Melani and Khwaja Noor. The mujahideen took the posts, captured 120 troops and seized nine APCs and tanks. Also, more than 100 light weapons were captured along with a quantity of food and agricultural material.
                                        - 33 -
No. 91
Eighth Year
October 1988
                                   LOGAR
      On October 21, the mujahideen of Itehad (Prof. Sayyaf), under the command of Said Ahmad, attacked enemy positions in the area of Safed Sang. An oil depot caught fire, and burned for 18 hours.
      The commander said that on. October 22, 41 families left Kabul via Surkhab in Logar. Many families have been leaving Kabul for the past two months.
      On October 14, enemy aircraft bombed various areas in Charkh. Four people' were killed and two wounded. Several houses were destroyed and many domestic animals
      Abdul Rahim Hanifi, general commander of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in Laghman province, was killed in an ambush in the mujahideen-controlled. area of Dago. Four companions were killed and one injured..
      The commander, who had come to Pakistan for supplies, was returning through Torghar (Ningahar province) to his fronts in Laghman.
      Hanifi commanded 5,000 mujahids in Laghman. He was known as one of the few persons striving for the unity of mujahideen forces in Afghanistan.
killed
                                  LAGHMAN
                  OUTSTANDING RESISTANCE COMMANDER KILLED
                                         - 34 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The commander earned a special reputation when some 5,100 armed supporters of regime collaborator Sarwar Nuristani and Maulawi Gazin surrendered to him along with their light and heavy weapons. Maulawi Gazin is a spiritual leader who had secret connexions with the commander. On September 2, Hanifi's mujahideen attacked some 700 supporters of Sarwar Nuristani. The supporters joined Maulawi Gazin who surrendered to the commander.
      Other bitter incidents have occurred in the past in the province. For example, Ismail Tariq, general commander of Jamiat in Laghman, was killed in Alishahg on August 14. Before this, another Jamiat commander, Barakat Shah, was killed in Laghman. He was killed while reading the Holy Koran at a peace gathering.
                                                                      FARYAB
      On September 4, under the command of Hafizullah, the mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the militia posts of Habibullah Beg in the area of Quroqul in Qaisar district. One militia, commander was captured along with eight militiamen. Seven militiamen were injured. The mujahideen seized 15 kalashnikovs, one PK machine-gun, one heavy gun, nine horses and a large quantity of ammunition. One group commander, Allah Dad, was killed and two mujahids slightly injured.
      On September 8, a large Soviet _force backed by jet fighters moved from Soviet Uzbekistan and attacked the area of Atta Khan. •
                  The enemy troops killed 40 children, women and old men and injured more than 100. Some 800 domestic animals
                            -35-
No.91
Eighth Year
October 1988
were killed and 600 houses destroyed. Six mujahids were killed. Some 5,000 civilian families were forced to evacuate the area and seek shelter in the areas of Almar and other mountainous areas.
     The Soviets are building a road from Soviet Uzbekistan to this area. Soviet units are still deployed in the districts of Qisar, Daulatabad and Shirin. Tagab. Soviet forces frequently move into the districts from Soviet Uzbekistan.
     Oh September 12, the Soviets carried out an operation in the areas of Atta Khan, Bad Qaq and Khwaja Mousa (Qaisar and Pashtun Kot districts). The Soviets established several posts in the areas.
     On the same date, one of the posts was destroyed by the mujahideen. The mujahideen killed 11 Soviets and injured several others. The mujahideen also seized three kalashnikovs.
     On September 15, Khal Mohammad, a regime militia commander, surrendered to the mujahideen of Jamiat (Prof. Rabbani) along with 40 militiamen.
     The commander, also known as Faiz Malang, handed over 35 kalashnikovs, three rifles, tvro light machine-guns and a quantity of ammunition”. The mujahideen transferred the families of the surrendered militiamen to the sub-district of Almar.
                            -36-
 l>iicu cut a
 r"UM provenciai capital under the control of Mujahedeen
                                      (Photos : Abdul Hamid Jabarkhel ,AIC Correspondent)
          Oh friends! The hero who concludes an agreement of peace with a dragon becomes the boon companion and confidant of the dragon. Ultimately he himself falls victim to the seductive dragon, since no monster commits himself to any human being. The monster does not keep faith with any agreement; he has a commitment only to himself; in an agreement he is a party only to himself.
          Oh friends! You may ask yourselves why the hero took such a dangerous step and concluded such an agreement with the dragon. If you have listened to the words of the monster, he himself Has supplied the answer to the question. The hero, before being swallowed by the greater dragon had fallen victim to the smaller dragon of his own ego.
                          Professor S.B.Majrooh EGO-MONSTER IV December 1983, Peshawar.
ACKU