                    * a # » V,
GHAN
NFORMATION
jHENTRE
v
MONTHLY BULLETIN
 No. 119
 10th Year
 February 1991
                         The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)    International news media
        (b)    Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder        :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor         : Sayed Naim      Majrooh
                Bank Account No. 1131354558001 100            Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK
70             Grindlays Bank PLC
                Peshawar - Pakistan
Annual Subscription Institutions                : US$
Individuals                 : US$
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
     AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
                             Monthly Bulletin
        No. 119                  February 1991
 CONTENTS:
 I THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF MAJROOH’S MARTYRDOM
 II. SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF THE SOVIET WITHDRAWAL
  III. SITUATION IN PESHAWAR
  IV. SITUATION IN THE PROVINCES
               THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF MAJROOH’S MARTYRDOM
         The third anniversary of the martyrdom of Prof. Majrooh coincided with February 11. In order to offer prayers for the dep: ; ed soul of the kte Prof. Majrooh, AIC organized a meeting which wass attended by intellectuals, tribal elders, refugees, commanders, mujahideeen and some Pakistani writers.
         Most of the cultural and political bodies know that Prof. Majrooh has made great cultural and political efforts in the struggle of the Afghan people for freedom. They are aware of his works published by the AIC. They also know about his portrayal of the objectives and problems of the Resistance in international conferences.
         Here, we will try to cast a glance at the social, literary aspect of his life reflected in his works.
         "The hard path, which you are following, leads to the destination of freedom. But, at first, recognize your enemy in the ups and downs of the path. Secondly, don’t forget the destination. Freedom is the destination, namely a free and prestigious life in a free and prosperous country",
         These lines are taken from Prof. Majrooh’s work "Know the Enemy, "which was published in Peshawar during the presence of Soviet forces on Afghan soil.
         A writer usually tries to collect those literary, social and political points from his environment which have a great impact on the people. However, the wisdom of a writer lies in the fact that he coordinates dispersed, forgotten and overlooked facts for the people, so that they use them as sword and shield on the way to their destination. If a writers wants to awaken his people, he should have a full knowledge of his social and cultural conditions. If we cast a glance at Recognize Your Enemy, A Message to a Young Son and Unfamiliar Songs, we will clearly understand that Prof. Majrooh has skillfully and stylishly employed minor country events in his works to give a torch to the people in darkness on their way to their destination.
         In "Ego Monster" He writes :"Oh people! That nameless dread has pushed you into a whirlpool of fears and made you blind and deaf. Wake up from your sad sleep and prepare to meet that destroyer of humanity, fear of the unknown. Do not let the ignorant cowards flee from it,and do not allow the
                               1
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
 blindly brave to leave the city and meet the challenge alone. Because by then-heroism the heroes make the monster look bigger, and by their cowardice the cowards magnify its strength. If no one tries to test his strength against it, or exaggerates the danger in order to appear the greater, then the monster will lie down and be still. And if no one shows any fear, or submits the monster will fade away. Let the high-spirited people make fun of it and let the children play with it. You will then see the monster slowly move towards you like a harmless and faithful dog and lay its head at your feet. Understand that the existence of the monster is due to people’s fear. The greater the servility of their followers, the stronger the monster appears, the bigger the heroes who challenge them, the more powerful the monster feels.
         Prof. Majrooh regards darkness, tyranny, dictatorship and despotism as the enemy of humanity. He considers the collapse of these systems as a noble humanitarian cause for freedom.
         In a short poem of "Unfamiliar Songs", he says:
         Unless the son of a farmer knows his task,
         Rises and awakens from sleep,
         Lights a fire amongst the thorns of the desert,
         Burns scorpions and snakes in the flames of fire,
         Takes shovel and pickaxe,
         And ploughs the land of the country deeply,
         He will not become a man for centuries,
         Nor will he get freedom from his captivity.
         The poem, on one hand, advises man to implement his determination, intention and superiority, and consciously follow the path of motion and struggle. On the other hand, it shows to its people, through the language of farmers, the path to freedom from tyranny and oppression
         While one volume of Prof. Majrooh’s Ego Monster still remains unpublished, the four published volumes of the work are available. Prof. Majrooh expounds rebellion, selfishness, conflict, social injustice, dragons of stomach and society and the evil intentions and deeds of the plunderers of our people in a philosophical manner.
         When we approach the readers of the work, each reader interprets it in his own way. Ego Monster is like a river that provides water to anyone according to his desire and need.
                                 2
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         "O people, the life of the Monster depends upon constant war and bloodshed. His existence depends on the disgrace and hardship of man. If he does not find an enemy outside his jurisdiction to shed his blood, he will invite people to war inside the city tocontinue the killing and massacre. If genuine peace and friendship is maintained between the people, and he is no moreable to bring about corruption, sedition, bloodshed and hatred, the Monster will suffer disgrace and immediate destruction.” (p. 48, Vol. 4, Ego-Monster) The fourth volume of Ego Monster was written during the displacement and Resistance of the Afghan people. It was a time when our people resisted the Russians, but wealthy and powerful people acceptable to the hosts in Pakistan organized groups which did not have tongues to speak. In this work, Majrooh writes:
         "O’ people, think a little about the nature of leadership before you decide upon the leadership in your ranks.
         "O’ people, you give the torch to the blind, though you have not lit it. You are in search of guides, though you have not lost your way.”
         Having conducted full research on the poor life of Afghan refugees in Pakistan outside their land homeland, on the seventy-eighth page of the fourth volume, he asks a homeless old Afghan woman about the definition of displacement.
         ’Across the tents of the wonderers, there was a small cemetery which was spreading speedily in every direction. We, the old, have always laid ourselves to rest there. We have also laid our children there. We have laid, them all to rest temporarily in a foreign land. Say, when will we lift up our bodies? When will we transfer our dead bodies to the old cemetery of our village?"
         Dialectics of Force and Will is another work of Prof. Majrooh.
         "All living beings are in a state of conflict with each other. Among those, man is a conscious being who breaks strong chains for the prosperity of his life.
         The work Dialectic of Force and Optionoot
         In its 75th issue of June 1987, the Monthly Bulletin carried an analytical article by Prof.Sayd B. Majrooh under the title "The Future Government of Afghanistan."
         The article appeared at a time when the international situation was fully conducive to the interests of the Afghan Resistance. The Russian forces were
                                   3
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
 present on the Afghan soil, and the whole nation took an active part in the war for national freedom.
        In Pakistan and Iran, the governments under the leadership of Zia-ul-Haq and Imam Khomenie fully backed their ideological allies amongst the Afghan Resistance.
        The U.S. and the governments of the Western and Arab worlds fully supported fundamentalist groups in the Afghan Resistance in order to avert the threat of communism. The operations of the mujahideen were enhanced daily with the support of the Afghan people.
        Undoubtedly, the Russians fought a war which caused heavy losses in life and material to them in Afghanistan. The Russians daily lost aircraft in military operations. It was during this period that the Soviet leader, Gorbachev, described Afghanistan as Ma bleeding wound.” There were signs of a Russian intention to withdraw from Afghanistan. Thus, the question was, what type of government would follow a Russian withdrawal.
        In Pakistan, the fundamentalist groups, in consultation with their regional friends, considered themselves as the most eligible candidates for a political future of Afghanistan. Hence, Prof. Majrooh wrote an article. The AIC conducted an opinion survey following the article in the July issue of its Bulletin. The result of the survey follows the article.
        Following is the text of the article:
 "THE FUTURE GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN
        At this moment with the escalation of military activity inside Afghanistan the formation of a united political leadership for the Resistance has become a vital necessity, although it is not clear whether the question of a future government is not premature. As the problem is increasiiigly discussed among the Afghan refugees, freedom fighters and Western friends of the Afghan cause, participation in the discussion will not be entirely, we hope, a futile exercise.
                 #
        It is generally and to some extent rightly believed that since the Marxist coup of April 1978, much has changed. A simple restoration of the STATUS QUO ANTE will not work. Consequently any political set up for the future will have to take into consideration the new political and social conditions of the country.
                                 4
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          It is true that Afghanistan is not and never will be the same again. But what are the changes and to what extent they have created a new socio-political situation? Here are some thoughts about this question.
The new socio-political situation
         On the socio-economic scene major new facts to be mentioned are:
         The displacement of almost half of the country’s population. Over five million have become refugees in neighboring countries, the largest refugee population in the world; some three million are displaced inside the country from one rural area to another. As a result the centuries old social structure has been destabilized.
         As Afghanistan is mainly a rural society based on an agricultural economy, and as the mujahideen are also coming from the rural population, in order to uproot the Resistance, the Russians’ deliberate aim has been to destroy the economic infrastructure of the countryside. In this manner the enemy wishes to put an end to the semi self-sufficiency of the rural population and make them dependent on the Kabul government’s decision.
         On the socio-political scene three new figures have emerged: Mujahid or freedom fighter, Resistance commander and leader of a political organization.
         The first two who were simple farmers or primary school teachers or priests in a mosque, before the war, have become socially influential and in some places have replaced the elders and traditional local chiefs. Among the commanders a few were able to expand their influence to whole provinces and have become actual military and political leaders inside the country. However the traditional chiefs and tribal elders have not entirely lost their prestige, neither inside nor among the refugees. In the refuge camps people live together on a tribal and local basis, sticking to their traditional way of life, under the influence of the elders. Even Resistance fighters and commanders who belong to the same social structure - respect their elders and follow their guidance.
         The third category, the leaders of the political organizations, include two opposite types:
         The traditional religious leaders - well-known religious scholars, spiritual
         leaders of the Sufi brotherhood - who, before the war, were never
         involved in the political, civil or military administration of the country,
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
         have become political with strong ambitions to play a role in the future government of Afghanistan.
         The revolutionary Islamic leaders. They are young and entirely new on the socio-political scene. They represent the political trend of Islam; have gained influence only during the war and have precise ideas about a revolutionary Islamic government for the future.
 The old magic charm
         However, one of the most significant changes since the Communist coup of 1978 is that the magical charm which kept the population respecting the central state authority, has been broken. There were many cases of tribal and local insurgencies in the modern history of Afghanistan, but none was against the central regime as^such. Usually the uprisings were provoked by the action of an unwise or corrupt local or provincial governor, or the unpopular measures of a prime minister. The insurgents considered themselves as unlawful and felt guilty, but had no other choice to make their voice heard by the King. The best example of this magical charm was the loyalty of the people to Prince Daoud as President of the Republic. Despite the fact that President Daoud came to power with the help of pro-Soviet communist army officers; that communists were present in his government and were massively infiltrating the civil and military administrations, the people did not move. This was simply because Daoud was a good Muslim and a strong patriot. It was unimportant to the people whether he called himself king or president. He was the legitimate heir. Attempts by some Islamic revolutionary groups to mobilize the people against the central government (between 1973-1978) failed. People did not cooperate and even helped the Afghan army neutralize the insurgency movements. The magical charm of the central legitimate authority was at work.
         There were only two exceptions: when Shah Shuja the Durrani king came to power for a second time (1839-1842), but with the help of British army, the people rose up; the king was dethroned and killed. (Babrak Karmal who was installed in power in 1980 by the Soviet armed forces was compared to Shah Shuja). The second caseis King Amanullah (1919-1929), who discredited himself in the eyes of the* people by his naive anti-traditional and anti-Islamic policies. He fled to Rome. Habibullah Kalakani (known as the son of the water-bearer), the popular leader of the rebellion, proclaimed himself king in Kabul; but because of his lack of legitimacy, he did not last more than nine months. Nadir Shah, the father of King Zahir Shah, a more legitimate prince was helped by the people to power.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         But when in April 1978 the communists seized power through a bloody military coup d’ etat, the age-old magical charm was definitely broken. Rebellion against the central authority considered as unlawful, was justified, disobedience became lawful fighting the communists a religious and national duty.
         Paradoxically, the same factor - namely the old magical charm of respect for central authority which has prevented the Kabul Marxist regime from establishing its authority over the country, is also working against the Resistance political leaders. The latter are well respected as persons, and also for their role in the jehad; they are also expected to have a role in the future political solution, but none of them is considered as a legitimate national leader able to re-establish the respect for a central authority. Anyone of them coming to power will be challenged and other mujahideen groups will find enough justification to fight against the central government.
 Conclusion
         possible logical conclusions from the above discussion will be:
         A Marxist regime, especially one imposed by the invading forces of a foreign power, did not work and will never work. This solution is out and also a coalition government with the communists is excluded for the future. The Russians have learned this lesson, but do not know how to find a face-saving exist.
         The only workable and acceptable political leadership for Afghanistan will be the one which has roots in the past and is able to work with the new conditions of the present. A man having the aura of the central authority’s magical charm around his person, someone like former king Zahir Shah; not attempting to restore the old family rule, but working with an entirely new team, is likely to succeed. In the formation of such a team two aspects should be taken into consideration: one is political and the other technical. Politically, some leaders of the political organizations and some outstanding Resistance commanders have to be involved. Technically, as the future free country will be facing the huge task, and most difficult of all, of reconstruction - the re-settlement of the displaced population, re-building of the economy, administration, education, etc - a large number of non-political experts and technocrats must be included. In this manner alone, we believe, a peaceful, unitedand free Afghanistan will have a chance to start living again. With the help of God.
*•*
7
***
***
         SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF THE SOVIET WITHDRAWAL
        The second anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan fell on February 15, 1991. It was on this day in 1989 that Soviet troops finally withdrew from Afghanistan.
        However, the war, which began in the country some thirteen years ago, still continues in various forms, and the signs of peace are still not easily visible.
        The Afghan nation offered heavy sacrifices in driving the Russians out of Afghanistan for the sake of their freedom and homeland, but it did not attain the fruit of the sacrifices - peace and prosperity.
Mujahideen position
A - MILITARY FRONT
        Following the withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan, it was expected that the regime in Kabul would shortly collapse. However, the fall of the regime through military means still remains a question mark.
        During the past two years, some strategically important towns were attacked by some forces of the resistance.
        The highly planned battle of Jalalabad began on March 6, 1989 and continued for two years. As a result, thousands of mujahideen were killed and wounded; the city suffered heavy damage; the agricultural project of Ningarhar has been transformed into a desert.
        Attacks were carried out in the provinces of Paktia, Kandahar, Zabul and Ghazni, where mujahideen failed to score any victories. Uruzgan was the only Province which fell to them as a result ofattacks.
        In March 1990 Gen. Tanai the Defence Minister waged an abortive coup attempt to topple the Kabul regime.
        During the last three months of 1990, extensive activity was carried out to capture Kabul; a heavy attack was launched on the city by Hizb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) which resulted in the enhancement of regime propaganda against the mujahideen.
                                          8
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        Civilians in Paghman, Logar and Chawki Arghandy in Maidan, who had lived in the area during the war and who extended very important assistance to Mujahideen were obliged to leave their regions at the beginning of winter as a result of the offensive.
        Despite the heavy supply of arms to commanders in the north the Salang highway remained open.
 B - POLITICAL FRONt
        During the first days of February 1989, the Peshawar-based seven mujahideen organizations hurriedly held several meetings in Peshawar to form their government, following a Russian withdrawal on February 15 and an immediate collapse of the regime in Kabul. They formed an interim set-up after lengthy deliberations and consultations in Rawalpindi.
        The Afghan Interim Government (AIG) could not develop into a viable entity, because the will and opinion of the Afghan nation had not been respected in its formation. The life of the government was very short, after 23 months it reached a stage of collapse, and most of the Ministries were closed during the last week of January 1991.
        With a full pocket the AIG had employed a substantial number of Afghans, (reportedly about 12,000) but the majority of these lost their jobs when the government announced that it could not keep the staff due to financial problems. Only the high ranking officers, the reiss and general managers remain.
        Also, the AIG authorities drew up an election law that reflected the opinion of only ten percent of Afghan society. The program faced many problems when it was not accepted by the people in the liberated areas inside Afghanistan.
        Regrettably, the plunder of national wealth, including mines and forests, and the misuse of humanitarian and reconstruction assitance, which has occured during the past several years of war, reached its apex during the period of the AIG. The cultivation of opium poppy has also increased. The lack of control by Resistance leaders has led to the supporters of force resorting to rule by the gun in the liberated areas, where the people only want peace and justice. There has been an almost total breakdown of centralised law and order. Internal fighting is rife throughout all areas.
                                         9
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
         The poor performance of the AIG disappointed those external and internal hands that had formed it. Hence, the meetings of the Nationwide Shoura of Mujahideen Commanders were convened; important commanders of the Afghan jehad participated in the meetings. Once again, the eyes of hope were focused on the newentity.
         As religious scholars have played a dominant role in the political and military affairs of the Afghan jehad, they have influenced the decision of the Nationwide Shoura of Mujahideen Commanders.
         The Shoura (council) has not taken any important step regarding the political and military affairs of Afghanistan.
         Proportionally, the Nationwide Shoura of Mujahideen Commanders is a new body which can make progress if it treats various strata and classes of society according to their social and political values. Recently it has opened a new branch office in Quetta.
 Tribal unions
         In order to change the current developments in Afghanistan, various tribes of the country have tried to follow their national, historical and hereditary path - jirgah and consultations. However, they faced many obstacles from both Pakistan and Afghanistan. Despite this the people have accelerated their tribal movement during the past year. Some tribes, such as Ahmadzai, Popalzai, Mangal, etc., have established their tribal unions. They are trying to expand their move to all parts of the country.
         One of the biggest problems for an overall tribal unity is the migration of tribes to other countries, because each geographic environment has its own conditions.
 Regime position
 A - MILITARY SITUATION
         The regime, which is known as a clique of sinners and criminals among the Afghan people, has survived as a result of its decision to lead a defensive life militarily.
         The defensive system of the regime depends on the following:
10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 1.      To pursue an active defensive policy in the provinces bordering Pakistan.
 2.      To control the highways
 3.      To employ any means to seek the cooperation of people in northern and
         western Afghanistan.
         In the light of the above strategy, the Kabul regime worked on the expansion of the security belt of Kabul last year. In this connection, regime troops began operations in three directions from the city. To the west, regime troops captured the strategically important area of Paghman which^was controlled by the mujahideen during the Russian presence in the country. It expanded its security belt to the district of Mohammad Agha, 20 km south of Kabul. Regime control also expanded to the area of Mirbacha Kot, 20 km north of Kabul.
         The regime has further consolidated its defensive positions in the provinces of Ningarhar, Paktia, Ghazni, Zabul and Kandahar.
         The regime was able to continue its hold on the provincial centre of Zabul, which has been under strong Mujahideen siege. A latest report says that regime personnel have begun movement on the road between Zabul and Kandahar.
         The defensive strategy has proved useful for the regime, because most of mujahideen attacks are carried out in the border provinces and Kabul. There are mountains in these areas where a defensive position is cheaper and easier than an offensive.
         Also, the regime has generally kept open the highways leading to the north, Jalalabad and Kabul. Several regime convoys have reached Lashkargah (Helmand) and Kandahar through Torghundi during the past year.
         The residents of northern and western Afghanistan face innumerable economic problems. Through its own resources and those of the U.N. (Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan’s programs), the regime has established links with the people of these parts and buys their loyalties. They are then organized into regime military units. Occasionally regime forces abandon their defensive strategy and carry out offensives in these areas. The supply of gas, which was previously interupted by the local Resistance, is now regularly delivered through a pipeline to the Soviet Union. This in itself is a sign of subsidence in the amount of fighting in these areas.
                           11
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
 B - KHAD (WAD) ACTIVITIES
         By exploiting the existing political vacuum, foreign interference, an uncertain future, the sense of insecurity and irresponsibility, a preference for personal and party interests over national interests, corruption, a poor economy, and the reduction in aid to the resistance following the Gulf crisis, the regime has systematically intensified KHAD activities in the ranks of the resistance. Propaganda against the resistance is carried out in such a skilful manner that most of the peopleconsider regime claims as totally true. The present situation has perplexed the people to an extent that they forget their sacrifices and the crimes of the regime against the nation.
         KHAD carries out its activities for the following purposes:
         To create hatred amongst the civilians against the mujahideen.
         To increase internal differences between the mujahideen organizations.
         To create an atmosphere of mistrust, and attract people to its ranks by exploiting their critical economic condition.
         In order to create hatred among the people against the mujahideen, KHAD agents commit rape, plunder and other acts in the guise of mujahideen. Thus an atmosphere of insecurity is created in the liberated areas.
         The regime provokes mujahideen groups against each other in order to deepen inter-mujahideen differences. This results in armed clashes. Its men carry out night attacks on rival groups which clash with each other following these incidents. Through its agents in the ranks of the mujahideen, the regime discredits well known commanders by saying that they have established links with KHAD.
        Through radio communication sets, KHAD activists inform regime authorities about the location and timing of certain mujahideen gatherings. This results in regime air bombardment and ground shelling.
        For instaftce, the radio message of a commander of Maulawi Khales was detected by the commanders of Mahaz in the district of Khugiani (Ningarhar). The commander had informed regime authorities about the location and timing of a meeting which was being attended by Maulawi Khales. Maulawi Khales escaped in the subsequent bombardment that took place in the area.
                            12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         When the evidence was produced before a court, the commander confessed that he had passed the message. He was then executed.
         In another incident, eight commanders of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) were killed in a rocket attack on the site of their meeting in Ningarhar.
         Also, several commanders and mujahideen of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) were killed and wounded when rockets fell on their site in Saroobi district (Kabul). Gen. Rahim Wardak, military chief of Mahaz and Dr. Shahrukh Gran, gen. commander of Mahaz in Kabul province, were wounded in the incident.
         Lack of political and military concentration has made it difficult for the resistance to identify and purge KHAD elements in their ranks, because if a member of a party is accused of having links with KHAD, the act is regarded as enmity with theparty.
         In particular, the protection of Shahnawaz Tanai has confused the work against KHAD agents in the resistance. For example, a low-ranking party member or KHAD activist argues that as a lower ranking member he cannot be compared with Shahnawaz Tanai who is responsible for many major actions against the Resistance. If he is protected by refusing to acknowledge his past crimes, then it is not possible to presecute a smaller member of the same regime.
 Political Situation
         One of the main problems of the Afghan resistance, from its establishment to the present moment, is the failure of the resistance forces to take proper and adequate political and social measures for the formation of an alternative system. Their composition depends upon a way that leads them to remain active against a system and military power in Kabul.
         For this reason, the Kabul regime, in comparison with its past record, has made some political advances during the past two years.Some western governments are apparently not interested in the individuals in the regime. Rather they pay attention to the deeds of the regime. The amendments in the constitution; formation of the government by Fazal Haq Khaligyar; absorption of non-party professionals in the government; change of name of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA); return of private property to then-owners; transference of the government-led economy to a free market economy, and the acceptance of elections for a non-party system are the main steps claimed by the regime. Recently the regime appointed five non-party ministers in the
                            13
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
 cabinet of Fazal Haq Khaliqyar. The new ministers have studied in Germany and the U.S.
         By their visits to France, Switzerland, Turkey, India and Iran, regime authorities continue the process of foreign visits.
         Though Afghans may still reject the Kabul regime for its past deeds, the change in the international situation and the lack of specific views on the resistance's side has led to an apparent consolidation of the regime’s position.
         The regime still continues its policy of National Reconciliation. Through its media inside the country, it reminds the people that it holds talks with mujahideen commanders. It also claims that it has reached an agreement with some commanders regarding the security, agricultural and economic affairs in their respective areasrlt invites Afghans living abroad to return home. It has even agreed to extend all benefits to those staff dismissed by the AIG, provided they return to home.
         In this connection, the following example indicates Najib’s policy.
         During the last week of February Najib visited Kandahar where he addressed a number of people at the holy shrine of Kharq Sharif. He said:
         "I see the role of His Majesty Zahir Shah at a high level. Therefore, I tell you that the supporters of Zahir Shah, though they are opposed to us, can open an office in Kandahar and carry out their activity even against us.H
 He added:
         ’’Convey this message to the king. As the historical personalities, such as Mirwais and Ahmad Shah Durrani, began the building of Afghanistan from here, we hope that His Majesty Zahir Shah will begin the same from here."
         Despite the continuation of Soviet aid, the regime is entangled in a critical economic crisis, but it employs any tactics in its propaganda against its opponents. •                                                                    ‘
 Conclusion
         We have our own characteristics as a nation of the world. If foreign forces respect our national sovereignty, national principles and historical characteristics, we will be able to discover the path of dawn, because our country
               H
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
has a long history the chapters which are full of incidents of such impassable routes. On the contrary, if the enemies and friends want to keep Afghanistan in an atmosphere of anarchism, mistrust, irresponsibility and selfishness, or they wish Afghanistan as a country where people should grow thorns instead of flowers, cultivate poppy instead of wheat and carry guns instead of shovels, it will be not only tantamount to faithlessness with the sacred blood of Afghans but will also be regarded as a kind of support to the regime whose hands are red with the blood ofour people.
                                           *** *** ***
                          15
                SITUATION IN PESHAWAR
 AIG sends Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia
         On Feb. 8, the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) sent 310 mujahideen to Sauid Arabia. The contingent is composed of the mujahideen of Jabha (Prof. Mujadeddi), Mahaz (Pir Gailani) and Hezb-e-Islami (Khales).
         The despatch of the contingent to Saudi Arabia has further widened the gap between the mujahideen organizations.
         Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the AIG, says that the mujahideen have been sent to Sauid Arabia to defend the Holy Places in that country. He also says that they have been sent there as a sign of goodwill to Sauid Arabia which has fully supported the jehad during the past several years of war in Afghanistan.
                                                    Y
         However, Prof. Sayyaf, Prime Minister of the AIG, says that the mujahideen have been sent to Sauid Arabia to please the Americans not for the defence of the Holy Places.
         Sources from Hezb-e-Islami say that the despatch of the mujahideen to Saudi Arabia is national treason against Afghanistan and a move to defame the mujahideen.
         Most of the Afghans condemn the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, saying that Saddam Hussain had backed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and participated in the Olympic games in Moscow in 1980. They argue that Iraq enjoys good relations with the Kabul regime.
         They say that the Gulf crisis overshadowed the last efforts for a political settlement to the Afghan issue. They say that it prolonged their sufferings. At the same time, they are sad over the killing of Iraqis.
         Supporters of Saddam regard the Muslim allies of the U.S. as American puppets. They condemn the presence of foreign forces in the region, saying that they have invaded Islamic Holy Places. They also say that the West is destroying Muslim power in the region to ensure the security of Israel.
         The opponents of the U.S. and its allies have received the largest share of the Afghan aid over the past twelve years of war. On the contrary, the opponents of Saddam are people who received the least assistance during the
                           16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Afghan war. They were known as polytheists (mushrik) by the Arabs dealing with the Resistance in Pakistan.
Afghan hold demonstrations
        When the AIG sent some 300 mujahideen to Saudi Arabia, Afghan students held demonstrations against and in favour of the decision.
        The first demonstration was organised by students of schools sponsored by Jamiat (Rabbani) and Hezb (Hekmatyar). The demonstrators chanted slogans against the U.S., Israel and the Soviet Union. They called the dispatch of mujahideen as a disgrace to jehad.
        Another demonstration was arranged by students of schools sponsored by Hezb (Hekmatyar) at Chamkani near Peshawar on Feb. 26. The demonstrators condemned attacks by the allies on Iraq, and chanted slogans against the U.S.
        The demonstrators were stopped near Firdaus Cinema when Peshawar police used tear gas on them. Seven demonstrators received severe injuries in the incident.
        On Feb. 28 at 9 a.m., over 20,000 supporters of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) and Jabha (Prof. Mujadeddi) organised a rally in front of the headquarters of Jabha at Nishat Mills on Charsadda Road in favour of the allies and the withdrawal oflraqi forces.
        At 10:30 a.m., students of schools sponsored by Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar) and Jamiat (Prof. Rabbani), carrying placards inscribed with pro-Mujadeddi slogans, stopped at the rally. The students divided themselves into groups and sat at different places among the participants. Suddenly, they raised slogans, ’’Death to Bush, Death to Zahir Shah, Long live Saddam.
        Gen. Rahmatullah Safi, who conducted the security of the rally, said:
        "Thirty-seven students were arrested, while others were forced to leave the area. The meeting was interrupted for five minutes. They were sent to the Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees. A Pakistani correspondent was also mistakenly taken. Two correspondents of Afghan News Agency (ANA) who introduced themselves as Pakistani reporters, were beaten. It is believed that the students were badly beaten.
                            17
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
         The opponents of the rally attacked vehicles and supporters of Mahaz in Chamkani and Charsadda Bus Stand. Some window panes of vehicles were broken.
         The daily Frontier Post and other local papers in its issue of March 2, wrote that the government of Pakistan had detained the son and brother of Prof. Mujadeddi along with Gen. Safi in connection with the rally near Nishat Mills.
         This report was found to be incorrect when AIC correspondents contacted these persons.
         A similar incident took place on February 8, 1989 when a number of Afghan tribal elders and intellectuals held a meeting in favour of Zahir Shah near Nishat Mills. The meeting was disrupted by the same people. Several people were injured in the incident.
         On March 3, some 300 supporters of Jabha (Prof. Mujadeddi) held a meeting at the headquarters of Jabha. The speakers condemned fundamentalism and criticised inhuman acts conducted by the fundamentalist organisations.
         In their speeches, Dr. Zabihullah Mujadeddi (son of Prof. Mujadeddi) and Hashmatullah Mujadeddi condemned the Pakistani press for publishing a dishonest report about their arrest.
         Later on, Musahi Akhundzada, deputy leader of Jabha, in his address to the participants, criticised the leaders of the seven mujahideen organisations in Peshawar. He said that the seven leaders preferred their personal interests over national and Islamic interests. He said that the seven leaders were responsible for extension the present crisis of Afghanistan.
         Obviously, his speach created a difficult situation for the participants. But he finally said that his criticism was addressed to six leaders, though he mentioned seven leaders in his speech. This caused laughter among the audience.
 AIG resolution on the anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal
         On Feb. 15, a resolution was passed by the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) to mark the second anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         Following are the main points of the resolution:
 1.      We firmly ask the Soviet Union to bring an end to its interference in our country and stop imposing the illegitimate and Communist regime of Kabul on us.
 2.      We will continue our armed jehad until the Kabul regime is toppled and an Islamic government is established in the country.
 3.      We will not form any coalition with the Communists or the criminal parties of Khalq and Parcham. Nor will we form a government with other atheist organizations and parties. We strongly condemn a coalition with Communists.
 4.      We will resist any conspiracy against the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. We condemn the formation of an impartial or coalition government.
 5.      The Afghan mujahid nation has the sole right to determine the fate of their country.
 6.      We call on our brave mujahideen and commanders to accelerate their military operations until the collapse of the Kabul regime.
 7.      We call on all Islamic and peace-loving countries to exert pressure on the Soviet rulers to stop their interference in Afghanistan.
 8.      We hope that all Muslim countries, particularly Iran *and Pakistan, will support the mujahideen until the collapse of the Kabul regime.
 9.      We not only condemn the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, but we also strongly oppose the war waged by the U.S. for the destruction of the Muslim country of Iraq.
 10.     We strongly support all Islamic and liberation movements in the world, particularly the Islamic movements of Kashmir and Palestine. We condemn the settlement of Russian Jews in the occupied territories.
 Bomb explodes in Swedish committee
         On Feb. 24, a bomb exploded in the Swedish Committee for
 Afghanistan, killing one person.
                            19
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
         The bomb had been planted beneath the chair of Muqim Shah who died in hospital after sustaining severe injuries in the blast.
         Sayed Muqim Shah, 42, had been serving in the Committee for a long time before he died. He originally came from Kandahar, but had an Australian passport.
 AIG employees denies entry of Pakistani police
         Employees of the AIG held a demonstration in the premises of the AIG headquarters on Jan. 24 when they were informed about the termination of their services due to financial problems.
         Seeing that the situation was out of their control, AIG authorities called Pakistani policemen to ensure their security. However, the employees did not allow thepolicemen to conduct the security of the headquarters. They said that it was their internal affair.
         The employees held the headquarters under their control until evening; some directors were beaten by the employees.
         The employees have gathered twice in the mosque of Eidgah on Charsadda Road (Peshawar) to discuss their problems.
         Meanwhile, a demonstration was held by the employees of the Ministry of Reconstruction of the AIG) after the termination of their services. The employees chanted slogans against Prof. Rabbani and Mujadeddi, and in favour of Zahir Shah.
 Elders meet near ANLF headquarters
         On Feb. 14, some 700 elders of the tribes of Ahmadzai, Sulaimankhail, Alikhail, Zadran, Mangal, Momand and Shinwari gathered in front of the Jabha (Mojadidi) headquarters at Nishat mills, Peshawar.
         In their speeches, some tribal elders, on behalf of the participants, demanded that the killing of prominent Afghans, including intellectuals, tribal elders and commanders, should be stopped. They said that they would be forced to take necessary steps, if no attention was paid to their demands.
                          20
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         They said that Afghans were killed during the past twelve years of jehad, but no single person was arrested or interrogated by Pakistani authorities on such charges.
         They also mentioned the recent attempt of assassination of Wali Khan Karokhail (an elder of Ahmazai tribe) in their speeches.
         The tribal elders talked about the existing differences in the Resistance movement. They denounced the efforts of those people who wanted to destroy the tribal and traditional system of the Afghans. They also condemned foreign interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
         The elders emphasized that the only solution to the Afghan issue lies in the restoration of the traditional system of the country.
 Ex-military officers criticise Mujahideen organizations
         Haji Mohammad Gul Aryubwal, chairman of ex-Afghan military officers union in Pakistan, was interviewed by AIC on February 17. The former officer of the Afghan air force made the following comments:
         The society of Afghan military officers came into being in order to organise the military aspect of jehad; resolve the differences of the mujahideen organizations; establish links with Muslim and patriotic officers inside the country and hear and solve the problems of officers in Pakistan and Afghanistan.^
         It is the duty of soldiers to defend thd country against internal and external enemies, because they are trained for that purpose. Their skill and professional experience could be used for the liberation of the country and the protection of national wealth.
         Unfortunately, the Afghan officers were treated with disgrace and disgust by the organizations despite their great sacrifices in the Afghan war. The main factor of their deprivation is their love for the territorial integrity, national sovereignty and active neutrality of the country.
         The Communists and their Russian masters arrested and killed all patriotic and Muslim officers in the country. They removed such officers from their posts and demoted others. The Afghan soldiers have always paid attention to their national and religious obligations. They offered sacrifices for the sake of their country as well as the civilian population. They waged several rebellions
                          21
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
 against the Russians and their puppet regime. Here are a few examples of such uprisings:
         Uprising of the Seventeenth Division, Zalmikot (Herat)
         Uprising of the Seventh Division in Rishkhor, Kabul
         Uprising of the Asmar Brigade, Kunar
         Uprising of the Eighteenth Division in Mazar
         Uprising of the Bala Hissar Garrison
         Uprising of the Hussainkot Division
         Uprising of the Twentieth Division in Nahrin (Baghlan)
         Uprising of the Eleventh Division in Ningarhar
         The above uprisings were waged by Afghan officers who killed hundreds of regime supporters and Russian advisors and captured numerous kinds of weapons for their use in jehad.
         The mujahideen organizations cannot claim that the uprisings were carried out by the officers under their command or through their initiative.’
         Mr Aryubwal informed us ’that the Afghan officers have held meetings from time to time. The first meeting was held in 1980 under the chairmanship of Gen. Abdul Rauf Rasool. The movement could not make any advances due to organizational differences and financial problems.
         The officers gave a chance to the organizations to assign miitary functions to them in the jehad, but there was no positive result.
         In 1987, 994 officers gathered in Peshawar, held elections and elected me as their chairman. • We again demanded our rights and sought a solution to our financial problems and the assignment of a military role for us in the jehad. Though some brothers were threatened, we continued with our demands.
         When, contrary to the will of the Afghan nation, the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) came into being in Rawalpindi, its Defence Ministry established links with the officers in order to legitimism its set-up. The Ministry
                            22
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 promised that it would assign military affairs to the officers. However, high ranking posts were assigned to non-professional people on the basis of nepotism, favoritism and money.
         Following budgetary restraints in the AIG, all officers of the Defence Ministry were removed from their posts like the employees of other ministries.
         Once again, the propaganda of elections has been launched to deceive the world and the people of Afghanistan. These elections do not enjoy any legal status. We do not support the game, and regard it as a loss of time. They want to legitimism their position so that they continue their hold on the existing resources and facilities. They will call their own people, through money and force, and impose their own new government in certain areas.
         In fact, the move is a joke against themselves, because such elections cannot represent the will of the nation. Such elections are impracticable and illegitimate, because there is a war in the country.’
         Regarding the Afghan issue, Mr Aryubwal said: ’that responsible people from all the parties involved should gather in a Muslim or impartial country under the supervision of the United Nations. They should form a body to replace the regime of Najib in Kabul.
         A purge should take place in the armed forces inside the country, because they are affiliated to a political party and gives preference to party interests over national interests. The army should then be nationalised.
         A draft of the constitution should be prepared. A Loya Jirgah should be convened to identify a leadership for Afghanistan and approve the constitution. Then elections should be held in the framework of the constitution. Finally the majority party should form a government in the country. The parliamentary system should be followed in the traditional manner, because the demand for a share in the parliament on religious, tribal and regional bases leads to divisions within the country.
         Besides these activities, the process of reconstruction should continue in destroyed Afghanistan.
         Useless attacks on the cities have resulted in heavy civilian losses, because they are not conducted by professional people. Rocket attacks on nonmilitary targets have caused anger amongst the civilians who have always wholly assisted the mujahideen.
                           23
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
              We want to stop heavy bloodshed and mass destruction. We want to protect national wealth. We want to contact patriotic officers in the regime ranks and assure them of their future, so that they cooperate with us in bringing an end to the regime of Najib.
              There are 4,362 members of the society which has been registered with the Government of Pakistan. There are an additional one thousand unregistered officers who are mostly affiliated to the society. We have set up three (financial, administrative and security) conditions to run our affairs.
              We hope that foreign countries will stop their interference in our affairs, take pity on our nation and let us freely and independently determine our destiny.’
      Assassination attempts in Peshawar
              On feb. 1, Mr.Wali Khan Karokhel, a prominent elder of Ahmadzai tribe, escaped a murder attack at University Town,Peshawar.
              The incident occurred on the main Jamrud Road when Karokhel was travelling in pick-up vehicle along with his companions came under fire by unknown gunmen
              They gunmen were travelling in Toyota jeep.
              Wali Khan Karokhel has been trying to unite various tribe of Afghanistan for the past several months.
              Recently he has established the tribal union of Ahmadzai
                                           *** *•*
                              24
           SITUATION IN THE PROVINCES
     Earthquakes and floods cause destruction
             The Afghan people have suffered heavy casualties and material losses during the first half of February. A severe earthquake jolted twenty two provinces during the first week of this month. The second week witnessed heavy floods in the south-western regions of the country.
             The earthquake was 6.8 on the Richter Scale. The floods were more severe than any recorded during the last fifty years.
             It is difficult to have reliable figures on the losses caused by these natural disasters, because there is no government in Afghanistan which enjoys complete control over all parts and affairs of the country. Kabul radio, however, estimated that more then 1,000 people were killed as a result of the earthquake. The earthquake, whose origin was in the Hindukush, caused great destruction in the northern and eastern parts of the country.
             A communique of the Supervisory Council of the North said sixteen persons were killed and forty-seven wounded in the provinces of Kapisa and Parwan. Six hundred and twenty houses were destroyed in these provinces.
             A report from Kunar said that nine persons were killed and 3,000 houses destroyed. It claimed that 80Q domestic animals were killed and many mines were exploded in the province.
             Meanwhile, heavy floods caused vast destruction in the provinces of Nimroz, Farah, Kandahar, Zabul and Uruzgan. The floods destroyed thousands of acres of lands of wheat crops, karezes (underground water channels) and canals. The floods have also caused epidemics in some areas.
             According to unofficial sources, 544 houses were destroyed in the provinces of Nimroz, Farah and Kandahar. The floods destroyed half of Zaranj city and its airfield.
             The floods have caused severe damage to Kandahar city and the districts of Maiwand and Panjwaii. Prices of consumer goods are high in the city.
             The floods have caused damage to the Nad-i-Ali bridge over the Helmand river.
                              25
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
           The Norwegian Refugee Council and Union Aid for Afghan Refugees and UNOCA have delivered emergency aid, such as tents and foodstuff, to the affected areas.
   Situation in Kunar
           During the second half of 1990, local inter-mujahideen differences led to the establishment of three administrations in Asadabad (the provincial centre of Kunar) by: the Afghan Interim Government (AIG);. Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar) and the Wahabis (Maulawi Jamil-ur-Rahman).
           When Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, the crisis had its direct impact on the assistance given to the Peshawar-based mujahideen organizations. The local administration of the AIG in Kunar was forced to abandon the province due to budgetary restraints.
           Maulawi Jamil-ur-Rahman was forced to suspend all activities throughout Afghanistan and focus his attention on Kunar. He transferred his office from Peshawar to Kunar and declared an Islamic emirate in the province.
           Following the declaration, he issued a decree allowing entry only of bearded persons to the emirate (Kunar). His men collected cigarettes from all shops in Asadabad and forbade smoking and snuff in the area.
           He asked foreign humanitarian agencies to carry out their activities in Kunar only under the supervision of the Islamic emirate.
           In early February 1991 he formed a cabinet for the emirate. Here are the names and portfolios:
   1.     Maulawi Jami-ur-Rahman (real name Hosain), Emir
   2.     Maulawi Rahmatullah, Minister for Defence
   3.     Haji Rozi, Minister of Interior
   4.     Noor Mohammad Majidi, Minister of Foreign Affairs (Hezbi)
   5.     Maulawi Ihasan, Minister of Justice
   6.     Shoorish, Minister of Information
                            26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
   7.      Rahman Gul, Minister of Finance
   8.      Qari Din Mohammad, Minister of Education
   9.      Shuaib Khan, Minister of Public Health
   10.     Eng. Naim, Chairman of Reconstruction (Hizbi)
   11.     Mamur Mir Ahmad, Chairman of Agriculture (Hizbi)
   12.     Shahidullah, Secretary (Hizbi) 3. Malim Shakir, Mayor
           The organization of Salafis (Wahabis) faces severe financial problems regarding the salaries of its security personnel in the province. The organization, which has employed some 1,800 persons for security affairs and 3-4,000 armed Mujahideen; pays Rs. 11,360,000.00 (516,363.00 U.S.dollars) in salaries alone.
           As Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) is the only rival of the Islamic emirate, severe clashes and incidents have taken place in the province.
           Recently, a clash occurred in Asadabad when a number of Hezb men intentionally smoked in front of a group of Wahabis who were arresting people for violating the smoking decree. The men of Hezb were severely beaten during the incident.
           Following this, local Hezb commanders ordered their men to leave for Asadabad and arranged a rally there. The supporters of Hezb-s-Islami carrying placards moved in seven vehicles to the only square of the provincial centre and chanted the following slogans:
           Death to Zahir Shah Down with the U.S.
           Down with Russia Down with Salafis (Wahabis)
           The Wahabis remained silent and did not clash with the supporters of Hezb. They however arranged a rally in the Centre, chanting slogans against Hezb-e-Islami.
           Meanwhile, Hezb-e-Islami circulated rumors in the province, sayiqg that some 30,000 Hezb members would leave for Kunar. The rumors forced the Islamic emirate of Wahabis to adopt necessary security measures in the province.
                             27
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
  Both sides dug trenches in Wahabi-Hezb areas and installed their heavy weapons against each other. Hezb-e-Islami employed people in the province and offered high salaries to them.
          The two sides have changed the established administrative system in order to expand their influence in the province. They have introduced new districts and sub-districts in the province.
          This will create problems for the future government of Afghanistan and threaten the administrative system and peaceful co-existence in the country. For example, the community of Gujars living in the vicinity of Asadabad has begun to lay claims on the lands of the Degans (Tajek minority) who live the provincial centre of Kunar. The Gujars, who were armed by the Wahabis against Hezb-e-Islami, began their claims when the Islamic emirate declared the small area as the sub-district "Gujaristan" in order to give more concessions to them.
          A similar concession (the status of sub-district) was given to the village of Shultan on the eastern bank of Kunarriver.
          The two sides are on a red alert these days, as both sides have taken position against each other in the province.
          A close associate of Maulawi Jamil-ur-Rahman said that eight prominent members of Hezb-e-Islami, including commanders, had joined their organization along with their armed mujahideen in early February. Four of them obtained posts in the cabinet.
          In early February, a clash occurred between the two commanders of Hezb-e-Islami in the district of Khewa.
          According to a report from the area, fighters of Eng. Ghaffar disarmed forty men of Commander Zalami and captured their well-equipped base in the area.
         Also, another base of Commander Zalmai was attacked by the men of Eng. Ghafar in the area of Dara-e-Noor. As a result one mujahid was killed and three mujahideen were wounded.
         Following the incident, Commander Zalami left Peshawar for Kunar, seized four military depots and captured twelve men of Eng. Ghafar in the area of Noorgal.
                            28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           Despite the presence of a large number of security men of the emirate, security conditions are not satisfactory in the province. In this connection, a vehicle carrying Abdul Rauf (general commander Salafi) came under a rocket attack in Lower Kunar. The commander survived in the attack.
           Deforestation continues in its full intensity in the province. The river is an excellent means of transporting timber during the winter.
           Precious stones are mined unprofessionally, using dynamite explosions. Ningrahar
           There are no adequate security conditions in Ningrahar. The highway between Kabul and Jalalabad is not safe due to the presence of a large number of dacoits. Armed men plunder travellers on the Torkham-Jalalabad section.
           Moreover, poppy cultivation is in full swing in the province. Some Mujahideen commanders are engaged in advance purchase of large quantities of opium in the liberated areas of the province.
           There is a shortage of firewood in Jalalabad where government employees cut trees in the orchards to meet their needs. Prices of consumer goods are satisfactory in the city, but rented houses are not available due to an increase in the size of the population.
           Some units of militia and soldiers arrived on February 21. There are rumors of a possible regime attempt to capture Torkham and tightened the security of the Kabul-Jalalabad highway.
   Mujuhideen stone commander to death
           On Feb. 8, a group commander was publicly stoned to death by the mujahideen in the area of Tutu, Khugiani district.
           The commander had captured and raped a young girl in mid January while plundering passers by. The girl was accompanying her father on their way to a nearby village when they were captured by the commander.
           When the mujahideen heard about the incident, they arrested the group commander who confessed that he had committed various acts of plunder and rape in the area at the behest of KHAD to discredit the mujahideen. He was stoned to death in front of the civilians in the area.
                             29
No. 119
10th Year
February 1991
             On Feb. 20, mujahideen opened fire on a pick-up vehicle moving from Shin war district to Torkham near Ghanikhail. The attack damaged the vehicle, but there were no casualties during the incident.
             On Feb. 21, regime militia ambushed two vehicles moving from Torkham to Chaparhar in the area of Narai Uba. As a result, five people were killed and six wounded.
             The occupants of the vehicle were reportedly travelling to Chaparhar to transfer foreign goods from the area to Pakistan.
     Situation in Hisarak Ghaljayee
             Abdul Hamid, popularly known as Toryalai Malim, recently visited the district of Hisarak Ghaljayee. He gave the following account of his visit to the area:
              I spent a night in a mujahideen base in the area. I talked to some elders and an imam in the base. They were not interested by the mujahideen organizations in Pakistan. The Imam said that the residents did not care about the organizations which had not been able to organize themselves during the past twelve years. The people only wanted to earn bread for their families. They complained about unemployment, because they could not work on their lands during the winter.
              There were differences between the mujahideen and the local population, because the mujahideen could not respond to their demands, such as employment, provision of food and control of prices.
              On my way back to Pakistan, I saw several groups of mujahideen who were searching vehicles on the road. The groups claimed that they wanted to ensure the security of the road. However, most of the drivers complained against the misbehavior of the mujahideen. They said that the mujahideen collected money from the passengers in the area of Khugiani on various pretexts, such as road-building, etc..
              On FeB. 25, I saw groups of armed mujahideen guarding seventeen vehicles carrying Russian goods from Surkhrud to Pakistan in the area of Biar.
              Mohammad Asil, who serves in a clinic of M.S.H. in the district of Hissarak, in an interview with AIC, gave the following picture of the area:
                              30
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
             Our clinic daily receives more than 20 persons from the district. Most of the patients suffer from abdominal disorders, malaria, tuberculosis, malnutrition and anemia. Some ten percent of our patients die of these diseases, because we do not have laboratory facilities to identify a disease, nor do we have any adequate medicine to prescribe. In addition, some people in the area, sell outdated medicine.
             There is unemployment in the area, and food prices are high. The residents have not received any food assistance from organizations in Peshawar.
     Kabul
           On Jan. 31, mujahideen attacked on the regime base in Dre Sara in the district of Dehsabz. Three tanks and five vehicles were destroyed.
    Balkh
            On Jan. 15, a regime post was attacked by the mujahideen in the district of Chimtal. As a result, two tanks and two vehicles were destroyed. Some light weapons were also captured by the mujahideen.
            On Jan. 27, the mujahideen carried out an attack on another post in the district of Chimtal. One helicopter was downed by the mujahideen.
    Faryab
             On Feb. 23, in its main bulletin, Radio Kabul broadcast the following news item:
             "Some 10,500 mujahideen, including 4,500 armed fighters, joined the programme of National Reconciliation under the command of Alakozaisna of Jamiat in Faryab province.”                                     ,
             The radio broadcast an interview with the commander who said normality and security would return to sixteen villages as a result of the move. He said that the government would provide basic amenities to the residents of the villages. He also said that the mujahideen would themselves defend their areas.
             A representative of Jamiat rejected the news, calling it a mere lie. He said that the so-called commander is a nomad who does not command 10,000 mujahideen.
             In its last issue, the Monthly Bulletin carried a news item about the fatal famine in Faryab province.
                                   *** *** ***
                                          31