 LIBERATION
      ’ \J- r.<A ^                           ,
  O               (✓ u O LZ**y-~*0 J >s^-«J 11J L?
                                       A'* 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VOLUME - H. No. 4. 'DECEMBER, 1987.
                                                   AND WHEN THE GIRL-CHILD WHO IS KILLED, ASKED (ON THE DA Y OF JUDGEMENT)THA T FOR WHAT SIN SHE MM 5
ACKU
   Soviet use Chemicals ill Afghanistan

 ifU,

         LIBERATION
           FRONT
 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF :
                                HIDAYATULLAH MATEEN B.A; LL. B; LL M.
AFGHAN NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT
                                        ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION INCLUDING AIR POSTAGE
CONTENTS
Page
ANNUAL : US $ - 50 THREE MONTHS US S 15
1. Afghan Problem in the
   end of 1987........................  4
AMNUAL RS, 50.00 THREE MONTHS : Ri. 10.00
   Subscription to the “LIBERATION FRONT” is considered purely a contribution to the Afghan Jehad against the Soviet invasion of an Islamic, Non-aligned and sovereign state of Afghanistan.
                                                                              Kindly send your subscription order to the Magazine’s address.
             LIBERATION FRONT P. O. BOX 377 PESHAWAR .
                 PAKISTAN
   2-  A.N.L.F. Celebrated
       Eid-i-Milad-un-Nabi..................... 8
   3. War in Afghanistan...................... 10
       Dr. George W. Collins
   4.  Worldwide Demonstration
       against Soviet invasion................ 15
   5.  Soviet use Chemicals in Afghanistan:
       Hidayatullah Mateen.....................17
   6.  Rope carrier on Kunar River:
       Inaugurated.............................21
   2.  Violation and barbarism retaliated
   **  with generosity: H. Abu Irfan.......... 27
   8. Jihad Fronts in brief................... 28
   9. Global views on Afghanistan............. 33
   Published By Cultural And Publication Committee Afghan National Liberation Front Peshawar
                p. o. BOX - 377
DECEMBER, 1987                     1
             I
LIBERATION FRONT
EDITORIAL.
AFGHAN PROBLEM
  ♦
IN THE END OF 1987
THE INVASION. LOYA-JIRCA. UNITED NATIONS - RESOLUTIONS, MUJAHIDEEN LEADERS. AND REAGAN GORBACHEV SUMMITE;
     As a matter of fact The Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan has been started from the coup d’etate of April 1978, in which the Soviet directly interfered.
     The Soviet Jet bombers flew straight-way from Tashkent air base and shelled the Presidetial Palace in Kabul'killing Daud Khan his family, security guard and some of the cabinet ministers present in the Palace. The Soviet troops were also airlefted in Kabul and Bagram Air-port on the same night of 26th April 1978.
      Thus, the Soviet forces took over the power on 27th April 1978, proclaiming Taraki as the puppet President of the socalled Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. However, the Russian administration could ndt satisfy with the policies of Taraki, Hafizullah Amin, and therefore, removed them one after another and paved the way for their direct military intervention and control of Afghanistan.
      On December 27, 1979, at 7.15 P.M. the Soviet troops that had been airlefted into Kabul, including AN-12, AN-22 and 357th Mechanized Rifle Division, made a-coordinating attack on key governmental installations of Hafizullah Amin, and two or three more battalion, of tanks further moved towards the Darul-Aman Palace, where Amin with his security guard had earlier moved on December, 22. The wing of the Palace was destroyed, the Soviet troops intered killed Amin and wiped out his security guard, on the rediculous plea that Amin had invited Soyiet troops to defend Afghanistan against the foreign aggressors.
k
     The Kremline interest was neither involved in Taraki, nor in Amin and had no sympathy with Babrak, but the real goal of ttie Soviet Leaders was to bring Afghanistan by any possible means under the sphere of their direct control.
     The Soviets conception in regard to Afghanistan was similar to that of Bukhara, which the Soviets inyadedsiqd conquared it in 1920. without any sufficient resistance from its O'firorti th^neighbouring states to oust the Soviet troops. In this respect, it a^ Pakistani student who was studying at Moscow University that “In Afghanistan, a Russian student asked his professor to comment m.* Hfs reply was simple “Our troops were able to conquar Afghanistan with in a w<^k”, profess^/said.
 people and has been 1979, wh^Br on the Afghan problem.
 But after a year,
 Soviet Leaders themselves realized their blunder the invasion of
 LIBERATION FRONT
4
DECEMBER, 1987
 Afghanistan, when they faced with tough resistance and received heavy blow from the Mujahid nation of Afghanistan.
      However, 27 April 1978, and 27 December 1979, are marked as the most unfortunate and dark days in the history of Afghanistan.
 LOYA JIRAGA: NAJIB ELECTED PRESIDENT:
      The announcement of Loya Jirga (Great Council), the election of Dr. Najib, as the President of Afghanistan, and the approval of the constitution for the country is another ridiculous and shameful declaration by the puppet, and unconstitutional Soviet backed regime in Afghanistan.
      Loya Jiraga (Great Council) in Afghanistan, according to the constitution, before the Soviet military intervention, compreised the members of Parliament and the Chairmen of the Provincial Council, and the King or President had also the power to nominate and include some tribal Chiefs’ elders. Professionals, spirituals and intellectuals to the national councils’. Loya Jirga was summoned by the Royal proclamation or Presidential decree, to pass the constitution, elect head of the State, or to declare war or make peace.
      Being a Soviet puppet and unconstitutional head of the State, how Dr. Najib is competent to conv^t J-ya Jirga (National Council) to elect himself President of Afghanistan. Moreover, who are remaining in the country to attend National Councils such as convened by puppet Najib? as the whole of Afghan intelligentsia have partly been killed, imprisoned by the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul and partly are living in exile in Pakistan, Iran, Europe and in the United States of America.
      Since the Afghan Mujahid nation has declared Jehad against the Soviet invading troops in 1978, more than 1.2 million Afghan Mujahideen have been martyred, injured and disabled, and 5.5 million more have fled the country and have sought refuge in Pakistan and Iran, and the country has been turned into a bloody scene, by the Soviet expansionists. It was a disgrace to Afghan Traditions to convene Loya Jirga while 120,000, Soviet Troops are present in Afghanistan.
      The meeting convened by Najib, cannot be called a Loya Jiraga rather than a meeting of the paid servants of Soviets for the appointment of Najib as the puppet President of Afghanistgan. Since the puppet regime in Kabul under the Communist system of government has denied the right to life, liberty, security dT person and freedon of expression to the Afghan Nation, how it is possible for the member of National Council to go against the wishes of the Soviet puppet President in Kabul, the socalled Loya Jirga, the flection of Najib and the passing of constitution are therefore illegal and unconstitunioal.
                                          THE UNITED NATIONS RESOLUTIONS:
      This is the ninth time since 1979, that the General Assembly of the United Nations has debated and passed the resolutions in regard to the problem of Afghanistan.
        * >•
      The Afghan Mujahid nation thanks all those member States who have supported the resolution in the United Nations, particularly the Islamic republic of Pakistan whose government, since the Soviet military intervention has strongly supported the Afghan Mujahid nation in the.international arena.
                                                J.________________________________________
LIBERATION FRONT
5
DECEMBER, 1987
          This year the resolution introduced by Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani, sponsored by 48 Islamic and nonaligned countries and supported by all freedom-loving nations secured 123 votes in 159 members Assembly, calling for the political settlement of the Afghan problem based on the immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, and the return of the Afghan refugees to their homeland in “safety and honour.” The delegation of the Mujahideen leaders called the resolution,” the conscience of the world”.
          However, thfe adoption of a resolution with absolute majority of 123 votes in the 159 members Assembly, and calling unanimously on Soviet to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, proves beyand doubt, that the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan is a clear violation of the charter of the United Nations.
          But, despite the passage of nine years, since its military intervention. Soviet has ignored all the resolutions adopted in the United Nations. It is therefore, believed that the adoption of resolutions and calling the Soviet for the withdrawal of its forces is not the constructive approach to the settlement of the Afghan problem.
          If the 123 States who have supported the resolution on Afghanistan, sincerely desire th withdrawal of Soviet troops, Soviet is not such a mighty power of the world to ignore the demand of 123 member States, of UN, and delay the withdrawal-of her troops from Afghanistan.
          The Mujahid nation of Afghanistan therefore, strongly appeal to the memberStates of the United Nations, those who are in favour of the Afghan problem, to be settled, to bring political and economical pressure on Soviet, and use force against the invaders to evacuate Afghanistan immediately.
            •r
                                    MUJAHIDEEN LEADERS.
          A delegation of the leaders of Afghan Mujahideen consists of Peer Sayed Ahmad Gailani, Hazrat Prof. Sioghatullah Al-Mojaddedi, Maulvi Mohammad Nabi Muhammadi, while Prof. Burhanuddin Raboani and some other leaders were represented by their representatives visited United States of America under the chaimanship.of Maulvi Mohammad Younus Khalis, to discuss the Afghanistan problem with the concern authorities, and to convince free world to support the Afghan problem in the United Nations.
          The delegation representing Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen, received every kind of assurance of support for Afghan Mujahideen, fighting Soviet forces, from the freedom-loving nations. It was pledged that the assistance they providing for the Afghan Mujahideen will be strengthened rather than diminished so that the freedom fighters would be able to continue their Jehad and to fight effectively for the freedom of their country.
                                      I
          In an interview they said “The Russians do not have any base in Afghanistan. Their puppet government has no base, and if we accept them into the government it will be against the will of the people, and will amount to the slaughter of the nation", they said.” The Afghan will never accept a compromise. We will fight the Russians as long as they are in our country 'arnjl as long is a single Afghan remains alive,” From a military point of yiew,
    . Soviets are beaten up and we can drive them out,” the Mujahideen leaders said.” But the international community must take a strong stand against them. It must say clearly that this is. an aggression and should be stopped and the troops should be withdrawn. If the world listens to the Soviets propaganda, this will go on and get longer and longer. The
h                                            t
6
LIBERATION FRONT
DECEMBER, 1987
 whole world must say no to them,” the delegation of the Mujahideen leaders added.
      In the Press Conference, sponsored by the United Nations Correspondents Association (UNCA), the delgation said that” In a negotiated political settlement no peace agreement was acceptable without the participation of Mujahideen.”
      They said, the estimated 120,000 Soviet troops present in Afghanistan since December 1979 were not ready to go home, and Soviet offers to discuss the issue in U.N. mediated talks in Geneva were” tricks” to remain in the country. The delegation requested the United Nations that Mr. Cordovez should stop that game and instead help to implement U.N. General Assembly resolutions which have repeatedly called for prompt, total and unconditional withdrawal of its (Soviet) forces from Afghanistan. They called the Geneva talks and the U.N. resolutions a “contradiction” to the Afghan problem.
                          REAGAN-GORBACHEV SUMMIT:
      The Summit meeting held between the leaders of two Superpowers, President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in Washington on Monday the 7th December 1987, was generally presumed, before its commencement'that some progress in regard to the problem of Afghanistan would emerge from the conference.
      President Reagan-in his tough speech a week before his meeting with Gorbachev called on Moscow with strong words to “bite the bullet” and set a date for pulling out of Afghanistan.”
      “It is time for them to pack up, pull cut and go home,” the President declared." It is time they set a date certain for the complete withdrawal of all Soviet troops from Afghanistan.”
      Similarly in his meeting with the Leaders of the Afghan Mujahideen on November 12, in. Washington, President Reagan While giving them assurance of the American support for the Afghan Mujahideen stated that the Soviet military presence was a barrier to improve Soviet-American relations.
      Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd and other Congressional leaders who met Gorbachev told him that chances of passing the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces, treaty would be greatly inhanced if Moscow set a swift and realistic timetable for the withdrawal from Afghanistan and improve its human rights fecord.
      But all propusals were ignored by Gorbachev in the meeting and did not elaborately discussed the withdrawal of Iroops from Afghanistan,. Soviet polity on the withdrawal of forces, remained the same as it was before the summit meeting held in Washington.
                                    f
      Thus one doubts whether President Reagan is sincere to the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. Or he just wants the Russians to let them suffer, in Afghanistan. What he talked before the Summit meeting, did not stand on his words during his summit conference with, Gorbachev, j Had President Reagan been frank enough in Soviet pull-out, he woulfi have asked GorbacHevjn the meeting, before putting his signature to the INF treaty, to set a
 date for puHing out of Afghanistan, and then discuss the INF treaty in the summit.
                                           )
       t           *      '
      The Course of history has proved that the Russian expand and did not stop untill they were stopped, they never evacuate, once they pccupy land unless they are forced.
DECEMBER, 1987
7
LIBERATION FRONT
        This was exercised by John F. Kennedy an energetic President of the United States of America in 1962. when he issued an ultimatum to the Communist leaders in Kremline to evacuate from Cuba within24 hours. The Soviets bowed to Young President Kennedy, immediately removed their missiles from cuba “bitten the bullet”, packed up and went horn.” Soviet always bow to the Command of superior or equalent power when there is threat of force behind.
        The Afghan problem will not be settled with politics and summit meetings but with force and the spirit of Islam in the Afghan Mujahid nation to continue their Jehad until the last Soviet soldier withdraws from Afghanistan.
          A.N.L.F. Celebrated Eid-i-Milad-un-Nabi
   The birth day of Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) was celebrated on November 4, 1987, in the premises of the headquarters of the Afghan National Liberation Front on Charsaddah road, Peshawar, with traditional religious fervour and Khatam-i-Quran.
   The ceremony was attended • by a large number of Mujahideen, Muhajireen, officebearers, Chairmen of various Committees, Members of the shoora and Ulema (religious scholars) of the ANLF.
   Dr. Zabihullah Mojaddedi, General Secretary of the Afghan National Liberation Front, after reciting few verses from the Holy Quran and sending “Darood” on to Prophet of Islam' (ij>eace be: upon him) thanked the audience for attending the ceremony — the birth day of Propeht (peace be upon him).
   Dr. Mojaddedi spoke on the “Revival of Prophet.of Islam’s (PBUH) Methods in Educating today’s Muslims”. The devotion of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH), his sacrifices, ■ and services he has rendered to Islam and humanity and said that the teaching and instructions of the Holy Prophet have enriched the values of those who followed him sincerely in their day today life. It is difficult to summarize his teaching, the way he has lived and tho»high qulities he possessed, in such a brief function. Many scholars since the birth day of Prophet of Islam (PBUH) have written so many vaiumes about his life, but scholars have not yet succeeded to complete the task of covering all aspects of his holy life during the past 14 centuries, he said.
   Hazrat Mujadded Alf-iThani Imam-i-Rabbani (may God be pleased with him) has written
8
in one of his letters, “in Maktubat, that “It is defficult in this world to fully realize the value, significance and superiority   of       Prophet
Mohammad (peace be upon him). His superior status will be better understood and become more vivid in the here-after....”
   Prophet of Islam (PBUH), Dr. Zabihullah said, has tought us, love and affection for each other, unity and cooperation, morality, paternity and services for man-kind. Being a universal Prophet, his life was meant for the welfare, reforms, perfiction and blessing for the world.
   During the 23 years of his Prophethood, Dr. Mujadded i said thousands and thousands of people accepted and embraced Islam and became true and sincere followers of the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH). In Hujat-ul-Widaa (the last
LIBERATION FRONT
DECEMBER, 1987
 ;{u n in
 Friday of Prophet’s life) more than eighty thousand Muslims were present on the occasion. His companions, the true believers, devoted Muslims and his real followers had an un-examplary love and affection for Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him).
   Elaborately speaking about Kholafa-i- Rashideen. Hazrat Umar-Farooq, and Hazrat AJi (may God be pleased with them) and their devotion to the services of Islam and humanity, and their administration of Khilafat and the system of Justice, Dr. Mojaddedi said that every body whether Muslim or non-Muslim, whether supirior or inferior were treated alike in the court of Justice of,'Hazrat Umar Farooq, Hazrat Ali and Hazrat Osman. The enemies whenever fall „to the hands of Mujahideen were treated in ►__________________________
 accordance with Islamic laws, at the time of Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him) and also at the time of Kholaf-i-Rashideen, and most of the non-Muslims in the captivity of Mujahideen were so impressed upon their treatment that they embraced Islam voluntary.
   No one can be expected to become a tru follower of Prophet ' (PBUH)* unless he believes in God Almighty in accordance with the principles Of Islam-. However, Dr. Mojaddedi said, belief in God Almighty without practice and devotion or practice and devotion without belief in God Almighty is not sufficient for one to become Muslim.
    Dr. Zabihuilah went further and said, that there is still something more through which man can Income closer
to Almighty Allah - "the publication ol soul and spirit.” Tazkia-i-Nafas (purification of soul) is possible through “Tas-beeh and Nawafil (remembering Allah and prayer besides five ‘daily performance), and “full surrender of one self to Almighty Allah by all means. This is called “Tassawof’. Hazrat Mujadded AJfi-Thani-Sarhindi was the man of Tassawof, who strengthen and spread Islam in Indian continent, particularly when Akbar the Mughal ruler in India proclaimed Din-i-Akbari, in contrast with Islam. Hazrat Mujadded AIf-i-thani started strong campaign against Din-i-Akbari in India until it was * completely annihilated. In ihis regard Maulana Maudoodi has said” If Mujadded Aifi-lhani was not in India, this continent would have been deprived of Islam, we therefore Owe to Hazrat
9
DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
                          Dr. George W. Collins
THE
WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN
 dded Alf-i-Tham sarhmdt for his services to Islam.” Though, Akbar was jealous to Islam but his disciples became true Muslims with the effort of Mojadded Alfi-thani. As Ha/.rat Mujadded Alfi-thani-Sarhindi was devoted follower of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH), God Almighty therefore, blessed him and took him into his friendship. Dr. Zabihullah said.
   He called on Afghan Mujahideen to fight against the Soviet invading troops with unity, zeal and devotion as trite and sincere Muslims and set the example of Mujahideen of Badar and Ohud and of the companians of Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him), and follow the teaching of the Prophet of Islam in day today iifd.
   Earlier, the ceremony of Milad-un-nabi was opened with few verses from the Holy Quran followed by Niaat and Hamad. Maulvi Shmwari, Chairman of Jamiat-j-Utama-i-Mohammadi, and Mr. Kfiawan, Chairman of the Cultural and Publication Committee of the Afghan National Liberation Front also talked oh the occasion.
   The conference for JEid-i-Milad was closed with prayers for the success of Mujahideen and Darood was sent on to the Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him). l' j
           O
    The initial reaction of the Afghan people to the coup of April 1978 that over threw the government of Mohammad Daoud was relatively passive. That summer, however. as the true Marxist colors of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan (DRA) were revealed, resistance emerged.
    Beginning in Nuristan and Badakhshan, rural opposition spread rapidly and reached most provinces within ten months. The first urban uprising occurred in Herat in March 1979, and many other cities and towns soon were affected. The resistance continued to grow in scope, althoogh the* number of mujahidin (freedom lighters) was relatively small. Operating in a country that is a paradise for guerillas, the mujahidin laid ambushes, attacked outpost!, and assassinated provincial officials. In the cities and towns, they encouraged demonstrations and strikes. By the end of 1979, virtually no part of the country, except the rftajor cities, was securely controlled by the government. Nevertheless, the
 resistance was unable to oust the DR A because of the lack of arms, cohesion, and leader-ship.
   Becoming increasingly disillusioned by the DRA's inability to cope with rhc situa-tion and dissatisfied with the policies and attitude of Hafiz-ullah Amin, the bead of state, the Soviet Union decided that djrect military intervention was necessary. After quietly' introducing military elements piecemeal in December 1979, a massive airlift, began on Christmas Eve. and during the night of 27 December, Soviet forces murdered Amin and seized control of Kabul.' Motorized rifle divisions swung down the two highways from the Soviet Union through western 3nd central Afghanistan, capturing Afghan army and air bases and controlling the highway network. Babrak Karmai was installed swiftly as the new president of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan
   The invasion was a classic Soviet military operation employing deception, speed, and substantial force. The airlift
LIBERATION FRONT
—r
10
DECEMBER. 1987
 involved about 30 per cent of the Soviet military and civilian transport aircraft. Although some analysts criticized the employment of what seemed to be an ill-suited, heavy-armoured force, most likely it was not intended for counter insurgency operations but for dealing with the possibility that the DRA’s own military units might offer resistance t- as some did.
   Within weeks the Soviet also occupied Herat, Kandahar, and the few other major cities, and they fully dominated the government. But the Afghans, instead of being intimidated by the invasion, now were doubly incensed — against the DRA as the obvious Soviet puppet and against the Soviets themselves as. an unwelcome occupying foreign powerr seeking to subvert Afghanistan’s society and religion totally. The Soviets soon had about 85.00 troops in Afghanistan but, because of the mounting resistance, found it necessary to garrison forces in many locations, thus overextending themselves
 and making it difficult to handle even small-scale opposition. As American analyst Joseph J. Collins has noted, the Soviet blundered in that they ignored Clausewitz’s fundamental dictum:    know
 the kind of war in which you are engaging. The result was that they entered Afghanistan without -a suitable -tactical doctrine.            f ‘ j
                                                     OBJECTIVE
   Once in command, the
                                             Soviets endeavored to rebuild
   » __
 the dispirited DRA Army with the objective of having it bear the brunt of the fighting. However, they have not succeeded. It is estimated that the Afghan army now numbers less than 40.000 men — less than onehalf its size prior to the April 1978 coup, primarily because of continuing desertion. As a result, most military operations are joint Soviet/DRA a flairs, and the Soviet combat role continues to expand.
   Several Soviet military weaknesses were evident in the early operations. Inexperience in guerilla war fere was made even more apparent by junior officers not trained to make battlefield decisions. The problem was exacerbated by the use of outdated field communications that made it difficult for higher headquarters to command from the rear. Moreover, a number of the Central Asian soldiers appeared to have little appetite to fight ethnic Muslim brethren.
   For more effective management, the Soviets divided Afghanistan into seven military districts arfti introduced organizational changes in their ground forces. Probably the most important organizational change was the development of the1 reinforced rifle battalion containing antiair and artillery support and tank company. Those additions provided the battalion with greater striking and sustaining power. Anothef organizational development was the creation of the 10th Army, with its headquarters in Tashkent. Uz-
11
 bek’ S.S.R. to command the Afghanistan theater of operations.
    Although initially, Soviet operations were directed primarily against the mujahidin, once the Soviets realized the popular support for the resistance movement, they deliberately turned to a terrorist strategy of “migratory genocide” and “rubblization.” The empo of their operations intensified appreciably in 1984 and even further the next year after Mikhail Gorbachev came to power. Fighter-bombers and medium bombers hit targets deep inside guerilla territory, seeking to destroy the village infrastructure supporting the mujahidin. “Free-fire” zones were created along the main roads and extended back to the hills behind them, and the villages within these zones were “virtually obliterated.” In addition, field crops, food storage facilities, and the irrigation systems so vital to Afghan agriculture were bombed in the attempt to drive the people off the land. Soviet aircraft also deliberately attacked civilian caravans coining into or leaving the country thus causing many casualties among women and childrea Small bombs shaped as toys or other attractive objects were used with the intent to maim children, and these caused many livestock casualties as well. Large en-hanced-blast bombs that explode in midair sending out lethal shock waves have been used also.
    In this type of warfare,
DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
  •r
 the helicopter has proved to be invaluable for a number of roles ferrying troops into battle, providing dose air support of ground forces in combat, and attacking villages or isolated bands of mujahidin. Air assault operations, usually of company or battalion strength, have been most successful when combined with motorized rifle unit operations. The Soviets find helicopters better suited than fixed-wing aircraft for close air support, probably because of the limited mujahidin anti-air capabilities, There are approximately 325 Soviet helicopters based in Afghanistan, of which perhaps onehalf are Mi-24 Hind gunsh'ips. Hie helicopters, -operated usually in groups of from two to six,
Soviet destroyed Ajghan villages on the cost of its militan' prestige.
 Kabul.
  often are flown close to the ground for protection These “nap-of-thc-earth*’ tactics are demanding of both aircraft and crews and have contributed to improved pilot proficiency.
     In 1985, the Soviet strategy moved beyond* mere control of the urban centers and the highway network. The heaviest fighting took place in and around Kabul and in the eastern and southern parts of Afghanistan. Near Kabul, Soviet/ORA forces destroyed most of the villages to create i a vacuum for better security of the capital. In retaliation, the mujahidjn launched frequent rocket attacks at the city; and small-scale fire-rights occurred almost nightly within
                                                 CASUALTIES
   The three major Soviet offensives of the year were in eastern and southern Afghanistan and were intended to close off supply routes to Pakistan They look place in the Kunar Valley during May and June, in the Panishir Valley in July, and in Paktia Province during August and September. Each drive was a division-sized operation involving approximately 10,000 Soviet personnel 3itd between 1000 and 2000 DR A troops. They commenced with prestrike attacks by helicopter gunships and fighter-bombers. Elite commandos and paratroops (spetsnaz) were trans-
LTBERATtON FRONT
12
DECEMBER, 1987
 poiied in by helicopter to eliminate mujahidin defensive positions and to cut off escape Then came armoured attacks involving as many as 100 tanks. Casualties were heavy on both sides in each operation, and tile battles in Paktia Province were among the bloodiest of the war
   in each offensive tile Soviets prevailed after hard lighting, then withdrew, thus failing to achieve decisive success. Themines they placed to block the trails were removed quickly, and supplies once more flowed through.
   Despite more than six years of combat in Afghanistan, the Soviets still have weaknesses in their forces. The very tact that their military journals stress mountain warfare, physical fitness, and initiative is indicative of some problems. Replacements sent to Afghanistan usually lack sufficient training, are low in morale, and show little enthusiasm for combat. Drug addiction is a grow mg problem. As a result of these conditions within regular Soviet units, greater reliance has been placed on the elite Slavic commandos and paratroops, who are adept at small unit operations, even though total Soviet troops strength has increased to about 118.000.
   What is the nature of the Afghan .Mujahidin that makes him so farmidable ' against superior Soviet m ilitary torce? Perfectly at case with his harsh environment, -for centuries the Afghan had been
 respected as an able guerrilla. Possessing great courage, daring. and remarkable stamina, he is driven by a strict code of honour demanding implacable vengeance if it is violated. Loyalties are to family and tribe rather than to a government or a nation. Through-out the struggle with the Soviets, Mujahidin morale has remained high Dedicated to what they perceive as a holy war (Jehad) for their Islamic faith and cultural traditions, the Afghans are ready to c on tinu find e fin it ely. It is estimated that there are about 90,000 Mujahidin, of whom about 20,000 are active at any one time
    The initial Mujahidin lesis-tance was based on traditional Afghan warfare, with few signs of any methodical approach to the problems of fighting against a modem army. Iribal groups fought en masse in set battles with no specialised function aho eated to particular soldiers
    Sow |y, more organised warfare developed. Several provinces have a military commander <who divjjies thon into sector commands. The sectors are further subdivided into fighting units of twenty-five to thirty-five men including specialists assigned to handle mortars, rocketteunchers, or heavy machine guns.
 , Tactically, while gqernlla ‘Operations of hundreds of men have been launched occasionally, small 'units of thirty to forty men more frequently are used, TheMujahidin prefer
 to set ambushes by bridges of or defiles, to destroy the bridges or block the roads, and then to fire from the concealed positions they have taken in the surrounding heights. If the enemy has a strong advance -guard, u ri allowed to pass before the main element is hit. After the engagement, the Mujahidin then quickly w ithdraw
   Despite their martial qualities and intimate knowledge of the terain. the Mujahidin operate under severe ha ndicaps. inchid mg short-ages of arms, medicine, and fo*cd. And in spite of the Afghans’ reputed prowess in guerrilla warfare, many- accounts cite poor tactical planning and a lack of weapons training. One observer reported, that “the rebels still walk into ambushes because of improper training and only rarely coordinate attacks in ways that would stretch Soviet defenses.’' He described one ill-conceived ambush as "more like Keystone Kops.’- Another noted that his film crew was more apprehensive about neing accidentally shot by the Mujahidin rhan of being hit by the Soviets.
   Since 1980, there have been repeated Mujahidin complaints about the quantity and quality of the arms received. Generally the fighters request more heavy machine guns, mines, rocket grenades, and -- as most essentials — mote effective ani-aircraft weapons. Oiarges continue to be levied that many of the arms intended
 13'
DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
 for the Mujahidin never reach the fighting areas.
   Nevertheless, according to a number of reports, the aims situation improved during 1985 and resulted in greater Mujahidin capability against enemy ground and air attack. Thai was reflected in engagements throughout the country and particularly evident during the Paktia offensive, where the Mujahidin were able to maintain a fighting force of from 3000 to 5000 men in action. Among the weapons introduced in 1985 were Chinese 107-mm multirocket launchers and an improved SAM-7, and the Mujahidin antcipated that Swiss Oerlikon 20-mm connon and possibly British Blow-pipe portable missiles for air defense would he available this year, in 1986.
   After more than 7 years of war, Soviet control of Afghanistan is tar from complete. and the resistance continues to hold most of the country. But the Soviets increased viciousness is taking a toll as they escalate the terrorisation of the people. Since the war began, probably more than 200,000 Afghans have been killed and more than one-third of the population has been forced to flee to Pakistan, Iran, or the Afghan cities. Agricultural production is estimated to be less than 25' percent of prewar levels m some areas. There has been enumr. ours slaughter of livestock, and many surviving animals are in poor health. Food shortages
 have resulted in ‘‘very acute signs of severe societal stress.” and the famine in places have been compared to that in Ethiopia.
   The Soviets, too, have suffered losses, although far fewer than the Afghans, As many as as 60,000 have been killed or wounded in battle. Others were evacuated from Afghanistan because of disease. The estimated financial cost to the Soviets has exceeded S20 billion.
   U.S policy has consistently supported the U. N. resolutions for the withdrawal of Soviet forces, a non-aligned Afghanistan, the free return of the regugees, and the people’s Fight of SeJ'fidetenn mat ion in creating their own government Unfortunately, the Geneva rounds of indirect talks sponsored by the United Nations to achieve those objectives have been stymied by failure to reach agreement on a timetable for ,1 Soviet withdrawal.
   It generally is agreed that a critical challenge that the resistance faces^is to establish unified political and military leadership, since without it. the, efforts of both- fighters and supporters arc fragmented and resources wasted. Under the pressure from the foreign nations that support the resistance an alliance was 'formed in May 1985 of the seven major resistance polit ical parties, the “Islamic Unity of Mujahidin.” Allhough the alliance is loosely structured, it provides soipe coordination
for military operations and may ultimately bring the unity that i» imperative if the resistance is to. achieve the diplomatic legitimacy and influence necessary' for official international sanction and support. Late in 1985, the alliance began petitioning for representation in international bodies, including the United Nations and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, and it planned to establish offices around the world to assist in publicizing the Afghanistan situation.
   In any event, the war has long escalated beyond the stage in which an ill-equipped and tactically unprepared Mujahidin force can by itself force a Soviet withdrawal. Fortunately, that force is now better armed, organised, and professionally skilled than it was initially, and it can im -prove its position with more extensive military operations, including a more active campaign to disrupt urban life in Kabul and elsewhere. Never-tliless nations sympathetic to the plight of the Afghans must grapple with the fact that ext ensive foreign assistance -diplomatic and military - is essential to an active resistance movement and for an independent Afghanistan.
   Dr. George W. Collins is a professor of history at Wichita State University. Wichita, Kansas.
                                                  o
LIBERATION FRONT
14
DECEMBER, 1987
   The people oj Lahore fPakistan) demonstrating against the soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
                  Worldwide Demonstration Against Soviet Invasion
  The Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan was commemorated on 27th December as black day, with demonstrations, condemnations, burning Soviet flags and the effigy of Gorbachev and slogans against the Soviets expansionist and its puppet regime of Kabul.
 The freedom loving people all over the world held demonstrations seriously condemning the Soviet for military intervention in Afghanistan, and supported the Afghan noble struggle for their freedom.
  PESHAWAR
   The seven party, Alliance of the Afghan Mujahideen organizations held a mammoth meeting,in Peshawar attended by a large number of Mujahi-
deen. Muhajreen and the Ansars and staged a grand rally condemning the Soviet military intervention and the stationing of 120,000 troops in Afghanistan. The leaders reiterated the demand for immediate unconditional and total withdrawal' of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
   They spoke about the suffering of the Afghan nation for the past 9 years and the genocide and atrocities -committed by Soviet troops in Afghanistan.
  . They rejected the socalled Loya Jirga and the making of the constitution and declared it as a ridiculous and shameful! act of the puppet regime of Najib.
  LAHORE
   The president General Mohammad Zia-ulHaq accom-
 panied by the Governor of PunjabMakhdoom Mohammad Saj i ad Hussain Qureshi and Chief Minister, Mian Nawaz Sharif inaugurated a photographic and painting exhibition depicting “Resistance movement of the Afghan freedom fighters" held at Al-Hamra Arts Council, Lahore on 26th December 1987 to commemorate the 8th anniversary of Russian invasion of Afghanistan.
   Speaking on the occasion the president expressed the hope that the people of Pakistan may celebrate the independence of Afghanistan in the City this very day next year.
  Also in Lahore a large number of people belonging to various parties took out a big procession on 27th December from Nasir Bagh to protest against the Russian military invasion of Afghanistan.
    The demonstrators including large number of women and children burnt an effigy of Gorbachev. The processionists were carry ing placards and banners inscribed with slogans. They also shouted slogans against soviet and the puppet regime of Kabul, and in favour of Afghan Mujahideen during the procession, which peacefully culminated at Masjid-i-Shuhada.
    The demonstration 'was organised by Pakistan Qaumi Muliaz, Jammat-i-Islarai, Tehrik Ansarul Muslameen. Islami Jamaat Wukla, Islami lnqlabi Mahaz, Media Forum,
DECEMBER, 1987
15
LIBERATION FRONT
 National Labour Federation, Payam Union, Muslim Stu-tents Union, Islami Medical Association, Imamia Students, Organisation and Khaksars, The speakers reiterated their pledge to support the cause of Afghan Mujahideen. They urged the Muslim Ummah to forge Unity among its ranks to defeat the enemy of Islam.
   The demonstrators dispersed peacefully after listening to their leaders at Regal chowk.
 ISLAMABAD
   The Afghanistan conference jointly sponsored by Tehrik-i-Istehkam-i-Pakistan and Rabi-ta-al-Alam-i-Islami held in Islamabad t’o mark the eight year struggle of the people of Afghanistan for the liberation of their country-from the Soviet troops. It was attended by distinguished personalities belonging to all walks of life who expressed their views freely at the conference — strongly condemning the Soviet invasion of that country.
   Speaking on the occasion. President General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq appreciated the assistance provided by the people of Pakistan while sharing half of their loaf with the Afghan refugees, the people of Pakistan always had a feeling as if they assisting thgir real brothers.         /   J
   He said, however, co-operation extended to the Afghan refugees by the Government
 of Pakistan would not have been possible without the support and co-operation of the Islamic countries.
    President Zia-ul-Haq said that the people of Afghanistan had fought resolutely, and determinedly against a well-trained-and fully equipped superpower which gave a feeling as if some supernatural power was helping them.
    Speaking to the conference Sardar Abdul-Qayyum said the “Jehad” waged in Afghanistan was not meant merely for the defence of the Islamic world or saving Europe from any distruction but was designed to strengthen peace and stability of the free world.
    In Islamabad an Afghan Woman Mrs. Ahmadi led some 2000 Afghan refugees Women and children to demonstrate outside the Soviet Embassy against the Russian military intervention in Afghanistan but the procession was stoppe-d from approaching the Embassy.
    Mrs. Ahmadi Tried to set herself ablaze „while she sprinkled Kerosene on her clothes to protest against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, but she was overpowered by Police.
      i
    The demonstrators of the Afghan refugees burnt the effigy of Soviet leader Gor-, bachev, near the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Islamabad.
    A composite delegation of Ulama of Pakistan and the Muslim world at press conference held'in Islamabad to
 commemorate the 8th anniversary of soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, strongly condemned the soviet and its puppet communist regime of Kabul for subversive activities in Pakistan, and the stationing of 120,000 in Afghanistan.
    The ulema included the Vice-President, Rabita al-Aiam al-Islami, Mr. Mohammad Mahmood Sawwaf (Saudi Arabia), Mr. Abdul Majid Zindani (Yemen), Mr. Abdul Fattah Barakah and Dr. Hussain Hamid Hussain (Egypt), Senator Qazi Abdul Latif and MNAs Maulana Wasi Mazhar Nadvi and Maulana Moeenuddin Lakhvi (Pakistan).
    Maulana Wasi Mazhar Nadvi read out absolution adopted by the ulema's delegation. The resolution paid tributes to the determination, sacrifices and enthusiasm of the Afghan freedom fighters which had stopped the communist ideological advance towards the Muslim world,
    The delegation also lauded the spirit of hundreds of thousands of Afghans who have been compelled to migrate to save their religious values, culture and civilisation.
    The delegation urged the Soviet Union to pull out their forces from Afghanistan unconditionally and without any further loss of time. The entire Muslim Ummah supported the Afghan people in their struggle for independence, the resolution said.
        ______________* _______________________________________________.
LIBERATION FRONT                  I6                     DECEMBER, 1987
BALUCHISTAN
  In Baluchistan, under the auspices of Mujahideen Alliance, a big gathering of the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen was held to protest against the soviet military invasion of Afghanistan and mark 27th December as black day.
   WASHINGTON In Washington, a big demonstration of the Afghan exiles coming from several states was staged on 26th December, burnt the soviet flag in protest, near the soviet Embassy on the eve of the soviet eighth anniversary of the. soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
                                                                                                  “This is a message from an
oppressed nation to the free world. Please do not turn your back on us”, said Hafiz-ullah Karzi an organizer of the demonstration.
   A similar march was held in Melbowme, Australia, Bangladesh - and other freedom loving countries on 26th and 27tn December denouncing the soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Soviet use Chemicals in Afghanistan _
 HIDAYATULLAH MATEEN.
    Since the Russians have aggressively attacked Afghanistan, the country has been turned up to chemical battle field and experimental zone. The evidence and informations regarding the use of chemical weapons, have been produced by Journalists, tourists, fact, finding missions, military defectors,. Russians captured pilots and military officers, regarding chemical use in Afghanistan. The reports further supported by information from foreign military officers who have attended the Soviet Military Academy of Chemical Defence in Moscow. According to their Soviet Instructors, chemical weapons including “harassing agents may be used during the initial stages of local war to spoil enemy efforts and to initiate oper-
 efforts and to initiate operations, even if the einemy has not used them first”. The 'foreign officers accounts, including detailed descriptions
 of the Soviet chemical programme, which they consider an effective and acceptable means of warfare on any local and international conflicts.
   Evidence accumulated since world War II also clearly shows that the Soviets have been extensively involved in preparations for large-scale offensive and defensive chemical warfare.
   Chemical warfare agents and delivery systems developed by the Soviets have been identified, alongwith production and storage areas'within the USSR and continuing research, development, and testing activities at the major Soviet chemical providing grounds. Soviet military forces are extensively equipped and trained for operations in a chemically contaminated environment. The Soviets have shown a strong interest in
                                                                  i
improving or enhancing their standard agents for greater reliability and effect. Their large chemical and biological research and development efforts has led them to investigate and invent other kinds of chemical warfare agents, particularly the toxins.
   In the military invasion of Afghanistan by Soviets, from November 16, 1979, chemical bombs reportedly were dropped on targets in Farah, Herat and Badghis Provinces, by Soviet supplied Afghan IL-28 Bombers. The reports indicated that fixed-wing aircrafts and helicopters usually were employed to disseminate chemical warfare agents by rockets, bombs, and sprays chemical filled landmines were also reportedly used by the* Soviets. The chemical clouds were usually gray or blue, black yellow, or a combination of the colours.
   Symptoms reported by vic-
DECEMBER. 1987
17
LIBERATION FRONT
Afghan children are not ammune from Soviet bombardment.
 tims and witnesses of attacks indicated that non-lethal in capacitating chemical and lethal chemicals - including nerve agents, phosgene or phosgene Oxim, possibly tri-chothecene toxine, and mustered were used. Medical paralysis, other neurological effects, blisters, bleeding, and sometimes death. These agents are for more toxic than riot-control agents such as CN and CS or even admisite.
   Several descriptions of the physiological action of a chemical agent or of the condition of the corpes of victims were particularly unusual. In one, victims were rapidly rendered unconscious for 2—6 hours and had fey after effects. In another case, the bodies were characterized by abnormal bloating and blackened skin with a dark — raddish tinge, and the flesh appeared decayed very soon after death. The Russians also use an extremely rapid-acting lethal chemical that is not detectable by normal senses and that causes no outward physiological responses before death, and the Mujahideen die on the spot in any position they may keep.
   Medical reports from examinations of refugees from Nen-garhar Province described red skin and blisters continuing fluid described as “dirty water", effected a larger number of people after contact with a dirty yellow cloud. Many reports' from different sources strongly support thp case that irritants were used by Soviet helicopters units
 from April 20       29,-  1981
 in areas East and West of Kabul and in the Kunar valley to drive the Freedom Fighters from sancturies, such as caves, into the open to expose them to attack with convention weapons and in-capacitants to render them tractable for disarming and capture. The ammunitions were described as Soviet 250-kilogram RBK cluster bombs. Similar operation .have also been taken in Kandahar Province,
                                                                 -m
   A former Afghan MI-8 Helicopter Pilot and other military defectors also confirmed the reports that Soviet forces had used chemical weapons in Badakhshan Kandahar, and Kunar, chemicals in con-sisters that contained toxin gas, tear gas, and antire-spiratory gas, which has an incapacitating effect by causing chaking and difficulties in breathing were manually t
                                                                I?
pushed from the cargo compartment of helicopters. The pilot said that there also was a specific gas that is absorbed by the body and leaves the skin see soft that a Finger can be pushed through it. In one case there was a wind shift and Soviet and Karmal forces were seriously affected. In another case when the situation worsened for Soviet forces, the helicopters delivered a single rocket, releasing a chemical that killed 16 Mujahideen. During operations in Kunar Valley. Soviet helicopters also conducted gas attack in 25 different areas, using cylinders about 1.5 meters long and 60 centimeters in diameter that exploded 4-5 meter above the ground, releasing the incapacitating gas. Some victims lost consciousness, were paralyzed, and recovered, but other died, and unprotected areas of their skin turned dark green to blue-green.
LIBERATION FRONT
DECEMBER, 1987
   In February 1982, number of the resistance, with a considerable knowledge of Soviet had told a foreign reporter that the Soviets were using irritants, and hullucinogenic gas, which was an opparent powdery nerve gas. He described the “nerve agent” as an off-white powdery substance dispersed from helicopters generally during artillery or bombing attacks. Victims realize they have been exposed to chemical attack only when they become faint and dizzy. Subsequently, they begin to vomit, and bleed from the eyes, nose and mouth. Death occure within a short time. The dead bodies are extremely relaxed with no evidence of rigor mortis. Flesh and skin frequently peel off if an effort is made to move the bodies. However, the survivors suffer after effect for
            •f
 about 6 months, including chest congestion and pain, dizziness, and mental agitation. Many servivors of chemical attacks in. Afghanistan face exhibited long-term health problems described in this account.
    Chemical defence battalions standard in all Soviet divisions are deployed with three Soviet motorized rifle divisions at Kundus, shindand, and Kabul. Soviets personnel using chemical weapons have been observed wearing chemical protective and use chemical decontamination equipments. .
     THE CONFESSIpN OF SOVIET CHEMICAL EXPERT .
     A Soviet^ military chemical
  M
 DECEMBER, 1987
 specialist, captured earlier by Mujahideen, gave his name as Yuri Povarinitsyn from Sverdlovesk; During an interview said that his mission was to examine villages after a chemical attack to determine whether they were safe to enter or required decontamination. It has also been reported that the Soviet Chemical warfare personnel visit the contiminated areas to collect soil vegetation and water samples after Soviet chemical attacks. According to first hand experience of farmer Soviet chemical personnel, the Soviet do not require decontamination equipment in an area where chemical bombs are stored or loaded on to aircraft.
    The Soviet Union has stocked a variety of toxic chemical agents and munitions to meet wartime contingencies weapons systems capable of delivering chemical munitions available to Soviet forces in Afghanistan include artillery,
 . multiple rocket launchers and tactical aircrafts.
    “And a result of chemical attaqks, 3,042^deaths attributed to 47 seperate incidents between the summer of 1979 and the Summer of 1981 have been reported. “Anjflysis of all the information available leads to this conclusion the sources said, adding that sub-stances used included iritants, incapac-itants, nerve agents, phos->■ phene and perhaps mycotox-ing and mustared.
                                                                                                 It has b£en further added that Afghan military defectors
______________;-----------------
                  '19
 had provided information on Soviet use of a chemical weapons containing deadly nerve agents, including where they were stock piled and when and where they had been used.
    In September, 1982, when a Soviet soldier, Anatoly Mikhailovich Sakharov, from Saransk in the Moldavina Republic, was captured by Mujahideen, said in his interview that although he himself has not taken part in CBW operation, he has seen the weapons stored at both Kabul and Kunduz airbases. Sakharov, said he was an eye — witness of Soviet personnel returning from CBW operation who had themselves been affected, one of them suffered from eye damage.
    The first two agents he said to form a dense, yellowish cloud over a target and choked or asphyxiated their victims. The First he called picrine, possibly a compound including picric acide, and this, he said, caused 20 percent fatalities among those affected. The second agent, Sakharov called “Oedoesha-yshe”, which have caused three fatalities out of every 10 people affected in the target area. The third agent he called “smirch” which killed everyone it affected. “Smirch” blackened the flesh of its victims.
                      t
    Sakharov alleged the three agents were stored in liquid form in cylinders marked "propan” and they created a
LIBERATION FRONT


 spray or vapour on being released either by rockets fired from fixed wing aircraft or helicopters Large metal container as long as an estimated 21 ft. and fixed to the fuselage of propeller-driven aircraft also sprayed the material over the target. Sakharov’s evidence bore close relation to similar accounts from Mujahideen sources.
    The State Department’s report listed 1 2 reported chemi-cal/biological attacks by security forces in Afghanistan during the course of 1982. The report quoted an Afghan airport official as saying that he had seen 200—300 gas containers at Kandahar airbase, while his subordinate reported that the three types of gas in these canisters caused burning of the throat and suffocation; $ second that caused blistering and what looked like small-fox, and a third substance that made its victims tired and unable to fight or run. The containers produced a yellow smoke on impact. The repojt also mentioned the case of Soviet adviser having said before the invasion that Soviet chemical defence troops would bring in substantial quantities of toxic materials. The adviser who was inspecting sites for housing Soviet troops, indicated that a proposed garrison in Kabul would be mappropenate for Soviet chemical defence unit because an accident could devastate the city
                       T /
    The United Nation special reporteur on human rights in Afghanistan. Mr. Armacora
 m an interview, said “he is convinced the Soviets are using chemical weapons, including napalm and phosphorous bombs, in their campaign against Afghan- Mujahideen. The hospitals in Pakistan are full of proof of these weapons, “he added.
   Mr. Armacora maintains he has documented the use of chemical weapons in Afghanistan, although such practices have been repeatedly denied by the Soviets.
   “I would not have had the courage to document such things if I were not convinced they had happened.” He said
   The United Nations has also reported rhat on September 13, 1982. when more than 100 Mujahideen, inchid-ing children and aged people hid in an, underground irrigation channel in Padkhwab-e-Shana, Logar Province. Tire Soviet Afghan troops poured explosive chemicals into three outlets of the tunnel and
 ignited them, hunting rhe trpped innocent peopie to death.
                                           VICTIMS OF THE CHEMIC AL IN SANG L AKH
   Recently Soviet troops have killed 18 members of one family who sought shelter in a mountain cave to protect themselves from ihe Russian bombardment, on August 7, at Sanglakh. Maid an Province,
   But when the Soviet troops came to the area they applied camical gas into the cave kilting innocent women and children on the spot. Commander Ali Yusufi has reported to AMRC at Peshawar.
   After the Soviet troops were withdrawn from the area, the villagers went to the cave and found all 18 persons killed. When they tried to remove the bodies out of the cave for burial purpose, they found them decayed, and the flesh would have been peeled off with their effort to move Continued on page 26
       Most of the Hospitals fnr Afghan Mitjshklttfi in \ WFP ere full of such disabled Mujahideen.
 LIBERATION FRONT
 20
 DECEMBER, 1987
                                                                                                                    8 *.
                                                                                                          V*" fa -’•Wa 1*87 31*
                                                                                                                    , 4i4%&&C.iMfa* #
                                                                                                                   l yit^W)S^<UA Q>~g. i*> rt
Local Carrier was capable to accommodate two persons at a time.
                                       Dr. Hashmatullah Mojaddedi piloting new Rope Carrier on Kunar river in the inaugural ceremony.
  Rope Carrier on Kunar
    ■f
          River Inaugurated
   From strategic point of view Kunar is an important Province of . Afghanistan, which is mountainous and rocky area, laying 2000 metre above Sea level. The minimum temperature slightly goes down below zero from 1 C° to —2 C° in the winter season, and the maximum temperature is not more than 32C° to 350° in summer. It is a windy area during fall and winter season, and has a semi-dry climate. The flow of water in Kunqr- River decrease during winter and overflows in summer. The only means for the/ inhabited of the area to cross the river was a local rope carrier,
called also (zango) wliere more than 4000, people and about 3000, animals were crossing the river per month. Most of the inhabitants are farmers, growing “ corn, wheat, barly and different types of fruits and beans.
   In April of 19-79, when Taraki was in power, the puppet government troops in the presence of Soviet military advisers massacred more than , thousand men and boys •in the village of Kerala in this Province, because they would not shput their slogans in support of the Communist regime, and were therefore machine-guned.
    Subsequently, Commander Abdyrrauf Khan of the Afghan armi Brigade in Asmar surrendered to Mujahideen killing all Khalq-Parcham Communist military officers in the Brigade, including the Governor of Kunar, Province who was also shot dead. Thus there was a general uprise in Kunar against the Soviet troops.. The serious problems for, the Mujahideen was how to cross the Kunar river to attack the Soviet-Kabul troops as tht* only alternative for them was local boats, rope-carriers, and suspension bridges for acrossing the river. The Soviet forces made heavy bombardment of
LIBERATION FRONT
21
DECEMBER, 1987
The modern Rope Carrier has the capacity to accommodate
 from 8 to 15 persons in each trip.
the Kunar Province destroying villages and all kind of bridges, local boats, and rope-carriers to stop Mujahideen from crossing the river.
                                                                                                    However, after every bombardment, the Mujahideen and
 the local people managed to reconstruct suspension bridges local boats and rope-carriers to enable the Mujahideen to cross the river. But the local made rope-carrier and boats were still not sufficient to carry' -a gootl number of
 Mujahideen to cross the river, and attack the enemy positions particularly, the rope carrier could accommudate only tow person per trip for crossing the river.
    The Committee of Sciences and technology of the Afghan National Liberation Front, initiated various programmes for utilizing the experiences of Scientists in different fields of the present technology for the assistance of the Afghan People inside Afghanistan, particularly, the committee called on engineers to render their valuable services to Mujahideen. Moreover, ANLF. sent several Medical Doctors to serve the Afghan people inside Afghanistan, and opened many clinics in various part of the country. Some cooperation was also extended by French BLA and Norwagion Committee in agriculture, ancf other projects under taken in Kunar and Logar Provinces since 1984.
    The first project for constructing scientific Rope Carrier across the Kunar River started on September 1986
 How the wounded Mujahid ' r
                                                                                                                                           :
   is crossed h\ local,
  carrier on.Kunar
   nrer.
 LIBERATION FRONT
V
      The shooting down of helicopter-gunships by Mujahideen is heavy below to the Soviet Air-Force. (Paktia Province.)
with the co-operation of Swedish Committee. A part of the fund for project was also granted by the Department of VITA in the year 1987.
   The Rope Carrier Project was designed and supervised by Dr. Hashmatallah Moja-ddedi during the year 1986-87. The machinary for pulling the carrier across the river was also designed by Dr. Mojaddedi, and manufactured in the workshop of ANLF at Peshawar.
   The Soviet helicopter -gunship tried to bomb the project but valiant and heroic Mujahideen successfully defended the project against the bombardment. In order to protect the structure from the Russian bombers, tunnels were excavated on both sides of the river, aqd the construction was under-taken inside the tunnels.
   As the distance from Ben-shai to Neshagam is about 60 km, and takes two days for a person to walk along the high mountains of Kunar, the transportation of materials therefore, raised the cost of the project tremendously.
   In the inaugural ceremony, of the Rope Carrier project, Dr. Hashmatullah Mojaddedi, the designer of the project, thanked Almighty Allah for granting him the opportunity to complete the project for the benefit of his country fellows and Mujahidefcn. Now the new Rope Carrier he said is capable to accommodate and carry' 8 to 15 persons
per trip in crossing the river. He also extended his gratification to Hazrat Prof. Sib-ghatullah Al-Mojaddedi, leader of the Afghan National Liberation Front for providing fund and facilities for the construction of the project. The designer was also grateful to Dr. Zabihullah Mojaddedi for extending various manuscript and advice for the design of the Scheme.
   Dr. Hashmatullah Mojaddedi highly appreciated the cooperation, donation, equipment, appointment of technicians and other facilities provided by Mr. Anders Fange Chairman of Sewdish Committee, and Mr. David Garner and Eng. Siddiq, for the success of the nlan. The Designer also i thanked Eng. Fazl-i-Haq and Mr. Jawad for manufacturing one of the
                                                              f
 pulling shaft in the Workshop of the Austrian Committee in Peshawar Pakistan.
    He also acknowledged the co-operation and the consultation of Dr. Soorgul and Eng. Sulaiman in the construction of the project for the Rope Carrier, on Kunar river.
    Finally, Dr. Hasmatullah Mojaddedi called on Muslim Ummah and all other peace and freedom loving nations to extend their sincere cooperation to the Afghan Mujahideen, who are fighting with insufficient means against the Soviet Red Army in Afghanistan. He also invited the attention of the peace-loving countries to         cooperate
 in the development of technical project under taken by Mujahideen in the liberated areas inside Afghanistan.
DECEMBER. 1987
25
liberation front
The life of the Afghan refugees in the tentage village.
Chemicals
    Continued from Page 19
  the bodies. They therefore, closed the entrance of the cave, and turned it into a joint grave for the 18 martyred.
    Moreover the Soviet is equipting its armed forces with laser weapons able to blind permanently their apponents.
    This laser technology has already been used in Afghanistan for temporarily blinding fighters. Kremlin is continuing to develop new strategic and theater nuclear weapons as well as conventional forces which go well beyond its legitimate defence need.
    For testing every new weapon, Soviet has made Afghanistan an experimental battle.
                                       TOY SHAPED MINES ARE USED
    A relief group has, claimed that the Soviet aircrafts dropped small toy shaped mines onto mountain roads used by Mujahideen and refugees. 'Riese mines also became the death cause of many Afghan
  children.
    An International Aid Organisation which has undertaken a specific programme for Afghan children at refugees camps believe that such mines are not aimed solely at Afghan Freedom Fighters * because some mines have been shaped like brightly coloured parrots, butter flies; etc. The spokesman added that other mines
  which look like dolls, watches and pens have also been spread by Soviet troops and when little children pick them up, the mines explode causing serious injuries or death. Many children as well as adults have been victimed of such mines.
     When the foreign visitors toured two refugee camps near Peshawar in the month of February 1982, they took with them one of the mines, a green propeller shaped plastic device filled with explosive powder which explodes on contact. The fact finding mission also examined a little boy who had lost a foot and an eye, and another whose fingers'were rr\pimed by a doll shaped mine.
     The Internatonal News Media has also reported the presence of TMS-65, a large vehicle carrier of gas among the military hardware in Afghanistan. It is a very effec-, tive way of killing defenceless, and innocent Afghans who are armed only with rifles. Dt. Matthew Messelson of Har-ward University, a chemical warfare expert, has confirmed
              i
 the use of nerve gas by Russian in Afghanistan.
   In Afghanistan, the Soviet’s purpose of using pioson gas is to exterminate Mujahideen. The weapon that was too loathsome to use in the world war II is now active part of Red Army arsenal to terorize, demoralize and kill innocent Afghans.
   However, the cries of the burning Mujahideen, women, innoccent children and aged people in the Afghan villages, towns, and cities are not properly heard in the building of U.N. and peace loving countries. But, if the chemical flames now burning Afghanistan once cross the border would no doubt scorch the whole region particularly the muslim countries of Middle Fiist with its oil rich resources.
   We therefore, appeal to all peace loving countries particularly the Muslim Ummah to support Afghan Mujahidefen in annihilating the Russian aggressive forces, extinguish the chemical blazes, and save not only Afghanistan but also the whole region from distruction as such.
DECEMBER, 1987                    26                 LIBERATION  FRONT
       \
H. ABU _IRFAN
VIOLATION AND BARBARISM RETALIATED WITH GENEROSITY
   The Government of Pakistan handed over six captured Soviet helicopter crew to the Soviet Embassy as a gesture of goodwill in Islamabad on October, 6, 1987, on the request of Soviet Government.
   It was on October 3, when two military helicopter gun-sh*ps, violating the airspace of Pakistan territory, penetrated over 50 km and landed in the Mastuj sub-division of the Chitral district in NWFP, 12000 ft, above sea level.
   The crew comprising two pilots, two copilots and two mechanics, belonging to 2177 Army Unit affiliated with the KGB Guard Brigade. According to their assertions they had started from Alama Ata in the Kazakh Republic of Soviets, and traversed across the Wakhan Corridor of Afghanistan, intering Pakistan territory.
   The gunships were damaged by the Soviet, crew and* were no longer in flying condition. The crew who had destroyed their identity papers, have
  given their names as:. Maj Yevgeni Nicolai, Pilot, Lt Serge Gennatee, co-pilot; Andrea Vekaragae, mechanic; Antali Yadinovcch. mechanic.
    However, Soviet had never tolerated such trespassing of its territory, and whenever, the Soviet Government has found any aircraft in violation of-Soviet airspace, the crew are severly punished, It may be recalled that last May when a West German youth. Mathew Rust, flew his unarmed small .plane in to the Soviet territory, landing in Mascow without the permission of the Soviet Government had been sentenced by the Soviet authorities to four years imprisonment.
    In 1985, the Soviet Government shot down a passenger Soutii Korean Air-liner, and killed 269 passengers on board, which was a clear cut gencide and the violation of' the laws . of Air as well as of the principles of the Havana, Warsa and Chicago Convention.
    The Soviet puppet regime
 in Kabul has committed several hundred violations of Pakistan’s airspace and heavely bombarded civilian villages, and refugee camps, inside Pakistan, killing and wounding a large number of Pakistani nationals and Afghan refugees, since 1979, in the border area of Chitral, Parachinar, Baluchistan, Bajaur, Momand, Kurram, and Khybar, Agencies. The most sever and distructive of these bombardments was that of the South Waziristan Agency, when three Soviets jet bombers violated Pakistan air-space on 23, March this year, and droped three bombs on village Angoor Bagh where 20 persons were killed and 22 were injured,
    Later on the same day, four Soviet-Afghan military aircraft violated Pakistan air space by four kilomiters in the Kurram Agency and droped six rockets and 12 bombs on Teri Mangal Village. As a result 65. persons were killed and 10 wounded, besides large-scale damage to civilian properties, was occured.
    In these raids by Soviet-Afghan jet bombers, since the beginning of the Afghan problem, more than 531 people had been killed, which includes both Pakistanis and Afghan refugees, while, 740 persons had been injured. In the ground attacks by Soviet-Afghan artillery, iside Pakistan territory 159 persons had been killed and 287 wounded.
    Every air and ground violation, and the killing and
    Continue on page 32
LIBERATION FRONT
27
DECEMBER, 1987
  Jihad Fronts in Brief
    Soviet since its military intervention in Afghanistan, in 1979, on one hand express its willingness to solve the Afghan dispute through peaceful negotiation, and withdraw its troups from Afghanistan, but, on the other, Soviet with the help of its poppet regime in Afghanistan, backing sabotage activities in the region, and also against the Afghan Mujahideen. Besides bringing fresh troops and modern sophisticated weapons to Afghanistan. This deference in her words and action shows that instead of solving the Afghan issue, Soviet provide further ground for her expansionist policy in the region. In such circumstances, all efforts and negotiations in the United Nations and Islamic Foreign Minister Conferences, towards peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue seem to be fruitless.
    For this reason, the Afghan Mujahideen are not prepared to be trapped by any so-called peact offer, rather they are determined to continue their Jehad against the invaders, untill they liberate their homeland. So far the Soviet with all her atrocities committed against the Afghan freedomfighters and civiliansfias completely failed to crush the spirit of Afghan Mujahideen. Perhaps, Soviet has forgotten the universal truth that the spirit of freedom cannot be crushed through force and cruelty.
    We do not understand that why the Soviet authorities have forgotten the principles of self-Jetermination, and the right of independence for the Afghan people, whereas they were the staunch supporters of this rights for the freedom fighters of Vietnam and some other countries. But they must not forget the historical fact that the United States of Amierica with all her power, force, and strengthen, when realised her failure, withdraw her forces without prescribing any conditions or guarantees, from Vietnam. Similarly, the Soviet with all her military might would not be able to crush the resistance movement of the Afghan Mujahideen, and would certainly be defeated. The only alternative for Soviet is to withdraw her troops from Afghanistan and save her face before the world.
    The Soviet casualties since its war in Afghanistan are increasing day by day, and Russians soldiers who are forced by Kremline Leaders to fight in Afghanistan, are losing their interest in war and some of them whenever get chance surrender to Mujahideen.
               t
    The use,of surface to air missiles by Mujahideen during the last one year, has brought superiority of Soviet Air Force to an end.
    In many areas now tighter Planes seldom reach for assistance of Soviet infantry And
DECEMBER, 1987
28
LIBERATION FRONT
     whenever they are called for assistance, they drop bombs from so high altitude that their target is missing. In the place of helicopter-gunships, now the Soviet-Kabul troops use artillery so indiscriminately in certain areas that many villages are destroyed on the doubt of being stronghold of Mujahideen.
           Due to the capability of Mujahideen in the use of anti-tank mines, grenades launchers and ground to air missiles, Soviet-Kabyl troops do not dare to enter in the Mujahideen strongholds before the artillery shelling :
   A Soviet soldier, Yanu-weshet Alexander Prepowesh, 19, of Tashkent Uzbakistan, defected to the Afghan Mujahideen, has told in his interview that before coming to Afghanistan, his mother advised him not to fight against the Afghan Mujahideen. In Logar Province where he defected to Mujahideen on September 1, worked as a wireless operator with the Soviet garrison based in Baraki Barak.
   Alexander said that his mother was a Muslim and his father was a Communist. He told that he has been graduated from the arms manufacturing institute in Tashkent.
   “When I was to be despatched to Kabul, my mother asked me not to fight Mujahideen and help them.’’ “So, according to my mother’s advice, I defected to the Mujahideen” Alexander told.
                                            MUJAHIDEEN SHOT DOWN SOVIET GUNSHIP:
   Mujahideen have shot down a Soviet helicopter-gunship besides shelling the Khost cantonment in Pakfiy Province, on September 'll. The helicopter crashed near Khost, killing the. pilot and the crew on the spot.-The same day Mujahideen shelled the Khost
LIBERATION FRONT.
 cantonment by heavy guns and mortors as a result the military installations and a barrack caught fire.
                                              KABUL NOT SECURED FROM MU/AHIDEEN ATTACKS:
   Afghan Mujahideeh advanced towards Kbaul from Pagh-man and attacked a Kabul army post near Kargha on September 20. The freedom fighters mined the area between Paghman town and the lake of Kargha, west of Kabul. They further advanced close to Kabul, after the failure of Soviet operation to destroy Mujahideen strong-
29
holds. The report said the Soviet military units concentrated at the biggest Soviet military base in the south of Kabul. But the invading troops were pushed back by Mujahideen from the base where supply and defence became difficult by the enemy. Mujahideen used better kind of anti-air defence, in the ambush.
   Similarly, Mujahideen launched a combined attack on the camp in the KhakM-Jabar area close to Bagrami town on the south of Kabul in the first week of October, blew up a tank and an armoured personnel carrier, killing the
DECEMBER, 1987
 crew on the spot.
   The Mujahideen launched heavy rocket attack on Khan-i-Khlaq, the palace of former King Zahir Shah in Kabu. The losses in the palace were not known which was hit by four rockets on the morning of October 22.
                                            MUJAHIDEEN DESTROYED TWO CONCRETE BUNKERS IN NIMROZE
   The Mujahideen launched an attack on the sub-divisional headquarter of Nimrose Province, as a result of which two concrete bunkers were destroyed at the army camp and the supply depots were blown up, on the morning of September 26 using rockets and missiles, where 132 Soviet troops were lulled and injured and arms and ammunition were captured, including ten tanks and military vehicles of the enemy were also set ablazed. The Mujahideen have also liberated two villages of Nimroze Province.
  - Radio Kabul also has confir-
 med the Mujahideen attack on the security post near Shin-waru in which rockets and missiles were used.
                                                   TWO SOVIET HELICOPTERS DESTROVED:
   The reports from Ghazni province stated that the Muja-hidden foiled a large scale military operation after two days constant resistance. The Soviet offensive was aimed at to destroy the Mujahideen centre in Targan area.
   The Soviet armoured units surrounded the Mujahideen centres on Sept. 2. The Mujahideen engaged in operations outside their centres waylaid the invading forces and made stiff resistance for two days with the help of beseiged Mujahideen. The Soviet units fled away towards Ghazni carrying 18 bodies and leaving behind the wreckage of three tanks.
   The Mujahideen captured a machine-gun, one rocket-launcher and a wireless set.
   The Mujahideen have shot
down a Soviet helicopter in Nari area of Paktia Province, with anti-aircraft missiles on the morning of October, 19. The wreckage of the helicopter was scatered in the surrounding of the village and the Soviet pilot and the other crew were killed under the debris of the copter.
   The Mujahideen also encircled Soviet forces near Mohammad Agha town in Logar from October, 12. The convoy was coming to Gardez from Kabul carrying supplies. As the Mujahideen were equipped with missiles, the Soviet fighters aircraft and helicopters were avoiding flights. However, the exchange of sheling from both sides continued until October, 22. The Soviet foces borne heavy losses.
                                             MUJAHIDEEN DOWNED SOVIET JET:
  A Russian jet was shot down by Afghan Mujahideen with an anti air craft missile while bombing Mujahideen positions in Hashim Khel region of Jaji, Pakita Province, on October 22. Six Mujahideen were seriously wounded in the bombardment.
                                             KABUL TROOPS SUFFERED HEAVILY:
  In aseries of attacks, the Afghan Mujahideen inflicted heavy casualties on ’ Soviet-Kabul troops, on September 26. The Mujahideen destroyed eight aircrafts of Soviet-Kabul forces at Kandahar airport, and killed or wounded
                                          SOVIET-KABUL TROOPS SUFFERED HEAVY IN NINGRAHAR
   The Afghan Mujahideen in fleeted heavy losses on the Soviet-Kabul troops in their operation in the first week of October, killing a large number of Soviet-Kabul troops and destroyed a nymber of tanks armoured cars and other military vehicles, and also captured arms and ammunition from the enemy,-
   The Afghan Mujahideen hit the military aijport of Uroz-gan Province with missiles and rockets where two Soviet helicopters were turned into ashes on the runway of the airport, on September 29. The airport building and its installations received extensive damage by the messile attacks.
                                           MUJAHIDEEN SHOT DOWN SOVIET COPTER IN PAKTIA:
DECEMBER, 1987
30
LIBERATION FRONT
more than 30 joint Soviet-Kabul troops and captured nine soldiers.
   Another helicopter of the joint forces was also shot down in Baboos area of Logar Province and all the crew on board were killed. The invading forces in Logar have also suffered seriously.
   The Afghan Mujahideen have attacked the Soviet-Kabul troops in Badakhshan Province, and inflicted heavy casualties on the invading troops. According to the report, rhe Mujahideen have captured a Soviet Commander, in their attack on the city of Rustaq, Takhar Province. The Soviet Commander Samdov is still under the custody of Mujahideen in the said Province.
   The Mujahideen have shot down an aircraft in Jalabad on September 5, killing senior Afghan and Russian military
officers on board. The Mujahideen also attacked Jalalabad city with rockets and missiles on the night of September 5, at 10 O, clock. The Mujahideen also attacked Khad office in Jalalabad, and damaged the building.
                                                MUJAHIDEEN DOWN 16 PLANES & COPTERS:
   The Afghan Mujahideen have shot down seven aircraft and nine helicoters and destroyed 90 tanks in the first fortnight of September. The Mujahideen also conducted successful attack on the morning of Sep. 2, in which two aircraft and five helicopters were turned into ashes, at the Ghazni airport. Most of the Soviet aircraft had been shot down in Pakita Province, Mazar-i-Sharif, and Parwan Provinces.
   The Mujahideen have also captured 14 light and heavy machine-guns, dozens of Kala-
 shinkove rifles and heavy quantity of ammunitions.
   In Kandahar Province, Mujahideen have shot down another Soviet MIG in Malajat area near Kanadahar on October, 23.
                                             SOVIET-KABUL TROOPS PUSHED BACK IN LOGAR:
   The invading Soyiet troops launched military operation in Logar valley and heavily bombarded several villages in the Province, where 74 Afghan civilians, were martyred and 150 Houses were destroyed on October, 15 to 22.
   But the Mujahideen severely resisted during the Soviet operation and forced the invading forces to retreat after constant struggle The Soviet troops have lost eight tanks, and a helicopter which was hit near Baraki-Barak town on the morning of October, 19 The Soviet troops d roped 14 Napalm bombs at Bad-Khwab and Ab-l-Josh where crops were burnt and several cattle were killed, while the sivilian population had been moved towards mountains.
                                            MUJAHIDEEN DESTROVED 8 SOVIET PLANES:
   The Mujahideen have recently destroyed eight planes in two Provinces. Three Soviet Jet fighter planes and two helicopters at Kabul International Airport on November 3, and two Soviet transport planes and a helicopter parked at the military base of Khost
      A wreckage of Soviet bomber aircraft. In 1987, Soviet lost a large number of Jet-bombers, helicopter-gunships and military trans-port aircraft.               ___________________________ '
DECEMBER, 1987
31
LIBERATION FRONT
              VIOLATION AND BARBARISM
       Continued from page 27
 in the Province of Paktia were destroyed by 122 MM guns. Three days after these incidents, more helicopters were destroyed at Khost Airport.
   The Mujahideen shot down another Soviet transport plane which crashed in the vicinity of Kabul on November, 2.
   However, the Jehad in Afghanistan is in full-swimg throughout the country, and the Soviet-Kabul forces losing ground to Mujahideen in every Province. Jet bombers, and Soviet Helicopter-gunships, tanks and armmoured cars are no more active against the Mujahideen since the Afghan freedom fighters have acquired some modem weapons and organized themselves in a better and substantial tfay in their Jehad against the Soviet invaders: With the /spirit of their faith,* the help bf Al-
   wounding of innocent population, and extesive damage to
 mighty allah and with the cooperation of Islamic Ummqh. and freedomloving Nations, Afghan Mujahideen have succeeded to linerate more than 90% of the land from Soviet expansionists.
   It was force, faith, the spirit of Islam and the love for freedom of the Afghan nation that bend down the Soviet super-power on its knees, and forced them to search way and means for tlje withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan
public property by Soviet-Kabul armed forces was strongly protested to the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul, and the detail was also conveyed to the United Nations and the Secretary General was kept informed and further requested to ask the puppet regime to desist from such barbarous acts, but the Soviet backed regime in Kabul ignored the recommendations of the United Nations and several wamning of Pakistan Government, and continued its provocative acts against Pakistan.
   But inspite of all such hostile attitude of Soviet and its puppet regime in Kabul, the Government of Pakistan politely accepted the request of Soviet Government and handed over six captured Soviet military helicopter gun-ship crew to the Soviet Embassy as a gesture of goodwill, in Islamabad.
   The friendly gesture and civilzed manner of the Government and the people of Pakistan to wards the Soviet Government was appreciated by all those, who love peace and tranquility in the region. But what would be the response of Soviet Government for such a harmonious transaction in the long run':
      The Russians in 1979, thought that their invading troops will be able to conqure Afghanistan within a week, but soon after they realized their blunder.
LIBERATION FRONT
32
DECEMBER, 1987
   GLOBAL VIEWS ON AFGHANISTAN
        AS THE PROBLEM OF AFGHANISTAN HAS BEEN CREATED BY SOVIET SINCE HER TROOPS INVADED AN INDEPENDENT SOVEREIGN, NON-ALIGNED ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN IN DECEMBER 1979, WHICH HAS NOT ONLY AFFECTED THE REGION AROUND, BUT IN FACT CAUSED SERIOUS ANXITY IN THE PEACE-LOVING NATIONS. “GLOBAL VIEWS” ON AFGHANISTAN HAS THEREFORE BEEN INTRODUCED IN “LIBERATION FRONT” TO REFLECT GLOBAL VIEWS REGARDING THE PROBLEM OF AFGHANISTAN
        VIEWS, SUGGESTION, ARTICLES AND LETTERS FROM THE READERS SHALL HIGHLY BE APPRECIATED. * *
       GEN. MOHAMMAD ZIA-UL-HAQ, PRESIDENT OF PAKISTAN’S VIEWS ON
     *----------------------- AFGHANISTAN: -----------------------------
   President Zia-ul-Haq in an interview with Austrian journalist in Islamabad, published in three leading dailies, in Vienna” “It seems that the Soviets are serious in their offer to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, the President said, “But they fear this would result in a massacre of their supporters there”.
   General Zia-ul-Haq said, Soviets pull out from Afghanistan would take place as soon as possible and be coupled with the creation of a caretaker government in Kabul under the control of a U.N. peacekeeping forcq- ' “This caretaker government would have to be headed by a person who has -the confidence of the three main -elements in the
 Afghanistan conflict — the freedom fighters, the refugees and the present government of Kabul.”
   Earlier, addressing an impressive Tribal Jirga (meeting) at Landikotal Khyber Agency, on November 18, the President General Mohammad Zia-uf-Haq, said that the Soviet Union has realised that the people of Afghanistan who are-staunch Muslims ^nd fierce freedom fighters, would not permit the present Communist system to perpetuate itself through the puppet Kabul regime in Afghanistan.
   Afghanistan being strategically important, the Soviet wanted to 1 keep it under control for the same reason, the President of Pakistan said.
 adding that he wanted to reaffirm that the people of Afghanistan in their history had never accepted any alien rule nor any system because they knew the value and importance of freedom, and the importance of Islam.
   The President told his audience that it was nothing less than a miracle of the 15th Century Hijra that a superpower with the support of one and a half lakh troops had not been able to occupy a small country like Afghanistan. It happened because^the people of Afghanistan so valiantly and vigorously were offering the sacrifices of their life and so far 10 lakh of them had laid down their lives for the sake of their freedom, he said.
33
DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT
   It was because of their great sense of patriotism and indominitable spirit of Jehad that a superpower like the Soviet was forced to ponder as how to solve this issue. “They think as to what would be the fate of those who are toeing their line in Afghanistan,” he said. He wondered” whether the Afghan Mujahideen will spare them and whether Communist interests in Afghanistan will survive.”
   The President said the only people and country which should worry about Afghanistan’s future were the Afghan themselves and none else. The choice for a future set up of a government should be the sole prerogative of the people of Afghanistan themselves, he said, “In this,_Tneither Pakistan should have any concern nor any other country”, he added.
   In regard to subversive activities in Pakistan, Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq said,” that the Soviet thought that the Afghan issue could not be solved military and therefore adopted a different course of intimidating and coercion, by subjecting Pakistan’s territory to attacks, bombing and subversion in the areas where Afghan refugees were housed
 and other Parts of Pakistan But they faild in their attempt to cow down the people of Pakistan.
                         i
   He said their latest oper-andi was to create a. wedge between the “Ansars”.(Locals) and Muhajireen so that Pakis-
 tan’s would start doubting the Afghan refugees. The President said that in the event of a bomb blast both people of Pakistan and Afghan refugees suffered, but the public were made to believe that subversion was committed by the refugees.
   These elements would succeed in their aim only when they were able to make the people believe that Afghan refugees were involved in subotage activities, which was not so, he said.
   The President said that the bomb blasts had made some people in Pakistan to believe that Pakistan’s policy on Afghanistan issue was wrong and that Pakistan-should abandon, it and have direet talks with the puppet regime in Afghanistan.
   Pakistan, he said, was pursuing a correct policy and had taken a principled stand on Afghanistan,
   The enemy of Pakitan, President said wanted to create,a wro'ng^impression in the minds of the people of Pakistan in order to divert their attention and solid support to the Afghan people.
       i
   President Zia-ul-Haq, urged the people to beware of these elements and frustrate their designs. He asked them 'to have little more patience because there was a time when God Almighty tested the patience of the people and made them to bear only that
 much burden which they were capable of.
   He said it was his faith that both the people of Pakistan and Afghanistan would emerge successful as a respectable solution of the issue would be found shortly. Till then they should show patience, have regard for refugees, and extend the same measure of hospitality which they have been doing for the past eight years, he said.
   Addressing a representative tribal Jirga (meeting) in Raz-mak, North Waziristan on November 17, the President Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, referring to Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, siad, this is part of Soviet expansionist designs which had been pursuing since the Czarist regime.
   He recalled that the Soviet usurpted Muslim areas like Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan which used to be the seats of Islamic learning.
   The President said, afraid of Islamic renaissance in Pakistan and Iran, the Soviet invaded Afghanistan to check this Islamic lava. He said, out of population of one-and-half crore of Afghanistan three million Afghan refugees are in Pakistan, two million in Iran, one million in a number of European countries and dhe million had fallen martyred in armed struggle against Soviet occupation.
   President Zia-ul-Haq said Pakistan wanted to see Af-
1 ■                                       J —
LIBERATION FRONT                           34                        _ DECEMBER, 1987
            I
 ghanistan become an independent Islamic State to safeguard our own independence and security. It was in that cotext that the people of Pakistan prayed for the success of Afghan Mujahideen in their war of freedom and would continue to provide shelter for Afghan refugees. It is our Islamic duty to support our Muslim brothern who have been forced to for sake their homes and have taken shelter in Pakistan, and also pray for the success of Mujahideen who are waging a Jehad, he said.
    Speaking in D.I. Khan, on November 16, President Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, reiterated his government’s resolve that no compromise would be made on the issue of Afghanistan and would stick to its stand at all co&ts. He said that the Pakistan principled stand had been acknowledged • by majority of the countries. He added “the Afghan Mujahideen were waging ‘Jehad, not only for the liberation of their homeland from foreign domination but also fighting for the cause of Pakistan and the entire Muslim world”. The President said although, Pakistan was not directly involved in this ‘Jehad, but, Pakistan could provide succour to more than three million uprooted Afghans brothem-in-faith.
       PRIME MINISTER MOHAMMAD KHAN JUNEJO DEMANDED JUST SOLUTIONy' J
    Prime Minister Mohammad Khan Junejo," addressing the
  42nd session of the United Nations General Assembly, on September 24, called upon the world leaders to reconfirm their principled position on Afghanistan. He said foreign military intervention in that country represented an attempt to reverse the tide of history. The Prime minister said Afghanistan, which was historically independent, a founding member of the United Nations, was subjugated its sovereignty usurp ted and its land desecrated. He observed that the intervention of the Soviet Union in that free country violated the fundamental principles of the U.N. Charter could not be denied.
    He said no objective observer could ignore that the people of Afghanistan were waging legitimate struggle for national liberation and self-determination and that the presence of Soviet forces in that country posed direct and potential threat to the security and stability of the entire region.
     Earligr on 14, October, on his visit to the United State of America, Prime Minister , Mohammad Khan Junejo at Washington said “Eveh if aid were cut off, Pakistan policy towards Afghanistan would not be changed.
     There was no U.S. aid to Pakistan in 1979, when the Afghan problem first arose he said adding, “,We will pursue our policy on Afghanistan. That is very clear.”
                                                               f
   Mr. Junejo in the interview with the Washington Post insisted that the Pakistan’s policy on Afghanistan was a separate issue from the U.S. aid programme.
   On his visit to Malaysia, in reply to a question, in regard to bomb blasts in Pakistan, Prime Minister, explained the causes of bomb blasts in different parts of the country and said they had come in the wake of Pakis- . tan resolve to look after the Afghan brothern who had taken shelter in Pakistan as refugees after the Soviet’s invasion of their country. He said that saboteurs, trained in Afghanistan, had been causing these blasts. The acts of terrorism were intended to build up public pressure against Pakistan’s principled stand on the issue of Afghanistan.
                                             OIC CALLS FOR SHORTER
                                              TIMEFRAME OF SOVIET PULLOUT:
   The Islamic Conference believes that a short timeframe for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was essential to promote the process of national reconciliation.
   “Genuine national reconciliation was important but it could not take place under foreign occupation nor could it be imposed from outside” Said a joint communique issued on 7th October, on the deliberation held by Islamic Foreign Ministers on 1st October.
DECEMBER, 1987
35
LIBERATION FRONT
   “The Soviet Kabul demand for reconciliation as a precondition for withdrawal would only serve to prolong the stay of Soviet troops in Afghanistan.”
   The Communique demanded that the Soviet Union provide an acceptable short-time frame to facilitate a settlement of the Afghanistan question.
   The Islamic Foreign Ministers voiced concern over the intencification of attacks by Soviet-Kabul forces against the Afghan Mujahideen and violation of Pakistan’s airspace and territory resulting in hundreds of casualities.
   They also noted with the concern that during two rounds of proximity talks held in 1987, no £ubstancial progress had been achieved on the outstanding issue of the time-frame for the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
                                               16 MUJAHIDEEN IN SAUDI ARABIA FOR TREATMENT:
    The Saudi Ambassdor in Islamabad Mr. Assad Usman Altayar said on September 17 that 16 injured Afghan Mujahideen have been trans-fered to Saudi Arabia for treatment.
    He told the Saudi News Agency in Islamabad that these Mujahideen are to be treated in Saudi Arabia under instructions from King Fahd Bin Abdul Aziz as a gesture of support and solidarity with Afghan Mujahideen in then-struggle for the libration of their homeland.
   The Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister, in the first week of October has said that the continued Soviet military occupation of Afghanistan constituted threat to the security and stability of the region as well as to inter-
national peace and security.
   Prince Saud Al-Faisal Al-Saud, said at a dinner given in his honour by Canadian External Affairs Minister Joe Clark, “while we reaffirm our fullest support for just struggle of the Mujahideen, we still look forward to a positive response from the Soviet Union to the United Nation decision, to the decision of the Organization of Islamic Conference to the stipulations of United Nations Charter, as well as to the appeals of the world for a quick withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.”
                                                PRESIDENT REAGAN ON AFGHAN PROBLEM:
   The President of the United States of America, Mr. Ronald Reagan, while addressing the 42nd session of the United Nations General Assembly on Monday the 21 September, staunchly supported the Afghan freedon struggle, and reiterated firm support to the Afghan people and Pakistan”.
   The United States President emphasised that the Afghan must have the right to determine their own future free of foreign coercion. There is no excuse for prolonging a brutal war or proping up a regime whose days are clearly numbered. He added that regime offers political proposals that pretend compromise, but really would ensure the perpetuation of the regime’s power. He said those proposals have failed the only significant test: they  have
LIBERATION FRONT
36
DECEMBER, 1987
 been rejected by the Afghan people. Every day the resistance grows in strength. It is an indispensable party in the quest for a negotiated solution, Mr. Reagan observed.
    Mr. Reagan oxhorted the world community to continue to insist on genuine self-determination, prompt and full Soviet withdrawal, and the return of the regugees to their homes in safety and honour. The attempt may be made to pressure a few countries to change their vote this year, but this body, he was confident, will vote overwhel-migly, as every year before, for Afghan independence and freedom. He further said: “We have noted General Secretary Gorbachev’s statement of readiness to withdraw. In April, I asked the Soviet Union to set. a date this year when this withdrawal would begin. I repeat that request now in this forum for peace.
 1 pledge that, once the Soviet Union shows convincingly that it’s ready for a genuine political settlement, the United States is ready to be helpful.
    The time, Mr. Reagan gave to the Afghanistan problem in his 30-minute speech at the world forum indicates the amount of concern he has for the plight of Afghan people.
    President Reagan called on the Soviet Union to set a date for the withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan
                        9
                       i   /
    “It’s time for the Soviet Union to leave (Afghanistan)” the President said.
    His wide-ranging speech co-
  vered global and regional conflicts, including the Gulf war and Afghanistan.
    Mf. Reagan said that the Kabul regime proposals were in fact aimed at ensuring the perpetuation of its power
    “The world community must continue to insist on genuine self-determination, prompt and full Soviet withdrawal, and the return of refugees to their homes in safety and honour.” President Reagan said.
    Le me add one final note on this matter. President Regan said,” Pakistan, in the face of enormous pressure and intimidation, has given sanctuary to Afghan refugees. We salute the courage of Pakistan and the Pakistani people. They desire strong support from all of us.”
                                               INCREASED U S. SUPPORT TO MUJAHIDEEN PLEDGED
    WASHINGTON, Nov. 13: President Reagan pledged increased U.s. support for Afghart Mujahideen fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan and said the Soviet military ’ presence was a barrier to improve Soviet-American relations.
     Mr Reag made his remarks to five Afghan Mujahideen leaders headed by their new Chairman, Sheikh Maulavi Yunis Khalis. They were in Washington 'following this week’s adoption of a United Nations Resolution calling for
 a Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
   “The support that the United States has been providing will be strengthened rather than diminished so that it can continue to fight effectively for freedom.”
                                              U.S TO SEND AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN MORE ARMS
   The U.S. Government has decided to send Afghan Mujahideen fighting Soviet occupation long-range mortars and mine-clear equipment, the Washington Post reported on Sept. 21
   The Post, quoting Government and other sources, said the decision to send the heavy 120-millimeter mortars and explosive cords to clear a path through minefields was made because Washington is not convinced Moscow is ready to withdraw an estimated 1 15,000 Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
   Representative Charles Wilson, a Democrat from Texas who is a strong supporter of U.S. aid to the Afghan freedom fighters, told the Post the equipment would arrive in Afghanistan “by the time snow falls” there, which is usually in October or November.
                           %
   The United States earlier this year sent hundreds of missiles to the Mujahideen who used them effectively against Soviet aircraft.
   The Mujahideen have asked
DECEMBER, 1987
37
LIBERATION FRONT
 for the mortars and the mine-clearing equipment in order to better attack the eight major Soviet bases and some 30 smaller Soviet or Afghan garrison strew around Afghanistan.
                                              SOVIETS SPEAK SOFTLY AND CARRY THE HAMMER OF SUBJUGATION
                                                                                                 H E. STEPHEN LEWIS
   In his statement to the United Nations during the recent debate in the General Assembly on Afghanistan, H.E Stephen Hewis, the permanent Representative of Canada said, “This year the debate on Afghanistan assumes a new level of importance. It is a level imposed by the Soviet Union itself. Many countries vacillated between anticipation and apprehension, because all of the noise coming from the Soviet Union suggested a possible change in its Afghan policy, but despite the more positive rhetoric, nothing seemed to change.”
   “The words of the Soviet Union, while soothing gave not a single guarantee of changing policy. Words used as seductive tool of the diplomatic trade. Words as intoxicants to hope, words as palliatives. But not words as truth”, the Canadian representative said:
   The truth is that Kq added, “in that forlorne/ raVaged country of Afghanistan the present policies of the USSR hark - paradixically and inexplicably — to those of the
LIBERATION FRONT
 days of stalin. Dialectical materialism may show a new and enlightened face to the world, but it continues to show an old and brutal face to Afghanistan.
   Quoting the Canadian Secretary of state for External Affairs who had remarked in his speach in Delhi “The Canadian Government welcome fhe very positive formulations contained in General Secretary Gorbachevs Vladivostok speech on pacific security. but a distinction mugt be made between an expression of intent on the one hand and constructive action on the other. . . . Nothing would more dramatically illustrate Mr Gorbacheve determination to follow through on his Vladivostok speech than a withdrawal from Afghanistan”.
   Not only are we nowhere near a withdrawal, but in a fasion which demonstrates utter contempt for world opinion, events during this last year show that the Soviets speak softly and carry the hammer of subjugation.
     Above all, and in a way which tends to corroborate the terrifying spectre raised last year by the special UN Rapporteur, this report says “In the view of the Independent Counsel of International Human Rights, there is considerable evidence that genocide has been committed against the Afghan people by the. combined forces of the DRA and th^ Soviet Union”.
___________________£.------------
                    I
                 38
   Mr. President, in the name of Canada, he said “I put all this on the record of the General Assembly because Afghanistan is an oft-forgotten war. With the exception of this annual debate, the insensate destruction of that the exception of this annual debate, the insensate destruction of that country and its people receives very little international attention. Somehow, the Soviet Union must be brbught to recognize that • the selective application of Glasnost-an application which figuratively and literally eliminates Afghanistan — is unacceptable to the world community.
   This is particularly true because of the events of the last year. Despite all the public protestations about wanting to withdraw, despite all the stories of Soviet soldiers returning battered and maimed to a grieving homeland - or not returning at all; despite all the talk of National Reconciliation, the war is more out of control than ever. The military engagements now number 450 to 500 a month compared to 300 to 350 in 1986, and they are doubel what they were in 84-85. What is more, as everyone knows, the sabotage within Pakistan proceeds apace and the bombing^ of refugee border camps has reached unconscionably proportions.
   Mr. President, we salute the patience and stocism of the Government of Pakistan. Its
DECEMBER, 1987
 position is desperately difficult, yet it hangs in and copes with the largest refugaee population in the world. We salute the Afghan Mujahideen, their courage and their new solidarity under unified leadership. It is almost unimagi-neable that they have „ withstood the formidable Soviet juggernaut. But the toll is horrific, he said.
   Above all, Mr. President, we salute the work of the Secretary-General and the use of his good offices to attempt to effect a settlement. But of course that settlement will never come, in a way that allows all of the groups and people within Afghanistan to determine their own future, until the Soviet regiments withdraw Stephen lewis added.
   It is beyond Canada to imagine how one builds a regime which is neutral, independent and without hostility through terror, torture and war. It is equally beyond Canada to know how a settlement can be concluded unless the Soviets leave Afghanistan. That is the precondition for peace. That is the precondition for a new Government which, with honour and safety, embraces the return of all its people.
   This year, the Soviet Union asks us to accept amendments to the traditional resolution which would skew the resolution, allow for Soviet support and, with it, presumably, concensus. What a wholesale betrayal of the
people of Afghanistan that would be.
   Canada, will have no part in those amendments. 1 repeat:  every year we pass
resolutions exhorting the Soviet Union to consecrate a formula for settlemet. Every year we plead for an end to the insanity. Every year we return with the words still ringing in our ears. Every year we try again. We are undeterred.
   If ever there was test for Glasnost, it is Afghanistan. So far, the Soviet Union is failing the test. Dare any of us hope that at this time next year the' cry of the dove will be heard over that scarred and anguished land? H.E. Stephen Lewis, the Canadian representative concluded.
    EEC MISSIOD VISITS REFUGEES VILLAGE
   A six-member European Economic Community Finan-
cial Control Mission led by Kurt Eggart paid a visit to Kababian refugee tented village on Oct, 26.
   Members of the team went round different parts of the tented village and inspected drinking water facilities made available to the Afghan refugees.
   It may be recalled that European Economic Community had given a financial assistance of 2.7 million European currency units for the implementation of emergency water supply programme in various refugees tented villages in NWFP
   The European Economic Community has pledged another three million European currency units for the execution of second phase of income-generating programme for Afghan refugees.
   Later, the delegation visited
      Mules are found useful for carrying wounded Mujahideen to Medical Centres.
DECEMBER, 1987
39
LIBERATION FRONT
 Afghan refugee tented village at Warsak to see the drinking water facilities there.
   Christian D. Falkowaki, Head of Mission for Commission of the Eropean Communities at Islamabad, was also accompanying the delegation.
                                               FRANCE ASSURANCE
                                              TO AFGHAN REFUGEES
   The French Ambassador to Pakistan Mr. Henery Servant, visited Afghan refugees tentage village in the outskirts of Peshawar on October 18th, and reiterated his government’s commitments to continue political and moral support for the cause of Afghan refugees and said that the policy of French Government would never change in this regard.
                                                          ■J
    Mr. Henery Servant said that the people and the Government of France supported the Afghan cause since Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. He added that the French Government and some non-govem-mental welfare organisations, are extending help and assistance to the Afghan refugees. He assured that France would, continue its assistance to the Afghan refugees till their return to their homeland. He was optimistic about the Afghan’s success in their just struggle.
            !•
    The French Ambassadpr appreciated the efforts /of the people and the Government of Pakistan for providing, assistance to a large number of
LIBERATION FRONT
 uprooted Afghan refugees. He said that the freedom-lvoing nations were well aware to the plight of AFghans and they would be continue their help to mitigate the suffering of Afghan refugees.
   The French Ambassador was accompanied by his wiffe and Counsellor of French Embassy.
                                               NAM MINISTERS URGE SOVIET PULLOUT FROM AFGHANISTAN
   UNITED NATIONS: The Non-Aligned Movement concluded at a ministerial meeting with a call for a political settlement of the Afghanistan question based on the withdrawal of foreign troops, on October, 8.
   The declaration was issued a day after the 46-member Islamic Conference published its communique that dealt with the Afghanistan question' at length and held the Soviet Union responsible for the serious situation in that non-aligned country.
   Pakistan was represented at the ministerial meeting by the Minister of State'for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Zain Noorani.
   The non-aligned declaration reaffirmed the right of the Afghan Refugees to return to their homes and called for a speedy solution to this vast humanitarian problem.
   i<
   “They (the Ministers) called on all States to exercise restrant to avoid further endangering the peace and
 _______________i_____________
                 40-
 security in the region, and to take such steps as would lead to the creation of conditions conducive to stable and harmonious relations among the States of the region.”
                                              AUSTRALIAN ENVOY VISTED REFUGEES VILLAGE
   Jeffery Price, Australian Ambassador in Pakistan paid a visit to Kacha Garhi refugee tented village on October, 27 at Peshawar.
   He went round different parts of the village including energy conservation project and a centre of vocational training.
   Earlier, the Australian Ambassador was briefed about the registiation procedure for Afghan refugees and relief assistance provided to them.
                                            LORD ENNALS ASSURES HELP TO REFUGEES
   PESHAWAR: Lord Ennals, British Member of Parliament and Chairman of Ockendon Venture, a voluntary agency working for the welfare of Afghan refugees in the NWFP, called on Mr. Saeed Ahmad Akhtar, acting Commissioner of Afghan Refugees, NWFP, on 15th October.
   The Commissioner briefed the dignitary with regard to the relief operations being carried out in the refugees camps in the NWFP and its adjacent tribal areas. The relief activities undertaken by the ‘Ockendon Venture’ also
DECEMBER, 1987
 came under discussion.
    Mr. Saeed Akhtar appreciated the role of the ‘Ocken-don Venture’ for providing quilts and marketing facilities to the products of Afghan regugees. Lord Ennals assured that their assistance on humanitarian )basis would continue till the return of Afghan refugees to their homeland with honour and dignity.
                                               MUJAHIDEEN - USSR TALKS ONLY SOLUTION
    new york; Nov. is.-
 Former King Mohammad Zahir Shah says a political solution in Afghanistan could only be achieved through direct talks between the Soviet Union and Afghan Mujahideen who have been fighting Soviet troops for almost eight years. 1 ,
    The 73-year-old king, who is being mentioned as the possible leader of a government that would oversee an end to the Soviet occupation and a transition to independence, made that point in •an interview published in the] New York Times.
    As for his own role, he said, “it is up to the Afghan nation to assign the role I will have to accomplish in the future.”
    The interview by Times Correspondent Roberto Suro took place in ^dm^wbwes the King has beeiy'^hHilg tir;
 on specific diplomatic initiatives, he made it clear that he would not be a party to an agreement that offered the Soviet Union political gains for its 1979 intervention in Afghanistan.
   In the first week of November the Times quoted an unnamed        administration
 official as saying that concessions to the Afghan communists may be necessary to speed a Soviet withdrawal. But the King insisted that the Soviet-backed Kabul regime was not a legitimate representative of the Afghan people and should not be allowed to share power after Moscow troops withdraw.
   As for ties with superpowers, the King said an independent Afghanistan would “pursue our traditional policy of neutrality and non-alignment having good neighbourly relations with all countries in the region.
   The United States, he said, assisted Afghan in fighting for "freedom and human dignity” after the Soviet intervention and* it has a m^jor influential role to play in helping insure a Soviet withdrawal. But, on these points as on all policy issues, he said he1 was offering only his impressions because final decisions will reflect the consensus of Afghan nationalist forces.
                                                  WALDHEIM VISITED
 exile fpr the last l^vears. GANDAF REFUGEE CAMP:
              ! ’J/WA
   While avoiding comments k /
    Austrian’s President Kurt
*rr
 DECEMBER, 1987
 Waldheim, while accompanied by President Gen Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, and Governor Faida Mohammad Khan of NWFP, and Brig (Retd) Fahim-ullah Khatak Commissioner Afghan Refugees NWFP -Peshawar visited Gandaf Refugee camp, on 24th November, 87.
   Speaking at the Gandaf Afghan refugee camp. President Waldheim said that Austria would continue to provide humanitarian assistance for Afghan refugees because “your future is the
 future of the free world.”
                       *1
   He said Austria had been rendering such help since the beginning of the crisis in Afghanistan. He added: “This will continue until you are able to return to your country in freedom and independence.”
   President Waldheim said Austria felt proud to provide medical care for Afghan refugees in Pakistan. He said: “You may rest assured of our further contribution to the humanitarian field in coopera; tion with the Government and the people of Pakistan.”
   President Kurt Waldheim said that the Government and the people of Austria were fully aware of the sufferings sustained by the Afghfln refugees. He said they were facing all these hardships because of their love for freedom and independence.
   He paid rich tributes to President General Mohammad
41
LIBERATION FRONT
 Zia-ul-Haq, Government and the people of Pakistan for extending generous help to the Afghan refugees in their hour of distress.
    President General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, speaking on the occasion, advised the Afghan refugees to boldly, calmly and patiently face the problems as devout Muslims. “You are suffering for the last eight years but now time is not far away from solution to your crisis”, he said adding “your difficulties are about to end. You should continue to demonstrate same courage as in the past”.
    President Zia said that “100 million people of Pakistan pray daily for honourable solution to the Afghanistan crisis and an end to your suffering”. ^He added, the prayer of so many people would certainly be rewarded.
    He paid rich tributes to President Waldheim for bringing the Afghan crisis in the forefront of the world forum as the Secretary-General of the United Nations. He said Mr. Waldheim was the first person to invite the attention of the whole world to its seriousness.
    Earlier President Waldheim accompanied by President Zia-ul-Haq and Governor of NWFP on their arrival were accorded a warm welcome by the elders of the camp. Two children presented boyqets to President Waldheim., * The speeches of President Waldheim and President Zia were punctuated with slogans“Islam Zinabad”, “Pakistan Afghan
 Friendship Zindabad”, “President Zia Zindabad” and “President Waldheim Zindabad”.
                                             EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
                                               MEMBER DISCUSSED AFGHAN ISSUE
    A member of the European Parliament from West Germany, Dr. Hans-Gert Poetter-ing, called on the President, Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, at the Army House. Rawalpindi, on 19th October.
    Dr. Poettering, who is also the Chairman of the Sub-Committee of European Parliament on Security and Disarmament Affairs, informed the President that the Sub-Committee was currently engaged to examine a numbr of international issues including Afghan problem.
    He said that he came here again, on behalf of the subcommittee,, to study and discuss the Afghanistan situation.
    He also apprised the President of the efforts being made by European Economic Community' and Eusopean Parliament to achieve the objective of having a sovereign and • independent Afghanistan free of alien domination.
        I
    Mrs. Wurfel who is also the Chairperson of “Afghanistan NOTHILF (Emergency Help) briefed the President about the activities of her organisation.
                                             WEST GERMANY WILL CONTINUE HELP TO REFUGEES
   The Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany in Pakistan, Mr. Gerd Beren-denck, paid a courtesy call on the NWFP Governor, Mr. Fida Mohammad Khan, at Governor’s House on October 27.
   During the course of discussion, Mr. Berendenck informed the Governor about ' various developmental projects being run in health, forestry and other technical sectors with the cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany in the NWFP. The Federal Republic of Germany, he said, had also established some income-generating units in various Afghan refugees tentage village in the NWFP to enable the refugees to earn their livelihood.
  TheFederal Republic of Germany would continue to extend every moral help to the Afghan refugees on humanitarian grounds till their return to their homeland with honour and dignity,he said.
LIBERATION FRONT
42
December; 1987
X
        “The only people which should worry about Afghanistan s Future were the Afghans
        Themselves and Non Else. The Choice for future set up of a Government should be the sole Prerogative of the People of Afghanistan Themselves
                       General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq.
                               November. 18 th Khyber Agency.
                 COVER PHOTOGRAPH:
            The half unearthed bodies of a mother and                                        *
      her two children, when they were killed by Soviet bombardment in 'Kushk Sirwan, !■ Herat Province, on August, II, 1*187. This is an act of Soviet massacre in Afghanistan.
                             with courtesy of AMRC.
                                      PESHA WAlji.
L:_________________________________________________—_________________________________________/
      DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT