                                   The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
  1.            To report on the exact situation situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
                                                          0
  2.    To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)     International news media
        (b)     Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan f 'v-
  The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor        : Sayed Naim      Majrooh
 Annual Subscription
 Institutions:                      US $     70
 Individuals:                       US $     50
 Or equivalen Pakistan Rupee
Bank Account No. 1131377299051 Telex No. 5210 GBPEW PK Grind lays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office: 18 E,S.J. Afghani Road, University Town, Peshawar. Phone: 40953
 Postal Add: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan.
               AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
           Monthly Bulletin
    Nos. 125 - 126       August - September 1991
CONTENTS:
I    PEACE IN AFGHANISTAN                   1 
     - Post - Soviet withdrawal             4 
II.  IMPACTS OF SOVIET DEVELOPMENTS           
     ON AFGHANISTAN                         8 
III. TRIPARTITE TALKS                      13 
IV.  SITUATION IN PESHAWAR                 18 
     - Gunmen kill on Afghan Millat member 18 
     - Burglary in Refugee Camps           19 
     - Un Employees Released               20 
V.   SITUATION IN KUNAR                    21 
     - Maulawi Jami Assassinated           24 
VI.         SITUATION IN PROVINCES         26 
                       •                      

**♦

               PEACE IN AFGHANISTAN
      The U.S.-Soviet decision to stop arms supplies to their clients in Afghanistan is regarded as a positive step towards peace in the country, provided Afghanistan is not forgotten, and the right of Afghan self-determination is restored.
      In view of the vast changes in the world, particularly the growing movements for freedom and democracy in the Communist bloc, in which the Afghans have contributed more than one million human losses, the Afghans hope that an Afghan settlement would not be studied solely in the context of the artificial parties founded for the continuation of war in the country.
      The people of Afghanistan want peace instead of weapons from their friends. This depends upon their good will. The mujahideen, for the first time, have received heavy weapons and armoured vehicles captured by the U.S. and its allies in the Gulf war. The deliveries will continue up to the day of implementation of the U.S.-Soviet agreement on January 1, 1992.
      The U.S. decided to stop supplying arms, along with the Soviets, at a time when it has not yet made any shift in its policy on Afghanistan. It is obvious that State Department, Congress, Pentagon and CIA do not share a common policy on Afghanistan, because each has assessed its policy according to its own perception. This has further complicated the Afghan issue. A similar situation is observed in Pakistan, with a slight difference that military authorities enjoy a hold over the issue.
      Supporters of a military solution to the Afghan issue in Pakistan see the Soviet decision to stop aid to the Kabul regime in the context of their internal problems. They consider it as a major opportunity for a
                                                   1
Nos. 125-126
11th Year
August - September 1991
collapse of the Kabul regime, particularly in view of the large supplies of heavy and armoured weapons to the mujahideen.
      The flow o*' Soviet supplies to the Kabul side has increased after a sharp reduction during the abortive coup in Moscow. The regime has abundant quantities of foodstuffs, ammunition and weapons. If the flow of arms to the mujahideen continues after January 1, 1992 across the Pakistani border, some other countries of the region, including India,and the central Asian republics might extend aid to the Kabul regime, complicating further the already complex issue of Afghanistan and turning it into an issue of regional rivalries. This will also threaten the security of the region.
      The developments in the Soviet Union, which have a direct effect on Afghanistan, might lead to factionalism in the Communist (Watan) Party in Kabul. There are already emerging democratic, Islamic and extremist trends in the party.
      If peace and security is not established in a short time in Afghanistan, ihe Afghans will face a prolonged civil war, leading to the disintegration of the country, particularly in view of the changing situation in Central Asian Muslim republics.
      Taking the collapse of Communism in its birth-place, Moscow, into consideration, the vast majority of the Afghan people question the continuation of power by Afghan communists in Afghanistan. Nevertheless the Afghan people want no more bloodshed in the country, and to them the Resistance movement has failed to come up with an alternative for replacing the Kabul regime.
      Knowing that the Resistance will reject any proposal for a political settlement from the regime, the latter has diplomatically consolidated its position in the world by presenting those proposals which should have been initiated by the Resistance. This has further consolidated the notion that the Resistance favours war and instability in the country.
                                                     2
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -   Bulletin
       The differences within the movement, which had already been divided into moderate and fundamentalist parts, have been further intensified.
       The moderates, who lack the capability of establishing a political leadership, were unable to act according to their responsibilities and the wishes of the people. They lacked discipline in their ranks and preferred to boost their personal ambitions and interests to the national interests.
       The course of the fundamentalists, who want to seek power at any cost, is known to the Afghan people. The imposition of revolutionary Islam, extensive efforts to destroy traditional systems in the country and to replace them with an artificial party system has further disappointed the people.
       Dependence upon foreign resorces and influence further exposed the artificial nature of the Resistance leadership. Poor economy coupled with the policy of separation of people turned the people into a silent majority.
       Also, continuous infighting between various resistance organizations inside the country caused a blow to their leadership capability.
       These factors fed to the deviation of Jehad from its genuine course, and transformed it on to the path of materialistic wants and ambitions. It put an end to the feeling of sacrifice among the people. The question "sacrifices for what and for whom" came to the minds of the people who had offered great sacrifices by forcing the Red Army to leave the country.
       Despite immense illiteracy among the people, the war raised their level of political awareness. They felt that the continuation of war would not bear any results except bringing about unnecessary loss of human lives, instability and destruction, and paving the ground for
3
Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
foreign interference. The silent majority of the Afghan nation, through their experience, recognized who is who among the Afghans.
      The Afghan people consider it a blessing of Almighty God that they were able to identify harmful elements within the Afghan society, and they had a good opportunity to identify the motives of various persons and groups. Though the experiences proved to be very costly for them, the wish of the Afghans is to return to Afghanistan in a decent manner.
POST- SOVIET WITHDRAWAL CHANGES ON THE RESISTANCE
            Engagement of moderate' organizations in political negotiations and loss of their control over weapons, aid and mujahideen.
            Shifting of arm&supply from the organizations to the offices of the host country, t«4 transfer of large crowds from the doors of party leaders to the new sources.
            The total ignorance of those mujahideen who have liberated their areas. Incapability of political leaders and commanders in ensuring peace and preventing plunder and destruction.
      -  .. Bypassing of influential and devoted commanders, and
      preference to young and inexperienced commanders who, unaware of the structure of the Afghan society, blindly follow instructions.
            Party infighting for expansion of political influence and area of control, leading to more financial resources, such as Zakat, Ushar (tithe) and import/export taxes, misuse of humanitarian and reconstruction assistance based on corruption and irresponsibility.
                                 4
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          Lack of attention towards orphans, widows and other survivors of the martyrs, and a huge difference in the standard of living between common people and political and military leaders.
          Prevention of representative traditonal shuras (councils), and total disappointment over the creation of cosmetic and imposed shuras.
          Creation of distance between political and military leaders and the rank and file of the mujahideen due to lack of attention to their opinion and differences over distribution of aid and war booty.
          Illegitimate exploitation of natural resources, such as mines, forests, buildings and equipment.
   - Transformation of liberated areas into a land of lawlessness, misuse of public property and increase in poppy cultivation.
          Creation of an atmosphere of mistrust among the mujahideen due to regime connections and secret deals. Protection of communist defectors and war criminals without any repentance on their part.
          Creation of artificially arranged war conditions, leading to sale and purchase of security posts in accordance with prior agreement with the regime. Infiltration of mujahideen ranks by regime personnel.
          Sale and hiring of armed groups between the organizations.
          Intensified terror, kidnapping and asassination of Afghan intellectuals* commanders and other patriotic Afghans in Pakistan, and negligence from Pakistan security forces in this regard.
                            5
 Nos, 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
             Violation of human rights in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
             Corruption,fake claims, and disinformation for receiving aid and assistance by the parties and different organisations.
             Presence of foreign supporters amongst the mujahideen, leading to the creation of an atmosphere of prejudices and
       favouritism.
             Total ignorance of national interests of Afghanistan, leading to instability, infighting and the threat of disintegration of Afghanistan.
             Increasing efforts to isolate Afghanistan from its regional and international friends, bringing an end to the international aid to Afghanistan and thus gain political domination of the Afghan •society. Plunder of establishments of foreign NGOs, capture of vehicles, equipment, materials and detaining of employees of NGOs.
             Growing effectiveness of regime propaganda machine by exploiting the above weak points and raising the popular slogans of the people, such as Islam, homeland, national interests, ceasefire, repatriation and foreign interference to. cover its crimes and hatred among the people.
       In view of the above drawbacks on the Resistance side and the presence of the Communist regime in Kabul, which is responsible for the tragedy of Afghanistan, the Afghan people conclude that the Afghan issue should be solved politically. In particular, they favour such a settlement in view of the UN peace plan supported by the majority of the Resistance organizations and all countries involved in the Afghan issu'*
      The Kabul regime has expressed its support for the UN plan. Dr. Najib pretends to be ready to resign, if a consensus interim government
                                6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
is formed in Afghanistan. For this reason, a collapse of the regime, without a political alternative in Kabul, will result in further instability and bloodshed in Afghanistan. In fact, the people of Afghanistan do not want a sudden collapse of the Kabul regime, because they do not want the repetition of the experiences of Kunduz, Kunar, Khost in Kabul and other cities. They want a transfer of power from the Kabul regime to an interim administration under the UN supervision.
      Following the recent U.S.-Soviet agreement on Afghanistan, a change is apparently felt in the stand of the mujahideen regarding a peaceful transfer of power in Kabul. It is seriously felt that the continuation of war is not in the national interests of the country.
                                                       %** *** ***
                               7
        IMPACTS OF SOVIET DEVELOPMENTS ON AFGHANISTAN
      The Soviet Union, a northern neighbour of Afghanistan, was a strong military and political power throughout modern history. Therefore, the changing situation in that country, still far from complete, will definitely effect Afghanistan. The coup attempt by the Soviet hardliner communists was a surprising and tragic incident for the world, but it was considered another disaster for the Afghan people who were afraid that their sacrifices of more than one million would not be the end of their sufferings.
      The coup attempt was a bitter incident for the Afghan resistance movement, which, by launching a great struggle against Soviet invading forces, continues its political and military war against the Kabul regime. The end of the cold war and the implementation of reforms in the Soviet Union indicated that peace and an elected government would supersede war in our country.
      The Afghan people, who have burnt like coals in the war, have a deep thirst for peace in their country. It is evident to -all that their honest struggle foiled the designs of the Neo-Czars and enabled the nations under the occupation of the socio-imperialism to achieve their national rights. However, despite their heavy sacrifices, Afghans do not have a free country that has national sovereignty, borders and elected government. The coup attempt in the Soviet Union further deepened the pains of the Afghan people. They thought that the reestablishment of a despotic regime in the Soviet Union would again strenthen extremist communist groups in Afghanistan prolonging the war on Afghan soil.
                               8
        IMPACTS OF SOVIET DEVELOPMENTS ON AFGHANISTAN
      The Soviet Union, a northern neighbour of Afghanistan, was a strong military and political power throughout modern history. Therefore, the changing situation in that country, still far from complete, will definitely effect Afghanistan. The coup attempt by the Soviet hardliner communists was a surprising and tragic incident for the world, but it was considered another disaster for the Afghan people who were afraid that their sacrifices of more than one million would not be the end of their sufferings.
      The coup attempt was a bitter incident for the Afghan resistance movement, which, by launching a great struggle against Soviet invading forces, continues its political and military war against the Kabul regime. The end of the cold war and the implementation of reforms in the Soviet Union indicated that peace and an elected government would supersede war in our country.
      The Afghan people, who have burnt like coals in the war, have a deep thirst for peace in their country. It is evident to -all that their honest struggle foiled the designs of the Neo-Czars and enabled the nations under the occupation of the socio-imperialism to achieve their national rights. However, despite their heavy sacrifices, Afghans do not have a free country that has national sovereignty, borders and elected government. The coup attempt in the Soviet Union further deepened the pains of the Afghan people. They thought that the reestablishment of a despotic regime in the Soviet Union would again strenthen extremist communist groups in Afghanistan prolonging the war on Afghan soil.
                                               8
Nos. 125-126
11th Year
August - September 1991
      The Afghan fundamentalists, who had been transformed into a reasonable force during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan by Western, Arab and regional supporers, hurriedly showed their reaction to the incident. Their reaction indicated that the coup by the Soviet hardliners would result in the flow of heavy funds and armes, enabling them to develop their financial and military status and prolong the war. It also indicated that the continuation of the war would enable them to seek international support for their political power.
      The move, whether it was a conscious or unconscious act, contradicted the claims of the Afghan fundamentalists regarding their struggle against communism and atheism. In other words, it can be described as a conscious move on the part of these groups. They stood beside Iraq against their close sympathizers and supporers, such as Saudi Arabia, the U.S., etc., and declared solidarity with Saddam who had welcomed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and remained an ally of the Kabul regime during the past several years.
      The Gulf War and the Soviet coup were important events of the year. Tfyese events exposed many political complications to common-sense and displayed many facts before the eyes of the people. For example, the extremist faction of the PDPA, led by Gen. Tanai and others, describing the the Soviet coup as the blossom of their hopes, followed their old path in the war between freedom and slaVery.
      The Afghan fundamentalists opposed the post-coup democratic movment on various grounds. For example, they think that the current developments in the Soviet Union are taking place through the U.S. They think that the Westerners, by using the Soviet territory, want to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
      The Soviet events took an interesting turn inside Afghanistan. Hie regime celebrated August 18, the 73rd anniversary of the Afghan independence, eighteen hours after the coup attempt in the Soviet Union. On this occasion the Kabul ruler, in a speech, laid great emphasis on the Soviet assistance and the continuation of his national reconciliation policy. However, the regime gave a very cautious and
                           10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 diplomatic reaction to the coup in the Soviet Union. Najib and regime’s diplomats outside the country said that the Soviet Union and Afghanistan enjoyed historical friendly relations. Describing the coup as an internal affair of the Soviet Union, they said that Soviet assistance to Afghanistan would continue. They said that they would continue the policy of national reconciliation.' Though signs of worries are visible on ‘ the pa:of the Kabul regime, they might not disclose many things.
      Zahir Shah, former king of Afghanistan, sent a message to the Russian president Boris Yelstin following the abortive coup in the Soviet Union. The message said:
      "The Afghan people have been swimming in their blood for the past twelve years to achieve their freedom. We hope that the new Soviet leaders, by respecting the principle of freedom, will take responsible steps towards peace and stability in Afghanistan.
      Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), sent a congratulatory message to Boris Yelstin following the abortive coup. He congratulated the Russian President for his courageous stand on democracy in the Soviet Union. He said that the Russians should bring an end to their interference in Afghanistan. He asked the Russians to stop their aid to the Kabul regime and work hard for the restoration of peace in Afghanistan.
      Gen. Katawazi, an activist of the National Salvation Committee in Kabul, said that the Russians were well aware of the changes in their country, but they should know that the Afghan people wanted peace in Afghanistan. The Russians should respect the wishes of the Afghan people regarding peace in Afghanistan.
      The silent majority of the Afghan nation is tired of the divergent thoughts of various groups. The Afghan nation welcomes the collapse of the despotic regime in the Soviet Union. The Afghan people regard the acceleration of a democratic process in the Soviet Union as a positive step towards the consolidation of democratic institutions in
                           11
 Nos. 125-126
 11th
August - September 1991
Afghanistan and the world. The Afghans watch the Soviet developments more closely than others, because they are in a state of war with a regime which is a byproduct of the Soviet support.
      Freedom, territorial integrity, human rights and respect for international law are the fundamentals of a democratic system. If the Soviet Union has a genuine elected government, it will not support any unpopular regimes among its neighbours, particularly Afghanistan. It will not only oppose such systems, but will also wage a moral struggle against their filthy designs.
      The ongoing crisis in Soviet Union is in the interests of the Afghan people. However, if the Soviet disintegration reaches its apex, it will not be confined to the borders of its republics. It will gradually spread to the rest of the world and particulaly south Asia.
                                                       *** *** ***
<TD
                            12
         TRIPARTITE TALKS
      On July 29 and 30, Pakistan, Iran and mujahideen organizatons based in Pakistan held a joint tripartite meeeting in Islamabad.
      A joint declaration on July 30 said that the meeting welcomed the growing cooperation between Iran and Pakistan for a peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem. The meeting noted that the UN five-point plan could serve as a possible basis for a settlement of the Afghan problem. It was decided that necessary clarifications should be sought for a comprehensive solution acceptable to the Afghan people. However, it emphasized the fact that any solution for the Afghan problem should lead to the replacement of the present illegal government in Kabul.
      On August 28, the second meeting of tripartite talks began in Tehran between Pakistan, Iran and Afghan mujahideen based in Iran and Pakistan. A joint declaration issued at the end of the talks said that the mujahideen would hold talks with the Russians (and not Najib) and accelerate their efforts for a political settlement of the Afghan issue. It said that the mujahideen would send a delegation to the annual session of of the UN General Assembly this year. The declaration said that Iran and Pakistan would support the Afghan right of self-determination.
      The meeting was addressed by mujahideen leaders and heads of the Iranian and Pakistani delegations.
      Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), appreciated the point that Pakistan and Iran would not interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. He suggested that the third meeting of the tripartite talks should be held inside Afghanistan, but his suggestion was not accepted by other parties.
                             13
 Nos. 125-126
11th Year
August - September 1991
      Pir Gailani, leader of the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan, said that future meetings should be held under the UN supervision. He added that such meetings should be attended by various sections of Afghan society, such as politicians, scholars, etc.
      Akram Zaki, Secretary General, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan, said, "The Soviet intervention in Afghanistan is a lesson to all powers in the world, and we should know that an interference in Afghanistan is a dangerous act."
      Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati, the Iranian Foreign Minister, said that all regional countries should respect the wishes of the Afghan nation.
      The meeting in Tehran was not attended by Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Itehad-e-Islami (Sayaf) and some Shiite organizations based in Pakistan. These organizations had divergent positions on the talks. They also believed that the continuation of Islamic jehad is a proper solution to the Afghan problem.
      Hezb (Hekmatyar), in a communique, issued the following preconditions for its participation in Tehran meeting:
      1.       The jehad organizations should reach a consensus oh a plan for the settlement of the Afghan issue.
      2.       All jehad organizations, including Shura-e-Itelaf, should be invited to the Tehran meeting.
      3.       An agreement of all major organizations should be sought regarding their representation in the Tehran meeting.
      4.       A person should also be named as head of the delegation through mutual understanding of major organizations.
                                                                                           <v
                             14
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       The meetings in Tehran and Islamabad have supported some points of the UN five-point plan, but have sought clarifications on certain points.
       The UN plan is a part of a political framework and a preface for talks in order to restore peace in Afghanistan. It is open for the positive opinions of various parties to the talks. In addition, it has laid emphasis on the fact that the Afghans should settle their issues themselves without interference by othrs. For this reason, such proposals are welcomed by Afghans who think about their national existence and freedom both inside and outside Afghanistan.
       However, it will be difficult for the Afghan organizations in Pakistan and Iran, which have been founded by forces concerned according to the specific political characteristics of these countries, to take a position needed by the Afghan people in view of the changing regional and international situation.
       It is a simple fact that unity is a difficult task. Each group of the Afghan resistance has its own plan in view of the divergent interests of their suporters. All realistic Afghans know that the neighbouring Islamic countries of Iran and Pakistan have extended assistance to the Afghan people in the war of freedom, (we do not want to say who recieved it). However, it is evident to all that the national existence of these countries lay in our freedom, integrity and bloody war.
       The governments of Iran and Pakistan have welcomed the UN plan. It embodies the opinions of all the countries involved in various aspects of the Afghan issue. And the UN has announced it after consultations with our neighbours.
               ♦
       Though our nieghbours possess the capability to continue the war in Afghanistan, but they lack the resources to restore peace in the country without international cooperation. A battle can be waged by one person, but peace cannot be maintained without the cooperation of peoples and nations.
                            15
Nos. 125-126
11th Year
August - September 1991
       Another factor is the increasing political authority of the UN, so a violation of its rules is not practicable.
       In addition, the Geneva Accords, the role of the U.S. and Saudi Arabia and the support of countries from Japan to Europe had internationalized the Afghan issue. Presently, if countries of a region address a conflict in a regional capacity, it will be regarded an international issue by the world. Moreover, it is a solid fact, whether one likes it or dislikes it, that the role of the U.S. cannot be overlooked in any issue, especially in matters of peace and war.
       If Pakistan and Iran chooses a delegation among the Afghan organizations for an issue, it cannot represent the entire Afghan nation. The people will suspect these moves, even if their motives are based on good will. The main points of the last two meetings indicate that these countries want a diplomatic wrestling competition on Afghanistan, and try to solve their problems in the name of the Afghan issue. The deadlock in the talks indicates that the main focus of the talks is on marginal and external factors rather than the real issue.
       So far, talks are stalled over establishing "intra-Afghan dialogue," meaning Pakistan’s favorite parties and Iran’s favorite parties. Meanwhile, Afghans are sick and tired of the artificiality of the party system which served its purpose during war but which has little'function in peace.
       All consicious Afghans closely follow the developments in the region and the world. We do not want to remain enemies of our neighbours, but the establishment of a puppet regime in Afghanistan (under any title) is an act against the nature of the Afghan nation, and a futile effort against the freedom movement of the modern world.
      Meanwhile, the twentieth Islamic conference of Foreign Ministers in Istanbul between August 4 and 8 has passed a resolution on the situation in Afghanistan.
                           16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The resolution supports all the resolutions of the OIC, the UN and the Non-Aligned Movement on the Afghan issue. It exprsses its concern over various impediments in the way of the Afghan people to exercise freely their right to determine their political future. The conference calls for a comprehensive political settlement so that conditions of peace and stability are created in Afghanistan. It commends the heroic struggle of the Afghan people for the liberation of their homeland, it supports the efforts of the Afghan mujahideen to establish a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
      The resolution appreciates the efforts of the UN Secretary-General,including his five-point plan, to promote a comprehensive political settlement. It expresses satisfaction over the tripartite meetings in Paksitan and Iran. It decides to continue generous humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees, and renews its calls to international organisations to extend their asistance for alleviating the sufferings of the Afghan refugees.
                                                        sic** sfe$ $     ***
                            17
               SITUATION IN PESHAWAR
     GUNMEN ATTACK AFGHAN INTELLECTUAL
     On August 3, Sayed Osman Mirranay was wounded in a firing incident near the shrine of Lewani Baba in Naudeh, Peshawar.
     According to a report, Sayed Osman was sitting inside his medicine shop when armed men opened fire on him with a pistol. He was immediately taken to the Lady Reading Hospital in the city.
     Sayed Osman Mirranay is the brother of Dr. Sayed Ghulam Farooq Mirranay who runs the Afghan Aid Association in Peshawar. His two brothers, Sayed Yusuf Mirranay (former secretary of the Afghan Social Democratic Party) and Sayed Shirin Mirranay, are still missing after their arrest by the Taraki regime during the early days of the communist regime in Afghanistan. Dr. Mirranay, who had been also imprisoned along with his brothers, was released by the regime of Karmal in 1980.
     In a statement, the Party has condemned the terroristic attack on Mirranay.
     GUNMEN KILL MEMBER OF AFGHAN SOCIAL
     DEMOCRATIC PARTY
     Taj Mohammad, district secretary of Afghan Social Democratic Party (Afghan Melat) in Kohat, was recently killed by three unknown gunmen at the bazaar of the Ublan refugee camp in Kohat.
                                                                                                                                        .. 18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      According to a report from the area, one of the killers opened fire with a pistol at Taj Mohammad in his shop and killed him on the spot. The killers left the area by a vehicle.
      Taj Mohammad was imprisoned in the main jail of Jalalabad in 1979 by the Communists. He was released when Babrak came to power. In 1981 he migrated to Pakistan.
      So far four members of the Party have been killed.
      BURGLARY IN REFUGEE CAMPS
      Incidents of burglary has been reported in various camps of Afghan refugees in the N.W.F.P. In particular, fear of burglary is greatly prevalent among the residents of the refugee camp of Naserbagh where the resdients have begun guarding their houses at night. In this connection, these incidents took place in August:
      On August 15, armed men borke into the house of a nomad family in the refugee camp of Naserbagh. However, their presence was noticed by the occupants who opened fire on them, killing or injuring one person. The rest disappeared in the darkness.
      On August 21, unknown persons threw hand grenades into the house of the nomad .family. The grenades, however, did not cause any harm to the occupants.
      On August 19, armed men broke into the house of Qazi Sayed
 Hussain Najibi. They killed an old person who was returning to his
 house after morning prayer in a nearby mosque.
               ♦
      On August 11, armed men kidnapped a 13-year child near the refugee camp of Pabbi. According to a report from the area, the kidnappers, who are believed to be Afghans, have demanded 200,000 Rupees for a release of the child. The report says that the child is still
                                           19
Nos. 125 - 126
Uth
August - September 1991
missing, because his father does not have the money to pay to the kidnappers.
      UN EMPLOYEES RELEASED
      On August 6, Four employees of the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) were released by tribal fugitives in the vicinity of Peshawar.
      The employees (three Afghans and one New Zealander identified as John Steven) had been kidnaped three days ago by some armed men in Badaber upon their return from an assignment in Paktia (Afghanistan).
      In a press conference, they said that some tribal fugitives wanted to release them in exchange for Rs. 20,000,000. They said that the UN spent a large amount of money for their release which took place through the hectic efforts of police and tribal elders of Bara and Jamrud.
      The incident is the second of its nature during the past one month. In this connection, two Americans were arrested by the Shiite organization of Nohzat-e-Islami in Ghazni. Also, Kochi, a commander of Itehad (Sayaf), captured vehicles of UNOCA, arguing that the organization did not assist him with water pumps and tents.
       Unknown gunmen attacked an Afghan political leader on September 22 in Hayatabad near Peshawar. Haij Mohammad Amin Farutan, deputy to Nasrullah Mansoor from Harakat, and editor of the party newspaper "Kausar," received two bullets in his head and one in his shoulder. His bodyguard was shot in the abdomen. Both victims managed to escape and survive the attack.
                                                          *** *** ***
20
             SITUATION IN KUNAR
      The people of Kunar were the first to rise against the Communist regime in the country. Also, it was one of the first provinces which fell completely to the mujahideen following the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
      Following its fall to the mujahideen, a number of refugees belonging to the province returned to it from Pakistan, and began groundwork for the reconstruction of their dwellings and lands. A number of foreign NGOs began their activities in the province.
      Also, all mujahideen organizations paid attention to Kunar in order to create a joint administration in the province. However, they were unable to set up such an administration there. There were three administrations in the province led by AIG, Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and Salafis (Known as Wahabis) led by Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman. However, an atmosphere of mistrust developed between these administrations particularly when Salafis established an Islamic Emirate in the province.
      The AIG was the first which said goodbye to the province when it could not control its respective areas there.
      Following the departure of the AIG from the prvince, Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and Salafis held elections in Kunar and refugee camps in Pakistan. The two sides spent a large amount of money on the elections, but they did not announce their results. This further widened the gap between the two sides.
      Both Hezb-e-Islami and Salafis tried to consolidate their position and expand their influence in the province. The Salafis attacked and captured the base of Hezb (Hekmatyar) at Sarkani, forcing Hezb to
                           21
 Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
abandon various positions in the province. (The reports was published in previous issues of Monthly Bulletin).
      Hezb-e-Islami gathered people from other parts of the country and sent them to the area of Noorgal, but they could not resist the the strong forces of Salafis. Hezb-e-Islami also tried to exploit old tribal differences between Shinwaris and Safis in the valley of Shegal, where Hezb has a stronghold. As Maulawi Jamily-u-Rahman was a Safi, Hezb ried to provoke Shinwaris against Safis, but it did not receive any positive response from Shinwaris.
      The Salafis spent large amounts of money to prevent the influence of other organizations in the province. They wanted to carry cut an operation in Nuristan, but they could not do it. They also wanted to bring an end to the influence of all organizations in Asmar, but they were unable to achieve the objective in view of the importance of tribal relationships in the area.
      Fearing an end to their life in Kunar, mujahideen of all organizations in the province decided to resist the growing influence of Salafis. They regularly shelled positions of Salfis for three mobnths in the areas of Narang, Saukai, Noorgal and Khas Kunar with heavy guns and rockets.
      In order to eliminate the stronghold of Hezb in Shegal, the Salafis provoked the ethnic group of Gujar to carry out an attack on the stronghold. Gujars were, however, unable to capture the stronghold due to a stiff resistance by the Shinwari members of Hezb. (Gujars accuse Hezb-e-Islami men of kidnaping Sher Afzal, their most important elder, from the refugee camp of Temor in Dir nine years ago.)
      Various incidents of subversion were reported from the province in June. These incidents resulted in the killing of innocent civilians. Prior to the fall of Asadabad, a vehicle hit a land mine in the area of Marawara, killing seventeen people and injuring three others. A vehicle of an Arab organization in the area of Mangwal also hit a mine. As a
                                   <*>
                            22
AFGHAN INFORMATION           Bulletin
result, five Arabs were killed and four wounded. Each side planted land mines in attempts to kill their opponents, but civilians were frequently the victims.
      Haji Mohammad Zarin, gen. commander of Jabha (Mujadeddi) in Kunar, in an interview with AIC, said that Hezb alone could not defend its stronghold in Shegal, if it had not enjoyed the support of other organizations in the area. He said that commanders of all organizations met in Peshawar and decided to take active part in the religous war against Salafis. He said that the commanders sent their mujahids to Asmar who occupied strategic points in the area. He said that the move forced the district administrator of the Emirate (Salafis) in Asmar to leave the area for Bajawar, but his heavy weapons and bunkers fell to the mujahideen of Haji Mohammad Zarin.
      Commander Zarin said that prion, to the war in Asadabad, the organizations had formed a 140-member council in Bajawar to fulfil its tasks tasks in various parts of Kunar.
      On August 19, the mujahideen of all organizations began their operation against Salafis in the area of Nawa Pass with heavy guns and rockets. Mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) captured the base of Sarkani the following day. The operations continued till August 24 when supporters of Salafis left the areas of Khas Kunar, Saukai, Noorgal, Narang and Pashad for Pakistan. Some Salafis, including Commander Rauf, retreated to their bases in Babaro Tangai (Sauki district) and Krer on the Afghan-Pak border along Momand Agency. Casualties and losses on both sides were not known, but fighters of Hezb-e-Islami captured huge amount of weapons, equipment, foodstuffs and other supplies in the operation.
      Fighters of Hezb-e-Islami, who had been sent to the province from other areafc, maltreated supporters of Salafis and set some of their offices on fire in various parts of the province. They also maltreated mujahideen of other organizations despite their cooperation wiht Hezb in the Operation. In addition, offices of some 30 foreign NGOs were
                             23
Nos. 125-126
lllh
 August - September 1991
plundered during the operation. The Peshawar-based Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relif (ACBAR), in a statement, made it clear that it would suspend its operations in Kunar until the recovery of the lost goods.
      The presence of mujahideen of other areas in the province will bear serious consequences for the province in future. In this connection, some Laghmani supporters of Hezb were attacked in lower Kunar. Obviously, use of people of one area against those of another will cause serious problems in future.
      MAULAWI JAMI-U-RAHMAN ASSASSINATED
      On August 30, Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman, leader of Salafis, was reportedly shot dead by an Egyptian at his residence in Bajawar.
      The accused, identified as Abdullah Roomi, entered the house of the Salafi leader prior to Friday prayer, and killed him with his pistol on the spot. He also injured ony of the guards of the late leader. The accused was reportedly killed by other guards after the incident.
      Meanwhile, an Arab source in Islamabad quoting five witnesses said that the killing was undertaken by an Afghan and not an Arab.
      Prior to the assassionation of Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman, his nephew, Siddiqullah, had been arrested and executed by mujahideen in Sarkani district.
      The Salafis have elected Maulawi Samiullah as their new leader who comes from Chaparhar district of Ningrahar.
      The Salafis are engaged in buying weapons and ammunition on black markets in Pakistan to prepare themselves for recapturing then-lost areas. In this connection, exchange of shelling continues between Hezb-e-Islami and Salafis in lower Kunar.
                            24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The people of Kunar are again concerned about the deriorating security situation in the province.
      Meanwhile,in an intrvciew at AIC on August 29, Malik Mohammad Zarin, Gen. Commander of Afghan National Liberation Front (ANLF) in Kunar, refuted the claims of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) regarding its sole capture of Asadabad, the provincial centre of Kunar.
      He said that all mujahideen organizations had jointly taken part in the operations against Jamaat-ut-Dawat of Maulawi jamil-u-Rahman in various parts of Kunar on religious grounds.
      He said that the fighting began in various parts of the province when fighters of Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman began an operation against all organizations in the valley of Shegal on August 12. He said that Salafis began the operation to subjugate other organizations in the province.
      The general commander suggested that all those mujahideen should immediately leave the province who had been sent to the province by Hezb. He said that their presence might create serious internal problems for the mujahideen in the province.
                                                       *** ***
                          25
                          SITUATION IN PROVINCES
     NINGARHAR
     Shah Wali, a mujahid of Shahid Turan Abdul Rahman Front, who was involved in the recent operation on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway, was interviewed on September 10.
     The mujahid said that Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) was the major organization involved in the operation, also known as Operation Torghar. He said that Haji Qadir of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) was the general commander of the operation.
     He said that Commander Abdul Haq of Kabul and Commander Anwar of Jigdalik were also involved in the operation, but they could make any advances and were forced to return to Peshawar.
     Shah Wali said that on July 23 regime aircraft bombed and destroyed a major arms and ammunition depot of the mujahideen in the area of Ghormaki near Jigdalik. A group commander and four mujahids were killed in the incident. Four mujahids were also wounded.
     On July 24, some 1,200 mujahideen backed by tanks, APCs and heavy guns began their operation on seventeen regime posts on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway between Surkhakan and Spina Thana. Eng. Mahmud, Dr. Asif, Haji Daoud, Haji Jabar, Maulawi Jalaluddin and Toryalai (a commander of Ittehad) also joined the operation.
     In the operation which continued for fifteen days, the mujahideen seized 180 light and heavy weapons and captured eighty soldiers and officers. They killed seventy soldiers and officers and destroyed thirteen tanks, three vehicles and two BM-16 and BM-41 rocket launchers.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      On July 27, a regime jet fighter was shot down by the mujahideen in the area of Dabli.
      The mujahideen retreated from the area, because they could not block the highway for a long time. Presence of mines, heavy air bombardment and ground shelling, severe heat and lack of coordination between the mujahideen were the main reasons for the retreat of the mujahideen from the area.
      Thirty-five mujahids, including commanders Hazrat Khan and Ziarat Gul Barowal, were killed and twenty-five wounded.
      According to a report from the area, Gen. Gulrang, commander of regime units on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway, was summoned to Kabul on July 28. Commander Gulrang, a Khalqi, treated well the people of the area like Gen. Uloomi of Kandahar. The mujahideen and others could freely move in the bazaar of Saroobi without their arrest for conscription. There was no air bombardment of the areas of Khugiani, Torghar, Jigdalik, etc. However, the appointment of his replacement (Gen. Azimi, a Parchami) has led to an intensification in air bombardment, ground shelling and conscription in the areas.
      In a report from Ningrahar province, our correspondent has reported the following incidents in the province:
      On July 20, unheaded bodies of seven Afghans were found in the farm of Ghaziabad. Also, three more unheaded bodies were also found in the area of Batikot the following morning.
      According to eyewitnesses, some turbans, edible oil and flour sacks were also found along the bodies. Some gardeners of Ghaziabad said that the bodies had been transferred to Afghanistan via Torkham in a vehicle.
                           27
Nos. 125-126
11th
 August - September 1991
      It is the second incident of its nature in the area. More than seventy bodies lying in boxes of cartridges had been found in March 1989 when the mujahideen attacked Jalalabad and took control of the 50-kilometer road between Torkham and Samarkhel.
      Between July 28 and August 5, four vehicles were hit by regime aircraft on the road between Torkham and Shpola. As a reult, 32 people were killed and more than 20 wounded.
      On July 27, seven armed mujahids of Hezb (Khales) were captued alive by regime militiamen near the tomb of Mullah Saheb in the subdistrict of Chaparhar.
      On July 28, between 300 and 450 mujahideen of some organizations accompanied by a number of volunteers from foreign countries began an overall operation in the areas of Torghar, Surkhakan, Darunta, Saroobi and Lataband.
      Some mujahideen, who were involved in the operation, in an interview with AIC correspondents on July 31, said:
      "We blocked the Kabul-Jalalabd highway between Darunta and Wrishmin Tangai. We captured the post of Shola and destroyed two electric pylons between .Kabul and Naghlu. The mujahideen have captured 200 armed soldiers along with fifteen tanks. They enjoy control over the bridge of Surkhakan linking Surkhakan and Metarlam, the provincial centre of Laghman."
      This claim was confirmed my some eye-witnesses who have arrived from the area. They say that both the mujahideen and the Kabul regime had made long preparations for the battle. The whole area was under intense regime air bombardment.
      Nobody travelled to Jalalabad from Kabul on August 2 and 3. Some people say that a blast destroyed an arms and ammunition depot of Hezb (Khales) in the area of Torghar. The incident has reportedly
                            28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 caused a great loss to the mujahideen. Some mujahids were killed in the incident.
      The mujahideen captured 20 posts in the operation. They captured some 100 soldiers and officers and siezed eight tanks and seven vehicles, two rocket launchers of BM-16, ten mortars and a large amount of weapons. Mujahideen of Hezb (Khales) transferred a large amount of heavy weapons, including Sakar rockets, to their positions in the area of Torghar.
      Some forty mujahids were killed in the operation.
      The road beween Kabul and Jalalabad is now controlled by the regime, as the mujahideen have returned to their positions in the mountains.
      Meanwhile, a traveller from Jalalabad, in a interview with our correspondent in Landi Kotal on September 18, said that the regime is preparing itslef for the defence of a possible mujahideen offensive on Jalalabad. He said that all forces are on alert in the city. He said the regime had transferred the city chief of KHAD along with other officers. He also said that the city had received large amounts of weapons and ammunition.
      According to the traveller, the mujahidees have sent heavy weapons and ammunition to their bases in the vicinity of Jalalabad.
      On Sept. 2, regime aircraft bombed an Arab stronghold, injuring several Arabs in the province.
      On the same date, one mujahid was killed and four wounded in regime air bombardment in the area of Qatarghai. An arms depot was also destroyed in the bombardment.
                            29
Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
      On Sept. 22, regime aircraft bombarded a base of Kashmiri volunteers in the area of Nazian in Shinwar district. The losses were not known.
      On Sept. 17, seven refugee families crossed the border to leave for their areas. Ten families left for Afghanistan on July 28 and 42 on August 8.
      Kabul
      A traveller, who has recently arrived from Kabul, gave the following picture of the situation in Kabul:
      When the hardliners staged the recent abortive coup in the Soviet Union, the Khalqis and the supporters of Karmal expressed their great joy in Kabul over the new developments. They said that new Soviet developments will result in the elimination of reactionaries (Najib and his group) and the victory of genuine communists and real defenders of the "Saur Revolution." However, the developments disappointed common citizens who believed that the war would continue for a long time in the country. Najib and his supporters were also concerned about the Soviet events, because they thought that the hardliners in Moscow would encourage hardliners in Kabul to run the-government. When Najib appeared on the televison screen during the first night of the Soviet coup, he did not look like the Najib of the past. He said that the Soviet Union would continue its aid to Afghanistan, because the Soviets were the friends of the Afghan people. He described the situation in the Soviet Union as an internal matter for that country.
      However, the failure of the coup attempt in the Soviet Union has reportedly resulted in the removal of a number of high ranking officers in the Kabul regime. Some supporters of Najib said that the Soviet hardliners had recently sent Babrak Karmal to Kabul. Mahmud Baryalai (brother of Karmal) and supporters of Karmal had made adequate arrangments to receive Karmal at the airport, but it was
                           30
AFGHAN INFORMATION           Bulletin
 opposed by Najib. Only relatives were allowed to receive Karmal at the airport. When Baryalai criticised Najib for the move, he was removed from his post the following day.
       There is a shortage of foodstuffs and fuel in the city. A high increase has occurred in the fare of taxis. One gallon of petrol is sold for Afs. 4,000 and one gallon of diesel for Afs. 3,000 on the black markets in the city. A fifty percent reduction has occurred in the movement of government vehicles. High ranking officials use their vehicles only for official purposes; they cannot use them for their personal purposes.
       Incidents of burglary have taken place in various parts of the city. The citizens cannot move in the city with large amounts of money in their pockets.
       Bribery ha$ reached its apex in government offices. Especially, it is the order of the day in the ministries of interior, foreign affairs, commerce, defence and state security. Bribes are received by the employees of the ministries of interior, defence and state security for transfers to safe places and exemption from military service. Bribes are paid to people in the ministry of foreign affairs for passports. Bribery is common in the ministry of commerce for receiving trade licenses.
       Five or six rocket attacks took place on the city, causing the killing of over 20 persons and injuriy to many others during the past one month.
       Najib pays special attention to the satisfaction of his militiamen, soldiers and officers. They receive high salaries in exchange for their service to the regime. In addition, they are free to capture anything during their operations. In particular, the Gelamjam militiamen enjoy special concessions in this regard.
                           31
Nos. 125-126
11th Year
 August - September 1991
       Differences are emerging between militiamen of Rashid Dostam and Pashtun militiamen. The gap has furhter widened between them following recent incidents of plunder by the militiamen of Dostam.
       A trader said that the regime has deployed soldiers in various corners of the city to capture people for military service.
       The trader said that the residents of Kabul were concerned about the coup attempt by hardliners against reformists in the Soviet Union. They thought that a success of the Soviet harliners would lead to the rise of extremist elements, such as Karmal, Tanai and Asadullah Sarwari, to powerin Afghanistan. They thought that their rise to power would result in the continuation of war in the country. However, they became happy when they heard about the failure of the coup. There were some rumours of a secret visit of Najib to Moscow following the coup attempt. He said that he saw two aircraft at Kabul airport on August 22 and 23, but he did know what the aircraft had brought from the Soviet Union.
       He said that most of the residents listened to programmes of foreign radio stations. They were optimistic about the tri-partite talks in Iran and Pakistan, but they dubbed those persons as the enemies of peace who had not attended the talks. The people freely talked about their problems in the city. There were rumours of a Soviet plan to stop food and fuel supplies to the Kabul regime. For this reason, the people were engaged in storing various kinds of foodstuffs and other items.
       The traveller, who is a former officer of the Afghan army, gave the following price list in Kabul:
Wheat Flour P kgs. 2000-2300 Afs. 
Rice         Pkgs.     4000-5000' 
Sugar       P kgs.          5000" 
Onions      P kgs.         3000 ’ 
Potatoes    P kgs.          4000" 
Mutton        /kg.     2800-3000" 
                            32
AFGHAN INFORMATION       -   Bulletin
Beef            /kg.      2200" 
Green Tea       /kg- 4000-5000" 
Black Tea       /kg-      4000" 
Petrol       /gallon      4000" 
Kerosene Oil /gallon      1800" 
Samangan                        
      INTERVIEW WITH HAJI ABDUL QUDOOS RAHMANI
      Haji Abdul Qudoos Rahmani, a mujahideen commander in Samangan, arrived in Peshawar on September 14 along with his sixty mujahids. In an interview with an AIC correspondent, he gave the following account of the situation in the province:
      The mujahideen enjoys control over most parts of the province. They fully control the districts of Roy Duab and Dar-e-Soof. There are no organizational, linguistic, sectarian or tribal differences between the mujahideen of the province. There is an atmosphere of brotherhood and sincerity in the province. The mujahideen have set up several positions in the vicinity of the provincial centre.
      Out of 80,000 in the region between 200 and 300 families have left the province for refugee camps in Pakistan. The residents are confronted with a scafcity of water in the proivnce. They do not have enough water for their personal use and their agricultural lands.
      There are no health clinics in the area, because foreign agencies have not paid any attention to the area. Tuberculosis, dysentry, and malnutrition are common diseases in the area.
      Illiteracy is widely felt in the area of 80,000 families. There are only two primary schools in the province containing 500 students.
                            33
Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
      The commander said that he did not want to capture the provincial centre of Samangan, becau^ it would be plundered like Kunduz and other towns. He said that their (Mujahideen) efforts would not bear any fruit unless a transitional administration is set up for elections in Afghanistan. He said that the mujahideen would lay down their arms when the people reach a consensus regarding an interim setup.
      He said that the Soviet-U.S. agreement on "negative symmetry" would not affect the activities of the mujahideen, because they (mujahideen) began their jehad without U.S. assistance. He said that such a move would limit and stop foreign interference and pave the ground for a unity amongst the mujahideen.
      Paktia
      SITUATION IN GARDEZ:
      Mujahideen started extensive operations against the regime in Gardez, the provincial centre of Paktia. While it is too early to report on the outcome, the following issues will prove critical to the success or failure of the mujahideen.
      For the first time, the mujahideen have received armoured tanks, APCs, 155mm guns, long range rockets and anti-aircraft gun during the past years of war in the country. These weapons were captured by the U.S. and its allies from Iraqi troops in the Gulf War. More weapons are on their way to the mujahideen who have received some supplies of the weapons.
      The mujahideen are receiving the weapons at a time when the Soviet Union and the U.S. have recently signed an agreement in Moscow to halt arms supplies to their allies in Afghanistan and solve the Afghan issue peacefully.
                             34
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Interestingly, the major share of the weapons is received by those mujahideen organizations that supported Sadam Hussain during the Gulf War and welcomed the abortive coup by the Soviet hardliners in Moscow. By rejecting a political settlement they want to solve the Afghan through war.
      In their attack on Gardez, the mujahideen will use their long range heavy weapons to pave the ground for the movement of their armoured vehicles and tanks towards the town.
      While mujahideen are still divided over the booty of Khost, their differences will further increase in Gardez, because most of the mujahideen around Gardez, who most come from Ahmadzai tribe, are opposed to the repetition of the incidents of Khost. They also oppose the participation of the mujahideen of Khost in the planned operations against Gardez.
      Anticipating the planned operations, the Kabul regime found an ample opportunity to consolidate its positions in Gardez following the fall of Khost to the mujahideen. The regime has also tried to overcome its failures experienced in Khost. It has deployed units of Spacial-Gaard, Gelamjan militia, police force, local party activists and the troops of Khost in Gardez. A large number of regime officers escaped Khost following its fall to the mujahideen and returned to Kabul through various routes. They were all sent to Gardez.
      Regime forces heavily shell and bombard mujahideen positions in the outskirts of Gardez. The rgime also controls the Kabul-Gardez and Gardez-Ghazni highways. It can send reinforcements from Kabul to Gardez in three hours.
      The regime tries to attract the Pakistani tribemen across the Durand Line to join its forces in the province. It issues weapons and pays money to them.
                           35
Nos. 125 -126             11th              Y August - September 1991
       The regime has provided different facilities for the residents of Gardez to send their families to Kabul. The residents and troops have also stored a great quantity of foodstuffs, because they receive foodstuffs from Pakistan through the routes of Zormat (in the west) and Said Karam (in the east).
       In order to dirupt connections between the mujahideen and regime officers and prevent their surrender, the regime regularly transfers its officers from one post to another.
       The regime always tries to create divisions among the mujahideen through weapons and money.
       A siege of Gardez is more difficult than Khost. There is a distinction between Gardez and Khost. For example, the regime controls the roads to Kabul and Ghazni. The area of Gardez is larger than Khost. In addition, the regime enjoys a hold over strategic points around the town. If the regime manges to resist the mujahdeen for two months, the mujahideen will be unable to continue their operation due to the chilly weather in the area.
       In addition, we cannot ignore the cloudy weather in Khost where the mujahideen continued their operations satisfactorily for a long time. The regime can also hit mujahideen targets in Gardez with medium range rockets from Kabul.
       The hope for a political settlement and the lack of interest in continuous war and blooshed are the main factors for weakening the spirit of sacrifice among the mujahideen.
       On the contrary, the mujahideen enjoy the capability to attack the city with heavy machinery during the short time prior to winter, because they did not possess such weapons and means in the battle of Khost. However, the effectiveness of heavy vehicles and weapns still remains a question mark.
                                         - 36
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Various differences and clashes between regime supporters coupled with a cloudy weather may increase the chances of a mujahideen victory but heavy losses on both sides, because the mujahideen enjoy better military capability than before in view of their new heavy machinery. Moreover, the mujahideen will suffer heavy casualties in their advance towards Gardez due to the presence of innumerable mines in the area. As the mujahideen have not carried out any raid on Gardez city, it will create problems for them in identifying mine-free accesses to the town. The regime also does not enjoy the experiences of Khost where it defended its positions for years despite long siege.
      Kandahar
      AN INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER AYUB
      The mujahideen of Kandahar have been waging their practical jehad since the beginning of the Communist regime in the country. We are trying to capture the city and other areas in the province, but we have not received enough weapons for the past two years. Also, some people are worried about a fall of the city to the mujahideen. They think that the people, in compliance with their national, traditional and tribal relationships, will establish a system in Afghanistan.
      This was disclosed by Mohammad Ayub, a commander of Itehad-e-Islami (Sayaf) in Khakrez district. He said that the mujahideen carried our various attacks on regime positions in Kandahar city during the past two months, destroying two arms deports and killing several regime troops. He said that four mujahids were killed and twelve wounded in the operations.
                 •
      He said mujahideen of all organizations unitedly carried out the operations against the regime in the area.
                            37
Nos. 125-126
11th Year
August - September 1991
      Regarding clashes between Mullah Naqibullah, a commander of Jamiat (Rabani), and Asadullah, a commander of Hezb (Hekmatyar), Mohammad Ayub said:
      "Their clashes have a long history in the province. Their personal differences are the main factors of the clashes. Only weapons and financial resources of the two organizations have led the mujahideen and civilians to fall prey to their hostility. However, traditional and natural relationships have remained alive among the tribes of Kandahar. The people not only detest such kinds of acts, but they also try to frustrate such plans. For example, a mujahid was recently killed in a clash beteen the two sides in the district of Khakrez. When his dead body was taken by his companion to his father, the latter said, ’I do not want to bury the body into my graveyard, because he is not my son.’ He said, "He is your son because he was killed in your infighting."
      REGARDING MILITARY SITUATION, THE COMMANDER
      SAID
      "We attack regime targets with rockets and heavy guns, but we do not intend to destroy the city and cause losses to the civilians. The city is our homeland and its residents are our brothers. We even provide medical treatment to those people who support the regime with their arms, because most of their relatives are engaged in the jehad. The residents of Kandahar and the mujahideen held talks recently on the fighting in the area. As a result, the mujahideen promised that they would not attack dwellings in the city. The mujahideen also agreed to extend possible assistance to those residents who wanted to abandon the urban area for fear of fighting. However, we cannot solve their problems due to our own economic, social and educational problems. The residents of the surrounding villages can sell their products in the city to bring goods from the city.
      Mohammad Ayub described the issue of a future leadership as "a grave problem." He said:
                            38
AFGHAN INFORMATION           Bulletin
       "The majority of the Afghan people are Muslims, and then-dwelling country is Afghanistan. An Islamic system based on the will of the Afghan people might interpret the wishes of the people and prove acceptable to the mujahideen."
       The commander said that the mujahideen were trying to remove differences among various groups in the province of Uruzgan.
       Regarding the assistance of foreign NGOs to Afghans, the commander said:
       They carry out their activities on a limited scale in Kandahar, so agricultural and livestock system is at stake in the province. Qualified doctors and adequate medicines are not found in the area. Security conditions are satisfactory in the province, but courts awards Sharia sentences to a person if he commits a crime. For example, a killer is either killed or handed over to the relatives of the deceased. Also, hands of thieves are cut off.
     WOMAN STONED IN SPINBOLDAK
     On August 6, a woman was stoned to death when a mujahideen court found her guilty of adultery in the area of Spin Boldak.
     Her male partner received some slashes and remained alive as a result of the decision by the court.
     Thousands of people watched the incident in the area. Several people hit the women with stones, when a judge declared his decision.
     The woman received severe pubishment, because she was a married one. The man, a bachelor, received light pubishment.
                            39
 Nos. 125-126
11th Year
August - September 1991
      ARAB VOLUNTEER KILLS AFGHANS
      On July 16, an Arab volunteer killed an Afghan and his son in the area of Bala Karz.
      According to an eye-witness, an Afghan farmer was working in his field when the Arab passer-by opened fire on him with his kalashnikov. The Arab also killed his son when the latter appeared on the spot.
      JAMIAT, HEZB COMMANDERS SUSPEND FIGHTING
      A lull has occurred in the fighting between the supporters of Asadullah (Hezb) and Naqibullah (Jamiat) in the district of Arghandab.
      According to a report from the area, the lull occurred a few days ago when mujahideen of Sarbanqala (Helmand province) took position in the battle area between the two sides.
      A delegation of two Hezb and two Jamiat men led by an Arab recently visited the area, but returned to Peshawar in despair following its hectic efforts for a ceasefire between the two sides, the report said.
                                                    «»
      The clashes between the two sides have caused the displacement of ninety percent people in Arghandab, though a number of families have recently returned to the area.
      Helmand
      On Sept. 4, regime forces recaptured the areas of Sarband and Adam Khan in the vicinity of the district headquarters of Girishk.
      According to a traveller from the area, some 150 mujahids were killed and many wounded in the regime operation to regain control of its lost areas.
                           40
AFGHAN INFORMATION           Bulletin
      Herat
      According to a report from Herat, mujahideen of all groups have jointly repulsed a recent regime offensive in the district of Zindajan.
      The regime, which has begun the heaviest offensive after the Soviet withdrawal, was forced to retreat to certain areas due to strong resistance from the mujahideen.
      A decrease has occurred in the intensity of the fighting, though it still continues in the area.
      Some 60 mujahids have been killed and 150 wounded in the fighting. Soviet aircraft have completely destroyed Poshing, a historical town in the district. Regime casulaties are reported to be much higher than those of the mujahideen. Also, hundreds of vehicles have been destroyed in the offensive.
        A cameramen of Iranian T.V., who had been wounded in the battlefield, was returned by regime authorities to Iran. This shows improvement in the relations between Iran and the Kabul regime. Regime authorities in Herat often enter the Iranian territory. For example, the governor of Herat, the chief of KHAD (Herat) and ten others were seen in the city of Mashad on April 27.
       Also, there is a free exchange of commercial goods between Herat and Mashad. There is no ban on the transporation of Iranian oil to Herat.
       The Afghan tribal elders, commanders and intellectuals in Iran want to create a national Islamic movement for the salvation of Afghanistan. They hold meetings and organises gatherings to meet the objective. A kind of hatred is observed among the the Shias and Sunnis against the orgnaizations in Pakistan and Iran. They openly accuse the organisations of creating differnces in the Afghan society and serving the interests of foreigners.
                           41
Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
      Most of the people believe that the leaders of the organizations and the Kabul regime want a share in power. They think that a coalition government might drag Afghanistan into civil war. They regard the formation of an impartial government as the best way for an interim period. They support elections under the UN plan.
      The people summarises an interim government into the person Zaher shah, former monarch of Afghanistan. They want the formation of a team composed of experienced persons to lead the country.
      A number of Shias and Sunnis openly encourage people to support Zahir Shah. They register supporters of the former king.
      Most of the commanders want to join those nationalist organisations in view of their apparent colour of Zahir Shah, but these organisations do not have the capacity to attract such commanders. Also, there are persons in these organizations who, in order to preserve their personal interests, create obstacles for the attraction of influential people. In short, these brganzations have disappointed the people who had high expectations from them towards a larger national unity.
      Takhar
      According to wirless messages from Commander Ahmad Shah Masud, the mujahideen intensified their operations in the province of Takhar following the final capture of Khwaja Ghar. In this connection, they carried out operations on regime positions in Yangi Qala and Dasht Qala on July 22.
      As a result, the areas fell to the mujahideen. Some 3,200 regime troops joined the mujahideen during the operation. Also, 2000 weapons and 28 tanks fell into the hands of the mujahideen.
                           42
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Meanwhile, regime aircraft bombed Taluqan, the provincial centre, twice during the second half of August. More than eighty persons were killed in the bombardment.
      For the first time, regime aircraft have bombarded have bombarded the liberated areas in northern Afghanistan since the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
      Badakhshan
      Reports from Badakhashan say that the mujahideen, under the command of Najmuddin Wasiq, attacked the town of Zebak on July 20. The mujahideen killed 36 troops and captured 170 others. The mujahideen also seized 200 weapons in the attack.
      On July 22, the mujahideen captured the border area of Ishkashim, seizing 700 kalashnikovs, eight tanks and a quantity of military suppllies.
      On August 10, the mujahideen captured Wakhan.
      On August 12, the mujahideen, under the command of Basir Khalid, captured the town of Shaghnan on August 12. The mujahideen captured 300 troops and seized 500 arms along with 24 heavy guns. Sixty-six regime troops were killed or wounded.
      The reports from the province does indicate any casualties on the mujahideen side.
      Interestingly, the Soviets did not show any reaction to the capture of the areas bordering the Soviet Union by the fighters of Massud. Even the Soviets and representatives of Massud met on the Afghan-Soviet border and signed an agreement regarding a ceasefire. This has creatred question in the minds of people, because the Soviets have
                            43
Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
 resorted to strong bombardment and shelling upon the capture of a border areas by the mujahideen in the past.
      On August 17, regime aircraft began intense air bombardment on various areas in the provinces of Takhar and Badakhshan.
      According to reports by the Supervisory Council of the North, some 100 people have been killed and 320 wounded.
      One regime aircraft was shot down in the area of Jurm in Badakhshan. The pilot of the aircraft was captured by the mujahideen when he landed in the area by a parachute.
      According to the pilot, identified as Abdul Hafiz, aircraft of the 355th Regiment (Bagram airbase) has conducted 300 sorties to bomb various parts of the country.
      Kunduz
      A traveller, who has recently arrived from Dasht-e-Archi (Kunduz province) in Peshawar, was interviewed by an AIC correspondent on August 10. The traveller gave the following account of the recent developments in northern Afghanistan.
      The latest successes of the mujahideen in the province of Takhar is a product of their unity. Also, the contacts of the Supervisory Council of the North with the local militia units of Samad Pasha affiliated to Sazman-e-Azadibakhsh-e-Zahmatkashan-e-Afghanistana (SAZA), a component group of the Kabul regime, were instrumental in the fall of Dasht-e-Qala and Yangi Qala. While high ranking militia officer were moving towards government positions, the rest joined the mujahideen.
      Also, these regime militiamen had their supporters in Badakhshan. They carried out their activities through the group of
                            44
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Sitam-e-Milli led by Tahir Badakhshi. The activists of SAZA or Sitam-e-Milli surrendered to the mujahideen in the sub-district of Zebak.
      - There are peaceful conditions in Hazarbagh, Taluqan and Farkhar where the Supervisory Council enjoys full control. For example, sufficient foodstuffs and basic amenities are available in the bazaar of Taluqan. There is a kind of agreement between the Mujahideen and the regime regarding the transportation of various kinds of commodities in the area. There is no ban on the transportation of commodities either to regime or mujahideen areas.
      One and half months ago, regime troops carried out a 24-hour operation in the district of Khanabad. However, strong resistance by the mujahideen forced the troops to abandon the area. The operation also resulted in the displacement of many people in the area.
      Clashes continue between two commanders of Hezb, Abdul Hamid and Sufi Ismail, who frequently take sides with the regime against each other.
The traveller gave the following price list in the area:
Wheat       Pkgs.  Afs.    650 
Mutton     /1kg.   Afs.  1,100 
Beef       /1kg.   Afs.    800 
Black Tea  /1kg.   Afs.  3,000 
Sugar      /1kg.   Afs.    700 
Edible Oil /16kgs. Afs. 14,000 
     Ghazni ,
     INTERVIEW WITH UNILOG’s EMPLOYEE:
     Zahir Khan, an employee of UNILOG in the district of Qarabagh (Ghazni), arrived in Peshawar from Ghazni on August 26. He gave the
                          45
Nos. 125-126
11th
August - September 1991
following account of the situation in the province in a recent interview with AIC:
      Regarding the situation in the district of Qarabagh, I would like to say that we receive wheat, fertilizer, edible oil and other supplies twice a year from the organization in Pakistan. We do not have any storages for these supplies in Qarabagh, so we immediately hand them over to local commanders shura or other responsible bodies for equal distribution among the labourers. The labourers receive wheat instead of money for their labour. There is an abundance of various kinds of fruits, such as pomegranates, grapes, apricots, pears, apples, etc., in the area, but the farmers cannot earn sufficient money through their sale due to the blockade of the road to Kabul and the long distance to Pakistan. They only make raisins from the products.
      The residents of the area are confronted with various medical problems. There are not qualified doctors and effective medicines to meet the needs of the people in the area. No educational opportunities are available for the people in the area.
      We have cleared 15 canals and seven karezes (underground water channels) in Qarabagh and Nawa leading to the irrigation of hundreds of jeribs of land.
  . There is a local shura in the district of Nawa. The shura (council) is composed of 50 commanders, religous scholars and tribal edlers. The shura, which is led by Maulawi Hifz-ul-Haq, is represented by all organizations, including some elders of the tribe of Taraki. Nur Mohammad Taraki came from the same tribe. Some 3,000 families of the tribe has surrendered to Maulawi Hafz-ul-Haq.
      The economic condition of the people of Nawa is not satisfactory, becuase no trade and job opportunities are available for them. The farmers lead a miserable life in the area. Satisfaction is felt only among those people who possess land in the area.
                           46
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The life in the district of Sholgar is the best in the province, because Commander Qari Taj Mohammad (popularly known as Qari baba) has protected all establishments, such as agricultural projects, dams, etc. The people of the area enjoy full security, and there are no shortages of basic amenities.
      There are no inter-organizational clashes in the area. Though Qari baba has carried out some attacks on Ghazni, nobody is interested in the fighting. The people think that the 7s in Peshawar do not want a freedom of Afghhanistan, so everybody is uncertain about the future of the country.
      INTERVIEW WITH NGO’s EMPLOYEE:
      An employee of a foreign NGO, who wanted to remain anonymous, was recently interviewed by an AIC correspondent following his return from a trip to the provinces of Ghazni, Wardak and Logar. Here is his report:
      When I entered the Afghan territory through Azam Warsak and Wana (South Waziristan Agency), I could hot identify the Afghan-Pak border due to absence of any border signs in the area.
      There were no signs of heavy destruction in Charkh (Logar province), but agricultural system had suffered damage in the area due to widespread plant diseases. Though there were party differences among the residents, there were no reports of any armed clash in the area.
        There are no schools for education in Charkh where illiteracy is growing among the children in the area. The activities of foreign NGOs has badly affected the Afghan system in the country. For example, an Afghan worker will talk about his toil in dollars in his meetings with the employees of foreign agencies.
                            47
Nos. 125-126
Uth Year
 August - September 1991
       The heavy floods and rains of April have caused great losses to the farmers in some areas of Logar, Wardak and Ghazni.
       Economic conditions were better in the district of Jaghori (Ghazni) than other areas. There were primary and high schools in the area. The books taught in the schools had Iranian programs. The resident showed a keen interest in educational and other activities, and believed in self-reliance and hard work. There was a large hospital sponsored by a Norwegian organization in the area. There was also a leprosy clinic in the area. Neverthless, plant diseases were common in the area.
       The residents of the fertile districts of Muqur and Malistan were engaged in rebuilding their houses . Various foreign NGOs, such as MSH, have begun projects in the areas, but their activities have not yielded any positive results. For example, domestic animals are not vaccinated for the second time due to their displacment from one one area to another. Also, the farmers do not have the resources to buy seeds and fertilizer for their crops.
       Political and religious organizatins have stepped up their activities in the areas. For example, these organizations, through the promises of foreign trips or courses, take teenagers for indoctrination purposes to Peshawar, etc.
       Relief supplies from Pakistan cannot not reach deserved people in the areas. These supplies, which have created differences between local commanders, lead to the capture of employees vehicles of relief organizations.
       The residents of the areas were tired of war. There was no religious fervour among the people regarding the war in the country. Though the people had high hatred for the Kabul regime, they did not expect the resistance organizations to maintain peace in the country either. The people expected peace in the country in the person of the former king.
                           48
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Meanwhile, a resident of Ghazni, who has migrated to Pakistan on September 6, said that the mujahideen drew up several plans for attacks on Ghazni, but they could not implement the plans.
      He said that the mujahideen carried out a rocket attack on the city during the first week of August. One rocket killed twenty-five persons and injured several others in front of the main mosque in the city. He said that the believers were coming out of the mosque when the incident took place.
      Zabul
      A resident of Ghazni, in a recent interview at AIC, said that Commander Jamal and Commander Qayum had captured vehicles of DAI in the district of Shahjoi.
      He said that nomads and members of all organizaions plundered an office of a mine clearance agency in Tazi on July 6. Also, one vehicle of Save the Children was lifted away.
      He said that all NGOs have stopped their activities in the province due to insecure conditions.
      Kunar
      On August 7, elders of the villages of Bargam, Jalala, Bargam, Naway Kalay and Nishagam jointly passed a resolution regarding an end to the deforestation process in the mountainous area of Elgal.
      Copies of the resolution signed by eighty elders were sent to the inhabitants of the area regarding the decision.
                           49
Nos. 125-126
Uth
August - September 1991
     MUJAHIDEEN RELEASE SOVIET PRISONER
     Mujahideen released a Soviet prisoner in exchange for 25 mujahideen imprisoned by the Kabul regime.
     The soldier was handed over to the Soviets oft August 12 in Islamabad. He had been captured by the mujahideen of Shahid Afzali Front some years ago in Herat.
     So       far, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has transferred eleven prisoners from Kabul to Peshawar.
     The prisoners, who had been sentenced to long term imprisonment, are afiliated to Jamiat (Rabani), Hezb (Hekmatyar) and Itehad (Sayaf). Also, there are Arabs and others among them.
                                                        *** *** ***
                                          50
badakhshan
JOZJAN sw.. sAmANGAN
I RAN
LAGHMH
HERAT
> Kashmir
PAKHTIA
UROZG
AFGHANISTAN