 *                ijl \sr~*

AFGHAN
         INFORMATION
        QENTRE
&CW)
K
•U
monthly bulletin
Nos. 132 - 135
11th Year
March - June 1992
                  The aims of the AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1. To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the , of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2. to make this information available in the form of articles, news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
      (a) International news media
      (b)     Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
      The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
    Founder : Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh     BANK ACCOUNT NO
    Editor : Sayed Naim Majrooh                  1131377299051
 This Bulletin is Written Under the Responsibility of A I C Editorial Board
 Annual Subscription Institutions            : US$  100
 Individuals            : US$  70
 or equivalent Pakistan Rupee
Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBNPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USE OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
 Office: 18 E,S J. Afghani Road, University Town, Peshawar. Phone : 40953 Postal Add: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
         AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
            MONTHLY BULLETIN Nos. 132 - 135       MARCH - JUNE, 1992
      CONTENTS:
 I.    UN PLAN SABOTAGED                               1
 n.    COUP PLAN AGAINST NAJIB                        12
 III.  AFGHINASTAN IN A NEW HISTORICAL ERA            14
 IV.   FROM PESHAWAR TO KABUL AND MAZAR               29
 V.    KHALIS MEET AFGHAN INTELLECTUALS               35
 VI.   HIGH INCREASE IN REFUGEE REPATRIATION          37
 VII.  AN OPEN LETTER                                 40
       UN PLAN SABOTAGED
       All parties (Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Mulsim Brotherhood, etc.) invovled in the Afghan conflict adhered two options to bring their people to power in Afghanistan:
 A.    To exploit the UN plan.
 B.    To sabotage the plan.
       The parties encouraged some moderate resistance organizations and one “moderate” organization of the fundamentalists to support the UN plan. The "radical” organizations of the fundamentalists pursued the second option. While the two groups were carrying out their activities for the power, Benon Sevan, UN Secretary-General’s Sepcial Envoy for Afghanistan, accelerated his shuttle diplomacy to seek cooperation of all groups for the UN plan. He finally convinced Najib, the Kabul ruler, to announce his readiness for resignation in case of a settlement through the UN.
       The announcement regarding the resignation of Najib was a miscalculation on the part of Benon Sevan, though he had been advised by many Afghans to exercise restraint regarding the resignation of Najib so that a power vacuum is not created. In order to prevent anarchy in the country, Benon Sevan should have accelerated the process of the formation of a council of non-controversial figures instead of pressuring Najib to resign. The announcement of Najib on March 18, as a matter of fact, caused a power vacuum in the country leading to the developments in Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan.
       Commander Massoud, who had previous contacts with various factions of the ruling party in Kabul, developed further his relatins with the Parcham factions to remove Najib from power. According to UN sources, Commander Massoud had assured the UN of his support to the UN plan. Besides, he spared time to capture Kabul prior to the formation of an interim government in Kabul through the UN. Babrak karmal, who had personal enmity with Najib and who had differences with the Passhtun-dominated Khalq faction of the party, joined his hand with Massoud against Najib. A coalition was formed in northern Afghanistan as a result of which Gen. Dostam revolted against Najib. In the meantime, Charikar, the provincial centre of Parwan surrendered to Massoud fighters.
                                2
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
           Prior to the developments in northern Afghanistan, there was a trend of the formation of a coaliton administyration with the mujahideen in Kandahar (where the fundamentalists did not enjoy influence due to the existence of atribal structure in the province). However, the move was opposed by the supporters of Babrak Karmal who wanted to follow such an experience in Mazar. The party died down the issue due to differences of opinion between the party members. However, Babrak Karmal, Mahmud Baryalai, Farid Mazdak, Najmuddin Kaviani, Paigir followed the issue with full intensity.
           When the fundamentalists and their foreign allies realized that they can meet their end, they rejected the UN plan in strong words. For this reason, Jamiat of Prof. Rabani, which had not openly opposed the plan, began to condemn the plan. Massoud as a result captured Charikar with the collaboratin of the Parchami members of the party. He later on captured Bagram airbase with the cooperation of the military council in Kabul.
           In view of the strong differences between the fundamentalist organizations of Hezb (Hekmatyar) and jamiat (Rabani), Hezb began to enter Kabul and catprue important positons there. The foreign allies only wanted a fall of Kabul to any faction of the fundamentalists.
           Also, the Khalq and Parcham factions of the party had deep differences. When the Parchamis felt that Hezb was planning to enter Kabul through the collaboration of the Khalqis, they asked Massoud to send some 5,000 people to Kabul. Commander Massoud could not provide such a big number, but Gen. Dostam, with his aircraft and other means, entered Kabul. His forces captured Kabul airport, Kabul Garrison and Radio-Televison Station to move towards the presidential palace in central Kabul.
           The weakness of Commander Massoud, who was considered to be the most influential commanders of the mujahideen, became obvious when his fighters could not enter Kabul. He had miscaluculated the power of Hezb-e-Islami in northern Kabul, the power of his Supervisory Council in capturing Kabul and other provincial centres, the capability of Jamiat to capture all provinces of Afghanistan and the capability of Jamiat and the Supervisory Council topple down the Kabul regime without the support of other organizations.
           Most of the provincial centeres of the country fell to the mujahideen, but Jamiat and Hezb had no important role in these developments. Massoud fighters fought with Hezb in the north of Kabul. Here Commander Massoud realized felt that he could not capture Kabul alone, nor he could resist an offensive by Pashtuns
                                  3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 and Hazaras. He sent a message to Peshawar saying that the organizations should form an interim administration within three days to run the affairs in Kabul.
         Massoud knew that Hekmatyar will refuse to join such an administration. In addition, the structure of the interim council was acceptable to him, thinking that a moderate leader (Prof. Mujadeddi) will pass the period of crisis leading to a smooth transfer of power. He knew that armed groups of the party and the army will not resist for a long time. He also knew that the residents of Kabul will welcome Prof. Mujadeddi as head of the administration. He knew that a fundamentalist government will be easily formed after the elaspe of the critical two-month period. Massoud succeeded in this part of the plan, because the armed groups of the party would have not surrendered to a fundamentalist government. The plan for the mujahideen government in Kabul was tactfully designed. Intelligence agenices of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia and the Muslim Brotherhood used various tactics, including use of large amounts of money, to deceive the moderate leaders. In particular, they gave the highest post to Prof. Mujadeddi, who is known for his ambition for power, though for two months.
         The formation of the mujahideen government was announced in Peshawar Governor-house. As a Pakistan military plane could not fly to Kabul due to a fighting between Hezb and militiamen of Dostam near Kabul, Prof. Mujadeddi left for Kabul by road along with members of his council. While heavy fighting was going in Kabul, Mujadeddi entered Kabul with no power, water and food. People from various sections of the society plundered various parts of the city.
         Prof. Mujadeddi appointed members of his council as ministers. The important ministries, such as defence and culture and information were given to jamiat. Radio-Televison which was the only means to reach the people was used against the policy and program of Prof. Mujadeddi.
         Commander Massoud enbtered kabul with a large convoy of tanks and military trucks. He once attended a meeting of the jehadic council under the chairmanship of Prof. Mujadeddi, but he never participated in the meetings of the council again. When Massoud saw that the security council cannot control the situation, he put an end to it, and paved the ground for the Leadership Council. The Leadership Council, which was not expected to enter kabul until two months, arrived in Kabul under the chairmanship of Prof. Rabani. As a result, a second government began its work parallel to that of Prof. Mujadeddi. Commander Massoud began to support the Leadership Council.
                                      4
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
         The Leadership Council also issued statements and decrees. As a result, the presence of two governments in Kabul caused anarchy in Kabul. The Leadership Council led by fundamentalists and backed by their international allies announced a ceasefire between Massoud and Hekmatyar. They tried their best to discredit the government of Mujadeddi and his colleagues.
         Plunder took place in Kabul when mujahideen of Supervisory Council of Massoud, Hezb-e-Wahdat, Hezb-e-Islami and other organizations and Jowzjani militiamen entered the city. The infrastructure of Kabul and other provinces was destroyed. It was the objective of the Islamic revolutionaries who wanted to found an Islamic Afghanistan.
         Following are the forces stationed in Kabul:
         1.      Militia units of Gen. Dostam
         2.      Hezb-e-Wahdat
         3.      Supervisory Council(Jamiat)
         4.      Kabul Garrison of former regime forces
         5.      Harakat (Mohsini)
         6.      Itehad-e-islami (Sayaf).
         7.      Harakat(Mhammadi)
         8.      Hezb(Khales-Haqani)
         9.      Prsedent Mujadidi forces
         10.     Mahaz(GaiIani),etc.
         Following are the directions of Kabul and the forces around it:
         South: Hezb-e-Islami (H),Hezb-e-Islami (K,Haqani), Ahmazai tribes.
         East: Harakat (Mohammadi), Mahaz, Jabha, Hezb (K), Itehad (Sayaf)
         South-west: Harakat (Mohsini), Itehad, Mahaz, Hezb-e-Wahdat, Hezb-e-
         Islami (K)#
         West : Itehad, Supervisory Council (Jamiat), Harakat (Mohammadi),
         Mahaz, Harakat (Moshini), Hezb (K), Hezb (H).
         North: Supervisory Council of Jamiat, Hezb (H),Itehad (Sayaf), mijita of
         Dostam, etc.                                                  /
         Beside the above forces inside and outside Kabul, there are thousands underground armed men of KHAD in Kabul and the provinces. Though these
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 KHAD men have lost their leadership and are in a sacattered position, we cannot ignore thier presence. They might be easily organized. The Parcham faction of the party has come into action under the leadership of Babrak Karmal, Mahmud Baryalia and Farid Mazdak. They are closely working with the Supervisory Council.
         Some 200,000 members of the Homeland Party hate their leadership which have deceived them for the past fourteen years of bloodshed in the country. They hate both their Parchami and Khalqi leaders. These people can be assembled oh a national platform. This alternative can replace fundamentalism in Afghanistan with an islamic system based on Afghan traditional insitutoin without any forcing influence, in the framework of natinal interests of Afghanistan.
         The situation in Kabul is in a chaning process. Political and military groupings are changing in the city, and nobody sticks to his loyalty.
         Hence, the coalition of Gen. Dostam and the Supervisory Council of ^ie North has stuck a coaliton with Hezb-e-Wahdat and all other Mujahideen organazations in northern Afghanistan.
         The coaliton between the Supervisory Council and Gen. Dostam may not continue, because the former is gradually getting closee to the bloc of Muslim Brotherhood. Also, Prof. Mujadeddi, after his visit to Mazar, is more acceptable to Gen. Dostam than to a coalition with the fundamentalists. Hezb-e-Wahdat will be more inclined towards moderate organizations than to the fundamentalists. There are no differences between Hezb-e-Wahdat and Dostam militiamen. Also, the Ismaili militiamen cannot continue their coalition with the Supervisory Council. In short, we will see what role will be plaed by the new allignments in the rivalry between Prof. Mujadeddi and Prof. Rabani.
 The Role of Neighbouring Countries
 Iran:
         The neighbouring and brotherly country of Iran, which supported the just cause of the Afghan nation since the invasion of the Red Army, has given shelter to two million Afghans. It recognised the mujahideen government following the collapse of the Kabul regime.
         Mir Mahmud Mosawi, during a recent visist to Kabul, talked about economic and political cooperation between the two countries and matters relating
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
to the transfer of power and the participation of Shi’ite groups in the government affairs.
         Iran, which particularly backs Shi’ite groups in Afghanistan, seems to be dissatisfied with the present situation in view of the non-participation of those groups in the present government. Only one group, Harakat-e-Islami of Mohsini has a representation in the government.
         Iran is concerned about the formation of a fundamentalist government under the influence of Pakistan and Sauid Arabia in view of the growing influence of these countries on the mujahideen.
         Iran backs the demands of Shi’ite groups to have a twenty-five percent representation in the government. This demand in itself is a problem due to the absence of any statistics in the country. If Iran insists on its position, relations between Kabul and Tehran might suffer a setback.
         In addition, if share in government is taken into consideration on the basis of language and sect, the instability and insecurity will lead to anarchy. Afghanistan or any country cannot have a sectarian and tribal constitution.
         There are different ethnic groups and religous schools of thought in Iran where the Sunnits constitute a considerable part of the population. So Iran should implement such a law in its own country, giving a share to Sunnis in the government.
         Iran, which had played an important role in the formation of the northern coalition, was the first country to broadcast the Afghan developments through its radio stations recently.
         Without the knowledge of Kabul administration, Iran recently extended direct aid to authorities in Herat. Also, Iranian aircraft have directly flown U m Iran to Bamyan Mid Mazar, which endangers the stability of the country.
         Following the recent clashes between Shi’ite groups and fundamentalists in Kabul, it was observed that Iran miscalculated the coalition with Jamiat of Prof. Rabani. Iran attached important to Jamiat following three-party talks between Iran, Tajikestan and Jamiat in early 1992 in Tehran. The parties signed an agreement of political and cultural cooperation for the development of the language of Persian. In view of the unpleasant incidents recently in Kabul, Iran might review its position. It may be inclinded towards moderate wing of the mujahideen.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         Iran should follow a comprehensive policy on the Afghan issue. It should support rights of all sections of the Afghan society, including the Shi’ites. The comprehensive policy should be based on the principles of stability and security, territorial integrity, national sovreignty, self-determination and mutual respect. If Iran drags on regional rivalries to the cities of Afghanitan, it will cause another great tragedy. It will explod like a bomb causing the explosion of the cuntries of the region, including Iran itself.
         The Afghan nation is passing through a very difficult trial in the the most crucial phase of its history. The Afghan people know the objectives of the neighbours and other friends of the jehad, who claim to be supporting the basic rights of Afghanistan.
 Prof. Majrooh, founder of the AIC, was one of the first Sunni Afghans who raised the voice for the rights of the Shi’ites of Afghanistan in the international media. The Shia leaders are aware of it.
         Therefore, it is expected that the Shi’ites of Afghanistan will not let their country transform into battlefied of relgious and tribal clashes. They should try to play a key role in creating a national unity along with their other Afghan brothers in the framework of the national interests of Afghanistan.
 Pakistan:
         Being a supporter of the jerhad of the Afghan people, Pakistan was the first neighbouring brother country to recognise the government of the mujahideen in Kabul.
         Nawaz Sharif, Prime Minister of Pakistan, led a delegation comprising members of Pakistani and Saudi intelligence agencies, to Kabul following the formation of the interim mujahideen government of Prof. Mujadeddi. The visit took place at a time when Kabul was under heavy gunfire, and heavy fighting continued between Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) backed by Khalqi soldiers and militiamen of Gen. Dostam backed by Parchami soldiers and fighters of Commander Massoud in southern Kabul. Nawaz Sharif recognized the mujahideen government and called it a success of his government.
         The people of Afghanistan will never forget the role played by pakistan in the jehad of the Afghan nation. In particular, the Muslim nation of Pakistan spared no sacrifice for the sake of the Afghan people and welcomed more than three million Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
         It is important to note that no extraordinarily important incident took place between the Afghans and the host nation despite the presence of the world’s largest portion of refugees in Pakistan.
         As far as Pakistan’s Afghan policy in international arena is concerned which was asking the the wthdrowal of forigon troops from Afghanistan, the sovrenty,independece of Afghanistan,non interfarance in the internal affairs ,selfdetemination of the Afghan people and the return of refugee in honer and dignity, it was welcomed by Afghans and international bodies.
         Keeping in view the sacrifices of more then one million martyrs by the Afghan nation to prevent the advance of the Red Army to Pakistan and the Gulf, if the government of Pakistan had followed such a comprehensive policy and had stopped the growing influence of religious and political groups working for their speific objectives, the Afghan nation would have safeguarded the just status of their jehad.
         In 1980, the Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees had registered some ninty-four groups in Pakistan. However, only six groups were recgonised and later on one more fundamentalist group was added by refugee comissioner Shaikh Abdullah(a suporter of Pakistan Jmaat Islami) in order to change the balance in favore of fundamentalists. These groups were divided into two categories, the fundamentalists and the moderates. The fundamentalist groups, which enjoyed the support of international movement of Muslim Brotherhood, received special treatment from Pakistani authorities (ISI that fully controlled the Afghan issue). In this connection, Brigadier (Retd.) Mohammad Yousaf, in his book "Silent Soldier," writes about Gen. Akhtar Abdurahman:
         "In practice some 70 percent of logistic support was given to the fundamentalist parties."
                  •                    i
         National interests of the country or an independent Afghanistan was not the goal of these fundamentalist groups. Rather, they wanted to form an Islamic government with the spirit of Pan-Islamism. However, niether these groups were united for achieving their objectives (clashes between Hezb, Jamiat and Itehad), nor the natinalists believed in national and Islamic issues in reality.   1
         Despite its closeness to the Afghan jeahd, Pakistan fell victim to disinformation. It was unable to fully recognise the Afghan people. In fact, Pakistan opend seven sources of aid for the people of Afghanistan who carried out their struggle against the Russian invaders. The people were forced to iseek
9
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 membershep, weapons and equipment from these sources. This divided the refugees and the mujahideen in divergent seven groupings.
         With their material influence among the Afghan people, these organizations prevented all kinds of national activities on the level of tribal, political and intellectual capacity. Part of pakistani authorities did not let the Afghan people to present another national option alternative acceptable to all Afghans, international bodies against the communist government. Hundereds of intellectual and influential Afghans were assassinated and kidnapped, but Pakistani security authorities did not interrogate a single person in this respect. This indifference on the part of Pakistan indicated that the terrorists had a green signal. As a result, thousands of Afghans who were ready to continue their jehad were forced to leave Pakistan for the West.
         The formation of the interim government of 1989 in Rawalpindi under the supervision of Pakistan ISI was another mistake which proved the puppet nature of the interim government. The communist government faced an imminent collapse following the completion of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, but it found sufficient arguments to perpetuate its surivival.
         The government of Pakistan, particularly the Foreign Ministry, supported the UN peace plan, but other circles made efforts to stop the process. Tlfey wanted the formation of a government by the Peshawar-based organizations in Kabul rather then UN plan following an Afghan gathering. The second mistake on the Pakistan side took place at a time when Pakistan gathered the leaders at the Governor House in Peshawar in the presence of the officials of Saudi and Pakistan intelligence agencies and the regional and international Muslem bratherhood circles. They proposed the formation of a jehadi council under the chairmanship of Prof. Mujadeddi for two months followed by Prof. Rabani, Hekmatyar and Sayaf for four months. Peace and stability fell victim to political problems in Pakistan leading to plunder, killing and clahses in Kabul and the rest of the country.
         Following the formation of the mujahideen government in Kabul, Pakistan did not regard Afghanistan as an independent country in the framework of international norms and political protocols. Like in the past, it treated Afghan affairs in the framework of the ISI. All official visits to Afghanistan took pice under the direct supervision of the ISI generals. The ISI helled official meetings with the mujahideen government prmissed aid in communications, roads, etc. The agency also talked about the raising of the Afghan army, economic cooperation and excavation of mines in Afghanistan.
10
Nos. 132 - 135
11th Year
March - June 1992
         In addition, a minister of Nawaz Sharif’s government and former chief of Pakistan intelliegence played a mediatory role between the rival groups of Jamiat and Hezb in striking an eight-point agreement between the two sidfes.
 Moreover, Pakistan officially invited Prof. Mujadeddi to visit Pakistan. He was warmly wecomed upon his visit to Pakistan.
         Now, the Afghan people do not understand the actual policy of Pakistan in connection with these developments. Will Pakistan exert pressure on Mujadeddi on June 28 quit power in accordance with the Peshawar accord. If so, why he was received with such pomp despite his two-month rule.
 The Afghan people do not want to sabotage the brotherly and friendly relations developed with Pakistan during the past thirteen years. Both Pakistan and Afghanistan seriously need this friendship.
         Keeping in view its national interests and those of Afghanistan, Pakistan should pursue a comprehensive policy, i.e. self-determination for the Afghan people. It should not impose the formulas of Peshawar or Rawalpindi on the people of Afghanistan. If Pakistan gives the right of free elctions to its people and calls its government as a parliamentary and elected government, why its parliament cannot dare to say the some thing on the vitally important issue of Afghanistan? If Pakistan is willing to find markets in central Asia, it should demand peace, tranquility and stability in Afghanistan. It should seriously declare that elections cannot be held in the present circumstances, as the people of Afghanistan are equipped with deadly weapons such as rockets, tanks and military aircraft. In particular, when the refugees have not completely returned to their dwellings inside Afghanistan. Therefore, the only solution to the problems is that Pakistan should use its all resources for safeguarding the Afghan right of self-determination. Otherwise, it should bring an end to its support for various Afghan armed groups and interference in the affairs of the country. Pakistan will be the first victim of, if it takes places on the basis of religous, tribal and regional divisons in Afghanistan. In fact, there were no such divisions in Afghanistan.
         Recent developments in Afghanistan resulted in a flood of plundered weapons on the markets of Pakistan. If stability and tranquility do not return soon to Afghanistan, the present situation will further deterioate in Pakistan.
 Muslim Central Asian Republics:
         By offering the sacrifice of more than one million martyrs, five million refugees and hundreds of thousands of widows, orphans and the disabled, the
                                              11
AFGHAN INFORM A TION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Afghan people have played a role in the collapse of communism and the liberation of nations, particularly the Muslim Central Asian Republics.
         These countries should compensate the reward by taking part in the stability and reconstruction of Afghanistan. In order to safeguard their national interests, these countries should have a stable Afghanistan in their neighbourhood, because some of these republics could not have an access to the south without Afghanistan.
         There are rulurs about the backing by some of these republics of some parties to the the fighting in Kabul. Some of these republics take a further step by saying that they cannot remain indiffemet to their fellow people. They are confronted with numerous problems, but they they want interference in other countries, such as Afghanistan.
 They should regard Afghanistan as a friend. Also, there are ethnic problems in these countries. If the situation gets tense in Afghanistan, tribal, ethnic and sectarian incidents will bum the neighbours of Afghanistan, especially the newly liberated countries who are less epxerienced than the Afghans.
 Saudi Arabia:
         The Afghan people are thankful to Sauid assitance for their Islamic jehad against the Russian invaders. However, this assistance was highly used for political purposes the consequences of which has caused concern among the Saudis.
         The presence of Arab combatants in Afghanistan creates a negative mentality against the Afghan supporters, particularly Saudi Arabia, among the Afghan people who want peace in their country. The recent events in Kabul have caused hatred among the people
                                                                    CONTINUED PAGE 43
                                       12
               COUP PLAN AGAINST NAJIB
        The plan for the coup against Najib was desinged in Mazar. It was announced on I9th March that the city of Mazar-i-Sharif fall to the Mujahideen. It was an important news story because 21st March, the new year day in Afghanistan, was the flag-raising day on the tomb of Hazrat Ali in Mazar-i-Sharif. Radio Kabul Broadcast a news item saying that Gen. Mohammad Nabi Azimi raised the flag in the presence of high ranking officials, including Sayed Ikram Paigir.
        Eye witness reports from the city of Mazar-i-Sharif on March 26 indicated that Mujahideen could enter the city by submitting their arms to the security posts around the city. The city was under the control of Gen. Rashid Dostom and Kayani Militia while the Mazar-Hairatan highway was under the control of Gen. Momin supporters.
        With these confusing rumors circulating in and around Afghanistan the leader of Jamiat Burhanudn Rabani clarified in two press conferences in Peshawar and Islamabad that the city of Mazar-i-Sharif was under the control of the Mujahideen of Shura-i-Nazar of Jamait Islami. He termed it as a great victory in the history of the Afghan Jehad. He also announced a coalition between Jamiat Mujahideen and the Jowzjani militia under Gen. Dostom. In the meantime another mujahideen leader Hekmatyar denounced the alliance, adding that some mujahideen had surrounded to the cpmmunist militia.
        The recent events in Afghanistan, particularly around Mazar-i-Sharif in the north, is an outcome of political, religious and ethnic differences and tensions. The situation has developed to an extent that it can easily get out of the control of its players.
        When differences between the commander of the north zone Gen. Juma Assak and the Jowzajani militia further deepened, a regime delegation under the leadership of the minister of state security Gen. Ghulam Farooq Yaqubi was sent to Mazar-i-Sharif in the second week of March. The delegation discussed the situation in detail with Dostum. The delegation requested General Dostum to go to Kabul for a reconciliation with Najibullah. Dostum wrote an official letter to the delegation saying that there was no need for him to go to Kabul.
        Hence, Najib warned his Homeland Party that there were some parly
13
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
members who were trying to spark ethnic differences in the country. He described it as a threat to the unity of the nation. He termed likeBaryalai, Paigir, Kawiani, Mazdak and as the main playprs of the plot.
         Najib soon Gen. Mohammad Nabi Azimi as a caretaker chief of the northern zone to Mazar-i-Sharif. He spent some time there. After his return to Kabul, the situation was still extremely confusing and uncertain. There were rumors about the formation of a regional alliance in northern Afghanistan. In the meantime Gen. Dostum, commander of Jowzzjani militia, in a press cconference in Mazar, said, NWe have set up an independent administration under the name of National Islamic Movement." He said that as head of military affairs, he enjoyed the support of many mujahideen. He also called on Najibullah to resign from his post, removing the biggest obstacle on the route to peace.
         It became clear that Mazar-i-Sharif went out of the control of the Kabul regime on 22nd March. It was under the control of Jawzjani militia and the militia of Sayed Jafar Nadt*.
         Eye-witnesses say that some shops and properties were looted during the first days in Mazar-i-Sharif. Later on normalcy returned to the city. All high ranking Pashtun officers in the army and militia units have been reportedly either removed from their positions or have been sent to non-combatant units. The situation is the same in civil administration. The following communique was issued in Mazar:
                                 In the name of Allah A Press Release by Gen. Dostum
         All militia forces and Mujahideen of Faryab, Jowzjan and Mazar-i-Sharif up to the Salang tunnel have forged an alliance with us. In particular, military units of the city of Mazar-i-Sharif, its two airports, the Eighteenth Division, the division in Hairatan and Mujahideen groups of Mazar-i-Sharif and its surrounding have joined our alliance. I, Gen. Dostum, am the commander of all Jehadi forces now. I inform you that I command more than five thousand militiamen of the north in and around Kabul, Logar, Gardez, Paghaman and Maidan city. We have made a concrete decision to overthrow the Najib government. Wait for our further announcements.
                                                                        Signature of Rashid Dostom
Note:    Reportes of news agencies are invited to visit the airports under our
         control.
14
         AFGHANISTAN IN A NEW HISTORICAL ERA
         March and April of 1992 were the most crucial months of the fourteen-year long critical history. New and unexpected developments began in March. Najibullah, ex-president of the Kabul regime and secretary-general of the former Soviet-backed Watan Party announced on March 18 that he was ready to resign soon after peace is restored in the country and the UN-sponsored five-point peace plan implemented.
         The situation in Afghanistan abruptly changed with the announcement of Najibuulah’s readiness for resignation. Contrary to the expectation of many experts on Afghanistan, the military power struggle started immediately after the UN Secretary-General’s special envoy Benon Sevan forced Najibullah to resign. Najibullah had indicated on many occasions in the past that his resignation would create a vacuum of power causing chaos in the country. His prediction turned to be true as fighting started between two Mujahideen groups in Kabul. The civilians in Kabul city are burning in the fire of war among the rival groups, including the Jowzjani militia. Many Afghan in and outside Afghanistan believe that the UN five-point peace plan is still a logical and effective solution to the crises in Afghanistan.
         It seems that the untimely resignation of Najibullah imposed by Benon Sevan on him not only destroyed the UN peace plan for Afghanistan, but also degraded the status of the UN system. It pushed Afghanistan into a battlefied of internal clashes and rivalries, which was described as a threat to the national integrity of the country by Benon Sevan. This became evident when the UN Secretary-Ggeneral Butrus Ghali called on the warring factions in Kabul to stop fighting and settle their differences through negotiation for a peaceful transfer of power from the Kabul regime.
         These developments were very fast and sudden in the country due to a cloudy political atmosphere in the resistance movement as a whole. Here is a brief explanation:
                               15
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
 Mazar-i-Sharif:
         It is rather an industrially developed city in the country. Its geographical location and economic significance had a vital importance for the former Soviet Union when its troops were in Afghanistan. The city played a similar role in the survival of the Kabul regime after the Soviet troops withdrawal in early 1989. The busy Hairatan port on the Oxus between Afghanistan and Central Asian republics is located in the province of Balkh. It was was the main supply route for die Kabul regime during the fourteen years of communist rule in Kabul.
         The Jowzjani, Sayed-i-Kayan militia and troops of Gen.Momin, through an alliance, brought Mazar-i-Sharif under their control on 19 March 1992. The Mujahideen, particularly supporters of Ahmad Shah Massoud surrounding Mazar-i-Sharif were allowed entry into the city. This played played an important role in the recent developments in the country. Eventhough the Mujahideen groups claimed their control over the airport, the airbase was in fact the air base was under militiamen of Dostom troops of Gen. Momin troops until 27 April 1992.
 'Herat:
         Herat was the third city after Charikar where regime militiamen joined gathered the Mujahideen for the control of the city. The militia men in Herat were among the strongest regime supporters during the last fourteen years. The efficiency of Mujahideen commanders and adequate organization among the resistance groups resulted in a peaceful transfer of power in the city. Herat is a historical city where people produce silk handicrafts. There are wind mills around.
                                 SITUATION IN PROVINCES
 Ningrahar:
 Jalalabad after Mujahideen control:
         In practical terms, Jalalabad was the last Afghan city that fell to a Mujahideen administrative council on 27th April. The Mujahideen had formed a 21-member local council for the administration of the city six months ago.
         In view of the strategic and economic significance of Jalalabad for the country, Naim Majrooh, Director of the Afghan Information Center (AIC), led his staff members, Zarghoon Shah Shinwari, Sayed Hashim Folad and Abdul Hameed
                               16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Toryalai, to the provincial centre of Ningrahar. The delegation was warml;y welcomed by the provincial governor, Haji Qadir, and Haji Shomali, head of provincial security.
         Following are the individual expressions of the AIC staff:
Sayed Naim M^yrooh:
         When Mujahideen commanders and the Kabul regime authorities feared a great plunder by crowds of people and mujahideen waiting outside the city on April 26, they remained in Jalalabad for three days to ensure the security of the city and a peaceful transfer. The local council elected a Haji Abdul Qadir as governor, Haji Shomali Ahamdzai as security incharge and Fazal Haq Mujahid as chief of military affairs.
         I met the governor and the security chief who made the following
         comments:
         We intend to operate all governmental offices by appointing qualififed people for various positions, but the staff of the former regime will continue their affairs under the supervision of the Mujahideen. We sent home the ex-governor of the former regime in honour while the generals of the armed forces, the governor of Kunnar and the heads of other administrative offices consult and help us in our daily affairs. Haji Abdul Qadir complained about the exodus of people to the city. He said that he was planning to operate various districts and sub-districts in the province, so the Mujahideen and the people could return to their original homes.
         The chief of security said that the era of groups and parties and competition has passed. Afghanistan is a common dwelling of all Afghans, so all the people should work together. We may not be able to do much here because of the unclear situation in Kabul. I believe that we should respect all human rights and provide basic needs to people, including educational facilities for men and women.
         Commenting on the mujahideen interim council under Prof. Sibghatullah Mujaddedi, Shomali said that the Mujahideen government should work for peace and reconstruction of the country. An administratative structure capable of performing these two tasks should respect the needs of the Mujahideen and the people. In spite of some security risks, we were able to provide safe passage to Prof. Mujaddedi through Jalalabad to Kabul on 27 April 1992. I accompanied the council up to Puli-Charkhi in Kabul.
                                17
Nos. 132 -135
Uth Year
March - June 1992
         Though a few commanders want to run the affairs of the province without any party influence, there are signs of party competition for controling key positions in the province. Mujahideen lack necessary qualifications and discipline for administration. The light arms have been already taken out of the city by different.
         The local administration was unable to keep the attendence of the armed forces intact. The conscripts have left for their home. The situation will deteriorate particularly, if the Mujahideen do not allow qualiftfed people. They enjoy the power.
 Zarghun Shah Shinwari:
         Zarghun Shah Shinwari, an AIC correspondent, who has closed followed the situation in the city during the last several years of war by interviewing different people, said:
    "Jalalabad was once a beautiful city and one of the most advanced and civilized centers in Afghanistan. The fourteen-year-long war has turned the city into an empty coffin. Its walls look like shooting boards. The holes and marks of bullets are clearly visible on them. There are no signs of new construction or repair in the city. The transport system has collapsed in the city, where Mujahideen vehicles moved in all directions without respect to any traffic rules. A traffic policeman was killed by a driver who was not familiar with the traffic rules.
         Armed men guard the buildings of Nangarhar University which has remained closed for the past months. The gates of girls schools also remained closed. An employee of Nangarhar directorate of education said that there were more than four thousand, girl students in schools in Jalalabad.
         There were sufficient foodstuffs in the city. People were very happy about a reduction in the prices of foodstuff and other primary needs. A wheelbarrow driver said that he his wife and few children did not have any food for three days days in 1989. He was happy over the abundance of food supplies in the city.
         A Hindu shopkeeper said that thirty percent of the market in Jalalabad was cominated by Hindus. Some four thousand Hindus celebrated Waisak (Hindu religous festival) in Sultanpur near Jalalabad before the fall of Jalalabad, but the number is not more than some hundreds now. He was worried about a ban by the new Islamic government on Hindus to pray in their temple.
                               18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         An employee of Jalalabad Radio and Television Directorate said that they broadcast and telecast various programmes in education, agriculture, politics, and Soviet fields in the past, but the programs have been confined only to Mujahideen activities and religious songs. There are no useful programmes for the people. There is no music in the programmes. Jalalabad is full of crowds of happy people. The inhabitants of the city remain in their houses being confused and uncertain about their. Except men and children, women were not seen in the city.
         All the government buildings and officers are occupied by the Mujahideen with different party flags on them. Most of the roads within the city has suffered heavy damage.
         The position of mujahideen council in Jalalabad was stable and secure. However, they will face great difficulties in view of empty banks in the city.
 Sayed Hashim Folad:
         The western part of Jalalabad with its suburbs consititute an important aspect of the city life. Hopitals, Nangarhar University and police and security offices are located in this part of the city. Sayed Hashim Folad, the AIC correspondent, was able to interview both mujahideen commanders and supporters of the former regime. Here are his co/nments:
 When Mujahideen entered Jalalabad, Mujahideen leaders were holding negotiations with the Kabul regime supporters in the headquarter of KHAD 6 located in this part of the city. At the end, the mujahideen took away light arms of the KHAD staff.
         Most of the agricultural land in Darunta, Surkhrod and Hada are lying uncultivated due to the scarcity of water. Many trees have dried and the city and its suburbs look like a gauze city.
 Abdul Hamid Toryalai:
         AIC correspondent, Abdul Hamid Toryalai, visited the eastern and northern parts of the city. Here is his report:
         When the Mmujahideen entered the city in the last week of April, they captured most of the military troops and distributed their arms among themselves. The mujahideen still occupied their positions.
                               19
Nos. 132 - 135
11th Year
March - June 1992
          There were many installations of the Kabul regime in southern and eastern parts of Jalalabad, extending from Hada to Samarkhel. This area was the main taiget oi Mmujahideen surface-to-surface missiles attacks. The land is full of anti-vehicular and anti-personnel mines. There are mines even under the asphalt road. The airport the Military Division and other military installations are located in the eastern part of the city. The airport has sufferd total destruction. The airport is full of damaged and destroyed aircraft. The eastern part of Jalalabad has suffered heavy destruetion in the city. The Mujahideen took away light arms from military installations where heavy machinery is still lying.
         On May 25, a correspondent of AIC visited Jalalabad, the provincial centre of Ningrahar. He gave the following account ofthe situation in the city:
         There was hustle and bustle in Jalalabad where people sold itemsof daily needs even in front of the shops.
         Families still arrive in Jalalabad from Kabul. A number offamilies are arrive from Peshawar for Jalalabad and other citiesin the country.
         Rent of houses has comparatively increased in Jalalabad. Atenant paid Afs. 2000 as a monthly rent, but they pay Afs. 5,000 now.
         The security conditions have detriorated in the city during the past two weeks in the city. Several incidents of burglary took place in the city. Also, supporters of the former regime andcivilians were killed at night. Some nineteen people, includingsome Hindus, have been killed so far. The victims were mostly members of the former Homeland Party. In this connection, the following incidents took place:
         On May 21, Mir Wali, a Parchami, who was party secretary of KuzKunar district, was shot dead at Bazazi Bazar. Mir Wali had been captured by Salafis upon the fall of the district headquarters ofKuz Kunar four years ago, . Upn release he went to Peshawar andspent two years in the city. However, he returned to Jalalabad last year.
         On May 22, another person was killed near the bus stand of Laghman.
         Nasim and Aziz were other victims of the recent killings in thecity.
                              20
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         Also, the house of, Gul Mohammad, former chief of Ningrahar Custom House, was plundered near the square of Marastun in thecity. The burglars took .away fourteen million Afghanis from thehouse.
         According to some reports from the city, personal enmity was the major cause for the killings in the city. The killings has created a sense of fear among the supporters of the formerregime. There are uniformed men in the city, but their presencehas no impact on the killings in the city. Meanwhile, commanders of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) have expressed their anger over the ill*treatment received by their leader from Hezb'e'Islami (Hekmatyar)men in the area of Surkhakan on the Kabul'Jalalabad highway. Thel eader was on his way to Peshawar from Kabul.
         Inter'organizational differences is the main cause for insecurity in the city. Mujahideen commanders are directly or indirectly involved in the incidents of killings and plunder to discredit each other. This situation has created a sense of fear in the city.
         Differences have also developed between Commander Shotqali ofMahaz (Pir Gailani) and Commander Mateen of Itehad'e'Islami. Commander Shomali wants to organize police force but he isopposed by Commander Mateen who is the chief of police in the city.
         The provincial administration has oppened Ningrahar University and other educational institutions in the city. Both boys andgirls attend the institutions to appear in their annual examinations befor the summer vacation.
         Women use veil or sheet (chadar) for their movement in the city.
         Foodstuffs were cheap and in abundance in the city. As a result,money has disappeared in the city where people cannot buy theitems of daily need. The streets of the city needs a clean' up operation. Large crowds of people and piles of rotten fruit and vegetables might cause diseases in the city.The two hospitals of the city were not fully operational. Prices of medicines were very high in the drug stores. A German health organization has begun a program for the treatment of paediatric diseases. There is a dire need for preventive programs in Jalalabad, because the existing medical facilities cannot meet the needs of the people.
         A change has occurred in television programs of Jalalabad since the early days of May. Previously, the T.V. telecast Jalalabad news, reports of meetings of the provincial Mujahidin council,religious sermons, etc. However, an Iranian military film on May 21 was a different procram.
                              21
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March -June 1992
         During the war between the Resistance and the Rusian'Kabul troops, the village of Hadda suffered compelte destruction. The museum of Hadda has been also destroyed. Statues of the museum were reportedly taken by the Russians.
         When Jalalabad fell to die mujahideen, mujahideen of all organizations entered the city capturing different military and public positions in the city. They took away various kinds ofweapons, especially light weapons, from these positions.
         Now the provincial council of commanders approach various commanders and ask them to return the lost weapons. The council has made some success in this direction, because the commanders are asked to swear by god that they have not taken any arms. As the commanders cannot swear, they admit that they have taken some weapons.
 Laghman
         Meterlam, the provincial center of Laghman, fell to the Mujahideen of Harakat (Mohammadi) on April 25. The governor of Laghman proposed a joint administration with the Mujahideen. In this regard, Commander Anwar of Harakat, said:
         "We discussed the matter with Hizb-e-Islamic which rejected a joint administration with the Kabul regime. Hezb favoured a joint administration with Harakat or other organizations in the province. However, established contact with the governor and other people secretly. Simultaneously, a clash took place between Hezb and Harakat in Meterlam, causing fifteen casualties on both sides. The center of the province was captured by HIA."
         There were some 3000 regime troops in Laghman backed by 40 battle tanks and anti-aircrafts. All these weapons were plundered along with government property. The people of the province face many economic problems.
 Gardez:
         The military authorities of Paktia announced their alliance with the Mujahidenn on 24th April and jined them finally. Gardez came under heavy Mujahideen attacks during the last fourteen years. In Particular, Mujahideen concentrated their operations against the city following the liberation of Khost by the Mujahideen in early 1991. Gardeiz is a strategically important city and an effective fort for the defence of Kabul in the south. During mujahideen operations
                             22
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 in last mid-winter, the governor of Paktia with several other high ranking officers were killed. In retaliation, regime air bombardment and shelling resulted in the killing of many mujahideen. The battle ended without a clear outcome.
         During the past few weeks when Kabul troops began surrendering to the Mujahideen, military officers in Gardez also joined the mujahideen to form a council headed by Maulavi Jalaludin Haqani. Gardiz was full of heavy and sophisticated military weapons. In addition to army troops, there were units of police, KHAD and militia forces equipped with heavy and light arms. When the Mujahideen entered Gardez the situation went out of the control and most of light arms were looted. Houses of militian men were also looted. Heavy arms and military equipment were distributed among various commanders, mostly by Mujahideen of Hagani.
         The outskirts of Gardez is inhabited by Mangal and Ahmadzai tribes. There are also some Dari speakers in Gardez itself. The two tribes were backed by Zadran tribe in military operations against the Kabul regime. The population of Paktia is completely Pashtun.
 Paktia:
         An AIC correspondent recently visited Gardez, the provincialcentre of Paktia. Here is his report:
         When the mujahideen invaded the city, plunder began by someZadran and Kochi tribemen. Then evrybody looted.
         Five persons were killed and four wounded when some civiliansopened
 fire on the plunderers. The civilians were allowed topossess weapons as a result of
 an understanding reached betweenthe mujahideen and the residents prior to the fall
 of Gardez tothe mujahideen.
                   ♦
         There is no administrative set'up in the city. Haji Naim Kochiof the Afghan National Liberation Front, the governor of Paktia,is deputy minister of tribal affairs in Kabul. He does not stay in Gardez.
         The vehicular traffic of the city was under the control of anomad man dressed in baggy clothes in the city. He had awhistle in his hand, and wore cap of a traffic constable.
                           23
Nos. 132 - 135
11th Year
                                              -------f--------
                                              March - June 1992
         Most of the mujahideen of the area have left for Kabul. A smallnumber of them guard heavy vehicles and weapons in the city.
         Most of the families of Paktia province in Kabul have returned totheir province following deteriorating security conditions in thecapital.
         A large number of refugees in North and South Waziristan agenciesare returning to their dwellings across the boder.
         Upon their entry into Gardez, the mujahideen tried to remove ironsheets from the runway of Gardez airfield for use as a Scrape,but an Arab offered them some money to prevent them from doirigso. The mujahideen accepted the offer but said in privacy afterwards that they would take the money and sell the sheets aswell.
        Our correspondent was witness to an incident when some peopleexploded a tank (in working order) in the city. The people loaded the pieces of the destroyed tank on a truck. Also, someconcrete buildings were destroyed to obtain scrape.
        There are no signs of iron material in Gardez, because ironsheets, etc. have been transferred to Pakistan. Doors and windows of government buildings have been destroyed.
        It seems that an unknown hand is working behind the destruction of Afghanistan.
        Gen.Imamudin, corps comander of Paktia, gaved us the follwing information on the size of military power in Garez prior to theplunder:
        1       6000 Soldiers along with their kalasshnikovs
        2       129 Tanks with 3500 rounds of ammunition
        3       70 Howitzers with 4000 rounds of ammunition
        4       15 BM' 21 Rockets with 2000 rounds of ammunition
        5       4 BM' 15
        6       8 Oragan rockets
        7       380 Rocket launchers
        8       300 PK Heavy Machineguns
        9       30 ZU'23 mm
        10      20 AGS grenade launchers
                             24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          I
     11 70 Armoured Personnel Carriers    
     12 15 BMPs                           
     13 8 ZSU'23 (Shilka)                 
     14 300 Vehicles                      
     15 2500 weapons in stock             
     16 400,000 litres Oil                
     17 220 million Afghanis in in bank   
     18 50 million Afghanis in safes      
     19 Foodstuffs (Rice, weat, vegtable) 
Ghazni:                                   
                      It is one of the historical cities in Afghanistan. The Ghaznawi civilization started in this city under the leadership of Sultan Mahamud Ghaznawi. The people of Ghazni have always resisted against foreign invaders. Ghazni, in addition to its historical significance, has a rich cultural heritage too. There were many poets, writers and important personalities in the city. The fort of Bala Hissar in Ghazni a witness to the memory of those who layed their lives in defending Ghazni from foreign invaders.
                      The mujahideen carried out attacks on the regime forces and Soviet troops from time to time during the last fourteen years, bringing heavy casualties on the enemy. Many mujahideen and civilians have lost their lives as a result of this long war. Like other parts of the country, Ghazni has also suffered heavy destruction due to regime’s regime aerial bombardment and artillery fire.
i
i
7
                      After the soviet troops withdrawal in early 19$9, the Sardeh dam and its agricultural development project came under the control of Qari Taj Mohammad, known as Qari Baba, without any clash with the Kabul troops. According to our # information, the project is fully in functioning conditions. There was a military division, called Fourteenth Division, in Ghazni.
                      Purina the third week of April, all the military and government staff of the Kabul regime in Ghazni city joined the Mujahideen council of Ghazni. The surrender took place without any incident of plunder. The employees of the former regime work under the mujahideen council.
                                      25
Nos. 132 -135
Uth Year
March - June 1992
                      Qari Baba is the top military and political figure in Ghazni. There are Andar, Kharoti, Hazara and some other ethnic groups living in Ghazni city. The majority is constituted by Pashtuns in the city. Most of the people are engaged in agriculture, husbandry and in country trade.
             Kandahar:
                      When the mujahideen entered Kandahar as a result of an agreement with local regime officials, a coaliton administration with Gen.Akram, regime’s military chief of Kandahar, was set up in the city.
                      To avail the opportunity, Sarkatib Atta Mohammad of Hezb' e' Islami(Hekmatyar) entered the city and captured the Kandahar Division,particularly the Armoured Regiment. Also, other commanders,including Mullah Naqibullah of Jamiat (Rabaui), moved towards thecity to bring various parts of the city under their control.
                      However, a council of 21 commanders, who had signed the agreement with regime authorities in the city, announced that no individual or organization could occupy any place in the city. They advisedt hem that they should leave the city. As a result, Commander Sarkatib Atta Mohammad was forced to leave the city and let the council to control the military units in the city. All documents and government property remained safe. The only exception was the theft of some weapons at die airport which came under the control of the council later on. The 21'member council was dissolved after one month. It was replaced by a grand council of tribes of south'western region of Afghanistan (Helmand, Kandahar, Uruzgan, Zabul).
                      The new council is formed of eight members of each seven major tribes and three members of each small tribe. The number of themembers of the council will reach eighty. The council has elected a ten' member presidium to carry out the affairs of the province. They are commanders Abdul Halim of Noorzai, Abdul Rahim of Alizai, Haji Bashir Ahmad of Ishaqzai, Mir Lali ofPopalzai, Gul Aqa of Barakzai, Hamid Agha of Sadat and Khan Mohammad of Alakozai (representative of Commander Mullah Naqib) tribes. The council has also one shiite and one Ghalji members. Mullah Naqib was not included in the council in view of his differences with Hezb'e'Islami (Hekmatyar). Also, military unitscame under the command of Gen. Akram and other military chiefs who work under the command of the presidium. The military units of the city has foodstuffs enough for two 1 years. Hospitals and government offices are in operation.
                                     26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                     Kandahar is historically the birth'place of modem Afghanistan. When internal problems increased in our country two and half centuries ago, the Afghans held the traditional loya jirgah to elect Ahmad Shah Abdali as its chief and thus create the national unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan.
                     Therefore, various efforts are underway to settle the Afghanissue, which has taken the form of a war for power with the help of foreigners, through a traditional gathering.
                     Last week Pir Gailani of Mahaz visited Kandahar and condemned foreign interference in Afghanisgan. He demanded holding of loyqjirgah which was welcomed by the residents of Kandahar.
             Helnjand:
                   - Regime troops were divided into two groups in the city of Lashkargah. Troops of KHAD approached Maulawi Rasul Akhundzada of Harakat while the Khalqis and others went with Commander Hafizullah Khan of Hezb'e'Islami (Hekmatyar) and commander Ata Mohmmad Khan (Joined Jamiat recently).
                     The mqjahideen of Maulawi Rasul Akhundzada entered the airport with the cooperation of KHAD troops, while Hafizullah Khan andAtta Mohammad Khan formed a coalition against Akhundzada tocapture strategically important points in the city.
                     A clash took place between the two sides. A rocket hit anammunition depot at the airport, causing a huge explosion in thearea. The mujahideen of Akhundzada along with the troops retreated from the airport with various kinds of weapons. As aresult, the coaliton of Hezb' e' Islami and Jamiat along with regime troops captured Lashkargah. Farahi, the governor, Allah Noor, a Khalqi general, Khan Mohammad, Garrison Commander,Commander Hafizullah Khan and Atta Mohammad formed the council. In this way Khan Mohammad played an important role by deceiving Akhundzada of Harakat.
                     Hcyi Rauf Khan Ishaqzai of Mahaz captured the town of Grishk.
                     Helmand was the battlefied of heavy clashes between Harakat andHezb'e'Islami (Hekmatyar) and between Hezb'e'Islami (Hekmatyar)and Jamiat (Rabani) during the Russian presence in the province. Poppy cultivation and high income were the main factors for the clashes. The clashes rpiulted in the expulsion of Hezb and Jamiat from the area. Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada, who
                                        27
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
             was killedin 1989 near Peshawar, became the dominant force in the area. Hewas replaced by his brother, Rasul Akhundzada.
                     When Lashkargah was captured by Hezb and Jamiat men, Rasul Akhundzada attacked Lashkargah. Akhundzada lost twenty fighters,while one hundered were captured. Meanwhile, a tribal delegation succeeded in implementing a ceasefire between the warring sides.
                     According to the latest reports from the area, the area of Hazarjuft has been given to Commander Atta Mohammad -of Jamiat. On the other hand, Commander Hafizullah does not want the membership of Rasul Akhundzada in the council, but all tribes and Akhundzada want peace and tranquility in the province. This positive development may lead to the creation of an overall unity of all tribes in south'western region of Afghanistan, which canplay a leading role in maintaining peace in other parts of the country.
             Nimroz:
                     Plunder took place in Nimroz, but local councils were formed toruri the affairs of different areas in the province.
             Farah:
                     Reports of plunder were also received from Farah, but details were not available.
             Baghlan:
                     As a whole, the provinice of Baghlan is controlled by Ismaili militia led by Sayed Mansoor Naderi. Some parts of the province are also controlled by Hezb'e'Islami (Hekmatyar) and Jamiat. Mamur Ghayur of Hezb control sugar factory near the city ofBaghlan.
                     A number of Khfdqis of PulVKhumri Division joined Hezb, while the Parchamis allied themselVbs with Commander Abdul Hai Haqjo ofJamiat. The Supervisory Council of the North led by Commander Massoud had control over the area of Dahan' e' Ghori. The Council has no influence in central Baghlan.
                     There is no fighting between Hezb and Jamiat in the province,though clashes took place between Jamiat and Hezb and between Jamiat and Supervisory Council of the North prior to the fall of Baghlan.
                                       28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
              Regime troops joined Ismaili militia in the areas of PumChumri and
      Doshi.
              Refugee families, especially Pashtuns, receive fine treatment from the militia in the province.
      Kunduz:
              The province of Kunduz bordering Tajikistan is mainly inhibited by Pashtuns.
              The province is controlled by four Pashtun commanders, such as Haji Khaksar of Mahaz (security chief), Mohammad Arif of Jamiat (chief of Spinzsar Company), Aamir of Itehad and Maulawi Mohammad Omar of Harakat (the governor).
              There is cooperation between the four commanders for the time being, though there are ideological differences in the proinvce.
              A large number of Pashtun and non'Pashtun families are leavingthe refugee camps of Jalala, Sawabi, Shamshatu, Palai and Dargaifor their dwellings in northern Afghanistan. Full evacuation ofthe camps is predicted after the Muslim festival of Eid .
                                   29
     FROM PESHAWAR TO KABUL AND MAZAR
             Mujadeddi’s Arrival in Kabul:
                     On his way to Kabul from Peshawar on April 27, Prof. Sibghatullah Mujaddedi was accompanied by an AIC correspondent. The correspondent then left for northern Afghanistan. Following is an account of his trip to Afghanistan:
                     When we left PcshaWar in a motorcade, elders of Pakistan tribal territory had gathered at various points on the Peshawar-Torkham highway to accord welcohie to the new president of Afghanistan. After a brief speech at Torkham, we began our journey towards Jalalabad. Mujahideen commanders waited on the road between Jalalabad and Torkham for the purpose of security and reception. We then moved towards Kabul from Jalalabad. Some Mujahideen waited near Du Saraka of Surkh Rud. Some people of the procession talked to those people. Joyous firing of small and heavy weapons took place from time to time. Mujaddedi performed prayer twice in Mujahideen posts on the road. Probably the posts were occupied by the Mujahideen of Hikmatyar’s Hezb-e-Islami. When we reached the gorge of Mahipar at 11:00 p.m., Prof. Mujaddedi was received by his son, Najibullah Mujadidi. Prof. Mujaddedi advised us to spend the night in a nearby village.
                     We moved towards Kabul the following morning. From Pul-e-charkhi up to Pul-e-Mahmud Khan, the residents of Kabul stood on both sides of the road to receive Prof. Mujaddedi. Chanting the thundering slogan of Allah-o-Akbar (Allah is Great), they threw rose petals on the motorcade of Prof. Mujaddedi.Mujadidi Sahib throwing petaly fllowers on Mujadidi Sahib motor cade. Some people, including General Nabi Azimi, Wakil, Gen. Asif Dilawar, Gen. Ulumi and Abdul Rahman (deputy to Commander Massoud), on tanks to receive the new presdient. The residents seemed to be very happy. They hoped that with the arrival of the Mujahideen peace and security would be restored in the city. They also hoped that prices of consumer goods would go down.
                                        30
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
                  Prof. Mujadedi entered the presidential palace. Generals of the regime, Mujahideen commanders, tribal elders, intellectuals amd residents came in groups to receive Mujaddedi and declare their support for him. .
                  When we reached the city, heavy battle was going on in Kabul. All shops were closed. Maranjan Tapa, Mirwais Maidan, Ministry of Interiror, Noor Mohammad Shah Mena and some parts of Shah Shahid were in the hands of Hekmatyar’e men.
                  Aslam Watanjar, Manukai Mangal and Rafi reportedly played an important role in helping Hezb men enter the city.Hekmatyar’s men entered the city through various routes. They were armed in interior ministry.
                  After some days of fighting, Sayyaf arrived in Kabul. Through his mediation a ceasefire came into effect and the people of Kabul became calm. Maulana Fazal Rahman also played an important role in this ceasefire. Sayaf however left for Paghman afterwards.
                  In Dehdadi military base, there were 240,000 light weapons which were distributed among the men of Dostum. A large amount of these weapons were reportedly taken to Jowzjan.
                  There were sixty-four jet fighters and eight transport aircraft at the civil airport in Mazar. These aircraft fly between Kabul, Mazar,Jowzjan and Kunduz. There were innumerable aircraft at the military airfiedl. They have scud Missiles too. Jet fighters and gunship helicopters constitute greater part of Dostum weaponry. Dostum himslef said, "I have about 150,000 to 200,000 warriors out of which 40,000 belongs to sayed Kayan, 20,000 to Gen. Momin and the rest belongs to me". Another general of Dostuom gave the same figure of warriors belonging to Kayan and Momin, but he gave the total number upto 300,000.
                  Armed peojfle are not seen in Mazar-i-Sharif. The city enjoy peace and security. Shops remain open till late night. Particularly hotels and resturants are open up to 1:00 a.m. Mujahideen do not move with arms in the city. The road between Mazar and Hairatan, between Mazar and Kabul and between Mazar and Kunduz is safe. Movement of vehicles continue on the Kabul-Mazar highway for twenty-four houis. The vehilces to and from Kabul are seen in the city. Farid Mazdak, Najmuddin Kawyani and Paigir were in Mazar-i-sharif during my stay in the city. Babrak Karmal and Mahmoud Barialy were said to be in Baghlan. Wakil was propably either in Tajakistan or Uzbekistan.
                                          31
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                      When I went to Hairathan, I saw huge heaps of Commercial goods and many tanks of petroleum. There was no room in the godowns in Hairatan. Since the situation is not satisfactory, traders do not come to collect their goods. State commodities are not sent to Kabul. Oil was sent only twice to Kabul. Gen. Momin, incharge of Hairathan security, said that he sent the oil on the request of Prof. Mujaddedi and not by the order of the government.
                      Apparently, Dostum is trying to stop ethnic differences in Mazar-i-sharif. People ask Dostum to return some sixty houses distributed by Juma Assak (former military chief) to his Kandahari friends. However, he does not agree with them, saying that an evacuation of these houses would strengthen the propganda that Uzbeks are against the Pashtuns.
                      Some 30 generals and advisers of Dostum supported the idea of a federal system and safeguarding of their rights. Whether they understand the meaning or not, the term is whispered in their ears.
                      The Kabul Administration is divided into two main streams, the moderates and the fundamentalists. The moderates favour the operation of schools, but the fundamentalists dislike the idea saying that the curriculuim is not up to date. The fundamentalists are against the presence of ladies in radio and televison programs.
                      The survivors of the Kabul regime are divided into two groups. A high ranking* Pashtun from the ousted regime said that Tajiks/Uzbiks/Hazaras were the sellers of the country, but officials of Uzbek, Tajik and Hazara groups described Pashtuns as the sellers of the country. Old ministers sit by the new ministers in their offices to guide them in relevant affairs.
                      The military units of the former regime are headed by Gen. Nabi Azimi and Asif Delawar. Military officers in the ministry of defence are powerless. • The Mujahideen of Koh-e-Safi headed by Maulvi Siddiqullah of Harakat control the Sixteenth Division.
                      The mujahideen control the following points in Kabul:
                      Tapa-e-Tajbeg (with its Scud launching center) by Harakat of Mohsini.
                      Darulamam and Russian Embassy by Jamiat
                      Kabul University, Karta-i-Char, Dehmazang and Darulaman Road by
                      Hezb-e-Wahdat
                                        32
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
              Afshar, Mirwais Mai dan, Dasht-e-Barchi and Mahtab Qala by combined units of Hezb-e-Wahdat and Harakat (Mohsini).
              Khair Khana Mena by Jamiat, Harakat (Mohsini) and Hezb-e-Wahdat
              Taimani by Sayed Kayan and Hezb-e-Wahdat
              Shahr-e-Nau, Wazir Akbar Khan Mena and Mikroian by Jamiat and Harakat (Mohsini).
              Pul-e-Mohamud Khan by Jamiat and Harakat.
              Kabul garrison by Jamiat.
              Ministry of Interior by Jamiat
              Pashtunitan Square-K&bul Airport Road by Jamiat.
              Kabul Airport by Gen. Majid, Deputy to Gen. Dostam Some offices by Mahaz, Itehad and Jabha Maranjan Tapa by Dostumis militia.
              Pul-e-Charkhi by Maulawi Shafiqullah of Harakat Bagrami-Pul-e-Charkhi area by Dostum’s militia
              In Kabul majority of Hazaras support Hezb-e-Wahdat. The rest favour Mohsini.
              The citizens of Kabul looked uneasy due to the protracted war and high prices. Particullary the unfortunate episodes of the last few weeks had caused fear among them. There is an atmosphere of uncertainty and doubt in the city. A gap has developed between the citizens of Kabul and the Mujahideen.
              There are some 15,000 of these ^nilitiamen in Kabul. Also, Gen. Rashid Dostam have a similar number of reserve militiamen in Mazar. They are equipped with large quantities of arms and ammunition left by the Russians in Hairatan and Mazar. Gen. dostam can arm more militiamen. He claims that he has some 160,000 armed men. he has also transferred aircraft from the airports of Bagram
33
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
            and Kabul to Mazar. He is also equipped with heavy weapons, such as Scuds, etc. Hence, his miltiamen are considered as the most dsiciplined and armed forces in the country.
                    Keeping in view the background of these militiamen, they are blamed for most of the plunder in Kabul, though Hezb (H), Hezb-e-Wahdat and Superivosry Council and others had also a great party in the plunder.
                    The militia units are not soldely formed of Uzbeks. There are Pashtuns, Tajiks. Turkumans and those mujahideen who joined the Kabul troops.
                    These militiamen play an important role in Kabul where their resistance forced men of Hezb (H) to leave Kabul after heavy clashes. They occupy important points, such as Kabul airport, Radio-Televison Station and Bala Hissar fort.
                    Backed by the Parcham faction of the party, these miltiamen played an important role in the coup against following a coalition with the Supervisory Council in the north. Of course, Babrak Karmal played a leading role in these developments. Gen. Dostam declared himself as supreme commander of the Mujahidin- militiamen before their entry into Kabul.
                                                          o
                    Dostam earned further significance when Prof. Mujadeddi promoted him to the rank of full general in recognition of his support for the mujahideen in Mazar. He addressed Dostam as a :great mujahid." Also, Prof. Rabani, fearing an end of Dostam’s support, visited Mazar following Mujadeddi’s visit and promissed him important share in his government. He praised Dostam to an extent that it embarrassed many commanders and mujahideen of Jamiat.
                    By playing an important role in the rivalries of mujahideen leaders, Gen. Dostam is daily enhancing his importance.He has also asked for a federal sestem of government.
            Mujaddedi Plan Attacked
                    On May 29, a rocket hit an aircraft carrying Prof. Mujaddedi, President of Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan, and his entourage over the runway of
                                      34
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
         Kabul airport. As a result, a co-pilot and an air hostess were wounded in the attack.
                 The incident took place when prof. Mujaddedi was returning with his entourage from a three-day visit to Pakistan. One of the three rockets fired at the aircraft hit the front part of the plane at an altitude of 200 meter. The rocket hit the cabin but the crew skilfully landed the aircraft.
                 According to reports from the capital, the rockets were fired from the Rocket Brigade between Pul-e-Charkhi and Khwaja Rawash airport. Some people say that an RPG-7 hit the aircraft from a short distance.
                                         CONTINUED PAGE 42 TO
                                     35
           KHALIS MEET AFGHAN INTELLECTUALS
                      On May 16, Moulvi Younus Khalis, leader of his Hezb, in his political office in Peshawar, said to a group of enlightened Afghans:
             "I am going to Kabul within two or three days. I condemn the clashes fought by Mujahideen groups for power. Afghanistan is a common shelter for all Afghans. Every Afghan has the right to play a role according to his capacity in the poltical and social structure of the ocuntry, though he might have a different faith and religion. Those who divide Afghanistan on the basis of religion, Language, and race in fact want to exploit their weak position by demanding a big share in the political set-up of the country."
                      He said that he oppose everyone who wants a monopoly of political power in the country. The Peshawar accord should be implemented in letter and spirit. Dostum and his militia forces should be weakened at a time, but it does not mean that he should leave Kabul for northern Afghanistan. It will turn into reality the intrigue of disintegrating Afghanistan favoured by our neighbours. All militia or government forces should be disarmed, whether they are in the form of Gelamjams or the Parchamis with Jamiat or in the form of the Khalqis or Jabar miliita with Hezb (Hekmatyar).
                      Regarding the future of Afghanistan, he said:
                      The era of party or political organization has come to an end. May Allah give reward for the role played by the organizations in the jehad for independence. Now it is time for building the physical and political structure of the country. The task should be assigned to competent people.
36
     CONTINUOUS CLAHSES IN KABUL
              On July 1, a clash took place between rival mujahideen groups at Sar-e-Chowk in Kabul. Several people were wounded in the clash.
              During the last week of June, a clash occurred between Hezb-e-Wahdat and supporters of Ahmad Shah Massoud near the ministry of interior in Kabul. Six people were killed and several injured in the clash.
              On June 2, fighting began between Saudi-backed Ittehad-e-Islami of Prof. Sayaf and the Iran-backed Shi’ite Hezb-e-Wahdat in various parts of Kabul. In the fighting that continued till June S, hundreds of people were killed, and more than
ngnting Dety/een me two Aij*nan sides, me two sides had distributed sufficent amount of weapons to their clients prior to the fighting.
              Fighters of Jamiat and Hezb supported Ittehad in its fighting with Hezb-e-Wahdat, while the militiamen of Rashid Dostum backed Hezb-e-Wahdat.
              In short, neighbours and supporters of the Afghan jehad are involved in the clashes to see their people in power in Kabul.ahes the ongoing clashes in
                           to eye-witness, Saudis and Iranians took active part in the
Kabul.
               HIGH INCREASE IN REFUGEE REPATRIATION
                 Since March 10, AIC correspondents have been engaged in collecting information on Afghan repatriation. A correspondent monitoring the Torkham route (the busiest entry point) reported that about 1100 families crossed the border between 10th and 20th March. These families returned to Nangarhar, Laghman, Kabul, Baghlan, Kunduz, Mazar-i-Sharif and Maidan. Similarly, 260 Afghan families crossed the border at Torkham between 23rd and 29th March.
                 AIC corresondents from Quetta say that many families returned to Afghanistan via spin Boldak in the month of March coincided with the Muslim month of Ramadan. The number of returnees was higher than that in the whole previous year. This can be easily seen in the fugees camps in Baluchistan, where many houses of the returnees have been either destroyed or are lying empty. In general, the number of the returnees in March was so high that the UNHCR personnel could not tasckle the affairs properly.
                 The reports add that thousands of returning refugees have applied the UNHCR office in Quetta to provide proper facilities for their life inside Afghanistan, facilitating their early return. The UNCHR paid Rs. 3300 and 300 kilograms of wheat to each refugee family holding ration card upon their return to Afghanistan. Our reporter discussed the matter with the responsible of the UNCHR branch for returnees who were happy at the return of Afghans to their homeland. There are many economic and technical problems in the process of repatriation. The agricultural lands in most parts of the country have remained uncultivated for several years. If the refugees return in mass movements, lack of houses, food stuff and medical facilities will definitely threaten the life of people.
                 The UNHCR should provide transportation facilities for returning refugees. The UNHCR is not willing to provide transportation facilities for thousands of families returning in a relatively short span of time. The returnees themselves pay for the transportation costs of their belongings. As they take beams and frames of windows and doors, their former dwellings look like ruins in the camps.
                                       38
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
                  The report says that lack of UNHCR facilities for the returning refugees has cause a delay in the repatriation process. If the UNHCR succeed in providing transportation facilities to the returning refugees, a major portion of more than one million refugees in Balachistan will leave for their dwellings in a few weeks time.
                  When one of our correspndents asked a refugee in the Kacha Garhi about the mass repatriation, he said:
                  "I am an unskilled laborer, and I earn 45 Rupees per day when I find work. I can hardly find an employment for 15 or 18 days a month. I have not received my ration during the last three months. I intend to return to my village inside the country after Eid. The high prices here has made my living extremely difficult. Therefore, I can not live here any longer."
                  A mullah living in Khazan camp said that he had not achieved the goal for which he migrated to Pakistan. Even though we have no ration in the present difficult circumstances, we are here for the satisfaction of Lord (Allah). We have sacrificed our lives, and the sacrifice of property and money is less than that, he said.
                  A restaurant waiter working from 6:00 to 22:00 hours for 40 Rupees said that he would go back to the country in the same way when he came here. I did not consult any one when I left my country, and I am not going to ask for anyone’s advise for my return. I don’t care about ration or Benon Sevan’s peace plan.
                  An Afghan barber said that many people will return to the country, if the routes are opened. He said that the war is not going to stop for several years anyway, because every person in almost every village claims to become the head of state in Afghanistan.
                  A person involved in money exchange business in Chowkyadgar Peshawar said that his return depend on the return of the rest of the Afghan people. He said that many people bought Afghan currency for their return.
                  Another refugee living in a camp in Kohat city said that he was waiting for the day to return to his home, carry his gun and defend the country.
                  A commander in Hangu says arms supplies for Jehad and ration for refugees have disappeared. He lived on these two sources, but he had no option but to return to the country now.
                                     39
                   AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                      A teacher in Monda camp said that if he got enough money to for his return and three-month living, he would immediately leave for his homeland.
              New Refugees:
                      Due to the lack of peace and security in Afghanistan Afghans have embarked on migration to Pakistan. During the last two weeks many families have reached Peshawar and other parts of Pakistan.
                                                                  V
                      After the withdrawal of Russian forces, Afghan Refugees in Pakistan began theri return to the liberated areas in Afghanistan. In this connection, many families left Baluchistan for Afghanistan. In early 1991 and late 92, this process became very fast. Almost all refugees were ready to return to their countryparticularly after the UN repatriation program in February/March 1922. A number of them returned to Afghanistan, while others in search of labour left for big cities due to limited ration in the past several months. Economic problems forced them to leave their camps.
                      But the rapid developments during the months of March and April in Mazar-e-Sharif and Kabul respectively put the UN programme in a cold storage. Clashes between rival groups in Kabul forced many people to leave Kabul. The destruction in areas, such as Noor Mohammad Shah Meena, Shah„Shaheed, Lahori Darwaza, Chandawal, Zaman Khan Kala, Deh Khodaidad, Jada-e- Nadir Pashthoon, Jada-e-Maiwand, Shahre Naw and Bagh-e-Alimarkan, caused problems for the residents who left their dwellings for northern provinces, Parwan, Wardak, Maidan, etc. and eastern Afghanistan, such as Jalalabad.
                      In Jalalabad almost in every house there are two, three or more families from Kabul. Many others have reached via Thorkham and other routes. Some of them them reside in cities while others have stayed with their friends and relatives in Refugees camps.
                      Among the new comers there are active members of the then communist regime who had committed crimes. Due to insecure conditions in Kabul, they have arrived in Peshawar.
       AN OPEN LETTER
         During a visit to the AIC on February 8, 1988, Felix Ermacora of the United Nations Commission for Human Rights, said:
         "The Afghan Information Center is not only a reliable source of information jouranlists and researchers, but it has also assisted our Commission to discover and identify innumerable crimes committed by the warring sides inside and outside Afghanistan during the past several years. "
         Mass media of the free world considers AIC as a bridge of information between a strategically important part of the eastern world and the remaining world. However, we are sorry to inform pour readers that the bridge is close to a financial collapse at a time when dozens of incidents are daily taking place in each city and district of Afghanistan.
         The AIC joined the convoy of the Afghan Resistance in its struggle against Russia to safeguard the freedom, territorial integrity and national sovreignty of Afghanistan. In this connection, we have carried out objective reporting, and have pointed out bitter facts in our publications. As a result of this sense of reaslim, Prof. Majrooh, founder of the AIC, came under a murderous attack in February 1988.
         As the Russians paved the ground for their intervention in Afghanistan through their puppets, our neighbours and regional allies of our jehad crated groupings among the Afghan resistance to further their interests. The ongoing oppressive war exposed the power ambitions of those who claimed to be the champions of the holy war- These people created differences on linguistic, tribal and sectarian basis to gain power in the country. The turned Kabul into a battlefied of regional and international rivalries. Thousands of foreign mercenaries entered Afghanistan with an intention to fight on the streets of Kabul, while the Afghan people longed for peace the country. In this connection, public and private property was plundered, causing complete chaos in the country.
                                         41
Nos. 132 -135
llth Year
March - June 1992
         All regional and international parties who involved themselves in the Afghan conflict to further their interests miscalculated the nature of the Afghan society. As a result, they were unable to exploit the situation in their favour.
         If these parties continue their interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, they will not remain safe from the current explosive situation in Afghanistan. Being aware of the intentions of these parties, the Afghan people believe that these people will flee the country to avoid accounmtability by the nation.
         Therefore, the AIC request the international community to morally support the Afghan right of self-dtermination in view of the contribution of the Afghan people to the cause of freedom in the world. The AIC also requests their assistance to lighten the dying torch of freedom and knowledge in Afghanistan.
                                     ;
                                     42
                   UN PLAN....
       DOCUMENTATION ABOUT JOWZIANI MILITIA. HEZB HEKMATYAR JAMIAT FIGHTING AND MUJAHIDEEN ELECTION
Armed Jow/jani Militiamen:
     These militiamen, who were recruited in the framework of KHAD by Najibulluh as security and task force, are paid mercenaries. They are notorious for the tough operations and crimes. They commited any act for money and other privileges. These militiamen had the right to own all the booty in an area. They also received money for their advance in a certain area from regime authorities. For example, they received a fixed amount of money for one metr advance in an
         Previously, it was thought that they had been brought by the Russians from Central Asian regions to Afghanistan. In this connection, we quote a report on these militiamen from one of the previous issues of cur Monthly Bulletin. Militia was raised in Jcwzjan province and iaier cn from other provinces in the north. Most cf them had already been sent to Russia for education and training and it is likely that these people along with Kazaks, Uzbeks, Tajiks and other Soviets have come back to Afghanistan and been named the Jowzjaai Militia.
          Toe Jov/zjani Militia is r. joint force cf IT Rashid Port urn who has given himself the name commander
isians and Uzbeks. An Uz.lr.tk, I Hero of Afghanistan is theit
        A force cf Jowzjani Gelamjam, said he was from M: in Kunduz.
 Militia vent to
                                                                                                mC’in-if IT., ,
Kundv.z. Their commander /as responsible for much cruelty
         Three Mujahideen v/ere exchanged for a corresponding number of Jowzjani Militia commander". AIC month!! Bulletin No. 92- Nov. 83).
         "The Jouzjani militia men snatched Afs. 150,000 from Sham (a Hindu mone\ exchange dealer). The Jowzjanis take any thing from anyone once they like
                              43
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
it. This has deteriorated relation between the governor of Kandahar and the party chief of Kandahar.
         The Jowzjani militia is a new phenomenon which was introduced in the provinces of Kandahar, Herate and Farah. They even do not care about Khalqis and Parchamis.
         They are notorious for their Savagery and brutality. The Russian are trying to reduce the number of the malitia men in Kandahar". (AIC M.B No 93 Dec. 88)
         "The highway between Kabul-Jalalabad is guarded by the Gelamjam militia who number up to 2500 on the route. The chief of the malitia, Dostum, lives in Kabul. People are tormented by the very existence of the malitia. People are robbed of their personal belongings by members of the militia when passing the highway. It has been know that sometimes even women are taken from the buses and kidnapped.
         These days the militia are undisciplined. There is one story of an unfortunate girl. She used to wear men’s garments and go back and forth on the highway. This was learnt by the militia. They took her from a bus and vanished for ten days. Afterward, she was brought to the Ningarhar University Hospital. She is still in this hospital. The inhuman conduct of the militia compelled the people and even the government supporters to complain to the higher organs of the regime.
         To assess the situation a militia delegation was composed of five officers— two colonels and three majors. The militia severely beat the officer and let them free only after the interruption of Dostum, their leader.
         Arriving at Kabul they cried for redress, nobody listened. The regime is taking good care of Gilam Jam for they are dogging for security of the highway". (AIC M.B No. 107 Nov. 89).
         "Najib has granted particular privileges to the militia the same as he had granted to Russian army. The militia are looting Kabul city just as the Russian did. They are killing innocent people, dishonoring the women, but are not being stopped by the regime’s men. Some examples of their conduct are:
         On Dec. 5, 1989 a police officer from the first security zone of Kabul city has said that the Jowzjani militia resorted to looting everywhere. They dishonored
                               44
                AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
women and stabed people, including the party members. Watanjar, the interior minister was informed. He stated that Najib becomes angry if we try to control the militia. Ironically a day later the same officer was killed in a clash with the militia. The bodyguard of the same police officer narrates the incident. The officer was informed that the militia were in the process of looting people and shops in Sarai Shahzada (money exchange market) and Kochi markets. While accompanied by two subordinates and a few guards, he moved toward the market.
        Their tanks stopped at the gate and they entered the market by post. They saw that four militia men were standing inside a shop and forcing the shopkeeper to give the money. The officer ordered the militia to return the money, but the militia refused to do so. Fighting broke out and continued for 24 hours. The commander, four militia men, two civilians were killed and two police officers were injured. The clash continued and additional security forces arrested a number of the militiamen. The detainees were soon released and no one interrogated them. In another incident the militia forced eleven women out of a public bath in Qalacha (south of Kabul) and kidnapped them. (From Professor Dr. Mohammad Qasim Jamdar member of the academic council of Kabul university and Rector of the Polytechnic Institute.
TAKHAR INCIDENT
        "Hezb Islami of Hekmatyar committed a crime by killing 30 Jamiat Mujahideen and commanders in Takhar province on July 9," said a press release of the political committee of Jamiat on July 19.
        The press release said Hezb Islami had taken posiont on the road jp
Takhar.
         The press release cdntinued:    "In  the past, Jamiat played down the
problems between Mujahideen parties. Small incidents were not made public. The Farkhar massacre changed Jamiat’s view."
         This is not the first or only incident during the past eleven years of Jehad history. In fact, there are records of even internal armed conflicts in many parts of the country over the years.
         The bitter fact is that tens of thousands of our countrymen including children, old people and women have J^fccome victims of such clashes during the last eleven years in the country. Many people have been forced to leave their homes and properties in order to survive such regional, party-based and other kinds
                               45
Nos. 132 -135
11th Year
March - June 1992
 of competitive clashes. The internal clashes did not remain only within Afghan territory but were exported outside of the refugee settlements. A considerable number of important and well-known commanders have been killed in various parts of Pakistan as well. The loss of many such commanders actually turned the backbone of all the jihad into a skeleton, but no one paid attention. Many of the educated staff and intellectuals became victims of terrorism and many more fled from Pakistan for their survival. The political madness and absolute monopoly of certain interests has imposed a dead silence on the Afghan community. Under the prevailing circumstances here, expressing facts and indicating reality leads to risks equal to suicide.
         The clashes in Maidan, Ghazni, Parwan, Hazarajat, Laghman, Baghlan, Kapisa, Takhar, Badakshan and Kunduz are examples and proof of this bitter fact. The ugly realities about internal suffering will come to light when the war ends, and the people can express themselves freely. The free world will be amazed to learn how the Afghan people continued in spite of these internal problems.
         At a large demonstration meeting held by Jamiat Islami on 29 July 1989, Rabbani said: "We have witnessed several times the commitment of Hezbe in such criminal action. In fact we do not want to hand documents to our enemies indicating disunity of mujahideen and probability of internal clashes.
         The key persons leading to this crime on the level of leadership who have given instructions, orders or green light to the criminals to carry on the crime should be brought to an Islamic court. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar must be expelled from the interim government.
         When Hekmatyar arrived with his supporters in Shakardara district of Parwan province recently, they launched a large attack on the mujahideen there, killing many people.
         Abdul Qadir Karyab of Hezbe Islami said:             "Similarly  Professor
 Mujadeddi cold not preserve his impartiality about the incident in his expressions. Mujaddedi wants to exploit the situation in order to get closer to Jamiat. The term of the president of the interim government is coming to an end. Prof. Mujaddeddi wants to extend his term.
         Yahya Masood brother of Ahmad Shah Masood said: "The order for killing these commanders was directly given by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. This is not a new case, in fact Hezbe Islami has killed hundreds of such important mujahideen
                               46
                AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
commanders in Afghanistan during the last eight years wants to remove obstacles from the way in order to open way for future power monopoly.
                                                                  AIG ELECTION PLAN
        The election commission of the AIG has recently published the first ever election law in Peshawar. A small booklet carrying 44 articles of the law, which has been named as "Qanun-e-Tashkil-e-Loya Jirga-e-Muntakhab-e-Islam-i-Hal-o-Aqd-e-Afghanistan. (Law for the Formation of an Islamic Elective Competent Loya Jirgah of Afghanistan).
                                                  QUALIFICATION FOR CANDIDATES:
        One who has participated in the Afghan Jehad, who has not been sentenced by Islamic Court for a crime or misdeed in the course of Jehad, who possess proper religions knowledge, who is not affiliated to deviant political groups, who not taken stand against the Islamic Jehad.
                                                       QUALIFICATIONS FOR VOTERS
                       Persons having the following qualifications may elect members of Loya
                                                                                   Jirga:
        1. Muslim and National of Afghanistan, who has not taken stand against the Islamic Jehad, who is sane and adult, who is not affiliated to any deviant political groups.
                                                                           ELECTIONS
        Hezb-e-Islam and Salafi (Moulavi Jamil-u-Rahman) held election in Kunnar. They had divided the province into seven zones, seven election commissions were assigned the job of supervision. The election was rejected by AIG and all six parties and the refugees in Pakistan. Both parties had spent large sums of money to attract voters. Teenage boys were also included among the voters. In view of the amount of money which the principal participants put into this election, the result is a resounding failure for both of themH. AIC M.B NO. 108 March 1990.
        "The result of the election was kept secret for a long time by each organization. Each organization talked about its own victory and rejected the claim of the other. Jamiat-e-Islami of Pakistan used all its resources in favor of Hezb-e-
                              47
Nos. 132 - 7J5
11th Year
March - June 1992
 islami. Both sides had agreed that they would jointly bear the expenses of the election, but differences eir irged when members of the organizations asked their organizations to give them money differences were a jeopority. At present there are three governors in Kunnar: (AIG, Salafi (Jamilu-Rahman) and Hezb-e-Islami". AIC M.B No. 109 April 1990.
 "CONFROiNTATlOlY BETWEEN HEZB AND JAMAIT
        On Aug. 28, 1989 Hekmatyar clarified that only 11 Jamiat men, including six commanders were killed in the encounter which was triggered by a dispute of local nature.
        Eng. Ubaidullah, deputy chief of Hezb-e-Islami told a press conference that Masood had launched a large scale attach on the base of commander Said Jamal in Takhar with the full backing of the government forces recently, killing a number of civilians and mujahideen. He said about 300 persons, including 200 from Jamiat, had died in these clashes recently... He claimed these clashes began after Prof. Rahbani’s visit to Panjshir. He reminded that responsibility for the consequences following Jamiat’s jingoistic policies would rest with its leaders.
        Meanwhile a Jamiat press release informed that commander said Jamal and some of his companions had been arrested, handed over to an islamic trail and punishment". AIC B.L. No. 101 Aug. 89.
        "Said Jamal, his brother and two other commander of Hezbe Islami executed on Dec. 22, 1989 in the capital of Takhar province Taluqan". AIC M.B.L. Nol 105-106 Dec. 89 Jan. 90.
        "In Andarab, Baghalan clashes contmued between Jamiat and Hezbe Islami". Fighting was continuing between Harakat (Mohammadi and Hezbe Islami (Hekmatyar) in Laghman" (Ghulam Rabani) AIC M.B.L No. 109 April 1990.
        "The AIC correspondent in Quetta reported that the Mujahideen of the late commander Mavlavi Nasim Akhundzada attacked the base of Haji Abdul Rahman of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar). The death of commander Akhundzada has caused great anger among the people in Kandahar, Zabul, Ghazni,Urzgan, Herat, Nimroz, Freah, Helmand and other provinces".
                                 48