^GHAN
  INFORMATION
   QENTRE
            MONTHLY BULLETIN
                            The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.    To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.    To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)   International news media
        (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription              Bank Account No. 1131354558001 
Institutions        : US$    100 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK         
Individuals         : US$    70  Grindlays Bank PLC             
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe      Peshawar - Pakistan            
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
                AFGHAN INFORMATION
                        CENTRE
                   Monthly Bulletin
        No.108       March 1990
CONTENTS:
I     ATTEMPTED COUP IN KABUL  1 
II    ELECTION IN KUNAR       11 
III . TRIBAL JERGAH              
IV    KANDAHAR SITUATION      22 
V     HEZB RALLY              25 
      •                          
VI    MILITARY NEWS           28 
                                 * * * * * * * * *
                             ATTEMPTED COOP IN KABUL
     The failure of the March 6 coup has now been asserted. It has cleared ideological and political commitments and has brought into light the two actors in the theater of recent developments, Shahnawaz Tanai and Assadullah Sarwary. When Taraki was in power Assadullah Sarwary was chief of the notorious "AGSA" inteligence agency. According to official data of the Kabul regime he was the assassin of over 12,000 members of the Parcham faction whos names were disclosed by Hafizullah Amin. Classmates of Tanai are mostly colonels and majors while he himself had a prominant position among the uper echelons of power. Besides being the Defence Minister, Tanai was member of the Defence High Council, deputy-chairman of the Military Commission and an outstanding leader of the Khalq faction especially being member of the poliburo of the PDPA Central Committee. He advanced swiftly to the rank of general.
     The swift prontion of Tanai in the ranks of the party and state is indicative of his loyality to the regime. He contributed zealously in crushing mujahideen actions in Zhwara (1986) and Zadran (1987) which were Resistance strongholds.
     Tanai and his commrades have been supported in their attempt by a group of mujahideen who are famous for their radical standpoints. The group always insisted on a military solution to the Afghan problem, the same attitude wfrich was shared by Tanai and his hardline commrades.
Parcham and Khalq both claimed that mujahideen are tools in the hands of foreigners and the Islamic group have
1
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
always insisted that the gap between Islam and communism is unbridgeable. This was why many innocent and simple mujahideen and militia have been severely tortured and executed having been accused of being communists and infidels.
     Both Tanai and Hekmatyar gave their opinions on the coup. For instance in a press conference on March 10 Hekmatyar stated:    "If the coup is a success then the
truimphant officers and jehad commanders will form a council around Kabul and they will announce a general election in six months."
     Shahnawaz in a taped message sent to Peshawar said: " We had a military uprising in agreement with mujahideen. Our aim is to form a temporary order to prepare the context for holding a general election through which an elected government would come to power."
     The point is if two radicals, a Khalqi famous for his hatred towards mujahideen and a fundamentalist party, can come to an agreement on forming a coalition then with whom should the nation fight.
     Now the question arises:     When two radical groups
can come together why shouldn't the moderates On both sides not seek some sort of understanding?
     The refugees are amazed to see that one who led so many of them to Pakistan is involved in this episode. The impossible is becoming possible. Despite this tKe dream of the majority has not yet been realised.
New propaganda by the Kabul regime:
     Since March 10, the regime,s mass media, - and Kabul radio in particular have launched a propaganda compalgn which embraces both "war" and "peace".
                              2
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
Dr. Najib read the text of the letter sent to outstanding figures in exile definitely pointing to Zahir Shah, the former king. Najib said in the letter, "I am ready to quit but Tanai was not content with reconcilaition nor with the return of the former king".               #
     He continued, "Tanai has joind hands with those who also do not want reconciliatory programmes".
     rvubul radio has changed the tune of its propaganda against the Iran based parties and mujahideen supporting the Interim government.
     The Regime's foreign minister, Abdul Wakil, in a letter to the United Nations Secretary General has accused Pakistan of having a hand in the foiled coup attempt and warned that his government will not remain indifferent to similar moves in the future. The claim has been refuted by Pakistan,s foreign minister and Ms. Bhuto, the prime minister who asserts that the coup was an internal affair and an indication of the weakness of the Kabul regime.
The propaganda conpaign is so resolutely aired that armed confrontation is advocated against Tanai and Hekmatyar and they are accused of being belligerent elements.
The Mujahideen and People Reflect on the latest coup attenpt.
     On March 7 Kabul Radio announced that the coup attempt was lead by Shahnawaz Tanai, Assadullah Sarwary and their commrades.
     When the people knew that Assadullah Sarwary, the previous chief of AGSA, the hated intellegence service of Taraki , was also involved the attempt they were
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 astonished and could not think well on the event. In this connection Sibghatullah Mujadidi, President of the Interim government of the Mujahideen said:     "If we had
 been ready to give the Parchamis and Khalqis some share in the future political structure of Afghanistan a deal would have been made a long time ago but this idea was. rejected by the mujahideen parties. If the communists seek asylum and ask for forgiveness for their earlier misdeeds the mujahideen are ready to preserve their, honour and security. But from what I heared from Tania, that he is going to form a revolutionary council, we reject totally this idea. We are preparing ourselves for future elections for the grand assembly and want the nation to choose their leadership".
      Replying to a question about his position if Hekmatyar and Tanai formed .a coalition government in Kabul, Prof.Mojadidi said:    "We will continue       our
 jehad against them".
      The Prime Minister of the Interim government Prof. Sayaf said:   "Now that  their is infighting between the
 Khalq and Parcham factions of the communist party the mujahideen should make use of their differences and intensify their struggle to topple the regime. Whoever defects to the mujahideen from both sides should be protected".
      Thousands of Afghans have been martyred in the infighting of the Khalqis and Parchamis but the world is silent concerning this crime. Both sides should submit themselves to the mujahideen Interim Government.
      The Defence Minister of the Interim Government, Mowlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, asked for his opinion on the coup of Tanai said that the mujahideen should continue fighting against the reigime as before and that there was no reason to change their strategy.
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
 Hekmatyar, chief of the Hezbe Islami says:
      "We fully support     the uprising and order the
 mujahideen to assist the pro-Tanai forces to topple the Najib regime. If the coup is successful the Tanai forces and the mujahideen around Kabul should form a joint council and then hold       election after   six months,
 otherwise, the jehad against Najib will go on. I was aware of the coup before hand and had relations with them. Even the interim      government knew  about it    but
 declined to take part".
 Pir Sayed Ahmad Gillani, chief of the NIFA says:
      "No coups could solve the Afghan problem. The fact that now open warfare       is occuring between      the two
 factions of the communist  party is good ,   both   are our
 enemies. But forming a coalition government with the Khalqis is national treason and in full contrast to the ideals of our jehad. Even negotiations with the Khalqis would not be possible."
      Mawlawi Mohammad Yunis Khalis, chief of Hezbe Islami (Khalis) condemned the coup and said, "We do not have the slightest connection with the communists. This is the Russians that want to join a few officers with the mujahideen and still preserve its upper hand in Afghan affairs."
 Professor Rabani, chief of Jamiat Islami expressed^ his view on the coup and said:
      "There is no visible difference between Najib and Tanai. The communist take over of power in the country was analogous to real disaster and turned the country into a blood bath. Whatever, Hekmatyar does, is his own business but every development in which the mujahideen have no contribution, is not in the interest of the nation and will intensify the internal problems. We will not support such a measure .

AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     On March 6, at one p.m. (local time) three jet fighters appeared in the skies of Kabul and dropped bombs on the presidential palace and key governmental headquarters in the city. It was the inception of the coup attempt by Shahnawaz Tanai, the Defence Minister against the Khalq-Parcham regime which has been in power since the downfall of Hafizullah Amin. After about an hour Kabul radio discontinued its normal broadcasting and instead aired patriotic songs and announcements of the regime. At the begining some of the pilots from Bagram airfield bombed the city. The center of the coup was the Darulaman palace, the headquarters of the Defence Ministry where Gen. Tania was giving orders to his supporters.
     At ten that night Najib read an anouncement on the radio:   "The high command of the Afghan Republic informs
all patriotic countrymen that the traitor Shahnawaz Tanai, has fled his former hidding place and has gone to an unknown destination. The Afghan listeners inside and outside Afghanistan were        anxiously following the
developments. At eight p.m. the same night Gulbudin Hekmatyar, chief of Hezbe Islami supported the coup attempt and ordered all his commanders and forces to back the anti-regime rebel forces.
     When Hezbe Islami officially announced its backing for the coup launchers, Afghan refugees and parties in Peshawar* faced uncertainity as to which line to follow. Kabul radio repeatedly announced that the situation throughout the country was under control but Pakistan radio and Television announced that Najib had taken refuge in some embassy or fled and that the Tanai forces were swiftly progressing. It announced that Logar, Zabul, Kunduz and Saroubi were under control of the mujahideen. On March 7 at 9 a.m. Najib delivered a speech through Kabul radio and annouced "We have crushed the forces supporting Gulbudin and Tanai and the coup attempt which was designed by the Pakistani ISI and executed by Hekmatyar,s party has been foiled".
                               6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Supporters    of the coup in Peshawar, through
announcements, gave assurances to the refugees and the mujahideen that soon the regime in Kabul would be toppled . VOA aired the message of Hekmatyar and he himself briefed journalists of the developments in Kabul. It was eleven o'clock on March 7 when rumors about the take over of the Parwan, Bagram and Kabul airfields, Sarobi and Mohamad Agha (Logar) garrisons circulated in Peshawar. It also reported that Najib suporters had been arrested in Jalalabad and the city was npw controled by Tanai,s forces.
      Two hours later it was announced by the regime that the Najib forces had taken over the coup centre and Tania had fled. At 1.00 pm it was announced that the war was centered around Bagram airfield. The airfield came under heavy attack and was bombed, the terminal and the run way were out of operation. It was 2:30 p.m. when one MI 17 helicopter landed at Jamrod, near Peshwar and brought Tanai, his family and two Generals to Peshawar. Meanwhile, 13 high ranking officers including four generals in a military transport plane landed in Parachinar airbase. Among the officers, the commander of the airforce, Gen. Abdul Qadir Aka, Gen. Shafiq and Gen. Hamzah were the prominant figures of the failed coup.
      This was obviously a big shock for Dr. Najib's regime. He addressed his forces twice in one day. He announced that most of the coup supporters were either killed or had surrendered themselves when they knew that the coup was launched with the help of Hekmatyar.
      The night Hekmatyar spoke of the failure of the coup he said that difficulties had arrisen after the termination of # communications between Tanai and his supporting forces. At the same time the Kabul regime announced the murder of three outstanding rebel figures Gen. As if Shoor, Gen. Jafer Sartir and Gen. Karwal. Meanwhile, Gen. Tanai has transfered his base from Darulaman to Bagram airfield.
                                       7
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
      The resistance forces in Peshawar and Iran did not back Shahnawaz Tanai and Assadullah Sarwary who was known for his mass killing of the people.
      Radio-TV of Pakistan announced that Dr. Najib had fled and was hidden in one of the embassies while fierce fighting continued between the two rival factions. It also announced that the Bagram and Khawja Rawash airports had been taken over by the rebel forces. In the same night Kabul radio in its eight o,clock news bulletin announced:    'From tomorrow all people can go
 normally to their jobs' and the day curfew was lifted. Communications are normal between Afghanistan and the rest of the world. Tanai and all his supporters have fled to Pakistan and the Afghan government asks for them to be returned.
      The AIG, the eight party Alliance in Iran and individual commanders have totally rejected the idea of forming a revolutionary council along with Tanai and Hezbe Islami forces which had aimed at bringing together a coalition to hold elections after a six month period after the take over of Kabul.
 Former PDPA defector speaks out:
      Mohammad Qasim Jamder the former rector of the Kabul Polytechnic Institute who belonged to the Khalq faction, who defected to Pakistan December last, elucidated on the course of the Khalq-Parcham clashes and said:
      Back in 1964 there was a difference of opinion on the post of the general secretary in the party. Some wanted Babrak Karma1 to lead the party while others wanted Taraki.
                                     »
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Finally Taraki was chosen as the General Secretary and Karmal as the secretary of the Party Central Committee. Both were influenced by linguistic, regional and ideological     differences.        Both endeavored to
influence Russians and attract their sympathy and prove themselves the real servants of their common master, the Soviet Union. Each one found some sympathizers among the members of the CPSU Central Committee. The rift among the two leaders of the communist party widened gradually. This culminated in 1967 into a total division between the two "actions of Khalq under Taraki and Parcham under Karmal.
      In the very factions new branches appeared. A faction of the Parcham led by Mir Akbar Khyber to which belonged Sulaiman Layeq and Najibullah and the other by Karmal. It further divided into other factions. In the Khalq faction was also two factions:      Taraki  with the
support of Amin and the faction of Dr. Zarghoon (predominantly Paktia Khalqis) appeared. Nowadays, Saleh Mohammad Zeary is heading the Dr. Zarghoon's faction and Tanai, Sarwary and Gulabzoy are the outstanding figures. Some time ago a coup was planned but foiled before execution and the aunchers arrested. They were prominant generals and colonels mostly belonging to Zarghooni' faction.
      The relation between Najib and Tanai was worsening when the Russians interfered and reconciled both factions. But each one took their precautions and security measures. The rift between Parchamis and Khalqis further widened. Tanai wanted to bring all military installations and formations under the Defence Ministry while Najib refused. Gulabzoy wanted to broaden his influence by connecting all posts of the governors and districts in the provinces under the control of the Interior Ministry which had been separated by Karmal some time before and is directly controled by the primiership.
                                            y
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
Gulabzoy instead gathered all his supporters and placed them in the key posts of the Interior Ministry and reinforced his position. To prevent any coup attempt Najib formed the special guard for his protection and placed that under the command of the Ministry of State Information. The latter was mobilized with the most up-to-date and modern arms and the officers and the soldiers have had extraordinary privileges.
     The differences of Najib and Tania grew over the appointment of the higher officers. Najib was also hated by some of his faction members and Khalqis but, however sought some temporary sympathizers among the Khalq faction. Najib exploited the situation and made use of the dissident Zurmatis among which are Aslam Watanjar and Raz Mohammad Paktin.
     Shahnawaz Tanai had a major role in all military operations and made headway on all fronts. He was always in the front of the convoys. He used to score 'major victories in combatting mujahjdeen. He has taken part in the wars in Herat, Khost, Kunar, and Panjshir. In the foiled coup Tania was accompanied by Gen. Shoor, Col. Jafer Sartir, Gen. Karwani, Gen. Qadir Aka, Gen. Hamza and Gen. Shafiq.
*** ***
***
 j
10
                              ELECTION IN KUNAR
 >■
      Sometime ago, the jehad commanders in Kunar province circulated a declaration in which they indicated the constituencies where elections would take place in the liberated province. They had divided the province into seven zones:
 1-Dara Piech         (20 elected deputies)
 (10 appointed deputies)
 2-Center of Kunar (13             "        )
 (5            "       )
 3-Bar Kunar             (19
 (5            "          )
 4-Kamdish            (13        "        ) and all camps
 located in Chatral of Pakistan(the number of the constituencies were not indicated)
 5-Kuzkunar           (17  elected deputies)
 (5 appointed deputies)
 6- Khaskunar         (7         "        )
 7- Sarkano           (11        "        )
     The constituencies in Pakistan camps are as follows:
     Bajawar, Dir, Malakand, Sawabia, Ghazi and Bunier, Hazarah, Peshawar, Tal.
     All together seven election commissions were assigned the job of supervision of the elections. The zones were numbers one, two and              three for the
           constituencies inside Kunar , four, five, six and seven
                                          11
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 for camps where the majority of the Kunar people iive. The last day for the election was February 19 but elections were held in the camps in the last days of this month.
      To reject these elections, the Interim Government on February 12 circulated an announcement which was signed by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddadi, president of the Interim Government and Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister, Mawlavi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the Defence minister. Prof. Rabbani, the Reconstruction Minister and Farouq Azam, the Education Minister.
 The text of the announcement is presented here:
 Afghanistan Islamic State February 12,
      As is known some traitors have hatched a. conspiracy in the name of elections which is aimed at defaming the jehadi parties. Herewith, the parties forming the Interim Government announce that non of the parties will attend the so called elections and instead condemn the move. Whoever attends the conspiracy are nothing but sold out elements who have lost affiliation to the jehadi parties and their action is illegal . Such actions can do nothing to solve the problems but paves the way for interference of the enemies of jehad and may lead to the disintegration of the country.
                                              »
      We resolutely announce that any decision on electing representatives of the Afghan people should be taken in agreement with all the jehadi parties (or the majority of them) throughout Afghanistan.
      The election programme has faced the resistance of the six parties and the Interim Government in Kunar. Even in the refugee camps in Dir and Bajawar the programme was contested by the refugees and mujahideen.
                             12
No. 108
Ninth Yeaj.      March  1990
      The commanders in Kunar in a separate announcement condemned the idea of holding elections in Kunar and supported the decision of the Interim' Government for holding a general election.
      The parties of Hezb Island Hekmatyar             and
Jamilurahman only succeded in partially executing their plan but the result was ambiguous.
      Initially many party members (influenced by the Wahabis) agreed to take part in the election, but finally few took part. It was not possible for the elections to be held in accordance with the table of constituencies (as seen above) either in Kunar or in camps in Pakistan.
      As was later understood, the elections only took place in the centre of the province, Chaghasaray and Sarkani.
      Both parties had spent large sums of money to attract voters. Teenage boys were also included among the voters. The supervision commission could not control the situation. Vot \rs of one constituency could go to another and cast their vote. Since lists did not exist one voter could cast his vote twice or more. Soluble ink was used, which could be eradicated. The election was not secret and all votes had to be made openly. In some camps the two main parties involved conducted voting separately using their own books and voting lists, independent of other candidates.        .   This  type  of
voting could only culminate in hostility between the two parties.      Polling  rarely  occurred in the polling
stations during day time. In some refugee camps where the polling boxes were taken by representatives of the Six Parties (AIG), the Pakistani police or the Refugee camp administrators, the parties involved in the elections conducted the voting under cover of darkness, carrying the ballot boxes from house to house. The election commission itself represented only two parties.
13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      For voting there was only one large box with eleven holes and each was marked with the symbol of the respective party. Among the eleven parties, followers of the Seven, Nasrullah Mansoor, Qazi Amin, the Salafis (Wahabi), Nooristan Revolutionary State and others were represented. When many of the people did not pay attention to the constituencies, the election commission took the boxes to the lanes and houses.        Some minor
clashes also took place between supporters of the Interim government.
                                                                               ’j
      Announcement of the result of the elections was postponed for a number of reasons including:       polling
not taking place in all constituencies; people not being interested and the parties afraid of their failure. If Hezbe Island loses the elections it will be difficult for them since all parties participating       would have
voted for Hezb and the opposition was only the Salafis.
If the latter fails it is their complete failure because the area is their major base. It is a matter of prestige for both sides.
      As was certain, only a few people were interested in the election and few votes were cast in the boxes. The result will harm the prestige of the both parties.
According to some information the boxes have been taken to Asadabad but the result has not been revealed yet.
The two parties accuse one another of trickery, fraud and intimidation. In view of the amount of money which the principal participants put into this election, the result is a resounding failure for both of them. One can orly be content that through the distribution of money to the inhabitants of Kunar to gain their favour, some much needed assistance has reached the province.
                    *** *** ***
                          14
                                 TRIBAL JERGAH
     PAKTIA, February 16:
          Tribal elders and mujahideen commanders in Ahmad Khel district of Paktia have 'agreed the holding of a Loya Jirgah inside Afghanistan. The gathering was held by the local people and it was attended by people from Paktia, Logar, Kabul, Parwan, Paktika, Baghlan, Ghazni, Uruzgan and other tribes.
          The two day gathering of 3,500 persons has decided that each tribe should choose their deputies for the grand assembly in consultation with the local mujahideen.
          For settlement of the Afghan issue the resistance groupings, the Kabul regime, the international community and the superpowers have each been promoting different proposals non of which are welcomed by all parties collectively. Nowadays, the parties in exile in Peshawar announce the holding of elections to legitimize their interim government. A commission was assigned to work out the programme and the manner. The idea was rejected outrightly by the Hezbe Island (Hekmatyar) who simply called it selection not election. •
          The foreign ministers of the superpowers, the United States and the Soviet Union had a meeting in Moscow and talked over regional'issues among them the Afghan crisis. To understand the respective views of different parties and tribal representatives, the AIC correspondent has gathered different reactions:
                                    IS
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Abdul Satar , Jamiat, Kunduz:
     All Afghans have been offering sacrifices in our national jehad. It is not the parties only which have the exclusive right to decide out future. Any initiative in which the nation does not participate and agree will be a failure and widen the gap between the parties and the people.
Abdul Samad, Etehade Island, Imam Sahib:                         1
—                                    •                           t
     Under present conditions the holding of elections seems impossible. The nation is armed to the teeth. No individual Afghan can dare cast his vote unless his security is maintained. Intimidation and bribary are ordinary means used in the elections. Before every thing else the bloodshedding must be stopped first and people should go back to their houses in honour and dignity.
uor Mohammad "Afghanyar", Paktia:
     This election could not reflect the genuine will of the people and the parties only struggle for their own existence. The Afghan nation is bathing in its blood whSe the parties are after their partisan interests. When parties send 10 deputies to the shoora, they monopolize the political scene and do not let the public excersice their rights in choosing their own trusted representatives to the shoora.
     Now that the whole nation is armed to the teeth and security is not possible, I deem the idea of holding elections impossibe. Instead a traditional Loya Jirgah can serve the same purpose. Each locality and district should send their trusted and influential deputies who have a deep understanding of the character and attitudes
                         16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
  of their fellow countrymen. The deputies can appoint an Interim Government to ensure peace and order in war torn Afghanistan. It would be the duty of this government to pave the way for genuine and general elections. Those who are well-known for their previous crimes or atrocities against the nation should not be given the chance to influence the affairs of the country.
  Sarbeland, NIFA ,Kapisa?
       I deem the present form and nanner of the elections impractical and unlawful. It is limited to the narrow circle of partisanship with no legal body to supervise the course of the elections. In my view it is really necessary to invite the UN supervise elections in Afghanistan, otherwise, it will end up in total failure.
       In the past, the Afghan parliament was not on the basis of religious or linguestic'divisions, ones which are now claimed by some Iran-based parties or others. Two sects of Shiites and Sunnies can be candidates in each others areas of dominance. This division can damage the terretorial integrity of the nation. The nation wholly rejects the claims about the allocations for the Peshawar and Iran based parties.
       Another initiative could be the convocation of an international conference in which all parties and neigbours to Afghanistan, representatives from Islamic countries, the two superpowers as the guarantors could decide not to provide arms to the waring sides and Najib will quit his post. The conference can urge the related parties to decide over the form and manner of the future government and also the UN could send peace keeping forces to Afghanistan. When this government comes to power it can later on pave the way for holding a general election and elected government.
                               17
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
  Lt. Noorullah, Nangrahar:
       The elections would be impractical and monopolized. Only the Loya Jirgah of the residing tribes can decide over the forming of an Interim Government. There is no other way, otherwise, our country will be further ruined and more people will be killed. The parties should show selflessness and leave the nation to its future. They should think of the interests of the nation rather than their own. They can put an end to the miseries of millions who lead a wandering life in neigbouring countries.
  Ata Mohammad, ANLF, Balkh:
       We have sacrificed much in this ten years of war. We joined the parties in order to salvage our beliefs and restore the independence and honour of our countrymen. We fought bravely against the Russian occupationist forces and conpeled them to leave our country but now the parties think of us as their private ownership and make us act as they wish. New that the historical moment is approaching we should have the right to decide our own future. At this stage elections should not be held, instead a Loya Jirgah can plan and work to ensure peace and security in the country.
  Mohammad Hassan Shahzad, Faryab:
       As long' as peace is not ensured in the country, elections do not seem practical. Elections can further divide the nation. At this critical moment it is proper that all commanders, and intellegentsia residing in foreign countries should gather and decide over the destiny of their nation. All disputes could be solved in the traditional ways of this        country.    In Fariab
  different tribes and nationalities live but they resolve their differences through jirgahs and councils.
                                 18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Haji Abdul Hussain Maqsoodi, Ghazni:
          Maqsocdi, who was a deputy to the national assembly and now is the chief of the Shiite mujahideen in his area expresses his view on the elections: "It is now crystal clearthat the Peshawar based parties deem themselves pioneers in political affairs but they lack the initiative to promote national integrity. The failure of Engineer Ahmad Shah's government and the Rawalpindi shoora which choose the Interim Government is leading the nation towarads an unknown destination while strengthening the Kabul regime.
          Mawlawi Khalis considers elections against Islam while Hekmatyar wants special elections. The Iran-based parties have not been consulted on this serious measure. They, therefore, rejected the proposal of the Interim Government simply because they claim it is not all embracing and very limited. For the sake of ensuring national integrity and in order to put an end- to this unbearable condition we should accept realities and the inalienable rights of the people.
          I think at this juncture, Afghans should form a commission of 60 to 100 and choose a leadership acceptable for the 'whole nation. After this, a grand jirgah should be held including all tribes and nationalities and should be entitled to transfer the power from the Kabul regime and pave the way for the return of the refugees. Districts should not be the only constituency but the number of the pepple in a given locality should also be considered."
     Gen. Rahmatullah Safi ,NIFA,:
          , Before the formation of the Interim Government the relations among various party leaders were relatively friendly. Thsee relations gradually decreased.
                               19
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
     This is because our moves are not in conformity with our social structure and most of the moves are dictated on us from outside. We step on the footprints of others. We should have our own initiatives and discharge our duties. When the Interim Government was being formed the parties did not pay attention to the very needs of the time and the nation. Each claimed that if they had the powerful posts it would be much better for their countrymen. Posts are not bonuses to be given to somebody.
          The government should have fought their jehad and political fronts in two different ways. Here I would like to narrate an incident of the former king Habibullah Kalakani (Bacha Saqaw):    When he  proclaimed himself as
     the king of Afghanistan, a friend told him:      I have a
     friend, I want him to be a general. The king ordered his secretary to make this appointment, but he refused saying that they had no such post. The king said: "How if he becomes a colonel?". The secretary refused again. So the king ordered that he should be an ordinary soldier but should have the authority to combat a general.
          Our most serious problem is the lack of self critisim and that we always blame others for. our own weaknesses. We admit that this Interim Government did not do much but we do not work on an alternative. A political solution should be sought. To reach this we need a political unity. For the government there should have been a shoora to supervised their activities and performance.
          Nowadays, each individual party is considerably more powerful than the Interim Government.        The  stronger
     party wilfully chooses mayors and governors without consulting the Interim Government.
          The time is     ripe for thinking of national
     independence and interests and this can be achieved through giving the right to the people for their self-
                             20
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
    determination and the right to decide their own way of electing a government.
         Concerning Ahle Hal Wa Aqd, Gen. Safi said: Whoever has made a sacrifice, be it mujahideen or the ordinary people for the sake of their country are in, fact Ahle Hal Wa Aqd. The resistance belonged to all people.
         He further added:    If the  foreign influences are
    not kept out of the proposed initiatives of the Interim Government and parties persist in taking in view their own selfish interests, I am afraid that the whole future of the nation will be jeopardize and its last chance will be lost.
                        *** *** ***
                                21
                               KANDAHAR SITUATION
         The AIG, after appointing the district administrator and judges in Spinboldak district, sent a delegation to Kandahar to choose a governor and administrators for the liberated areas of Kandahar province. This decision was resisted by the field commanders. They decided to appoint district administrators and a governer for the province. The AIG, through its representatives, summoned the commanders to Quetta to discuss the appointment of the administrators. This coincided with the coup and the commanders had to return urgently to their fronts.
         Supporters of Mulla Naqib who pressed for a separate judiciary body to replace that of Mawlavi Pasanai, appointed Mulla Naqib as governer of the province. So far he has not undertaken the post.
     Arghandab March 1, 1990:
         One of the field commanders in this district was killed in a car bomb planted by an unknown person.
     Dand March 2, 1990:
         Haji Feda Mohammad Khan, a Harakat (Mohammadi) commander was killed by a similar bomb placed in his car. The driver and two mujahideen were also killed and three others seriously wounded. Feda Mohammad had spent eight years in the Pule Charkhi jail of the regime.
                                 22
No. 108
Ninth Year
March 1990
 I
          Baluchistan, Pakistan:
               More than 2,500 families have returned home to the vicinity of Kandahar city. Some of the humanitarian organisation have sent their relief delegates to decide on how to help them.
               Early this year, some of the commanders in Kandahar province started choosing their district administrators. The appointments were on a party basis:
          Spinboldak district          Mullah Ghulam Farouq (Etehade
          Islami of Prof. Sayyaf)
          Shoorawak district           Somebody from Hezbe
          (Hekmatyar)
          Arghistan district        Mullah Habibullah (Hezbe
          Hekmatyar) the deputy district administrator (Hezbe Mawlavi Khalis)
          Mayor of Kandahar city Mullah Ahmaddulah Akhund Islami Mawlavi Khalis)
          Kandahar city administrator Ghani Jan Agha (Hezbe Mawlavi Khalis)
          The deputy administrator Abdul Khaliq (Jamiat)
          Panjwai district          Feda Mohammad(Khalis)
          Deputy administrator      Haji Mudir
          Maiwand district             Haji Bashir (Etehade
          Sayyaf)
          Deputy administrator      Habibulah Haqani(Hekmatyar)
               Appointments in the remainder of the districts have been suspended.
Islami
Islami
Islami
(Hezbe
Islami
Islami
          December 1989
March 1990
          Tea (4,5kg)         700 Afs
          Sugar(   "  )      1200
          Flour(lOOkgs)      4500   '
                                    23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Ghee (large can    4000 
Diesel(barrel)    28000 
Petrol( " )       41000 
Kerosine( "    )  36000 
Mutton (4,5kgs)    2800 
Beef ( "       )   2000 
Rice ( "       )    900 
Potato ( "     )    250 
Onions ( "     )    100 
Candy ( "      )    800 
Wood ( "       )     60 
Dry yugort("   )   1500 
Mungbean( "    )    500 
Wheat ( "      )    250 
Fertilizer( "  )   3200 
Oranges(crate  )   2000 
Hashis(4,5kgs)100,000   
Opium ( " )       18000 
Labour (day )       700 
Soap (bar)           40 
Tractor work/h     1000 
  9500
  36000
  53000
  38000
  5000
  4000
  2000
   550
   150
  2000
   100
  2100
   700
   450
  6000
  2600
60,000
  55000
  1200
   120
  2000
            According to the decision of the 'Spinboldak administrative body, dictated by the AIG, prices rose substantially. The mujahideen barred the transportation of public commodities but only allowed the passage of goods of the mujahideen groups. Some of the mujahideen sell their permits allowing some of the commodities to be covertly channelled to the region.
                           *** *** ***
                                  24
                               HEZB I SALMI RALLY
          On February 27, Gulbudin Hekmatyar, chief of Hezbe Islami, in a gathering at Kacha Gari Afghan Refugee Camp near Hayatabad, Peshawar, rejected the Mujahideen Interim Government.
          "The Russians and Americans," Hekmatyar said, "have joined hands to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. They agreed to leave the Kabul regime in power until the situation was ready for the return of Zahir Shah. The Russians and Americans see the mujahideen as obstacles in the way of the return of the former king. In their calculations when Zahir Shah returns, he can call a Loya Jirgah (Grand Assembly) to draft a new constitution and establish his permanent rule. We reject the idea of the grand assembly because jehad was started in the name of Islam and the jirga would propose Zahir Shah. If we agree the convening of an assembly and it chooses the former king then we have to accept him as the future ruler of the country.
          A communist regime is acceptable for the Americans while they cannot tolerate a mujahideen rule over Afghanistan. Those .who believed that the United States was supporting the mujahideen see for themselves that they, in collusion with the Russians want to impose Zahir Shah on the mujahid nation, the nation which sacrificed more than one and half million of its sons. Inspite of impressive victories of the mujahideen, the westerners arid the Americans through their mouth-pieces, the VOA and BBC, broadcast venomous propaganda to belittle the sacrifices we have made or to create doubt and suspicion among the jehad ranks and demoralize the resistance fighters.
                                    25
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          While mujahideen have under their control 241 districts out of 282, the western mass media blame them for not taking over power in the country. The westerners in their words, as the friends of jehad propose peaceful solutions for the settlement of the issue. This is a flagrant conspiracy against the resistance and jehad."
          "One of the reasons that the Kabul regime still holds on, is the inability of the mujahideen to form a powerful and popular government. The Interim Government is confined to Peshawar and can not realize the wishes and aspiration of the nation. Besides we have not managed to form a powerful and authoritative shoora (assembly) to challenge the Kabul regime and be able to run the country,s affairs effectively. When the government was established we proposed that within six months an elected shoora should come into being and the government should have gone inside Afghanistan for it was not a government in exile. The parties did not hold elections nor did they transfer the government inside.
          They were afraid of failure and not winning the vote of confidence from the shoora. We had said that the government would go inside within a month but the leaders of the      parties brought         excuses like;
     bombardment, scud missiles or unsuitability of the conditions.   They  live in secure and luxurious houses
     here without daring to go inside. The parties are not unanimous in the form and manner of the jirgah neither are they in agreement with the rest of the parties like Hezbe Islami or the Iran-based parties.         They make
     promises but do not act on them. For this reason we declare that the government should be dissolved for it cannot represent the Afghan nation any longer.
          The interim government appointed a governor for the liberated province of Kunar but the governer could not go there. An office was opened for him in Peshawar. Is this any different from the Kunar and Kapisa governors
26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        of the regime who stay one in Jalalabad and the other in Charikar? The Interim Government is not able to face the nation.  With the Pakistani Government they tried to
        prevent  today's gatheringso how can we accept such a
        government? How can it be called a government when individual ministries are government bodies for themselves and are not obeying the high authorities of the government but the chiefs of their respective parties and the prime minister has not been able to call together his cabinet members?
             We strongly support the Kashmiri and Central Asian Muslim nations      and   promise  our assistance and
        cooperation.
        I have been told by our Pakistani brothers that within a month elections will be held, if not, we would be entitled to announce the foriration of an elected shoora and then form an elected government. In this case we would not be responsible for the consequences. The dissolved government has tried hard to prevent elections in Kunar and for this issued announcements, despite this the elections will be held."
                          *** *** ***
                                  27
                            MILITARY NEWS
       Khost, 17.2.90:
            In a joint operation by mujahideen, the strategic regime post of Toraghara was conquered. It was a regime stronghold and its forces were stationed there. It was thought that whenever the post was taken over by the mujahideen they would be able to take over the city of Khost easily. The post dominates the airbase which is still under control of the mujahideen. Altogether 380 militias, 500 soldiers and 38 officers of the regime were stationed there.
            From among these soldiers and officers 90 of the officers, 120 soldiers and 45 militias were either killed or submitted to the Mujahideen. The remainder have fled to the city.
       In the operation four war machines, eleven dashakas (DSH-K), seven heavy machine guns, eight Zeko-l(ZIPO-l), nine cannons (some sound some destroyed) were recovered by mujahideen.
            Khost city was expecting fresh troops from Gardiz but was disappointed. Most planes cannot land in Khost airbase. Those which can, swiftly take off again. On Februay 20 a transport plane in which 18 poeple were travelling was shot down by mujahideen anti air weapons. The plane was carrying wounded of the Toraghara incident.
            After the coup attempt by Shahnawaz Tanai, the Najib regime intensified bombing of mujahideen positions in Khost. In addition to aerial bombing the regime fires numerous Scuds from Kabul . In an incident, one of the
                                28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       regime Scuds hit a fortification of mujahideen on March 9 killing 16 and wounding 14 others.
       On March 10 mujahideen started their assault on regime positions and took over a number of posts of Shaikhmir subdistrict, Shilka, Shahwalikhan village and Musali village. Three mujahids were killed and 46 wounded in this operation. Later on the posts were retaken by government forces.
       Kunar, 4.3.90:
            A group commander Aias, younger brother of commander Pahlawan, previously affiliated with Mahaze (Gillani) and now Etehad (Sayaf), reported to the AIC that it is 22 days now since a new offensive started on the Northern front of Jalalabad. The war began when three Arabs' were killed and some were wounded while trying to capture the Shaitanic checkpost together with other mujahideen. Regime forces were able to rebuff the attack and recovered the bodies and wounded, reported by Kabul radio.
            Meanwhile, at Gamberi desert, northwest of Jalalabad, the regime wanted to retake a post to curb communication between Kunar and Laghman. As a result mujahideen faced some difficulties and were compeled to cross the area at night time. To retake the post, mujahideen have suffered 14 killed and more than 50 others wounded.
       In the operation the regime also lost a tank and a truck when they came under attack of Millan-ahti-tank missiles fired by Alias himself.
            Alias -complained that they face a shortage of arms and ammunition though they have 400 to 500 Arabs beside them fighting for the Wahabis.
                                29
No. 108
Ninth Year
 March 1990
         Latest reports indicate that the Mujahideen were able to retake all newly accomodated posts in the course of the coup attempt on March 6.
         In the course of the coup, the Afghan News Agency or Hezbe 'Island Hekmatyar claimed that several cities among them Kunduz, Qalat (Zabul), Mohammad Agha (Logar), Charikar (Parwan), Sarobi (Kabul) had collapsed and fierce fighting by supporters of Tanai in Jalalabad, Kandahar and Herat continued. Khost was also expected to collapse. These stories remained unconfirmed although Mohamamd Agha, according to reliable sources fell back to the hand of mujahideen.
         In the aftermath of the coup attempt, so far no remarkable event to indicate the mass defection of supporters of Tanai or the taking over of some major basis has been reported.
         Claims that Tanai has forces fighting along with him has not yet been proved. Apparantly Tanai and a few generals are the only defectors who fled to Pakistan, who however deny this charge and claim that he is still inside Afghanistan.
                           *** *** .**
                               30
              "Thirty years I stayed at the door of Truth . In the end what I found was Bewilderment , nothing else but Bewilderment
              "For thirty years I asked God :     Do
          this! Give me that ! But when I reached the first stage of knowledge I said : God be with me and do what you wish !"
              " I was given the choice between Nearness and Remoteness , and I chose latter , because I had not the strength to stand close to His presence , just as a great man of God was given the choice between Prophethood and Wisdom and chose Wisdom , because to be a prophet was too heavy a burden for him ."
              " The first stage of men of knowledge is Bewilderment in Need , the second Joy in Unification , the third Annihilation in Wakefulness , the fourth everlasting Duration in Expectation?
          From the book
          " Sufism and the modern world By : Prof.Dr.Sayd B. Majrooh
ACKU