


IHAN
fJENTRE
      MONTHLY BULLETIN
No. Ill  tenth Year   June 1990
Photo AMRC
                           The aim$ of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
    1.    To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
    2.    To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
         (a)   International news media
         (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
    The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
         The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
   Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
   Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
This Bulletin is Written Under the Jjesponsability of AI C Editorial Board
Annual Subscription          100' Bank Account No. 1131354558001 
Institutions        :US$          Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK         
Individuals         : US$    70   Grindlays Bank PLC             
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe       Peshawar - Pakistan            
   THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
 Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 PostafAdd.: GPO Box 128, Peshawar - Pakistan
             AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
               Monthly Bulletin
No.Ill             .    June 1990
CONTENTS:
 KABUL LOYA JIRGAH AND JIRGAHS
 II .    FAIMAN IN THE NORTH
 III . INTERVIEW WITH SAYED JAGRAN
 10
 IV
 VIEWS ON AFGHANISTAN'S RECONSTRUCTION 13
 SITUATION IN THE PROVINCES
   - Kabul
   - Hisarak-e-Ghaljayee
 23
 VI
 MURDERS IN PESHAWAR
 VII . FIGHTING NEWS
 31
 34
***
***
***
                        KABUL LOYA JIRGAH AND JIRGAHS
      The AlC was printing the May issue of Monthly Bulletin when the Najib regime held the . so-called Loya Jirgah in Kabul. In its two-day sessions, the jirgah pointed out the new policy of the.Kabul regime in political, economic and cultural aspects. Below are the main points of' the policy:
      1.     To amend the constitution that had been drafted during the presence of Russian troops in Afghanistan.
      2.     To gradually develop the policy of free economy in Afghanistan.
      3.     To struggle for the establishment of a multi-party system in Afghanistan.
      The capital came under heavy mujahideen rocket attack prior to the sessions of the jirgah. Many people were killed or wounded in the attacks.
      At the same time, some leaders of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) announced that they were planning to form a grand shura (council) in near future. They said that the shura would represent the- majority of' the Afghan nation.                                  i
                                           1
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Besides these developments, some noted commanders of the Afghan jehad gathered at the base of Zhawar (Paktia) in early May and decided that they would form a council of mujahideen commanders in near future.
 Background of Loya Jirgah:
     If we cast a glance at these developments, we will come          to know that    most of the
 responsible Afghans are supporting the idea of jitgah for.the Afghan issue. However, they are divided over the strategy to achieve the objective. Here we would like to shed light on the historical importance, the legal aspect and the structure of the jirgah.
     There were two types of jirgahs (Sabha nd Sampati) among the Afghans in ancient times. Such jirgahs were attended by local and tribal elders in order to solve the problems of their people. When the people embraced Islam on the soil, local religious scholars also attended such assemblies. Thus, the loya jirgah took an Islamic and national form; it became a typical Afghan phenomenon in order to quickly seek the national opinion in the political life of the society.
     At the beginning of the eighteenth century the Safavid rulers controlled the western parts of present Afghanistan. The Safavids sent Gorgin to Kandahar where he was disliked by the local people for his atrocities. On four occasions, a trader of the Hotak tribe of Kandahar, known as Mirwais Khan, complained
                                        2
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
 against Gorgin to the Safavid king, ShaT) Hussain who did not respond positively. After a pilgrimage to Mecca, he assembld various tribal elders who held a historic grand assembly at Kokran of Kandahar. The decisions of the jirgah led to the elimination of Safavid rule in the country;  all the people assembled around
 Mirwais Khan Hotak as their national leader.
     Ahmad Shah Abdali summoned a loya jirgah in 1747 and set up the nation state of Afghanistan.
     A large number of tribal elder*s and religious scholars held a jirgah at Asheqan Arefan (Kabul) in November 1841 against the British puppet Shah Shujah. The jirgah declared jehad against the British and assigned political and military tasks to different people in key areas of the country.
     For the first time the modern government system was approved through a loya jirgah by Amir Sher Ali Khan in 1873.
     In 1919, a loya jirgah was convened near the shrine of Hadda (Ningrahar) during the reign of King Amanullah. The decisions of the jirgah led to the third Anglo-Afghan war and then the recognition of Afghanistan by the British as an independent country.
     Two loya jirgahs were held during the two world wars of 1914 anb 1939 . Afghanistan declared its total impartiality through these jirgahs. These decisions had possitive effects rl on the life of the Afghan people.                 '
     Loya Jirgahs were also held for various
NO. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
   internal affairs in the country in .subsequent governments.The loya jirgah for the Consitution of Afghanistan in 1964 is an example of such .jirgahs.
             • • The above are some examples of Loya Jirgahs which have proved useful for Afghanistan.
   Loya Jirgah in New Afghan Society:
        Following the April coup of 1978, the Afghan society became the focus of great changes in the world.The military invasion of Afghanistan by the military empire of Russia was one of the main historical events of the country. The military and ideological invasion, the presence of Russians troops for several years and the continuation of the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul changed the normal structure of our society; the         cultural      and tribal
   relationship between the masses suffered a damage. One third of the population ' left Afghanistan and sought refuge in foreign countries. The whole economic system suffered a setback; the Afghans        became very needy;
   ideological trends       of other       countries
   superseded the educational ' programmes which existed in Afghanistan. A number of countries are involved in the Afghan affairs to the extent that .their conflicting interests had led to the continua.bin of . war in the Afghan society.
   „ The residents of- various parts of the country came close to one other during the past twelve years of war, because they had a common objective for their national problems.
4
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Ip view of the above developments, Afghanistan is a witness to new forces in. the political and cultural field. These forces have not led to the formation of healthy political and social system. Still, there are some forces whose effectives can be felt to an extent in the Afghan society.
       The best social force is the leaders and commanders  of    jehad   who have  struggled  for
  twelve years to liberate their homeland. These comma'nders have developed their status on the basis of their social influence in their respective tribes. The local peqple not only respect them for the sacredness of their jehad but also know-about, their military influence.
       Though changes have occurred • in the relations   of     some     Afghan   tribes    and
  communities, they still elect their elders in accordance with their tribal and traditional relationships.                               .
       The religious scholars have vastly propagated against atheism. They enjoy special status among the people in Afghan society.
       A large number of Afghan intellectuals and scholars lost their lives in their struggle against the Russians, the Khalqis and the Parchamis. They still play- an active role in the struggle to ensure th'e national interests of the country. Their capacity and knowledge can be effectively used in future Afghanistan.
       There are some local minor forces who have played an active^role in rural or urban areas. Similar forces can jointly determine comparatively useful ways for Afghanistan.       ~
 I
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       However, it              is a solid fact that
   Afghanistan is facing grave problems due to the absence of a united national leadership. These problems cannot be solved in a group meeting under any title.        Instead, the will of  the
   nation, ,the public opinion and the proper attitude of responsible people are the primary steps towards the solution of the probelm.
                        * *** *** ***
                                    6
                  FAMINE IN NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN
               -Interview with Commander Abdullah)
      Abdullah, a commander of Jamiat (Prof. Rabbani) in the province of Faryab, has recently arrived in Peshawar. In an interview with an AIC correspondent, he said that around 150 residents of Andkhoi (a district of Faryab) lost their lives   this year         due to famine and
  food shortage in   the area.          He gaid that one
  seer (7 kilograms) of wheat flour was sold for Afs. 1,200 in the province while it was sold for Afs, 300 three years ago. The current high prices are.evidence of the acute shortage of foodstuff in the province, he said.
      The commander said that the following, factors have caused    famine         in the northern
  provinces of Afghanistan:
      1. Presence of locusts'
      2. Drought
      3.   Attacks   by  regime militiamen           and
  bombardment by Afghan-Soviet air forces at harvest time.
     . 4. Purchasing of food at high prices by the regime.                                              7
                                           7
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       According to the commander, there are many families in his district who cannot buy food due to the shortage      and   high prices in the
  market. The shortage has caused the death, of some 150 people in the district. He himself took part    in the burial           ceremonies of 50
  people, including women and children, who were the victims of the famine.
  About military operations the commander said:
       "The Russians and   the  Kabul regime intend
  to open a new port in Faryab to link Afghanistan to the Soviet Union. The construction of the post is being planned in the area of Aknah which has been under constant mujahideen attacks for 20 days. The mujahideen attacks are resisted by Jowzjani militiamen along with some Russians from across the border. For example, we recently captured one Murad Khan   who came   from Soviet Uzbekistan.
  When we      captured    the      soldier, regime
  authorities and Russian advisers approached us and demanded his release in exchange for 500 kalashnikovs and a sum of 3,000,000 Afghanis. However, we rejected the offer and asked the regime to release our prisoners in Kabul in exchange for him.
  Flood causes lossed in Badakhshan:
      Besides famine and locusts in Badakhshan province, heavy rains on June 4,5,6 and 7 caused destruction in the areas of Zardi and , Sarghelan (Bahar'ak district) where 22 children, women and old men were killed along with 200 domestic animals.                                *
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     The floods destroyed more than one hundred houses and caused damage to large areas of agricultural land.
                ***
★ ★ * ★ * * .
                                                                                          O

                            9
                  INTERVIEW WITH HAZARA LEADER
     Sayed Mohammad Hussain, known as Sayed Jagran, has arrived in Peshawar on his first visit to Pakistan. The AIC conducted an interview with him on June 6.
     Sayed Jagran, 50, is one of the prominent commanders of the Afghan jehad in Hazarajat (Central Afghanisntan) . He commands the military forces of the Shiite organization of Shura-e-Itefaq-e-Islami led by Ayatollah Sayed Ali Beheshti in central Afghanistan. The headquarters of the Shura is located inside Afghanistan.
     The commander said that he went to Paktia in May in order to attend the commanders meeting in Khost. When he went to Khost, the commanders requested him to go to Peshawar and discuss relevant Jehad affairs with the mujahideen leaders and commanders in the town. He agreed and met mujahideen leaders in Peshawar.
     SHura-e-Itefaq-Islami was the only Shiite organization which attended the Consultative Council in Rawalpindi (Pakistan) in February 1989 despite the fact that it was not a member of the mujahideen organizations either in Pakistan or Iran. The Organization fought for years against other Shiite organizations, such as the Irah-based Nasr and Sepah.
                                      10
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
     On whether relations between his organization and Nasr and Sepah are still tense, Sayed Jagran said:
     "The organizations in Iran have solved the         »
problem, because they understood that Afghans could not be subjugated by a foreign country.
They have also understood the fact that the             »
Afghan people will fight any puppet group."
     According to the commander, the Shura is a member of the Iran-based nine-party coalition, but it (the Shura) does not enjoy good relations with those organizations. There are certain people in the Iran-based organizations who are detested by the people and who do not enjoy the trust of the people. The people who lead these organizations are not eligible for those posts. Such people are also present in the Pakistan-based mujahideen organizations.
     About the collapse of the Kabul regime,
Sayed Jagran said:
     "The mujahideen commanders should coordinate their activities and form a united leadership. They should themselves design their plans against the ground and air forces of the enemy; they should start jehad simultaneously throughout Afghanistan. In this connection, Jalalabad was an experience for mujahideen who lacked planning and harmony in their ranks."
     Contrary to most mujahideen leaders and commanders, Sayed Jagran did not blindly reject the political settlement of the Afghan issu-e.
He said;
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      "We accept any solution that guarantees our dignity, honour, territorial integrity, non-alignment and national solidarity. The Afghans do not want a country or countries to interfere in their internal affairs. The commanders of the Afghan Jehad want a free, impartial and non-aligned Afghanistan. My mujahideen and the whole Afghap nation will fight for these goals until they are achieved."
      According to Sayed Jagran, the regime is confined to an area of eight kilometres around Ghazni city. The remaining parts of Ghazni province are controlled by the mujahideen. Shortage of food has doubled the economic problems of the residents in the areas controlled by the mujahideen of his group. His organization has not received assistance from' any country.
                 *** *** ***

                           \2
 •v ■&
       VIEWS ON AFGHANISTAN'S RECONSTRUCTION
      The process of the reconstruction of Afghanistan has started along with the military activity in the country. The process is being developed by foreign donor organizations, U.N. agencies, individuals and Afghan organizations.
      In this connection, the AIC decided to publish the views of people who understand the problems which will occur during the process. Here are the views of some people on various ways of social life in Afghanistan.
 Dr. Ali's view on reconstruction:
      Dr. Abdullah Ali, ex-chairman of construction projects (Ministry of Public Works), who collaborates with the organization of Reconstruction Authority for Afghanistan (RAFA) as adviser in Peshawar. He has been conducting research for some time on various methods of Afghan reconstruction in Pakistan and other countries. The AIC has conducted an interview with the ex-chairman.
 Following is the transcript of the interview:
 Q. What are your views on the construction projects inside Afghanistan?
                               13
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
           A. Studies regarding the reconstruction of Afghanistan clearly show that a proper policy » c        has not been designed for the implementation of
           the huge programme of Afghan reconstruction. •There is no responsible authority to directly ? ;        supervise  the process of reconstruction in
           Afghanistan. Though the Ministry of Reconstruction of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) should be responsible for reconstruction affairs of the country, non-recongnition of the AIG by the world community has cuased great problems for countries to channel their assistance to Afghanistan. They channel the assistance through foreign or impartial Afghan organizations. There is no administration to coordinate the activities of these organizations. Each organization begins its activities without any basic planning; this has resulted in duplications and loss of money. In my opinion a definite policy should be designed for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. The process of reconstruction should be divided into several phases. Specific plans should be . designed for basic needs throughout Afghanistan; and the areas of activities should be divided between all organizations in the country.
           Q. What measures should be adopted for reconstruction in view of the. above problems?
           A. The collection of statistics and data is the basic need to estimate the destruction of the war. Then an authorized board of experts should be created in the framework of an international or an Afghan reconstruction organization by the U.N. to assess and design a policy for reconstruction on a priority basis.
                                         14
       Afghan information centre
Monthly Bulletin
      This should be followed by any construction work to be financed by either foreign or Afghan donors.
          Though the existing system of acitivities might result in the solution of some problems, the disadvantages will be higher than advantages. -                               „
      Q. What are your suggestions for the reconstruction of rural areas in Afghanisntan? Do you favour a westernized system?
      A. The U.N. has launched extensive programmes for refugees, and the industrialized countries have pledged their financial and technical assistance for reconstruction. Culturally, a great danger is threatening the affected areas of the country, because the companies involved will produce short term materials for the reconstruction of houses in Afghanistan. This will lead us to depend on imported materials and       eliminate      the       constructional
      characteristics of the country.
          There are two possibilities for the settlement of the refugees:
      (1)  settlement in new areas under organized planning (with elctric and water system, etc.) ■ and
                       *
      (2)  reconstruction of destroyed villages by refugees themselves according to their traditions under modern guidances.
          The first possibility might facilitate the
June 1990
No. Ill           tenth Year
       process of reconstruction, but it may lead to the elimination of the national culture of the country. Therefore, it is reasonable that the reconstruction of a certain area should comply with its climatic and cultural characteristics. The effective implementation of these programmes will prevent refugees rushing to the cities which may creat social, economic and health problems there.
       Prof Elmi's view on education:
           Prof.Dr.Sayed Mohammad Yusuf Elmi, former professor of history (Kabul University), runs the Afghan Jehad Works Translation Centre in Peshawar. He has written several articles and books on education in Afghanistan. He was recently interviewed by an AIC correspondent:
       Following is the transcript of the interview:
       Q. What damage, has education suffered during the past twelve years in Afghanistan?
       A. As you know the residents of remote areas rose up at the beginning of the Afghan jehad, the uprisings were led by persons who knew nothing about Afghan culture and the importance of education. They thought that the schools and the teachers had caused the miseries in Afghan society. They burned schools and books, thus causing a heavy blow to Afghan education in the initial stages. Then the Russians sent thousands of advisers to Sovietize Afghan education.
                                         16
                            •**
    AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 The Russians and the Kabul regime not only changed the educational curicula, they also imprisoned and executed any Afghan who became an obstacle in the way of Sovietization. According to my statistics in 1986, some 400 university teachers were either killed or forced to flee the country? it was an irreparable loss in the history of Afghan education. The same statistics shows destruction of all rural schools.
 Q. What programme^ can be launched for furture education in Afghanistan?
 A. We should talk about details regarding this question. First of all, we should decide the nature of education and schools:     How schools
 should be built? Can we call a building "the school" under the present cirucumstances. Then we should explore the areas where there is a need for schools. We should also study the number of residents in a certain area so that the mentality of the people might be studied prior to a decision about , educational curricula.
 Q. Can a joint educational curriculum acceptabl to all groups of the Afghan society be developed?
 A. The development of an educational curriculum is a very difficult task. We had a modern curriculum which had been developd by Afghan scholars after 60 years of hard work and activities.
                             VI
         However, the same curriculum is not acceptable to most of the groups in Afghan society. The mujahideen organizations, the Kabul Regime and independent organizations have tried to develop their own curriculum with less success. A curriculum can be developed at a time when (a) all groups come together and appoint an authorized board for the purpose, (b) all experienced scholars attend the development process, (c) there is executive power to implement the curriculum, and (d) sufficient money is spent on printing purposes. I consider this task very difficult under the present circumstances. Still, all books (which have been published by the past governments of Afghanistan,       Peshawc.r-based      mujahideen
         organizations, Iran-based mujahideen groups, Kabul regime and independent organizations) should be collected and then studied by a joint committee of experienced persons. The committee should develop a joint curriculum acceptable to all Afghan groups. The curriculum should take the religious and cultural characteristics of all groups, such as Hanafi Sunnis and Jafari Shias into account. The medium of education should be also taken into consideration, because Afghanistan is composed of various linguistic groups, such as Pushtuns, Tajiks. Hazaras, Uzbeks, Turkumans, Nuristanis, Baluchs, Aimaks, etc. We had Pashtu and Dari as the medium of education in Afghanistan. We should know ' whether these languages are acceptable to other ethnic groups of the country. I think it will take years to accomplish 'this task, but the work can be « started now.
         Q. What are your views on female education?
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      A. We had coeducation at            primary and
      university level before. Psychologically, this type of education solved many problems; it consolidated the spirit of interest and venture in the students. However, the issue has led to a controversy among the people. Some religious scholars say that womens' education is contrary to Islam, but I oppose the idea by saying that there are womens' schools in many Muslim countries and that some women run the affairs of their countries. Womens' education will be a controversial issue in the future. The mujahideen organizations should make a final decision. The people should understand that a poor country like Afghanistan needs any strata of people for its reconstruction. I do not think that men alone will be able to run the affairs of the country. Still, we must remember that Afghanistan has spent a lot of money on education. Under present conditions, womens' education should be implemented within the framework of Islamic conditions.
      Q. What kind of assistance can be extended by the friends of Afghanistan?
      A. The friends of Afghanistan should not wait for the improvement of the political situation; they should restore the relations existing during the pre-war period;, they should provide scholarships to Afghan youths; they should provide books and archives for Afghanistan; > they should collect laboratory appliances in their countries for Afghanistan; and they should invite teachers (those who have remained untouched with their subjects during the past ten years) to learn new subjects of the sciences.
                                  19
              Afghanistan is a poor country. It received vast educational assistance during the pre-war period from various countries of the world. Delegations of        various countries   visited
          Afghanistan to share the educational activities of teachers and students. The Kabul University had a strong           affiliation with   various
          universities of the world. For example, the Faculty of Science was affiliated to German universities, the      Faculty of Medicine to
          French universities, the Faculty of Agriculture to American universities, the Faculty of Law to France and vthe Institute of Polytechnic to the Soviet Union. These affiliations had upgraded the educational        standards    of Afghan
          institutions to the extent that Afghanistan was culturally and educationally a rich country in the region. We had great scholars in Afghan education who had obtained the highest degrees from various countries of the world. Our students received foreign scholarships to pursue their higher studies in foreign countries.
           Dr. Montand*s views on Health:
              Dr. Mohammad Hussain Momand runs the Afghan Obsterics and Gynaecology Hospital in Peshawar.
              Following is the transcript of his interview with an AIC corresponde.t:children in Pakistan. Psychologically, a six-month or one-year foreign scholarship will not enable an Afghan to adapt himself either to the new environment or his refugee life in a camp .
t
                                      20
JL
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        A country does not need computers where there is a literacy rate of six percent. Computer will be needed at an appropriate time.
        Q. What do you think about the role of Afghan professionals in the process of reconstruction?
        A. The educated people of the country can play a positive role in the reconstruction of the country. All Afghan professionals should be given the opportunity to take part in the planning of education, agriculture and health. Also, health and education should be kept away from politics.
        Q. Are there educational opportunity for women in Pakistan?
        A. According to my knowledge, Islam is- the first religion that has allowed education both for men and women. However, there are different educational systems in Islamic and Western societies.
        Q. What types of diseases are common in the mujahideen-controlled areas?
        A. Our compatriots are suffering from innumerable diseases inside Afghanistan. I cannot explain those diseases        in detail.
        However, I can say that our children die of diarrhoea and vomiting in the        summer and
        pneumonia in the winter. „
                                     21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Q. Do you have any plans for the operation of hospitals inside Afghanisntan?
       A. The country has suffered destruction during the past twelve years. We will carry out medical activities inside Afghanistan if we receive unconditional assistance from foreign countries and guarantees of security from the two sides of the war. We cannot operate our projects under threat of Scuds and rockets.
                       *** *** * * *
                                    22
                   SITUATION IN THE PROVINCES
      KABUL: Interview with a regime officer
           A regime military officer, who has recently arrived from Kabul, was interviewed by the AIC on June 20. The officer did hot identify himself to our correspondent for fear of danger to his family in Kabul. Here is his account of the situation in Kabul:
           The Afghan capital was under constant mujahideen attacks during the presence of Russian troops in Afghanistan. Following the Russian withdrawal, the residents of Kabul were optimistic about the collapse of the regime by the mujahideen. However, inter-mujahideen divisions have helped Najib to prolong his regime in Kabul.
           Najib resorts to various tactics in order to legitimise his Regime in Afghanistan. The appointment of Khaliqyar and the holding of the recent Loya Jirgah (Grand Assembly) in Kabul are examples of these tactics. The Regime, however, has not been        able to change the
      mentality of the citizens regarding its legitimacy. The residents know that the key portfolios of the cabinet are controlled by Vice Presidents and other party members. There are party officials in the supreme court, though the regime has dissolved primary party organizations to show the impartiality of the court.
                                     23
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
         The removal of the term "democratic" from* the Constitution has angered party activists, though they apparently do not express this anger.
         Najib has been able to attract 60 percent members of the party through offers of posts and money. He uses many tactics to exploit aj.1 factions in the party and prevent their open opposition to him. The members of hostile factions are not assigned important tasks in the administration. There are no apparent diffrences between the two factions of . the party, the Khalqis and Parchamis. The faction of Khalq has been divided into various subfactions following the removal of Gulabzoi (former.Interior Minister) from the scene. The Amin faction is led by Dr. Shah Wali, former Minister of Foreign Affairs under Amin. Gen. Watanjar, Defence Minister and Nazar Mohammad (Interior Minister) have lost their importance in the Khalq faction. They have joined Najib whq, deceives the Khalq faction as if its people are in the cabinet.
         The split among the mujahideen and the rocket attacks on the city have changed the mentality of the residents who were in favour of the mujahideen prior to the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. Still, their hatred is much deeper for the Communists than for the mujahideen. They do not expect a positive futur.e from the regime.
         Bribery and corruption have reached an extreme limit in government organizations. Party or non-party people try to find different ways of bribery.
                                   24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       High-ranking party members have become millionaires due to bribery and embezzlement. An example is Kishtmand who collected many dollars during his tenure as prime minister.
            The residents strongly detest the militiamen of Gelamjam and Rashid Dostam (known as Jowzjani militiamen) who have posts . in various parts of the city.
            These militiaplundered many houses in Paghman in a recent regime operation in the valley. They kidnapped several traffic policemen in Kota-e-Sangi when the latter tried to prevent-their behaviour. The two different factions of Khalq and Parcham are opposed to these people.
            The regime has established several security belts around the city to ensure the security of Kabul. These belts of security posts are protected by units of police, KHAD and Gard-e-Khas (special guard) . The last belt p„asses through Paghman in the west, Karizmir in the north, Lalanadar in the south and Botkhak, Bagrami and Dehsabz in the east.
            The educational standard has declined in educational institutions due to long vacations and tfye absence of qualified teachers.
       All educational institutions (from primary schools to the University) have been closed for vacations which might continue till July. Last year the students had a six-month vacation, but then had a one year promotion. The regime is planning to introduce some changes to the curriculum which was changed by the Russians during their presence in Afghanistan.
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
      The number of girl students is higher than boys in higher educational institutions.
          The mujahideen fire ground-to-ground rockets on the city from their positions in Khord Kabul, Koh-e-Safi and Paghman. Besides hitting military installations, these rockets also fall on residential areas and cause civilian losses in the city. Fearing rocket attacks, the residents have dug trenches in their houses in order to protect their lives.
          The number of the wounded is high these days, because many people are wounded either in operations or by rocket attacks. The International Committee of the Red Cross treats the war wounded in the capital.
          The Russian assistance has enable the Regime to strengthen its position in the military and economic field. Between 15 and 20 transport aircraft daily land at Khwaja Rawash airbase to transport heavy military equipment to the regime. Russian aircraft might also transport supplies to the airbases of Shindanad, Bagram and Dehdadi. Four and five convoys of foodstuff weekly reach Kabul. The Najib Regime would collapse if Russian assistance is stopped for a week.
          The Regime supporters receive large amounts of money for their loyalty. On the contrary, government employees receive limited salaries which cannot be compared to the high prices in the city. They work till 1:30 p.m. in their offices. Then they do overtime or part time private jobs in order to support           their
      families. In addition, the holders of coupons receive       56 kgs. of flour and seven kgs. of
      edible oil free of cost.
                                   26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          They can also recieve seven kgs. of sugar at a rate of Afs. 30 per kilogram. The military personnel do not enjoy the coupon benefits in view of their high salaries.
                            * * '
              There is no food shortage in the city. The prices of food are satisfactory.
    Following is a    comparative list of 
prices in the : city:                     
Item                      May      April  
                         Afs.      Afs.   
Flour         H kgs.      700         700 
Rice(No.1)    n kgs.     2700      2700   
Rice (No.2    H kgs.     1000      1000   
Firewood      H kgs.      350         300 
Potatoes      /I kgs.     300         350 
Onions        P kgs.     2000       600 - 
Spinach       /I kgs.     240      1000   
Turnip        H kgs.      320      1000   
Mutton        /kg.       1000      1300   
Beef          /kg.        800      1000   
Sugar         /kg.        500         320 
Edible Oil    /cane      6500      7000   
Beans         /kg.        400         450 
Egg           /piece  50               50 
Bread         /piece  30 .             30 
Green Tea     /kg. •     1500      1500   
Black Tea     /kg.       1500      1500   
Diesel        /litre      100          60 
Petrol        /litre      200         200 
                                        27
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
      HISARAK-E-GHALJAYEE :
      Interview with Dr. Mohammad Asil
          Dr. Mohammad Asil Saadat, who runs an MSH-sponsored clinic in the district of Hisarak-e-Ghaljayee (Ningrahar Province), arrived in Peshawar on June 18. He was interviewed by an AIC correspondent. The               doctor,      in his
      interview, gave the following description of the situation in Hissarak:
          The fertile district of Hisarak is located between Kabul, Logar, Saroobi and Ningrahar. A number of the residents left the area for refugee camps in Pakistan in the early years of the Afghan jehad, but the local population grew when some 500 families returned to the area in last April.
          The residents of the area are mostly engaged in agriculture; Due to sufficient water resources, apples, grapes, pomegranates, walnuts, chestnuts, mulberries, peas and figs are the common fruits of the area; other products are wheat, maize, barley, rice, poppy and           hashish. -About 20 percent of      land is
      irrigated by karezes (underground water channels) .
                                         *
          Agricultural products were satisfactory this year due to a proper water system and an increase in.the population. The price of wheat is much lower than last year. However, prices of meat, tea,          sugar, edible oil, kerosene oil,
      etc.          are high due to limited livestock breeding
      in the area. The people cannot breed livestock until mines are cleared from the area.
                                 28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           The residents of the area lead a different life as compared to that of past years. They are no longer interested in the mujahideen nor do they oppose them. All the residents are engaged in reconstruction affairs without any foreign assistance. They want a government which does not interfere in their religious and cultural affairs.
           Few deserving people have received the wheat assistance sent by the donor organization VITA to the area through mujahideen commanders. The commanders issue wheat quantities to their close relatives, mujahideen or non-refugees. Also, the Arabs have transferred relief and food supplies      to the area,  but again    few
       deserving people have received assistance. The organization Shelter Now International has built a karez (underground water channel) that irrgates 80 jeribs of lands in the area of Siab.
           The people of the area do not enjoy educational facilities for their children. They have lost their interest in education due to lack of motivation. About       nine percent   of
       children pursue religious studies in the mosques and        madrassas of  the area.    The
       Educational Centre and the Afghan         Interim
       Government have operated some schools in the area, but they have attracted few students. These schools are run *jy unskilled teachers who are only interested in their salary.
           For the past three years, I have been, serving the people of the area with a clinic of three medical     personnel and four guards.  Our
       clinic is supplied by MSH twice a year? we receive 350 kilograms of medicines each time.
                                               29.
tenth Year
June 1990
 No* 111
     We attend daily between 40 and 50 patients (children, women and men) at our clinic.
         Cases of diarrhoea, pneumonia, weakness and tetanus are widely observed among the children. The adults mostly suffer from gas trouble, malaria, itching, yellow fever, tuberculosis and renal diseases. Anemia, stomach disorders and other female diseases are commong among women due to the wrong use of medicine and improper practice of inexperienced medical personnel. There are many cases of abortion due to the wrong use of medicine. Shortage of food has cuased malnutrition among the residents of thfe area.
                           *#* *** ***
s3
                                         30
                       MURDERS IN PESHAWAR
          The killing of Afghans continues in Peshawar and nobody has been able to prevent the occurrence of such incidents and try the murderers in courts. The AIC has already reported such incidents in the past issues of its Monthly Bulletin. This issue contains the following incidents:
     Prof. Mohammad Zaher Khatib:
          On June 2, armed men shot dead Prof. Mohammedan Zaher Khatib at his residence in Tahkal-e-Payan (Peshawar).
          The late professor was sleeping at his residence when armed men climbed onto the walls of his house and opened fire on him with kalashnikovs.
          Prof. Khatib ,     44,  came   from Laghman
     province. When he obtained his B.A. degree from the Faculty of Islamic Law (Kabul University). In 1976, he left for the Sudan to continue his higher studies. He obtained his M.A. degree and returned to Afghanistan where he taught in Kabul University for a short period. He was engaged for years in various fields of the Afghan jehad. Finally, he was appointed as lecturer in the University of Jehad and Dawat in Pabbi, east of Peshawar.
31
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
           The late professor had joined Jamiat Islami Afghanistan ( Prof. Rabbani) many years ago.
      Commander Mohammad Hassan:
           Mohammad Hassan, a commander of Jamiat (ProfV Rabbani) in the district of Chak (Wardak province), was killed by unknown persons at Dinbahar Colony in Peshawar on June 1.
       Haji Khan:
           Haji Khan, an elder of Ahmadzai tribe, died mysteriously in the province of Logar on June
       4.
           The tribal elder, who was popularly known as'Khan Sultankhel, died suddenly without signs and symptoms of any disease.
       Nasrullah Shariatyar:
           Nasrullah Shariatyar, 42, was killed by unknown persons at Afghan Colony in Peshawar on June 11.
           The incident took place near the house of the deceased at 9:00 p.m.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly*Bulletin
        Shariatyar was one of the activists of Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar) in Kunduz province.
    Head of Shelter Now International attacked:
        On June 16, unknown armed men opened fire on the Head of Shelter Now International in the vicinity of Peshawar.
        Mr. Thor Armstrong was driving a vehicle along with his son when some unknown armed men opened fire on his vehicle. However he and his son did not suffer any harm in the incident.
        It is the third unpleasant incident for the organization during the past two months. Its felief buildings were' plundered in Nasirbagh Refugee Camp on April 26. Then one of *j.ts plants was looted in the area of Ghanikhel (Shinwar District), Ningrahar province. This time its head survived a firing incident'.
                   *** *** ***
                        MILITARY NEWS
       KABOL:
       Fighting in Paghman:
           Various units of the regime, including 700 Jowzjani militiamen, began an overall operation against mujahideen positions in the district of Paghman in early May. The troops captued the Qala-e-Hakim, Qala-e-Malik and part of Tapa-e-Paghman (the hill) and established security posts in the areas. However, the mujahideen began their attacks on the newly established posts in .June., Here is a description of the incidents:
           On June 2, the mujahideen attacked regime posts in the area of Qala-e-Hakim. The mujahideen captured four posts and liberated the area. Twenty-three regime troops and six mujahideen were killed in the incident.
           On June 3, regime posts came under a mujahideen attack in the areas of Bajak and Qala-e-Hakim. Two posts were captured by the mujahideen. .A mujahideen rocket also destroyed a tank near the post of Bajak.
           On June 5, the mujahideen carried out an attack on the post of Dara-e-Zargar. The mujahideen captured the post, killing ten soldiers and officers. Two mujahideen were also killed in the attack.
                                      34
 No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
       Other Incidents in. Kabul:
            On June 1, in a joint operation on the surrounding posts in Khak-e-Jabar district, the mujahideen captured six posts and killed 26 • soldiers and officers. Three mujahideen were also killed in the operation.
            On June 5, a mujahideen rocket hit the Bagh-e-Bala Hotel in northern Kabul. As a result, 15 people were killed and a number wounded.
            A meeting of party activists was going on in the hotel when the rocket hit it.
        HERAT:
           On May 27, the mujahiden raided regime posts in the district of Zindajan. The mujahideen captured the posts and seized a quantity of ammunition along with a tank in working order. The mujahideen lost five mujahideen and killed 20 regime troops.
       KANDAHAR:
           On June 2, the mujahideen shot down a helicopter.in the area.of Landai Karez.
           On June 3, a helicopter was hit by the mujahideen in Kandahar province.
                                      35
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       The helicopter crashed in the area of Rigi, south of Kandahar city.
           On June 12, two regime helicopters were shot down by the mujahideen near Kandahar airbase.
           The helicopters were bombarding the area around the ai-rbase when they were hit by mujahideen RPG-7 rockets.
       BALKH:
           On June 2,     3  and 4, regime aircraft
       bombarded various areas of Mazar-e-Sharif. As a result, 66 people, including children, women and old men, were killed in the villages of Diwali, Maidani, Bamzad and Kampirak.
           On June 9, the mujahideen carried out , an operation on the garrison of Marmal. The mujahideen captured the garr'ison, losing twelve mujahids. Enemy losses were not known.
       LOGAR:
           On May 2t), a regime convoy of 45 tanks and vehicles moved from Kabul to Gardez to transport supplies to the provincial centre of Paktia. The convoy has faced strong resistance from the mujahideen in the district of Mohammad Agha where severe fighting has continued between the two sides.
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
               According to the latest report on June 2, five tanks were destroyed and innumerable soldiers killed by the mujahideen.
               Heavy bombardment continues on mujahideen positions in the area.
           PAKTIA:
               On June 6, a regime transport aircraft-intending to land at Khost airbase was shot down by a mujahideen 122mm gun.
               The aircraft was transporting supplies to the besiged garrison of Khost when the inbident occuured.
           SAMANGAN:
               In an operation on the district headquarters of Tangi (Samangn province), the mujahideen destroyed seven tanks, killed 23 soldiers and officers and captured 14 others. Also, twelve mujahideen were killed or wounded.
               In retaliation, regime aircraft bombarded the surrounding areas of the distict headquarters, killing 43 residents, including children, women and old men.
                                          37
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 i
    BAGHLAN;
         On June 11, under the command of Baz Mohammad, the mujahideen of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) carried out an operation against regime posts on the Salang-Kunduz highway in Khinjan.
         As a result, seven tanks were destroyed and 21 soldiers and officers killed.- Four mujahideen were also killed and wounded.
     PARWAN:
         On June 9, the mujahideen carried out an attack on the regime posts near Bagram airbase.
         The attack resulted in the destruction of two aircraft landing at the base.
     GHAZNI:
         On June 8, the mujahideen shot down an enemy aircraft in the area of Robat.
         The ' aircraft was bombarding mujahideen positions along with three other aircraft when the incident occured in the area.
    NINGRAHAR:
         On June 14, the mujahideen of Hezb-e-Islami
                                 38
No. Ill
tenth Year
June 1990
       (Maulawi Khales) began an operation on the -power station of Darunta with heavy rockets. The rockets destroyed the station by causing damage to the only two turbines there.
           The Darunta station is located at a distance of 20 kilometers from Jalalabad. It provided power to Jalalabad with two out of six turbines. The desruction of the two turbines has resulted in complete darkness in the city.
                       *** *** ***
                                 39
           The roan of knowledge is one who has knowledge about himself , not one who    has only knowledge          about his
    knowledge
                    ***   * * *
             Bewilderment is  a        braid which
    leaves bits nest looking for food byt does not find its way back .
                    ***     **•
          I spend thirty years seeking God . In the end I realized that he was the seeker and I sought
                    *•*     ***
          I spend thirty       years praying aloud
    . Wh^n I    became silent I realized      that
    the   veil    between God  and me was ay
    prayer
                    ***     ***
    From the book
    * Sufism and the Modern World" Professor Sayd B. Majrooh