

 AFGHAN
           INFORMATION
         QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
No. 118                  Tenth Year                  January 1991
                           The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)   International news media
        (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor        : Sayed  Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription Institutions            : US$    100
Individuals              : US$    70
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
              AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
                    Monthly Bulletin No. 118      January 1991
        CONTENTS:
        I.   AFGHANISTAN IN 1990                     1
        II.  ELEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF SOVIET INVASION 5
        III. THE GULF WAR                            9
        IV.  AIG ELECTIONS                          11
♦
        V.   POLITICAL ACTIVITY IN PAKISTAN         14
*
        VI.  NEWS FROM PROVINCES                    18
                                      * * * * ** * * *
                 AFGHANISTAN IN 1990
                  The year 1990 brought a message of joy and satisfaction for many people of the world; but the Afghan people spent it in despair and uncertainty like the other years of the Afghan war. Many people were killed and innumerable houses and villages were destroyed in the war. The flames of the April Coup of 1978 has set the whole country on fire.
                  As the war has caused severe injuries to the Afghan people, the people of Afghanistan expected the restoration of peace and freedom in their country when the Russian troops left Afghanistan two years ago. However, they could not see and end to the war during the past two years.
                  We are the only nation in the modern history that has offered great sacrifices for its freedom in the war. The international effects of the Afghan jehad brought the Soviet empire to its knees and possibly to collapse.
                  Regretfully, we should point out the fact that our blood is like the oil of a lamp which burns itself but provides light for others. The war continues on the Afghan soil and the future seems to be dark.
                  Here is brief report of important events in 1990:
         Military Situation
                The greatest victory for the mujahideen in 1990 was the fall of Tirinkot, the provincial centre of Uruzgan. Tirinkot was the only provincial centre that fell to the mujahideen throughout Afghanistan following the Russian withdrawal from the country.
                Another victory for the mujahideen was the fall of Toraghara, a strategic position near the besieged town of Khostin Paktia province. In an incident in the district of Pashtun Zarghun (Herat, the mujahideen killed Gen. Razminda, deputy minister of regime’s state security, and wounded Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, regime’s prime minister, who was the provincial governor of Herat at the time.
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
                     Some well known Afghan commanders and intellectuals were also killed in Pakistan during the year. In this connection, Maulawi Mohammad Nasim Akhundzada, deputy minister of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) and general commander of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in south-western zone of Afghanistnan was killed along with his five commanders in the area of Cherat, east of Peshawar.
                     For the first time in eight years, regime troops were able to capture several strategic positions in the district of Paghman (Kabul province) during the summer of the past year.
                     The mujahideen also brought Qalat, the provincial centre of Zabul, under strong pressure, but the town did not fall to them.
                     The capital came twice under severe mujahideen attacks during the past year. Ground-to-ground rockets fell from time to time on the city, causing heavy casualties.
                     Seven outstanding commanders of Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar) were killed in Ningrahar when a regime rocket fell on their position.
                     The Salang highway between Kabul and Hairatan (Soviet border) remained open throughout the year. The Soviets sent several convoys of military supplies and foodstuffs to Kabul through the highway. Three large Soviet convoys reached Kandahar via Torghundi (Herat).
             Political Situation
                     The developments inside the country and the international atmosphere indicated that the year would bring about an important political change in the country. However, no particular change took place in 1990. Instead, regional and international events overshadowed the Afghabn issue.
                            •
                     In 1990 the seven Peshawar-based mujahideen organizations introduced an election law to hold elections for a loya jirgah. However, all mujahideen groups and Afghans have divergent views on the law, which is even not acceptable to some organizations.
                     The major political success for the mujahideen side is the holding of a gathering of mujahideen commanders during the year. It was the first time that
                                               2
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       the mujahideen commanders of each tribe and ethnic group gathered in a centre. A similar gathering was held in Shah Salim on the Afghan-Pak border.
               The president of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) paid two vists to Afghanistan.
               In Kabul a joint government of party and non-party people was formed in Kabul under the leadership of Fazal Haq Khaliqyar. The power however rested into the hands of the party.
               The Kabul ruler visited India and France where he receivedaid promises from the authorities of those countries. On the other hand, Najib made a sudden dash to Switzerland where he claimed that he held useful negotiations with some resistance leaders and the representativce of Zahir Shah, former monarch of Afghanistan. The claims have been congtradicted by the oppositeside.
               In 1990, France was the first Western country that reopened its embassy in Kabul.
               The U.N. sent supplies to some parts of the country during the past year.
               The neighbour of Afghanistan followed a separate policy regarding the Afghan developments. A change is felt in the Iranian policy on the current crisis in Afghanistan. In this regard, Najib made a dash to Mashad on his way to Kabul from Geneva. Since the visit of President Rafsanjani of Iran to-the Soviet Union in 1990, Iran has been giving preference to political solution over military means. They say that the Afghans themselves should determine their destiny without anyforeign interference.
               In 1990 grave internal conflicts threatened the Soviet empire. The Soviets however has extended generous to the regime in Kabul and lay emphasis on the political solution of the Afghan issue.
               Pakistan followed two types of policy on Afghanistan in 1990. Government authorities in Pakistan tried to pave the ground for political solution beside military pressure till August 1990. The visit of a 26-member delegation of former Afghan bureaucrats, including former prime minister Mohammad Yusuf, to Pakistan from the U.S., Europe and Arab countries is an example of these efforts. During the second half of the year, the Pakistan policy indicated that it wanted the mujahideen to topple the Kabul regime militarily. In this respect, Pakistan has continued its humanitarian and sympathetic assistance to the mujahideen.
                                        3
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
                       The U.S. was a country of the world that extended great economic, military and political support to the Afghan mujahideen in forcing the Russian troops out of Afghanistan. Though no major change was observed in the U.S. economic and military support for the mujahideen, various signs indicated that the U.S., Congress had exerted pressure on U.S. administration to seek a political solution to the Afghan issue. Despite its engagement in the Iraq-Kuwaitcrises, the U.S. changed its former policy regarding the the political initiative.
                       According to some rumours, Gen. Abdul Wali, son-in-law of the former Afghan monarch, has held talks with Saudi authorities on the Afghan issue. If we take the rumour true, the joint Saudi-U.S. program will further accelerate the diplomatic process of a settlement, because Saudi Arabia is the only Muslim country that has extended great support to the mujahideen. Thus, Pakistan will be the only country in the world to support the armed jehad of Afghan mujahideen with full honesty.
                                            *** *** %**
                                               4
        ELEVENTH ANNIVERSARY OF SOVIET INVASION
                December 27, 1990 coincides with the eleventh anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
                The Afghan society had achieved little economic progress the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan on December 27, 1979. The progress was however natural, and the economic conditions of the Afghan people could not be studied separately from their political life.
                Though the coup of 1972 by President Daoud brought an end to the ten-year democratic era of King Zahir Shah, various signs during the last months of his ruyle indicated that Afghanistan was again taking cautious steps to safeguard the rights of people within its political system.
                However, a coup was launched apparently under the leadership of the Khalq and Parcham factions on April 27, 1978. The first anti-Afghan act by the coup leaders was the disruption of the economic system. The people of the country v/ere accustomed to this system despite its shortcomings. Without taking the political and economic conditions of the country into consideration, they exactly followed the policy of state economy which was designed for backward countries in the Soviet Union in accordance with the Brezhnev doctrine.
                If one happens to know at the social structure of Afghanistan, he will admit the fact that a capitalist or feudal system had not caused unjust distribution of property in Afghanistan. Those were not the basic factors of the political and economic backwardness of Afghanistan, as the economic and political reforms between 1964 and 1978 were driving the country towards industrialisation. The whole industry of the country comprised minor government projects during the period.
                 The basic problem was however the presence of a political system in the country, which can be called a traditional one in other words. The people of Afghanistan however had adapted themselves to this system during the past seventy years., particularly the democratic era. The people did not have high expectations from the government which had ensured peace throughout the country; the people enjoyed adequate educational facilities, they were well represented in the parliament by their elected members.
                                          5
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
                    Though the Afghan monarch enjoyed full powers of the country, the elected representatives were politically so strong that they demanded the accountability of the prime minister and the cabinet in daylight.
                    Without popular support, the Khalq and Parcham factions invaded the political system of a country where any change in a system was considered as a suffering and not a blessing. For that reason, the ordinary people of the country, contrary to the present cries and claims, were the pioneers in the Afghan society to rise against the desptic regime of Taraki.
                    On May 2, 1978 the residents of Zirok sub-district (Paktia province) attacked the sub-district headquarters. As a result, the district administrator was killed along with his brother and two other Khalqis.
                    The then despotic government employed all tactics to suppress the Afghan people. The regime committed all shameful acts, includings brutal bombardment of villages, to crush the daily increasing resistance of the people. The regime launched barbaric operations against the strong resistance of the people, who were forced to leave the country and seek shlter in other countries; each third person of the Afghan society is a refugee today.
                    When the Khalqi and Parchami leaders could not crush the genuine popular uprising, Russian troops invaded Afghanistan in December 27, 1979. The invasion forced the Afghan people to declare a general armed struggle against the Russians.
                    During the bitter years of the Russian presence in Afghanistan, Afghanistan was transformed into ruins; hundreds of thousands of Afghans were killed; the traditional nagtural structure suffered a blow. The Soviet barbarism and intervention forced millions of Afghans to leave their homeland; the example of such a large number cannot not be found in our history.
                    The Russians not only entered Afghanistan with their weapons, they also invaded Afghanistan ideologically. They spent nine years to Sovietize Afghanistan and kill the national spirit in the country. During this period the Afghan soil has been mixed with a generation which cannot connect its past to the present.
                    The Russian Invasion of Afghanistan hasa caused enormous loss which cannot be compensated soon. It has shattered the Afghan society; it has created non-Afghan contradictory thoughts among the Afghans.
                                        6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         The political, economic, cultural and linguistic links of a generation of most Afghans in the U.S. and Europe has either loosened or severed.
         The Afghans in Iran have lost themselves in the economy and culture of that country; they do not even speak their native language. They follow those aspects of Islamic principles which are common in Iran. Hence, tribal and ethnic relationships have supersed national and Afghan relationships.
         The main dwelling country of Afghan refugees is Pakistan where they are fully gratefull to the host country for its humanitarian sympathy and assistance.              )
 They think that their hosts will always lead them in the war of the right and the wrong.
         Despite all bitter experiences, the defeat of the Soviet empire on the Afghan soil was the great honour earned by the Afghan people. Afghanistan was a Russian colony on December 27, 1979, but it was an independent country on December 27,1989.
         However, the devastating effects of aggression and interference is still drawing our wounded nation day by day to the dark shadow. The Muslim and honest people of our homeland passed the difficult stages and earned heroism in their jehad asa result of the aggression, but the nation still lacks a leader acceptable to it.
         For this reason the Afghan people are obliged to invite the old king to the country, despite the fact that none of his young sons has erased the tears of a single orphan of jehad.
                                                                                               r
 Aig Condemn Soviet Invasion
         On Dec. 27, authorities of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) held a                 j
 large meeting in Pabbi, east of Peshawar.
         In his address to the gathering, Prof. Sayaf, Prime Minister of the AIG, condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and praised the sacrifices of the
 Afghan people.
         A resolution was passed at the end of the meeting. Here arethe importants points of the resolution:
                                7
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
            Jehad will continue unless an Islamic government replaced the infidel and atheist regime in the country.
            The ongoing efforts for seeking a political solution to the Afghan issue are fruitless. The enemies of our jehad cannot imposed a system on us that is contrary to the will of our nation.
            The Afghan people are capable of determining their destiny. They do not need the advice and supervision of anybody in this respect.
            We cannot accept a coalition government with Communists, as we have offered sacrifices for the establishment of an Islamic government in the country.
            We cannot accept an impartial and neutral government for a single day
    in Afghanistan.
            The return of old robbers to Afghanistan is not only a useless effort, but is not a pardonable crime.
            Meanwhile, Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyrar) held a grand meeting in its camp in Warsak, north of Peshsawar, to condemn the Soviet invasion.
            During the meeting, the speakers emphasised that they would continue armed jehad until an Islamic government is formed in Afghanistan.
                                   *** *** ***
                                  8
              THE GULF WAR
             On January 17, allied forces led by the U.S. launched a huge air attack on Iraq. The attack, which was called as "Operation Desert Storm" led to war in a in a sensitive region of the world.
             Saudi Arabia is the only Islamic country that hosted the air and ground forces of the coalition, because the joint command of the allied forces is located in Dahran, north of Saudi Arabia. The Saudis and its regional allies pay one third of the war expenses.
             The allied forces say that they launched the operation to liberate Kuwait, but Iraqi say that the allies intend to destroy the Iraqi nation, consolidate the Zionist regime and occupy the oil of the Arab world.
             The operations indicate that the war will be the most devastating one in the modern history, because modern technology has been employed in the war.
             The U.S. is backed by the major industrialist countries of the West, some members of former CENTO in Asia and the sheikhdoms of the Gulf in the war.
             As the last resolution of the U.N. used the term "force" for the expulsion of Iraqi troops from Kuwait, no government of the region and the world has declared its support for Iraq. However, Iraq enjoys supports among the people of the Islamic world who think that a super power has attacked a small Islamic country.
             Keeping in view its geographical location and the current developments, Afghanistan cannot remain unaffected by the situation in the Gulf.
             Following are views of some Afghans on the situation in the Gulf:
             Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), in an interview said:
             "I justify the war launched by the allied forces to liberate Kuwait and weaken Iraq, because Iraq has occupied Kuwaitr. In addition, the war in the Gul
                                   9
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
        has created financial problem^ for the mujahideen. Now the world press has no mention of the Afghan jehad. Also, Iraq has not supported the Afghan cause.”
               Prof. Sayaf, Prime Minister of the AIG, took the U.S. and the governments of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq for the devastating war.
               In a statement, Eng. Hekmatyar, Leader of Hezb-e-Islami, strongly condemned the attack on Iraq by the allies and called it an uprising against the nations of the Islamic world.
               The Nationwide Shoora of the Mujahideen Commanders, in a satement said, ” We not only condemn Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, but we alsodenounce the attack of the allies on the Iraqi nation.
                                             *** *** ***
                                 10
                      AIG ELECTIONS
              For the past two months, some Peshawar-based mujahideen organizations have been working on the formation of a jirgah of Ahl-e-Hal-o-Aqd (competent persons), They intend to hold elections for such a jirgah in the framework of a 44-article election law published recently.
              In this connetion, AIC has received some reports from south-west Afghanistan, Paktia, Paktika and Ningrahar. Here is the summary of the reports:
      1.      Kandahar, Zabul and Helmand
              According to AIC correspondent in Quetta, Baluchistnan, a number of mujahideen held a meeting at the offices of Afghan Interim Government (AIG) in Quetta on December 25, 19990. Several participants asked the Election Commission of the AIG to provide necessary resources, enabling them to leave for Afghanistan. However, their suggestion was opposed by the other participants of the meeting. Some commanders and tribal elders even stood up and left indpendently for the provinces of Kandahar, Zabul and Helmand, where they do not let the supporters of election to move in the area.
              Another problem in the three provinces is the opposition to the election plan by those commanders, religous scholars and tribal elders who have stayed inside Afghanistan during the past several years of war in Afghanistan. They say that restrictions should be removed for holding elections in the country. They say that the nation should be allowed to exercise its authority in identifying the competent people. They sayd that they are well aware of the fact that the government formed in Rawalpindi cannot earn the support of the people. They add that the Afghans themselves should decide upon their destiny.
      Ningrahar
              Reports from Ningrahar say that several temas of the AIG Election Commission visited the districts of Moandara, Achin, Nazian, Ghanikhail, Haksa Mena, Kama, Rodat and Khugiani. A number of civilians and mujahideen were impressed with the idea in order to see unity in the ranks of the mujahideen. They said that it would be matter of pleasure for them to see a unified leadership of the
11
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
         mujahideen by any means. They however expressed displeasure over the election plan.
                 A commander of Itehad-e-Islami (Prof. Sayaf), who is also a member of the AIG Election Commission, said:
                 "Elections can be held in an atmosphere of peacew and unity. The mujahideen enjoys unity, but their leadership lacks a single opinion. The mujahideen organizations want to keep the people busy on the pretext of elections."
                 Besides, no activity of the AIG Election Commission is visible in the district of Khugiani, where the influence of Maulawi Khales, leader of his faction of Hezb-e-Islami, is one ofthe factors of disinterest in the elections. The local commanders of the organizations say that the Islamic leadership of Afghanistan should come into being in accordance with the Islamic principles of Ahl-e-Hal-o-Aqd (competent persons).
                 As a whole, the election teams have not fulfilled any remarkable tasks in the province of Ningrahar.
        Paktika:
                 A mujahid, who has recently arrived from Paktika province in mid January, says:
                 "The province of Paktika fell to the mujahideen two years ago, but the mujahidneen organizations in the province had not fulfilled any remarkable task for bringing about a unified leadership. All mujahideen groups have established their own bases in the province. Each of these groups are trying to seek the assistance of foreign donating agencies for its own area in the province. Some persons were chosed by the AIG Election Commission to supervise elections in the province, but they have not left Peshawar for their areas due to their internal differences over the election procedures."
         Paktia:
               No AIG election teams have left for Paktia province. The members of the teams have sought the advice of well known mujahideen commander of Paktia, Maulawi Jalaluddin Haqani, when contacted, said:
                                   12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
             ”We should first prepare our homeland for holding elections. The present conditions are not conduicive for elections. If elections are held under the present circumstances, its result will be not better than that in Rawalpindi.”
             Haqani said that he would introduce delegates from Paktia, if the Election Commission gathered elected representatives from all over Afghanistan. He said that elections would result in division and clashes among the people, if they were held underthe present circusmtances.
     Aig Sends Home Employees
             During the third week of January, there were rumours of a possible reduction in the staff of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) for an unspecified period.
             On January 24, AIG authorities sent home its employees of almost all ministries (except three ministries) and advised them to wait until future announcement.
             While ministers and heads of departments of the government occupy their positions, some 4,000 low-ranking employees out of 8,000 lost their jobs as a result of the latest move by the AIG.
             The AIG, which was formed in 1989 in Rawalpindi, tried to find aplace for itself inside Afghanistan, but it was unable to achieve the objective.
             One of the main tasks of the AIG was the reconstruction of Afghanistan, but less than ten percent of reconstruction was carried out in the country. In addition, the AIG remained a government in exile in a true sence, because it remained isolated from its compatriots.
                                  *** *** ***
                                13
              POLITICAL ACTIVITY IN PAKISTAN
        Nationwide shoora of Mujahideen Commanders Press Conference
                On Dec. 9, 1990, a press conference was arranged at the office of the Nationwide Shoora of Mujahideen Commanders (or the Countrywide Council of Mujahideen Commanders) in Peshawar by Maulawi Jalaluddin Haqani (Paktia), Maulawi Arsala, commander of Itehad-e-Islami (Prof. Sayaf) in Paktika, Mohammad Anwar, commander of Jamiat (Prof. Rabani) in Saroobi (Kabul), Maulawi Pir Mohammad, commander of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in Paktia, Mohammad Yonus Qanuni, representative of Commander Masoud of Panjsher in Peshawar, Haji Fazal Ahmad, representative of Commander Ismail Khan of Herat in Peshawar, Malak Sulaiman, representative of Commander Sayed Jagran of Hazarajat in Pashawar, as well as several other commanders of the mujahidneen.
                At the outset, Commander Haqani, spokesman of the Shoora (council) read out a detailed report about the operations conducted in the country through the initiatve of the Council during the past one month. He said that various operations were conducted by the commanders of the Nationwide Shoora of Mujahideen Commanders in the province of Kabul, Laghman, Baghlan, Parwain and Paktia. He said that the mujahideen conducted heavy attacks on regime targets on the Kabul-Hairatan highway, destroyed and captured fifty tanks and APCs. The mujahideen, he said, destroyed eight aircraft at Bagram airbase and five others in Khost airfield.
                He said that mujahideen pressure forced regime authorities in Khost to build another airfield in the north-west of the town.
                He said that Gen. Mahtabuddin Safi, governor of Laghman, was killed as a result of mujahideen operations in the province. Another regime general, who served in the KHAD and was known as Ahmad Shah, was killed in the district of Shakardara (Kabul).
                Commander Haqani also mentioned mujahideen operations in Herat province. He said that eleven officers, including a colonel, were arrested by the mujahideen when they attacked the base of elite Special Guards near Herat
                                  14
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Hotel. He added that in another attack on the- security post of Pul-e-Malan on Nov. 27, the mujahidneen set on fire an ammunition depot and captured a new type of Russian anti-aircraft weapons, called Zaoo. The Russians have given ten Zaoos to Afghanistan, he said.
              Haqani said that it was the first time that the mujahideen continued their operations against regime positions in winter season with intensity
     Prof. Rabani’s Press Conference
              On Dec. 8, Prof. Rabani, Minister of Reconstruction of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) and Leader of Jamiat-e-Islami, arranged a press conference in Peshawar. Here are his expressions:
              Famine has been threatening the northern and north-western parts of Afghanistan for the past three years. He said that the threat has intensified in the provinces of Badghis, Faryab, Jowzjan and Badakhshan. Signs of the famine are also noticed in other provinces, such as Bamyan and Samangan.
              Besides drought and locusts, regime and Russian aircraft flying from the Sopviet territory severely bombard and burn harvests in these provinces. On several occasions, we sought U.N. assistance of wheat to counter the problem, but we did not receive any kind of assistance despite U.N. insistance that the wheat would be transferred via the Soviet Union. We accepted the condition after thorough discussions with our commanders. We advised our commanders to respect U.N. convoys in the larger interests of the people. However, no U.N. convoys have arrived in Afghanistan.
              The people of Afghanistan have not received any assistance. Very limited assistance has been received in the provinces of Badakhshan and Balkh. On the contrary, the Kabul regime received large supplies of wheat which were distributed to only militiamen in the regime-controlled areas.
              Prof. Rabani strongly criticised reduction in the refugee ration by the UNHCR. He asked the UNHCR to recognise its international obligation and continue its assistance to the Afghan refugees, because the refugees are legally entitled to receive U.N. assistance. The U.N. should extend its humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people without any political considerations.
              According to Prof. Rabani, between 15 and 20 children loose their lives daily in the province of Samangan due tb food shortage.
                               15
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
       Commanders, elders hold meeting
               On Dec. 23, various councils of mujahideen commanders and religious scholars held a joint meeting in Pabbi, east of Peshawar. The participants made the following decisions at the end of the meeting:
               We strongly reject the establishment an impartial government, the formation of a joint council with the atheists, the holding of an international conference for a coalition government with the atheists and all the plans designed by foreigners to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
               We strongly reject any general elections that ensures the participation of atheists and all those do not enjoy the right of vote in accordance with Sharia (islamic law).
               We demand of all mujahideen commanders and religious scholars to end their internal differences for the sake of jehad and join their hands for the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
       Popalzai Tribal Union
               During the first week of December 1990, various refugee families of Popalzai tribe in Baluchistan established their tribal union (council). Here are the main points of the Council:
       1.      The members .of the Council will represent the tribe in all political, tribal and national gatherings.
       2.      The Council will appoint its representatives in refugee camps and inside Afghanistan to settle inter-tribe issues on time.
       3.      The Council will form judicial, political and financial commissions. Each commission will inform the Council about its activities and seek the approval or directions of the council for future action.
       4.      The Council is not composed of only the present members. Each tribeman may attain the membership of the Council in the light of his political, tribal and educational background.
       5.      The members of the Council will honestly endeavour to preserve the national interests of the nation and homeland with full trust in God. They should
                                16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        not indulge in their personal interests. They should solve inter-tribal differences and createan atmosphere of brotherhood and love aimed at creating a symbol of overall unity between all tribes and nationalities of Afghanistan.
       Refugee women demonstrate in Quetta
              On December 27, some 250 Afghan women, held a demonstration on the streets of Quetta (Baluchistan) to condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
              The demonstrators chanted slogans against Najib and Hezb-e-Islami.
                                     ... *** ***
                                17
                 NEWS FROM PROVINCES
      Kandahar
             On Dec. 14, commanders of Itehad-e-Islami (Prof. Sayaf) fired 170 ground-to-ground rockets on regime targets in Qishla-e-Jadid, Manzilbagh and other parts of Kandahar city.
             The rockets, which fell near Herat Gate, Chaharsu and Harqa Sharif, killed 280 children, women and old men, and wounded over 200 others. Fifteen wounded persons succumbed to their injurie son their way to hospitals.
             The attack not only caused great anger among the peoplee, mujahideen commanders and tribal elders who decided to drive the emmanders responsible out of Kandahar province.
             As a result, tribal elders of southwestern Afghanistan gatheredin Kandahar and decided that no tribe should carry out a military our political activity without the agreement of other tribes.
             During the night of January 3 occupants of a regime post planted a huge bomb for mujahideen near Shahbazar in city.
             The bomb did not kill the mujahideen who did not enter the city that night. Instead, six civilians were killed and 35 wounded the following morning.
      Zabul
              On January 1, several mujahideen were wounded when regime aircraft bombarded their positions in the province of Zabul.
              The bombardment took place prior to the arrival of a regime convoy from Kandahar. The convoy was sent to Qalat ro reinforceits units in the provincial centgre against a possible mujahideen onslaught.
                                  18
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Helmand
            On January 6, 1991 a mine blast killed several mujahideen when their vehicle hit a land mine in the desert of Malid.
      Farah
             A report from Quetta says that two vehicle of a mine-clearing team were lifted away in Farah during the second half of December. The members of the team had visited Badghis and Herat for mine-clearing purposes in the provinces.
      Kabul
            Haji Sher Mohammad, in an interview with AIC on Dec. 11, contradicted a regime’s claim that it had captured the district of Shakardara, north of Kabul.
            He said that the mujahideen repulsed an attack of regime troops through the village of Danishmand (behind the mountains of Khair Khana Mena in Kabul) on their positions located to the east of the Kabul-Charikar highway.
            Haji Sher Mohammad said that the regime controlled an area of 15 kilometre in the north of Kabul, including Bagh-e-Daoud and Ghundi-e-Safed, while the mujahideen controlled the areas of Hussainkot, Qala-e-Muradbeg, the district headquarters of Shakardara and Lewa-e-Rocket (rocket unit).
            He said that the mujahideen recently captured the area of Bad-e-Asia which overlooks the airbases of Bagram and Kabul.
             Said Wali, a mujahid of Capt. Khan Mohammad, commander of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) in Koh-e-Safi, has recently arrived in Peshawar.
             In an interview with AIC on January 25, the mujahid gave the following information about the situation in the area:
              Compared to regime operations in previous years, the regime has intensified its bombardment and shelling of the liberated areas in the district of Dehsab. The bombardment is carried out six or seven times a day with Napalm bombs and Oregan ground-to-ground rockets. Regime operations however cause limited losses to the mujahideen, who have duge deep trenches for their
                                 19
No.   118
Tenth Year
January 1991
       protection against possible enemy bombardment. In addition, four of five mujahideen are stationed in each position which suffer little losses.
             In retaliation to regime operations, mujahideen carry out their their operations on regime targets with SAKAR-20 and 122mm guns, causing heavy losses to the regime side. The regime suffers heavy losses in mujahideen operations due to its crowded positions and sudden attacks by the mujahideen.
             The mujahideen launch most of their attacks on Bagram airbase, Khwaja Rawash airbase, Quwa-e-Chahar (Fourth Force), Quwa-e-Panzada-e-Zeredar (Fifteenth Armoured Force), Kabul Military Academy, Ministry of Defence, Presidential Palace, Mahiper posts, Gaard-e-Khas (special guards) and regime posts on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway. The mujahideen carried our more than fifty operations on the said positions during the past two months. Each operation has resulted in heavy regime losses, including some aircraft on Kabul airport.
             During the first week of December, the mujahideen carried out an operation on the regime positions near the Pul-e-Charikhi Prison, capturing 100 light weapons, several mortars, two anti-aircraft guns and a large quantity of foodstuff and ammunition. The mujahideen killed 20 regime troops and captured 15 others alive.
             The mujahideen have high morale millitarily. However, disunity between the resistance leaders and commanders have disappointed the mujahideen who are worried about their uncertain future.
             Though there is an atmosphere of brotherhood among the mujahideen organizations in Koh-e-Safi, Hezb-Harakat differences in the area of Tagab in the neighbourhood of Koh-e-Safi has resulted in considerable losses to the civilians of the area. Also, many mujahideen were killed in the clashes between the two sides during the past years.
             Some clashes took place between mujahideen organizations in the areas of Nijrab and Kohistan in December. The clashes that .continued for two weeks more than one hundred people were killed.
             The mujahideen of the area face shortage of food and ammunition, because they receive limited supplies.
             There are high prices of consumer goods in Kabul and its surroundings.
                               20
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Following is a comparative price list of consumer goods in Tagab (Kapisa)
near Koh-e-Safi:                              
Hem                       Oct. 1990 Jan. 1991 
                 Afs.          Afs.           
Wheat /7kgs.     900          1,500           
Rice(No.l)       /Tkgs.       2,600     3,300 
Rice(No.2)       /7kgs.       1,600     1,900 
Beans /7kgs.     2,400        2,700           
Onions           /7kgs.         600     1,000 
Potatoes         /7kgs.         300       400 
EdibleOil/1      /16kgs.     11,000    18,000 
EdibleOil/2      /16kgs.      7,000     8,000 
KerseneOil       /41itres       800     2,300 
Mutton           Ag             800       900 
Beef /kg.        600            800           
Sugar /kg.       240            260           
Egg /piece       30              30           
Chicken          /head        2,000     2,900 
Ningrahar                                     
              On Dec. 8, regime troops attacked mujahideen positions in Kama and captured the position of Mashingar along with other positions in the district.
              Dec. 14, the mujahideen launched a heavy attack on regime positions in the area following a short retreat and recaptured their lost positions.
              In the attack, the mujahideen captured six tanks and vehicles in working order. They also recaptured the pass of Mashingar. Regime troops are reported to have suffered heavy casualties in the fighting.
              According to impartial sources, forty mujahids were killed and thirty wounded in the fighting between the two sides.
              The pass of Mashingar is a strategic point; regime troops may control the Torkham highway from the top.
                                21
No. 118
Tenth Year
January 1991
    Situation in Ghazni
           Mohammad Zahir, an employee of United Nations Logistics (UNILOG) in the district of Qarabagh (Ghazni), has arrived in Peshawar onJanuary 5, 1991. He said:
           "We have launched reconstruction programmes in the province of Ghazni where we work on 40 karezes (underground water channels). We give wheat to the workers in exchange for their work on the karezes. We have given 50 sacks of wheat to the workers of each karez. The wheat is given to those workers who use these karezes.
           Mohammad Zahir gave the following account of the situation in the province.
           The residents of the area face numerous problems in their daily life. There are high prices of consumer goods, but there are no work opportunities for the residents of the area. A labourer, who receives a daily wage of Afs 1,000, can work for only six months of the year. Hence, the people can hardly support their
    families.
           There has been no traffic on the Kabul-Ghazni highway for thepast three months. Vehicular movement is confined only to the area between the city of Ghazni and the district of Qarabagh. The residents of the area also receive their foodstuff from Pakistan.
           Following is a price list of consumer goods in the district of Qarabagh in late December:
Item               Afghanis 
Wheat       /7kgs.      800 
Rice(No.l)  /7kgs.    1,500 
Rice(No.I)  /7kgs.    2,800 
EdibleOil   /7kgs.      800 
BalckTea    /kg-      2,000 
Sugar       Ag-         340 
WashingSoap /piece      210 
Beef        /kg-      2,000 
Mutton      Ag-       2,500 
Sheep       /head   x00,000 
Raisins     /7kgs.    3,000 
22
             KeroseneOil       /51itres                         2,000
             Petrol            /200litres                     110,000
             Diesel            /2001itres                      80,000
             Candies           /kg.                             3,200
             There is a high school and some primary schools in Qarabagh. The curriculum of pre-war Afghanistan is taught in these schools. The headmaster of the schools receives a monthly salary of Afs. 17,000, while the teachers get Afs. 12,000. The educational standard of the students however is very low due to inexperienced and non-professional teachers.
             The donor organization of DACAAR has begun the construction of a high school building in the area. The building will be used for educational purposes in the near future.
       Bomb Blast Destroy Regime Aircraft
             Two persons were killed and seven wounded in the area of Nawa when a bomb exploded in a regime aircraft.
             The past issue of Monthly Bulletin carried a news item about the capture of a regime aircraft by the mujahideen in the area. When the mujahideen captured the aircraft, they fixed a price of Afs. 1,500,000 for its sale, which reduced finally to Afs. 500,000.
             Interestingly, the aircraft was not purchased by the mujahideen of the area due their internal differences and was sold to at a cost of Afs. 500,000 who wanted to take its parts and its iron material for sale to Pakistan.
             However, a bomb exploded when the trader and his men tried to break up the aircraft. Two persons were killed and seven wounded in the explosion.
             It is not known whether the Kabul regime or the mujahideen had fixed the bomb to the aircraft.
*** *** ***
                                      23