jG\5U3u.i-
^GHAN
  INFORMATION
        Centre
MONTHLY BULLETIN
No- 107        Ninth  Year        February 1990
                           The aim$ of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
                                                            0
        (a)   International news media
        (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and' non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription Institutions            : US$    100
Individuals              : US$     70
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
            AFGHAN INFORMATION
                               CENTRE
             Monthly Bulletin No. 107                  February 1990
  garoggs :
  I   .   PROFESSOR MA3ROOH REMEMBERD               1
  II  .   AIWIRSAFY OF SOVIET WITHDRAWS! FROM      37
           AFGHANISTAN
  III .   AIG ELECTION PROPOSAL FOR AFGHANISTAN    4Q
  IV  .   NEWS FROM THE BATTU5FIEU3 '              52
  V   .   . ANOTHER TERRORISTIC ACTION IN PBSHNi*R 57
                  *** *** ***
  Cover Picture : Prof. S.B.Majrooh
                by Stig Danielson from Sweden
                         PROFESSOR MAJROOH REMEMBERED
            (second anniversary of the death of professor Majrooh)
      The Afghan Information Centre observed the second anniversary of the late martyrd Professor Dr. Sayed Bahaudin Majrooh, the founder of the centre in a grand function held here on February 11.
      The function was attended by Afghan intelligentsia, jehad commanders, tribal elders and numerous refugee Afghans.           A fateha was offered for his martyrdom.
Pakistani intelligentsia, writers, diplomats, UN and NGO representatives assisting Afghan refugees were among the guests. The participants praised the endeavours of the late Majrooh and considered his demise as an irreparable loss for the Afghan cause. At the end of the function "Unknown Songs" and "Ego Monster" the late Majrooh's books, which were published for the occasion, were distributed to the participants.
      Professor Majrooh was a great thinker and a militant: mujahid for the cause of the liberation of Afghanistan. He was a great scholar and man of letters who has been called the root stock of Afghan intelligentsia in Pakistan.
      To study the thoughts, literary works and political thinking of the late Majrooh needs thorough research. If we look at the day to day social behavior and the literary works he left behind, a fundamental principle is revealed, that he believed in the evolution of social realism.
                                                                     1
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The Optionand Compulsion of Dialectic is the philo sophical thoughts of the late Majrooh. He considered the criteria for social transformations and the current social realities. He believed that in this world changes and transformations are the manifestation of societies' demands. These demands can only be achieved when the society and individuals are realistic. Each event and occurence brings a fresh message to society. The people should clearly understand this point. But only time gives people a chance to develop their ideas. The evolution of peoples' social consiousness and increasing their awareness are the best means to achieve this end. This can only be instrumental when individual members of a society are realistic. Only then can reality assume its approprate place.
      Majrooh in his book the EGO MONSTER (Book IV- The Homeland of Liberty), about the reality of freedom (page 77):
      0 ! friends lets be aware that helplessness against the option is that stimulus that confirms the oppressive order and fear of death tends to encourage man towards serfdom and prolongs the oppressive rule. Lets be aware that the dawn of freedom is immenarit and the night of serfdom is long. In other words it is possible to achieve freedom in our own lives. The quickest way to be saved from pain and serfdom is death and death is a crack in the prison of serfdom and that, brief. But whoever is afraid of death he should put the yoke of serfdom of the oppressive ruler on his neck, and this life in serfdom is that long lonely night full of miseries that^impragments no real dawn in its uterus.
 Marooh as the social man of letters:
      The most praise-worthy quality in the literary life of Professor Dr. Sayed Bahaudin Majrooh was that he had an insight into the social and poltical evolution of Afghan society.
                                     2
No. 107
February 1990
                   —         %—
                   Ninth Year
       He was able to understand all phases of the country's development and the realities of these. He used the pen to link society's economic , political and cultural transformations to one another. According to his words he was the accompanying traveler of the social caravaan which like the rest of the world, Afghan society was also experiencing. Whenever .this caravaan has been confronted with difficulties he was their to pinpoint that as a principle of his people. .
      Majrooh as a sentimental and a freedom loving Afghan valourously recalled the bitter nights and days in Afghanistan. His master pieces are indicators of this claim. Whatever seemed to him a reality he used to transfer honestly to the people. His best known books are: four volumes of EGO-MONSTER, Unfamiliar Songs and Recognise the Enemy. He wrote several others.
      After the invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviets he was exiled from the country.
      He joined the mass of refugees heading for Peshawar. Coming to Peshwar he continued his struggle against the aggression of the comnunists and Kept his principles working. He founded the Afghan Information Center, as a cultural and literary organisation.        He
 gathered the stories of: a valorous Afghan Mujahid; the refugee in exile; the life of an orphaned child; the experiences of the prisoners and the proceedings of blood lettings. He transfered them not only to his own people but to those overseas and elsewhere who loved freedom and human beings.
      Majrooh was a refugee like many around him, but he was finally killed by those who disagreed with his views and who wished to mislead his conpatriates.
      Pages 39 and 40 of EGO-MCNSTER, The Homeland of Liberty.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Chieftain In the Wolves' Service
      One day the midnight traveller addressed the wanderer and said:
 Oh, People!
      The tumult of leadership has sunk you in the wirlpool of lordship and obedience to the extent that:
      You have been turned into neglectful creatures from the dangers in wandering the land and you have absolutley forgotten the’ life in your atrocity-stricken homeland behind. Do you not hear that these claimants to your leadership have very close affiliation with native wolves. To strengthen their position as leader and compete with one another they sustain the closest association with these wild ' native wolves? Do 'you not see that these self-chosen overlords run on hunting to distant lands on the pretext to search food for your empty stomachs? They plunder everywhere and present the spoils to their imposed minion wolves.
      The hungy wolves leave some remaining food four your leaders then the overlords throw a small portion of the food to you, the-wandering people.-
      Shahid Professor Sayed Bahaudin Majrooh had an overiding belief in freedom and independence. According to his belief the real honour of man is freedom and independence. Serfdom is the enemy of humanbeings. He writes in Recognise the Enemy:
 What is the destination?
      The real destination is freedom. A decent life and free life can only be found in a free country. We offer our dear readers excerpts of some of his thoughts and writing on the second anniversary of his martyrdom:
                                       4
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
      On the occasion of the second martyrdom anniversary of late Professor Dr. Bahaudin Majrooh,
Afghan Information Center Peshawar,
February, 1990
S.  B. Majrooh:  Comments on the Afghan-Soviet war and its
meaning for Afghanistan's future
      Throughout the eight years that Professor Majrooh studied and agonized over the war he never wavered from his faith in the righteousness of the Afghan cause and of the possibility of victory. He did not live to see the actual departure of the Soviet army, but long enough to know that it would leave. His comments and analysis on the nature of the war and the value of the massive sacrifice of the Afghan people in defence of their country and way of life remain as beacons to our understanding. They also serve as inspiration for efforts to restore Afghanistan to peace, justice and self-rule. Although his insights are now at least two years old they remain fresh and pertinent. At a time when Afghanistan's future is uncertain and there is much confusion about what is needed to bring peace and genuine independence, his clear vision gives us hope and direction.
•TOE PURPOSE OF THE WAR
     Majrooh's ability to inspire was especially evident in this statement written when the war was at its most difficult stage in 1986:
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Westerners often ask whether the mujahideen really hope to be able to defeat the Soviet army. In the eyes of the resistance the question is not to the point. The right question will be to ask the Russians whether they still believe they are able to crush the resistance militarily. During the past seven years, the mujahideen of Afghanistan have been able to fight against one of the most powerful armies in the world. This in itself is an achievement, already a victory.
      Now the question is: what is the rest of the world going to do? Will the Muslim and the non-aligned states and people allow an independent Islamic country to be swallowed up by a godless totalitarian system? Will the states and people of the Western world let a terrorist super power assassinate a small freedom-loving nation right in front of their eyes? The Afghan resistance can only say to the free world: HELP THE AFGHANS NCW OR FIGHT THE SOVIETS LATER.
THE NEED FOR LEADERSHIP, AFGHANISTAN'S PROBUM
    He was acutely aware that Khalqi and Soviet brutality had destroyed or scattered most Afghans able to lead their country and that new sources of leadership must be found. Majrooh also knew that the abrupt rupture of the political fabric presented a grave threat of disunity which resistance leaders mu$t struggle to overcome. In 1987 he wrote on the urgent need to achieve political unity:
A Vital Necessity
      If the large publicity about a possible settlement
                           6
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
of the Afghan crisis had the aim to divert the attention of the resistance fighters and leaders to hypothetical political solutions - "national Islamic regime" or "revolutionary Islamic system" - in order to further divide the leaders, demorallize the refugees and paralyse the armed resistance, then this dangerous diversion is already having serious results. And for the same reason the formation of a single national leadership as soon as possible has become a vital necessity for the resistance to survive and for Afghanistan to become once again a free and peaceful country.
     At the same time Majrooh saw the prospect for Afghan unity had been severely weakened by the loss of the monarchy a rallying point for its many distinct communities:
The Old Magic Charm:
     However, one of the most significant changes since the communist coup of 1978 is that the magical charm which kept the population respecting the central state authority, has been broken. There were many cases of tribal and local insurgencies in the modem history of Afghanistan,; but,none was against the central regime. Usually the uprisings were provoked by the action of an unwise or corrupt local or provincial governor, or the unpopular measures of a prime minister. The insurgents considered themselves as unlawful and felt guilty, but had no other choice to make their voice heard by the king.
     The best example of this magical charm was the loyalty of the people to Prince Daoud as president of the Republic.
                             7
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Despite the fact that President Daoud came to power with the help of pro-Soviet communist army officers, that communists were present in his government and were massively infiltrating the civil and military administrations, the people did not move.        This was
simply because Daoud was a cousin of the king, and had the reputation of being a good Muslim and strong patriot. It was not important to the people whether he called himself king or president. He was the legitimate heir. Attempts by some Islamic revolutionary groups to mobilize the people against the central government (between 1973-1978) failed. People did not cooperate and even helped the Afghan army neutralize the insurgency movements. The magical charm of the central legitimate authority was at work.
      There were only two exceptions:   When Shah  Shuja the
Durrani king came to power for a second time (1839-1842)
, with the help of British army, the people rose up; the king was dethroned and killed. (Babrak Karmal who was installed in power in 1980 by the Soviet armed forces was compared to Shah Shuja) . The second case is King Amanullah (1919-1929)  ,  who  discredited  himself in   the
eyes of the people by his naive anti-tradition and anti-Islamic policies.. He fled to Rome.
      Habihullah Kalakani (known as the son of a water bearer), the popular leader of the rebellion, proclaimed himself king in Kabul; but because of his lack of legitimacy, he did not last more than nine months. Nadir Shah, the father of King Zahir Shah, a more legitimate prince was helped by the people to power. But when in April 1978 the communists seized power through a bloody military coup d'etat, the age-old magical charm was definitely broken. Rebellion against the central authority considered as unlawful, was justified, disobedience became lawful fighting the communists a religious and national duty.
                            8
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
      Paradoxically, the same factor-namely the old magical charm of the respect of central authority broken-which has prevented the Kabul Marxist regime from establishing its authority over the country, is also working against the resistance political leaders. The latter are well respected as persons, and also for their role in the jehad; they are also expected to have a role in the future political solution, but none of them is considered as a legitimate national leader able to reestablish the respect for a central authority. Anyone of them coming to power will be challenged and other mujahideen groups will find enough justification to fight the central government.
Conclusion
      Possible logical conclusion from the above discussion will be:
      A Marxist regime, especially one imposed by the invading forces of a foreign power, did not work and will never work. This solution is out and also a coalition government with the communists is excluded for the future. The Russians have learned this lesson, but do not know how to find a face-saving exit.
      The only workable and acceptable political leadership for Afghanistan will be the one which has roots in the past and is able to work with the new conditions of the present. A man having the aura of the central authority's magical charm around his person -someone like former king Zahir Shah - not attempting to restore the old family rule, but working with an entirely new team, is likely to succeed. In the formation of such a team two aspects should be taken into consideration: one is political and the other is technical. Politically, some leaders of the political organisations
9
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
and some outstanding resistance commanders have to be involved. Technically, as the future free country will be facing the huge task, and most difficult of all, of reconstruction - re-settlement of the displaced population, re-building of the economy, administration, education, etc - a large number of non-political experts and technocrats must be included. In this manner alone, we believe, a peaceful, united and free Afghanistan will have a chance to start living again. With the help of God.
      A month before his death he warned of the danger of a weak, fragmented resistance leadership:
      The Afghan resistance is a genuine popular armed struggle badly represented politically. The true nature and the deep aspirations of the resistance are not reflected in the policy or lack of policy of the political organisations. The only positive development was the announcement of the nominal alliance of the seven parties and the appointment of one speaker of the alliance for a longer period (18 months). Personal ambition and ideological differences still undermine the formation of a genuine unity and the elaboration of a single coherent political programme.
      One thing is clear:  the  people of Afghanistan want
peace, but not at any price. They want peace in order to live as a free nation. The aim is building an independent state with democratic institutions based on the religious'and popular tradition of the people. No other solution, such as the formation of a coalition government with the Kabul pro-Soviet conmunists - is possible. The resistance has not fought to share power with the Kabul regime, but to replace it.
                                       10
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
       This problem of disunity and competing political ambitions among the resistance leaders led Majrooh prophetically to express the worries of elders in the refugee camps in 1986:
      Soon after the 7th round of proximity talks between Pakistan and Kabul resumed in Genera, some Afghan refugee elders held a meeting in Nasser Bagh Camp outside Peshawar.The elders expressed their worries concerning the lack of a united leadership and stressed that the time for separate organisations and leaders is over and in order to win the political battle the formation of a single credible leadership able to represent the Afghan people and the whole resistance has become a vital necessity. They warned the leaders that if soon they did not find a solution to their direction their survival as leaders at the head of separate organisations will be become increasingly doubtful. They believed that the Afghan resistance could not be defeated militarily, but, if the situation stays as it is, it might be defeated politically by the dis-unity of the political leaders in exile.
      At the end of 1986 Majrooh probed deeper into the problems of unity:
     Meanwhile the most serious            weakness of the
 resistance, namely the lack of united political leadership among the mujahideen organisations in exile, still remains. Attempts to form a kind of coalition have been made, and nomination of a speaker for the "aLliance" has been agreed upon, but the formation of a genuine unity is still faraway. It has become increasingly doubtful whether the present political leaders in exile will ever be able to build a national leadership having a
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
single political and military strategy. There are various internal and external factors forking against the formation of genuine unity.
      The internal factors are mainly two:    the  personal
ambitions of the individual leaders and the difference in political philosophy between the two dominant trends, which are revolutionary Islam versus traditional Islam, or as Westerners would say, "Fundamentalists" against "Moderates". However the external factors seem to be still more important. The friendly countries and political and religious organisations helping the Afghan resistance are rather inclined to favour one trend to the other and one individual leader to another, and thus keep them divided. The host country Pakistan does not wish to give up the political initiative in the Afghan problem and does not seem to be persuaded that the formation of a united Afghan political leadership is a necessity. It does not seem to believe that any one of the present Afghan political leaders in exile is fit for the job. Many fighters and commanders in the resistance feel the same way; but they also feel that a national leadership is now a vital necessity.
      While divisive factors persisted working outside among the exiles, the positive trend of previous years towards unity has further strengthened. Even the numerous mujahideen commanders in Kandahar stated launching joint operations. In Herat, commander Ismael Khan had some temporary trouble with Safiullah, a well-known Jamiat commander who contested his authority, but the problem has been solved. Coordination of activity and mutual help among various resistance groups were reported from Paktia, Ningrahar and Logar. Carefully planned and jointly launched operations have become a normal practice in the Paghman and Koh - e - Safi resistance fronts near Kabul. The unifying and organising efforts of commander Massoud have given positive results so far.
                             12
T
Ninth Year
February 1990
No. 107
      Resistance forces in several northern provinces -Takhar, Baghlan, Kunduz, Badakhshan- are moving towards unity. A modern type of resistance with a civil administration and a military strategy is emerging.
      The few commanders inside Afghanistan who proved to be good fighters and clever organisers are now a kind of established institution. They are the actual military and social leaders respected by the population and obeyed by the mujahideen. They are the force to be taken into serious consideration. The fate of the armed resistance is in their hands and they will certainly have their say in the future political and social set-up of the country. There were some messages exchanged between them, but they are still far from building a national committee for the resistance.
      However, as a future prospect it is not impossible, if God protects them against their enemy - the Soviets and the Kabul regime - as well as against their friends, namely their political leaders in exile and their helpers in the Islamic countries and in the Western world. A political solution of the Afghan problem without their approval and active participation will be difficult to implement. For this reason the resistance has remained sceptical and lately has worried about the Geneva proximity talks. The mujahideen wonder why the principle of self-determination is not included in the negotiations and how the illegitimate Kabul puppet regime could be considered as interlocutor. For the resistance, the whole struggle of the mujahideen has been and still is against the Kabul regime as well as against the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan.
      By 1985 Majrooh was aware that the war itself had changed the political and social as well as the physical landscape of Afghanistan . In order to grapple with
                             13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Afghanistan's future it was necessary to understand what the war had meant and especially what the Soviets had done:
      Five years and six months ago, on December 27, 1979, the Soviet armed forces invaded Afghanistan. Since then, more or less organised resistance groups are carrying out a fight which is becoming each day harder and tougher. The living conditions of the civilians, especially in the rural areas, have reached rock bottom; the deliberate slaughter of innocent villagers has created an atmosphere of unbelievable terror.
      And also since 1980, four Soviet leaders have held power in the Kremlin. But under the new leadership of Gorbachev - wnom the west found "young", "dynamic", "sympathetic", "with whom one can do business" (as Mrs. Thatcher put it) - the situation seems to have become much worse. A short comparison of the four leaders with reference to Afghanistan, will help us to assess the latest one.
I - THE SUCCESSION OF POUR SOVIET LEADERS VIEWED FROM AFGHANISTAN:
1. Brezhnev Era:   *
      It is the time of invasion. The Red Army wants to show its might by its simple physical presence and intimidate the population. It avoids, as much as it can, direct involvement in fighting against the resistance. The occupation, authorities' attention is mainly focused on the re-organisation of the Afghan army, which is controlled , advised , better equipped and encouraged to carry out major operations. The Russians are .busy consolidating their bases and building new military installations. The increased number of Soviet advisors run the administration. There is much propaganda activity , demonstrations of so-called "popular support"
                             14
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
for the forcefully imposed regime, etc. The Russians hope that the Afghan army will be able to "pacify" the country and the ruling party will slowly consolidate its position.
Andropov Era:
     It is the time of subversion. In conformity with the reputation of the former KGB leader, KHAD, the State Security Service or the Afghan equivalent of the KGB, is extensively developed. Huge amounts of money invested in it, a great number of new agents with high salaries recruited , better training given in the field, better equipment provided. KHAD's activity is not only expanded to 'the provinces, but also intelligence networks are created in the border tribal areas.
     Terrorist groups organised by KHAD, disguised as mujahideen, raid the countryside, loot and kill villagers and thus create misunderstanding between the resistance groups and the local population. Some resistance groups are also infiltrated; Kabul agents stir conflicts inside resistance groups and, during the fighting, defect- to the government side.           Some resistance fighters   are
demoralised and disguised Kabul agents are exhibited as genuine mujahideen siding with the regime.
     On the military side, Russian and Afghan army units launch joint operations one after another, the Afghans still being used in the front lines.       However, the
initiative for the operations, small or big, is no more in the hands of Afghans. They are only supposed to receive orders.
3. Chernenko Era:
     It is a time of no-character. The two lines of Brezhnev and Andropov eras are followed. KHAD continues
                           15
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                                       1
developing but still the main stress is on military activities. Contrary to the Russians' expectation, the Afghan army having become increasingly inefficient, Soviet troops are more and more involved in direct combat. The formation of militia units, started during the previous period, is expanded.
      Now highly paid militiamen are fighting in the front lines of the Russian advances. The previous large operations      carried  out    successively        are now
simultaneously mounted. Heliborne elite commando troops, tried out during the previous periods with some success and also with heavy losses (for instance Panjsher), cure widely employed. They launch surprise attacks and lay ambushes in the style of the resistance itself.
4. Gorbachev Era:
      The time of an offensive on al.l fronts. On the religious front, a new ministry for Islamic Affairs is created. The intention is to appease the religious feeling of the people by showing them that Marxism is compatible with Islam. A big show of a Loya Jirgah (the great traditional council) is organised; the Kabul regime wants to make the so-called assembly approve the presence of Soviet forces in Afghanistan and also to find for itself a kind of legitimacy on a traditional base.
      However, the main effort is still focused on the military field where an evident escalation is observed. Since 1980 the number of troops is doubled to between 150 and 160 thousand. Damaged and destroyed military equipment is not only immediately replaced but also much improved. Large offensives are carried out all over the country: in Herat, Farah, Kandahar, around Kabul, in the northern provinces, in Ningrahar and Kunar. Vast areas are covered with land mines; new types of explosives are used, heliborne commando operations are increased.
                            16
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
     A year and one-half later the devastation was worse:
THE OCCUPATION FORCES :
     The Russians who with their heavy armoured units expected in the beginning to crush the resistance by conventional types of warfare, changed their tactics. They learned - but they were very slow to learn - how to fight a popular war of the guerrilla type in a mountainous terrain. It took them oyer a year to remove anti-aircraft guns from their ground units operating in the countryside. They started using specially trained airborne commandos which suffered heavy losses in the beginning - for instance, entire commando groups were exterminated in Panjshir while landing - but became slowly more efficient than their regular troops. They learned how to fight the resistance with its own tactics and became able to ambush mujahideen convoys.-
     Afghanistan became a testing ground for their army. They tested their regular ground troops, which proved to be of an astonishingly low quality. They tested their weapons: different types of aircraft, bombs and other explosive devices and also poisonous gas of various colours.
     Some partial successes:    They established strong
military bases in different parts of the country, such as large airbases at Bagram north of Kabul, Kandahar and Shindand in the west, Kunduz and Mazar in the north, large garrisons around Kabul, in Jalalabad (east), Ghazni (center), Gardiz (south), Herat (west), Kelagai, Baghlan and Faizabad (north) .     They  trained KHAD (the Kaoul
regime's    secret service)   to build an efficient
intelligence and terrorist network inside and outside the country, especially in the border provinces of Pakistan. They succeeded in recruiting people for their militia units who seem to fight better than the regular army.
                             17
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Their subversive work among the tribes on both sides of the border gave some results: a number of clan chiefs were given money and arms and were asked to create trouble for the mujahideen moving through their areas and help Kabul intelligence and terrorist agents operate inside Pakistan.
      They created serious problems for the resistance by disrupting the social and economic life of the rural population and especially by depopulating large areas. The Russians' deliberate policy of generating refugees had a threefold purpose. By depopulating densely populated rural areas they intended to deprive the resistance of easy shelter and easily available food supplies. The destruction of traditional economic and social life might enable them in the future to reshape the country in their own way.
      The refugees, either external or internal served their scheme: the ones who left Afghanistan, would become, they thought, an increasing factor of social, economic and political pressure on the host countries (Iran and Pakistan in particular), a threat able to destablize the situation; the ones who took shelter in the Soviet dominated urban areas such as Kabul fell under the direct control of the occupation force. These landless farmers would be the proletariat of the future, and a huge labour force at the disposal of the Marxist regime to be used in state farms and other public sectors.
      Thus the small farmer, deprived of his land and property and his village community would be the slave of the state and would become a new man, a Soviet man.
      The failure of the Soviet system in Afghanistan is no less serious. The most evident failure was that during all these years, despite their military might and
                            18
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
constantly escalating military operations, the Russians were not able to defeat the armed resistance. In the beginning of the invasion, they thought that crushing a poorly equipped and badly organised resistance would be a quick and easy task. They were and still are frustrated in this.
      They had problems with their .own Afghan comrades. In the face of the serious factional conflicts inside the Kabul regime they were helpless. .Their half-educated self-taught Afghan comrades were difficult to change into disciplined professional revolutionaries. Their only hope seemed to be the large number of children and young people they have sent to Russia who might become better communists. They could not help the Kabul regime to win any popular support or establish any kind of civil administration in the countryside.
      Much propaganda was carried out about tribal delegations and popular meetings, but nobody inside or among the refugees outside was deceived by the show. Kabul government headquarters outside the cities were just military outposts heavily protected and entirely cut off from the surrounding areas. The regime suffered ideological setbacks:   the  openly aggressive Marxist and
anti-?, religious rhetoric changed into a pro-Islamic and nationalistic language. Mosques were repaired, mullahs were paid and party members were seen performing their daily prayers. A double language was used:               a
nationalistic pro-Islamic one for the public gathering and a Marxist- Leninist one for the party meetings.
      The Russians’ tightest security measures were focused on three points:      their  military bases, the
cities and the highways. But they did not succeed in keeping them safe. Heavy fighting occurred inside Kandahar and Herat cities, in and around Kabul; their Strong military bases such as Bagram, Shindand, Kandahar,
19
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Jalalabad and Kabul airports suffered under resistance attacks. Their convoys along the highways were constantly raided and often hdavi ly damaged.
       As Soviet confidence in victory faded in 1987, Majrooh described their predicament in a masterly analysis of their situation:
 NEW KABUL SOVIET POLITICAL MOVES
       Lately a series of declarations about a ceasefire, " National reconciliation ", a reasonable timetable for Soviet      troop withdrawal        and the
 possibility of as peaceful political solution came from Kabul and Moscow. Diplomatic activity between Kabul, Moscow and Islamabad were stepped up . The process received much     publicity and was     presented
 as a new and even positive political development. Is there any political substance in the recent moves ? What dose it mean for the Afghan Resistance ?
 GORBACHEVS " BLEEDING WOUND *     -
      The Afghan freedom rrenters were and still are right to think that an increasingly .efficient armed resistance and growing international political pressure ( the annual resolutions of the UN General Assembly ,      reports on the       violations of human
 rights in Afghanistan , official declaration of Western governments condemning the Soviet invasion, demonstration of public support for the Afghan cause ect. )    , will      persuade       the Soviet Union to
 reconsider its involvement in Afghanistan . The Russian inability to win a quick military victory over the resistance during - the seven years of war , their

No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
growing   material    and human     losses  with        the ' more
negative impact of the Afghan war on the Soviet populations and also their inability to consolidate
the position of the Kabul Marxist regime inside the country were too evident for them to go on ignoring  . Another      factor      which seems        to work in
the same      direction is   the new Soviet leader's
apparent  intention    to bring      about  some         changes .
Gorbachev on the pattern of his predecessors such as Kraals and Berzniev wants to start his era with a period of relative relaxation , well - aware that his country badly need some serious economic and social reforms . He also knows that the image of his country in the outside world in the Western countries , in the Islamic world and in the non-aligned moment need to be much improved . But as long as Afghanistan , " The Bleeding Wound " is still     bleeding          , he could never       make himself
credible . He strongly       wishes to be rid of the
Afghan    problem . As sincerity         has      never    been  a
strong point of Soviet leaders and their communist followers, the question is whether Gorbachev himself   believes        in the new image he is trying         to
project,  is he ready or    does he     have        the   power to
accept a genuine political solution for Afghanistan.
RECENT POLITICAL ACTIVITIES :
      The present diplomatic offensive started with Gorbachev's visit to India. There he. adopted a conciliatory attitude towards Pakistan and appeared ready for serious negotiation. Then the Pakistan Secretary of Foreign Affairs was invited to Moscow on December 6 where he met high ranking officials and came back with the impression that the Soviets meant business. Najib the Kabul communist ruler was summoned to Moscow on December 12. Back in Kabul, instead of saying that he was given instructions as to what to do, declared that all his
21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           proposals were approved by the Soviet leadership, but did not reveal what his "proposals" were. He started talking about a government of "national reconciliation", the formation of a coalition government with non-communists and opposition leaders; about the organisation of free general elections, etc. E. Shevardnadze the Soviet minister for Foreign Affairs went to Kabul on January 5. It was the first time that such a high ranking Soviet official had visited Kabul since the communists came to power. Moscow gave its support to Najib's so-called new policy and declared to be ready to present a reasonable timetable for its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan at the Genera negotiations which will start on February 11. On January 5 Najib declared an unilateral six months ceasefire starting at zero hour Jan. 15. He asked the resistance to respect it and invited the refugees to return.
           KABUL REGIME'S PROPAGANDA OFFENSIVE:
                In the meantime a huge propaganda canpaign was launched by the Kabul regime. The official media announced that "thousands of rebels and their commanders have already sided with the regime".        Rumours were
           spread in Kabul • and other cities as well as in the countryside and among the refugees that Russians were actually leaving and peace had been restored. Hundreds of newly-painted buses were lined in the Kabul streets and people were told that they were going to bring refugee families from across the border. Militia families were taken from Jalalabad to the border during the night and transported back the following day in the flower >•         covered  buses and   presented as refugees coming from
           Pakistan. Kabul government agents infiltrating the refugee camps were instructed to make a show of returning - packing, selling their belongings - and actually movina towards the border.
                                     22
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
           The tomb of King Nadir Shah, the father of the exiled king Zahir Shah, much damaged and neglected, was thoroughly repaired and newly painted and it was rumoured that Zahir Shah will be soon back in Kabul to head the transitional government. This rumour has an evident appal for the badly informed refugees and people inside the country who strongly wish peace to be restored and a national non-communist leader in power.
           Other significant events of the month were the arrival of Anatoly G. Kovalyev first deputy of the Soviet Foreign Affairs on Jan. 17 and Michael Armacost American undersecretary of State for political affairs on the 18th in Islamabad. Both the American and Soviet delegations have started intensive parallel discussions with the Pakistan high authorities concerning Afghanistan. The contents of the discussions have not yet been revealed.
      THE STANCE OF THE AFGHAN RESISTANCE:
           Hie second important event was the huge gathering of Afghan refugees near Peshawar on Jan. 17. It was-unique for many reasons:  First  an astonishingly large number of
      refugees - some hundred thousand - attended the meeting. Second,’ contrary to expectation, the huge crowd was extremely disciplined and quiet not a single incident or disruption occurred. Third all the formerly-divided political leaders of the seven resistance organisations in exile were together and issued a joint resolution: they delivered long speeches with the crowd shouting at regular intervals "Allah-o-Akbar” (God is Great).
           At the end Malawi Nabi Mohammadi the current speaker of the Alliance read the joint resolution. Najib's offer for a ceasefire was rejected and the legitimacy of the Kabul regime to propose a political solution denied. It was re-&f firmed that peace could be restored in Afghanistan under two conditions:    the unconditional and
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           immediate withdrawal of Soviet troopS and the replacement of the Kabul Marxist regime by an Islamic government acceptable to the people and Mujahideen. The common resolution also announced the formation of a commission which will begin working on February first and will have a month to prepare a draft constitution for an interim government and the future free elections in Afghanistan. It was also decided that a judiciary committee will be set up to solve conflicts between resistance groups.
                While the political leaders in exile - under heavy pressure from outside and from their own fighters and commanders - were struggling to reach an agreement on the text of the joint declaration, freedom fighters inside Afghanistan rejected the Kabul ceasefire offer on the battlefield. Already on Jan. .15, the first day of the proposed ceasefire, at about 9 a.m. a series of resistance attacks were launched against the Kabul Soviet military positions. Commander Jaialudin Haqani and other mujahideen groups in Paktia launched three simultaneous operations against the enemy army posts around Khost. The same day in Ningarahar and Kabul Soviet army positions came under' heavy resistance attacks at Daka near Torkham border, at Surkhrud northern outskirts of Jalalabad and in Khugiani district. Rockets were fired at Kabul city as usual.
                Reports of fighting incidents from other Afghan provinces have been received. All the commanders interviewed recently by AIC were quite clear about the whole situation. They did not see any positive aspects in the Kabul-Soviet moves and have never thought to take the Kabul ceasefire offer seriously. Because ceasefire is something that two fighting parties must agree upon and the parties concerned are mainly the Afghan resistance and the Soviet armed forces, and a ceasefire declared unilaterally by an illegitinate regime has no meaning; further, having concrete connection with the Soviet troops withdrawal the offer appeared to be only an empty propaganda offensive.
                                    24
- No. 107        Ninth Year        February 1990
         A few other significant facts confirmed ■ the resistance fighters' scepticism and the whole operation appeared to them as a large scale strategy of deception.
    The latest shameless propaganda move was that the Kabul regime asked the Pakistani and Iranian authorities to be allowed to airlift the refugees back to Afghanistan and communicated this initiative to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. How could five million refugees be airlifted? And that without any political solution to the problem?
         Already in his public speeches about "national reconciliation" and "free elections" Najib kept stressing that the "gains of the Saur revolution " - meaning the power of the communist regime - will be further consolidated and the future "democratisation" process will take place under the control of the pro-Soviet communist party. Also the Soviet ambassador in Islamabad declared in an interview that a "reasonable" timetable for troop withdrawal will soon be presented, but the people seem to forget the other side of the problem: the pull out depends on the "guarantees against the external interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan" What does all this mean? It means that the Russians- have not yet a genuine political solution in mind and there is nothing new in their recent initiative.
         They have always said that when the Kabul regime is not threatened, officially recognised by the neighbouring countries and the resistance ceases, there will be no need for the Russian troops to stay in Afghanistan. They are still saying the same thing. That is why their new diplomatic moves have no political substance. The genuine political solution which can bring peace to Afghanistan and make the refugees go back has two bas-ic military and political aspects: the military side of the solution is the immediate and complete withdrawal of foreign troops - which are only the Soviet armed forces -from the country.
25
AFGHAN INFORMATION CKNTRK - Monthly Bulletin
                But the main political problem vis the existence of the Kabul regime itself. The only real political solution will be the replacement of that regime by an independent, non-aligned, national-Islamic government. The nine year-old Afghan resistance cannot make any concessions on those two basic principles.
                  The Soviet strategy included attempting to infuse more vigorous leadership into its Kabul client. Majrooh found che imposition of Najib to be a , confession of failure:
           Najib
                In a normal democratic society governed by law. Dr. Najib would have been arrested as a criminal. He would have been tried in an ordinary court for his personal involvement in arbitrary detention, torture and assassination of political prisoners. Hundreds of witnesses would have testified to prove the charge. His five years dirty work at the head of KHAD discredits him from the start as a head of state.
                His scorn was also directed at the attempt to introduce "reconciliation" into Soviet strategy at the beginning of 1987:
                One evident failure - among others - of the Soviet-Kabul occupation forces in Afghanistan has been that they have not succeeded in presenting the Afghan national and popular resistance as the work of "bandits" trained and helped by foreign countries such as the USA, Pakistan and China. If that were the case, they would have been able to crush it and would have not .needed to talk about a
26
     No. 107       ninth Year       February  iSW
     political solution and "national reconciliation" National reconciliation with "bandits"?
           Yet quite separately from anyone's control the war had introduced major new factors into Afghan society. In 1987 Majrooh summarized the most inportant:
          On the socio-political scene three new figures have emerged:     Mujahid or freedom fighter, resistance
     commander and leader of a political organisation.
          The first two who were simple farmers or primary school teachers or the priest of a mosque before the war, have become socially influential and in some places have replaced the elders and traditional local chiefs. Among the commanders a few were able to expand their influence to whole provinces and have become actual military and political leaders inside the country . However the • traditional chiefs and tribal elders have not entirely lost their previous positions, neither inside nor among the refugees. In the refugee camps people live together on a tribal and local basis sticking to their traditional way of life under the influence of the elders . Even resistance fighters and commanders -who belong to the same social structure - respect their elders and follow their guidance .
          The third category , the leaders of the political organizations include two opposite types :
          The traditional religious leaders, well - known religious .scholars, spiritual leaders of the sufi brotherhood who before the war were never involved in the political civil or military administration of the country have become part of the • future government of Afghanistan .
                                      27
                         AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        ...        .1 j, L      . ; ..—....-Li-.   . .  ...■■■■
             The revolutionary Islamic leaders . They are young and entirely new on the socio - political scene . They represent the political trend of Islam, have gained influence only during the war and have precise ideas about a revolutionary Islamic government for the future .
               Such changes included new roles being forced upon women. Majrooh did not hesitate to point out how vital they were in the total effort against the occupation forces.
        AFGHAN WOMEN IN THE RESISTANCE
             Usually the Afghan resistance is presented to the outside world as a male fighter . It has assumed the face of a bearded ferocious looking armed village farmer . A virile rhetoric of boasting and exaggeration about war are parts of the Afghan male personality . The men are by custom, ashamed of talking about their women and feel humilited if the latter appear to be stonger and braver. A women is supposed to be weak, shy and in constant need of protection. For this reason the role of women in the war is played down. Maj rough aitteirpted to res tor some aspects of the real situation . The Afghan women have been involved in many ways in the resistance..
        1 . WOMEN IN THE VILLAGE •
             Due to the war sitation women have been facing new and harder tasks than usual. Beside their routine daily work such as cooking, rearing chi Idem, sewing, weaving, ect., they prepare and carry food to the resistance fighters in the mountains; they give food
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 19*0
        and shelter to the mujahideen passing through the village, wash their clothes, ect. In the absence of the male labour force which is involved in the fighting,' they have taken over men's work, the agricultural activity.
             They are working in the fields’ usually during the night for fear of bombardment, collecting the harvest, theashing , etc.. If their is still some agricultural activity continuing inside Afghanistan and some food available, it is mosty* thanks to the work of the women .
             Cases of women using arms have been reported on several occasions from different parts of the countryside. In a village in Ghazni a lady opened fire on the Russians who invaded her house over ten of them were -killed before she was shot .
        2 . WOMEN IN THE CITIES
             The female population in urban centres such as Kabul has been actively involved in the resistance. Soon after the Soviet invasion in December 79, Kabul women were the first to rush by tens of thpousands to the infamous Pul-e-Charkhi prison, forcing the gates in orders to release the political prisoners . They were the first to organise e huge demonstration in the      streets of Kabul     against the
        Soviet invasion of Afghanistan . The enemy troops open fired on the crowd. About One hundred women and school girls were killed and wounded . Later they became organised in small under ground groups and since then have made a most effecient         contribution
        to the national struggle for freedom.
29
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
            In contemplating Afghanistan's future Majrooh faced squarely the need to tread new paths:
            It is generally and to some extent rightly believed that since the Marxist coup of April 1978, much has
       changed in Afghanistan........A simple restoration of the
       STATUS QUO ANTE will not work.. ..consequently any political set-up for the future will have to take into consideration the new political and social conditions of the country.
           It is true that Afghanistan is not the same and will never be the same again.
            At the beginning of 1987 Majrooh projected possible alternatives, some of which remain viable today:
       "The Buzkashi Scenario
             The Russians, fed up with their involvement in Afghanistan and in a hurry to get out in order to turn to other important internal and external problems, leave the Kabul puppet regime to its own fate. This is the scenario which the resistance fighter and commanders would like best . They will have a short lived pleasure ( about 24 or 48 hours ) to raid Kabul city, other govermnet headquarters and government controlled cities . A huge hunting party      - the communists as sitting
       ducks - ending in the     bloody downfall of the Kabul
       puppet regime and likely followed by a bloody struggle for power among the resistance leaders and local commanders. Thus the Russians would find a new pretext — perhaps better justifications in the eyes of the world — to invade Afghanistan again and impose one of their potential solutions being either annexation or partition.
                               30
        Ho. 107             Ninth       Year         February    1990
        "■  1                 .■/' ..afe 1 ' . . .—■——    .illmw
             In the frame of this scenario, we have to keep in mind that after over nine years of war and the existence of heavily armed mujahideen groups, a period of confusion and chaos is bound to follow. For many people in Afghanistan fighting has become a way of life, they will need time to be re-converted to peaceful farming. But the civil population , refugees or nonrefugees outside and inside the country are deeply tired of war and seriously looking for peace; if the two basic motivations, namely the struggle against the foreign military presence on the national soil and foreign imposed communist regime , are no more there they will not support the struggle of one resistance leader against the other, and if the supporters of the Afghan resistance in Pakistan, especially in Arabic countries and in the west do not help one warring group against the others, things will slowly settle down and normal conditions for peace slowly emerge . Still what is to be feared most is that the Russians will not let the situation cool down and the Afghan people not be given time to solve their problems among themeselves .
        "The Annexation Scenario."
             Under this idea Afghanistan would be declareda "Soviet Socialist Republic" an integral part of the Soviet Union.
        "The Partition Scenario"
             Afghanistan would be divided into two equal parts: south and north, the dividing line drawn along the Hindukush range stretching from Pjimir in the east, bordering with China to Seistan in the west bordering with Iran. The Tajik; Uzbek and Turkmen populations would be incorporated into the Soviet Cental Asian Republics.
                                    31
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
             The predominantly Pushtun south' would have a separate out pro-Soviet government. This solution would mean not only the disintegration of Afghanistan but also the disintegration of Pakistan and serious trouble for the Iranian leaders in their own Baluchistan.
             "The Peoples' Democratic Republic of Afghanistan" Soviet troops would withdraw and hand over control to the Kabul puppet regime. Supplies to the resistance would cease and a pro-Soviet Marxist regime would rule.
        "The National Democratic Republic of Afghanistan"
        This includes:
               i-
             A relatively short timetable for a Soviet troops withdrawal.
        - Formation of a coalition government in Kabul including non-conmunist. neutral members and even opposition members.
        - General elections for national government which would still be controlled by the Marxist ruling party.
        - The voluntary return of the refugees assisted by the United Nations.
        - The disolving of the resistance groups.
         The National - Islamic Solution :
             The formation of a transitional government presided over by the former King Zaher Shah or somebody else of his national stature ( who does not seem to be in sight for the time being ) composed of the following elements : •
                               32
No. 107
Ninth Year
 February
1990
      -  Four or five of the resistance political leaders in exile ( In Pakistan and Iran )
      r The well-known resistance commanders.
      -  A number of representative trible or local elders from the refugees and populations inside the country .
      -  political and cultural personalities in exile not affiliated with the established resistance political organizations .
      -  Soviet troops replaced by an international peace force .
      -  Guarantees for the independent and non aligned status
      of Afghanistan          and its    Islamic  and national
      identity .
      -  The holding of the grand traditional council , the Loya Jirgah , to pass the country's new constitution and to elect the head of state, followed by general free elections for parliament in which rightests and leftists be given the same right to participate .
      -  Afghan army militia forces and especially KHAD the state secret police organisation which is against the Afghan tradition and a crude imitation of the Soviet system be dissolved and replaced by a new national army and a new national security force , the resistance commanders promoted to military ranks in the new army .
      -  Amnesty declared for communists converted to the new national Islamic . rule, but with no role in new political set - up .
         Voluntary return of the refugees which will automatically follow the announcement of the above transitional solution .
                                 33
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       - The formation of an entirely technocratic government able to face the huge reconstruction problems of Afghanistan .
       GENEVA NEGOTIATIONS ON AFGHANISTAN A pour scenario doomed to be promoted .
            Due to the set-up of the negotiations , from the start , the Geneva proximity talks between Islamabad and Kabul ruled out some of the possible scenarios , By the sirrple face of negotiations with the Soviet imposed regime in Kabul even at a certain distance , the Soviet invasion was accorded some kind of legitimacy . Any settlement with the Kabul communist authorities is bound to promote the wrong scenario the one we have called " The Red Iron Curtain painted White
            As the existence of the puppet marxist regime in Kabul is the basic obstacle to a political solution any agreement with thac regime will be un-realistic aznd impossible to implement . On the other hand the failure of the Geneva proximity talks will keep the door open for the United Nations to intiate real negotiations which will exclude the Kabul regime but will include the main parties concerned , namely the Afghan resistance          and the Soviet Union as the two
       opponents of the conflict, Pakistan and Iran as the most directly concerned counrties and the United States as one of the international guarantors . Only in this manner is a genuine political solution for Afghanistan likely to be found t and normal conditions for a peaceful and Voluntary return of the refugees to be created .           *
34
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
     OPINION SURVEY:
          In July 1987 Professor Majrough conducted an opinion survey in 106 of the 249 refugee camps in Pakistanconsidering the questions of repatriation and political souutions to the war. Only four questions were asked: Do you wish to go back to Afghanistan? If so, on what conditions?; Do you accept or reject the ceasefire offer by the Kabul regime?; Do you accept or reject the national reconciliation policy initiated by Dr. Najib?; Who would you like to be the national leader of Afghanistan?
          The AIC teams visited 54 camps in Peshawar, Malakand, Hazara, Bajour and Mohmand, 8 in Baluchistan, 17 in Chitral and 27 in North and South Waz iris tan.
          Participants came from 23 out of 28 Afghan provinces.
          According to ethno-liguistic affiliations: Pashtuns , Tajiks, Nouristanis, Turkmens, Uzbeks, Baluchs,Hazaras and Gujurs were interviewed including Simple refugees. Ladies, Resistance, fighters. Tribal elders and Resistance commanders belonging to all parties of the Resistance.
     THE RESULTS:
          To the first three questions the answers were unanimous. All said:
          "we want. to go back if there are no more Russian troops in Afghanistan and a communist regime in Kabul."
                               35
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
             Kabul regime's cease-fire offer and Najib's national reconcialiation policy rejected. Not a 'single man had a second thought about it.
        To the question No 4 about the political leadership the answers were the following:
Former King Zahir Shah                     71,65 % 
A pure Islamic state                       12,50 % 
Anybody Muslim and Afghan                  10,30 % 
One of the resistance commanders:           1,75 % 
Ahmad Shah Massud,Abdul Hag, Farid, Haqani         
Leaders of political organisations          0,45 % 
all together:                                      
No opinion                                  3,35 % 
* * *                                              
                                  36
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
                    ANNIVERSARY OF THE SOVIET WITHDRAWAL
           February 15, is the day when the Red Army ended its brutal invasion of Afghanistan and ended its occupation of a country whose residents taught them a lesson that will be long remembered. The Afghan nation which has suffered the loss of more than one million precious lives has shown the fragility of the system that previously claimed infinite rule over humanity.
           The Afghan   cause opened a    new vista for     the
      oppressed nations of the East and incited them to rise up
      in the name of liberation and nationalism against their cruel and autocratic leaders and turn over their leaders who preached coninunism using it as a pretext for elitest rule over millions of oppressed people. The collapse of the Berlin wall was a dream but it finally happened. The swift changes in         eastern Europe and
      within the Russian colonies are astonishing. The waves of change now     reach  Tajikistan the neighbour      of
      Afghanistan.
           The people of Afghanistan and the human communities world over will   never forget the   atrocities of   this
      leadership which presents a humane face to the rest of the world . The years of 1985-87 were witness to the ever increasing fierce attacks of the Russians unknown in nine years of the invasion.           The most br .tal
      encompassed the land and the airspace of Afghanistan when they employed the strongest forces present in the Russian army known as Spetnaz. Russians were not content only with an armed struggle against the mujahideen.     They  resorted to the mass killing of
      innocent children, women and elderly and the destruction of the country.
                                 37
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       Thousands of children and women were brutally killed by the savage Russian army when searching the sacred houses
       of our honourable people.
             Garbachev and his clique cannot exonerate themselves from the carnage they left behind in Afghanistan. For further information of all such cruelties we offer our readers to refer to AIC bulletins of 1985-1987.
             In addition to the atrocities which some day may be revealed by a        just international court,      the
       Russians have left a totally devastated country behind. The valuable industry, agriculture, the land and almost everything was badly hurt by the invasion. It brought about an exodus of millions from their ancestral land and the creation of dreadful social and economic problems for the millions of the victimised Afghan nation.
             This economic damage will finally be overcome by the Afghan people, who, always hardworking and strong will reconstruct much of the country without the much publisised foreign aid. What has been so much more damaging, and which can possibly never be recovered is the destruction and desecration of the very way of life and traditions of the people. The delicate ethnic balances, the interplay of the different tribal and religious groups’ the very relationship of the people between themselves can never revert to the status quo before the war. This will have the most far-reaching consequences for the future of the country.
             Previous to the war Afghan society was comparatively uncoupled by .outside influences. The invasion of the soviet troops and the exodus of millions of people has forced a change on this traditional people. They have had to change their traditional habits to accommodate the desperate situations in which many of them have found themselves; living in a war they have had to make political, social and economic compromises.
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
            The unbearable war. conditions have created political and economic dependants and divided the aims of a formerly united nation. This opened the           for
       foreigner interference.
            The ten years of war has brought up a generation that is unfamiliar with peaceful life. Now partisan, religious, tribal, regional and selfish interests receive more attention than the that of the whole nation. It has created a condition where Afghans stand against one another and use arms in the face of one another. This is why a hero nation that opened the gate wide for the liberation of oppressed nations from under the yoke of communism and Russian oppression itself renains enchanted and the hated installed regime still rules Kabul.
                               *** *** ***
                                    39
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                  AIG ELECTION PROPOSEL PC® AFGHANISTAN
            Decisions of the joint meeting of the cabinet,; the President and Chief Justice of I IGA on Formation of Shura (Dated January 1-2 1990)
       1.  The   same constituencies  existing during elections
       under previous regimes will constitute the constituencies for the coming shura.
       2.  Eligibility qualifications for the shura members will
       be  the   same as determined   by the existing Election
       Commission
       3.  In addition to its present members, the Election Commission will include five to seven new members from among other mujahideen parties and respected Afghan individuals.
            The new members will be nominated by the Election Commission and approved by the joint session of the cabinet,   the President and   Chief Justice (hereafter
       refered to as "joi; f session of IIGA"0.
       4.  Duties and authorities of the election commission will be drafted by the commission itself and approved by the joint session of IIGA.
       5.  The election commission will send a delegation to each province in Afghanistan. Each delegation will carry letters addressed to the mujahideen leaders, commanders, ulama and respected individuals of each constituency in the province.
       6.  A copy of the eligibility qualifications for shura members will be attached to each letter sent by the
                                 40
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
      election commission. The letters will state that "you elect from your constituency 10 representatives in accordance with the eligibility qualifications through one of the methods suggested by the election commission or in any other way deem feasible and practical in the prevailing    conditions and     circumstances   of  your
      locality."
      7. People of a constituency can elect their 10 representatives from inside or outside the constituency from among the commanders, ulama, elders and other respected individuals. At least one out of the 10 representatives should be from among the refugees of the constituency.
      8.  The total of the 10 representatives from all the
      constituencies will form the "De Afghanistan Hal Wa Aqd Loya Jirga"        (The  Hal-wa-Aqd Grand Assembly of
      Afghanistan).
      9.  The total of the 10 representatives of each constituency will elect from among themselves one person as a member of the "Wolosi Jirga" (Parliament) of Afghanistan.
      10.   The remaining nine representatives of each constituency will form the local council of the constituency. They will also be members of the Provincial Assembly of their province as well as being members of the Grand Assembly.
      11.   If any problem arises in election of the 10 representatives of a constituency, or one out of 10 , the remaining members of the provincial council of the province to which the concerned constituency belongs will intervene. If still the problem remains unresolved, it would be refered to the Election Commission.
41
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       12.  Each Mujahideen party will nominate 15 persons as appointed members to the Grand Assembly. At least five out of 15 should be from among those who do not have any party affiliatins. Each mujahideen party will nominate 10 persons as appointed members to the parliament from among its Grand Assembly's appointed members. At least three out of 10 should be from among those who do not have any party affiliation.
       13.  Duties and authorities of the Grand Assembly and the Parliament be drafted by the Election Commission and approved by the joint session of I IGA.
       14.  The process of elections will be completed within four months from February 1990.
       15.  The Election Commission will exert utmost efforts to win the approval and cooperation of all the concerned parties and individuals for the formation of the Shura as outlined above. The election process will be completed , however, regardless the results of those efforts.
       16.  The Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan will continue to function until formation of the Shura and its decision about the future of the Government.
            Above is the text of the formula of IIGA for forming the Shura to decide about the future of the Government and to act as a parliament during the * interim period. The text has been submitted to the Election Commission. The commission has been authorized to design the details and modulates .and to start practical implementation of the formula.
       Note:   Prof. Abdul Rab Rasoul Sayyaf, the prime minister
       of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan, announces today's afternoon text of the resolutions of the IIGA on formation of the Shura, in a press conference here in Peshawar.
                                       42
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
       Questions of the reporters will also be answered ' by the Prime Minister of IIGA.
       The elaborated coverage of the conference will be sent later on MIDIA.
       Recently Pronounced Views On The Forthcoming Elections.
            Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, chief of the Daee Etehade Island Mujahideen, former assistant of Engineer Hekmatyar, beside condemning the proposal of the Interim Government and also, the conduct of Hekmatyar concerning the shura and convening of the Loya Jirgah stated, the stance of his party as follows. Niether proposals of the Interim Government nor of Hekmatyar are acceptable. We do not have much time left. The only realistic approach would be the broadening of the present interim government. The Iran-based mujahideen, Afghan'technocrat in the western countries and free parries should be included in the cabinet.
            Haji Ferotan, •‘lie speaker for Harakete " Inqilabe Island (Malawi Mansoor), the party which has ciose affiliation with Iran, described the proposal as defective and announced that four free mujahideen parties of Qazi Amin, Mansoor, Malawi Muazen and Ayatullah Beheshti and eight parties functioning inside Iran will soon announce their proposal on the future government of mujahideen.
            Hezbe Island in a press release on January 18 rejected the proposal forewarned by the Interim Government and described it as a selection not an election. The party stresses the need for a general election.
            Despite no public statement it appears that the Nine
                                 43
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE Monthly Bui letin
       Iran based Shia parties have failed to come to an agreement with the AIG.
       Reflect ions of the AIC.
            From now on it is clear that the AIG is facing a serious challenge to the holding of elections. While in convening the Rawal Pindi shura all the seven parties were wanted to establish an interim government. It is a matter of suprise to learn that for the first time the fundamentalist parties have accepted the idea of holding the Loya Jirgah while in the past they always rejected this traditional institution for the solution of the Afghan problem. Still it is not very clear why they have added the word "Ahle-o- Aqd" to the name of the grand assembly; and how this addition is interpreted by the different parties; it is also not known which characters would be eligible candidates in this shura.
            The term in Arabic means those who have a broad knowledge of Islamic studies and are influential and able to make decisions. It does however have a further connotation, which is that the decision makers can then become the implementators of the decision.
            The other issue is the composition of the election commission. If only the AIG is consulted naturally they will endeavour to give a vote of confidence, and demonstrate, that it is the sole representative of the mujahld nation of Afghans.
            The l$ck of supervision guarantee of noninterference is another issue not yet resolved.
                                                    \
            The venue of holding the shura is another problem that hasnot been solved yet. Holding of such elections
                                    44
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
       or shura inside Afghanistan without the intervention of the UN seems impossible. If the venue be Pakistan it will be used as an instrument in the hands of the regime for publicity or some of the deputies may not be willing to come to Pakistan.
          Four months is a short, duration to gather representatives from all over Afghanistan. Even in a peaceful country holding of such elections could take longer not to mention war-stricken Afghanistan with all her problems. Considering all the inter-party problems the idea seems far from possible. Lack of coordination and cooperation makes the situation still worse.
           For sure there is not a sufficient number of local councils functioning inside Afghanistan to be able to introduce candidates to the election commissions. Hie mujahideen groups have always had coordination in the battle fields but not in civilian lives. Steps in this direction should had been taken earlier by the AIG.
           The Afghan nation repeatedly has been told by the seven party alliance that ’they are looking to _mobilise representatives for them, but they have always failed to keep their word. The manner of selection of the representatives for the Shura of Rawalpindi by the Seven Pair ties has further damaged the confidence of the people. To regain the* confidence of the people requires a new political initiative and a fundamental change in the political life of the resistance to assure the people that there is a possibility of peace for the country and they can live in security.
           The government which comes to power through a Loya Jirgah and general elections supervised by' the international community would be able to prevent the regime from making its propaganda and would be considered a political challenge which could lead to the fall of the Kabul regime. This is what the people are looking for.
45
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
            But taking past experience into consideration they are   afraid of the consequence of a government which
       might come to power without true popular support and which will not live up to their expectations and demands.
              This will buy time for the Kabul regime to consolidate its position. What the Kabul regime is in need of is time. Given this, with the facilities they have already       they would further encourage lack of
       confidence in the ranks of the resistance and thereby harm the Jihad.
            The amazing transformations in eastern Europe and within the Soviet Union have largely been initiated by the sacrifice of more than one million lives in Afghanistan. These changes in the north and the west , could ultimately lead to the total annihilation of the hated regime in Kabul. While Garbachev is showing a green light to the anti-communist extremism in Eastern Europe and embodying himself as the leader of this movement, he cannot embrace a communist, criminal and puppet regime which is responsible for the death of more than one million people and the devastation of a country. This double sided attitude cannot continue.
            The opportunity that   the AIG     is giving to  the
       Soviets means that it is possible that the Kabul government will gradually replace the war criminals and the   extremist  communists and replace them with      an
       apparently moderate government thereby ensuring the preservation of their interests in the country. This government will denounce the communist regimes and the PDPA and claim to be Islamic, democratic and devoted to the   national    interests     and   rehabilitation   of
       Afghanistan. Most of the countries that have shut their embassies in     Kabul will reopen    their missions  and
       naturally this will be recognised as the new government in Kabul.
46
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
              The situation nowadays shows some signs of such events Occurring in the future.Currently the armed jehad has lead to a stalemate.           If there is not a quick
         dramatic new change for the resistance politically they will loose their enthusiasm and the Kabul regime will take over the initiative. Commanders and Mujahideen outside and inside the new interim government will hardly continue the armed jehad under present terms and will demand greater compensation. Many private agreements will be made. The Regime pours money generously into the pockets, of some people to at least prohibit their active involvement in the war this corruption will continue and expand. It also could not be ruled out that some commanders may claim autonomy. Some of the circles and parties that are afraid of a more extremist regime gaining power will join hands with the newly installed regime.
              The new AIG will still be in exile in Pakistan. The emigrants who would see that the Soviets are out and their regime and accomplices also, that there is no war at least in the freed areas and decreased international assistance available for the refugees, ecoQcmic and social problems will force them to return to Afghanistan. Nobody will be able to control the situation, especially when the Russians will send more humanitarian aid rather than arms which are sufficiently stockpiled in the arsenals of the regime and will take part in the reconstruction of the country.
              Those emigrants whose prestige and knowledge of the true character of the new situation, or because of luck of'sacurity will not live under the new ordered will appeal for permanent refugee status in neighbouring countries. Those living in western countries will forget the idea of returning to Afghanistan.
              Finally the sacrifices and jehad of the Afghan Muslim nation will be sacrificed to the ambitions and
                                    47
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     selfishness of some groupings and to the inposition of political and religious ambiguous beliefs of some foreign hands in Afghanistan.
          The sacrifices of more than one million Afghan lives and more than any thing else the honours that this nation has gained in the harsh resistance will go with the wind. Our nation has sacrificed itself but salvaged the oppressed nations of the eastern Europe and the nationalities residing in       the territories under  the
     occupation of Russia. It is unfortunate to see a nation that was a torch for liberating others be enslaved permanently.
          Another possibility would be the disintegration of Afghanistan and the beginning      of a crisis     in  the
     neighbouring countries. Therefore, before it is too late, it is advisable for       the friends of the Afghan
     movement to deeply assess       the situation and  try  to
     obstruct further the worsting of the situation and integrate the wishes of the nation with the wishes .of the moven -nt.
          Another important point to note is the existence of active groups covering a range of political and social beliefs which have developed since the Soviet invasion . They are more adept to guerrilla war fare conditions. But, now that the Russians are out the people are striving for a more peaceful life and the - reconstruction of the country.
          In Afghanistan where the tribal institutions have always played a key role in running the social affairs, political parties could not run all sectors. Even under present conditions if the Iran-based and Peshawar based parties unitedly reach a common platform they can only fill the gap temporarily but then must immediately move to find a more permanent and acceptable solution which
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
the people of Afghanistan are so urgently waiting for.
      It is also worth mentioning that there are certain tribal elders within Afghanistan who possess considerable         j
authority in their localities.
      If we sum up our discussion-we can come to the point that most of the people at the moment are for an independent and peaceful Afghanistan where the dictat and rule of the Khalq-Parcham party will be finally terminated. To reach to this end Afghans have accepted socio-cultural and historical traditions and values that could be used for the establishment of an independent order in the country.
THE DECISIONS OF TWO GRAND GATHERINGS :
C*jetta, February 2:
      A grand gathering of tribal elders, jehad commanders, mujahideen and refugees at Saronano camp, in Baluchistan province of Pakistan, condemned the interventions of foreign hands in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and called for the return of the exiled king.
      Most of the participants of the gathering were from Kandahar, Helmand, Farah, Nimroz, Zabul, Herat, Badghis, Ghor and Uruzgan provinces and were predominantly Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazarah and Turkmen. They raised the old banner of Afghanistan and voiced Allah-u-Akbar and chanted slogans demanding the return of the former king to Afghanistan.
      The gathering was addressed by some of the tribal elders, ulama and representatives of refugees. At the end the following resolution was unanimously approved:
                           49
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       1-       According to the Islamic and international laws Citizens of individual nations have the right to decide their destiny and Afghans are no exception. They should have the right for self-determination. Afghan affairs could only be solved by themselves.
       2-       Non of the governments be it temporary or permanent will be acceptable to the people unless it is to the liking of the majority. The only lawful government for Afghanistan is the one which will enjoy the support and backing of the Afghan masses.
       3-       In all the initiatives and proposals in which the interference of foreigners could be felt as in councils, appointments and others are - in reality conspiracies which are aimed at weakening the jehad and widening the gap between Afghans. We, participants of the gathering strongly condemn such conspiracies. The outcome of such anti-national and wasteful deeds will be dreadful and the responsibility for them will rest on the shoulders of those who are overtly and covertly busy plotting them.
       4-       Participants unanimously appealed for the convocation of a grand assembly to represent all tribes residing in Afghanistan. The jirgha should have the authority to decide on the future government in this country;
       5-       We strongly demand from the former king, Zahir Shah, as the national leader should take' active part in Afghan affairs and block the way of foreign interference in the country and the settlement of the Afghan crisis.
                •
       Similarly in another gathering in the province at Gardi Zangal Afghan refugees camp, a resolution was adopted unanimously as following:
       1- We do not recognise the Rawal Pindi Consultative Council's government as the sole representative of Afghan
                            50
No. 107
Ninth year
February 1990
nation.
      2- We reject the proposal of the Peshawar based emigrant parties to have the right to be elected who do not give others the same right.
3- foreigners hands off of Afghanistan.
      4- We want a national-Islamic government in independent Afghanistan to represent the will of the people.
*** *** ***
51
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                          NEWS FROM TOE BATTLEFIELD
LOGAR - January 27
      In the fierce fighting going on since January 27 in Mohammad Agha of Logar province so far 27 tanks have been destroyed and 60 soldiers taken captive by the mujahideen in this province. Meanwhile 600 families from the war zones have deserted their homes and immigrated to Pakistan. The number of casualties among the mujahideen and civilians so far has been recorded as 40. Malim Toor, chief of the Logar mujahideen council was wounded in these operations.
      The government is busy trying to reach Gardiz and supply the besieged troops in Khost subdivision. The mujahideen forces stationed in Logar have obstructed the way for the convoy of food and ammunition to reach either of these cities.
      The regime is employing various tactics to make possible this thrust. It manipulates the divisions among different t 'ibes coupled with military operations and pressures. One of the regime. tactics was the flying of helicopters over the Logar villages encouraging the mujahideen to fire PRG-7 rockets at them. The tanks stationed at posts in the north of Mohammad Agha district were moved, which also drew the fire of the mujahideen last remaining heavy shells. ,
      Mujahideen also had difficulties obtaining arms and ammunition via the Teri Manga 1-Logar road. The timing of the attack on the mujahideen was meticulously determined. Therefore , Mohammad Agha came easily under
                          52
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
the control of the government. The latest reports confirm that the convoy is still in the area. After their initial progress the Regime forces could not go further tcward Gardez.
     The main complaint of the mujahideen over this action was the lack of ammunition which they suffered from.
     Recent news from the province' is that the regime have sent fresh forces to Mohammad Agha from Gardez and Puli-Alam in the south and Kabul in the north. These three fronts have succeeded in meeting at Mohammad Agha. Reportedly the convoy (or part of it) amounting to an estimated 10,000 men has now started moving towards Gardez the way south now being open "to them. In this action the government have used for their benefit the cold winter weather and the snow.
URUZGAN January 13
     The parties in Tireenkot wanted to launch a joint offensive to liberate the city but the decision was not warmly welcomed by the local mujahideen, reported Haji Dost Mohammad a local senior who lately came to Peshawar. In his words the parties were waiting for each other to initiate the assault. They have however liberated most of the districts of Uruzgan province.
     This was mostly due to the scarcity of essential goods and hardship that mujahideen and the local people experience in the province. Itiey are anxiously waiting for aid to come from the parties and foreign committees to at least help them in their immediate problems. Rice and almonds are among the local agricultural products that are usually sold on the regime focus besieged by the mujahideen.
                             53
AFGHAN INFORMATION CKNTRK - Monthly Bulletin
     The producers were worrying that if the city is liberated they would sell their products. The mujahideen are inactive anyway so why bother. When the party representatives saw the status quo they returned. However, somp days later, the war for the liberation of Tireenkot began. Mujahideen brought the city under a shower of over 2,000 rockets which caused substantial damage to the city. Some of the soldiers defected to the Mujahideen and the rest defended the strongholds and fortifications they had made. According to one of those who defected to the mujahideen, the pro-regime people are also facing some serious hardships but the regime offers substantial bribes in order to encourage the solders to stay.
KANDAHAR :
     Mujahideen are now allowed to freely enter the city. This move is even encouraged by the regime. What the regime really want         is to infiltrate among the
ranks of the resistance in Kandahar.
     Once again-the mujahideen created a toll station at Doot area of Spinboldak district to prohibit the passage of none party vehicles. This created problems for the Kandahar citizens in getting essential goods and the prices rose very high.          The local people and some
mujahideen factions are criticizing this move. If the same situation prevails for a long period, there exists the danger of fresh clashes among mujahideen. The rate for some goods is also very high.
     According to some other reports the Nawroz tribe has decided to form new tribal militia units to replace the former ones who had close ties with Asmat Muslim militias who stays in Kabul.
                           54
No. 107
Ninth Year
February 1990
      According to fresh reports from the city,, mujahideen have inflicted heavy blows on the enemy in Chehel Zina area. There was a rumour that Haji Mohapiad Akbar had been killed in a face to face battle with the regime but later the report proved wrong, but two of the mujahideen had been martyred.
                 ¥
      The commander of Mahaze Millie in Kandahar city, Mohammad Seddiq, known as Loy Agha, came under fire from Loy Lala, formerly the group chief. Loy Lala had been dismissed. He was angry over this dismissal and responded with bullets. Fortunately Loy Agha though hurt was saved and is now hospitalized at ICRC.
      In Arghandab some local commanders are demanding the formation of a new shura to replace the former one headed by Pasany. He is accused of taking sides with Hezbe Islami while deciding over the conflict of that party with Jamiat Islami.
PAPUAN - January 24 :
      According to Mujahideen sources a big explosion at Tapa Surkh of Jabul Saraj rocked the whole town on January 24. Tapa Surkh was one of the strongholds of the Red Army to protect Bagram airfield and Salang highway from attacks by Mujahideen. Eyewitnesses say that the flames of fire could be seen for two consecutive days.
      The task of exploding the base was conducted by two officers affiliated to Ahmad Shall Masoud. They had placed explosives in the Oregan arsenal. Shortly before the explosion a convoy of tankers also had reached the base. Among the vehicles destroyed in the explosion were some Kamaz and vehicles from the logistics department of thedefence and commerce ministries Altogether 100
55
No. .107
Ninth Year
February 1990
  soldiers killed in the incident.
        According to another despatch, a Mig 21 jet fighter was shot over Kole Anboh of Mazare Sharif on January 27.
                      *** *** ***
 PKTIA-February 20
 Capture of a most strategic base in Khost:
      According to the office of Mawlawi Jalalludin Haqani in Peshawar, on February 19, Mujahideen captured the most strategic base of Tora Ghara, the stronghold of the regime badly needed for the defence of the Khost city.
      It has been four months now that a battle goes on for the take over of the Khost city. In this period Mujahideen were able to tighten the siege of the city and reach to five - eight Kms of the city.
      This successful operation is a major breakthrough after the pull out of           the Russian troops from
 Afghanistan. The base is located on top of a hilly and a dominant point just three kilometeres to the south of the city airport. If Mujahideen be able to use effectively it against the regime, the latter will be facing a serious threat* in defending the city against the attacks of the resistance fighters.
      Mujahideen have been able to capture a large quantity of heavy and light arms including five tanks, 12 mortars and hundreds of AK-47 rifles, eight heavy machinguns and a lot of ammunition and foodstuff.
***
***
***
ANOTHER TERRORISTIC ACTION IN PESHAWAR:
      Abdul Qayum Rahber, brother of Abdul Majid KalaKani the founder of the Afghanistan People Liberation Organisation(SAMA) who was hanged by the comnunist regime back 1980 was killed earlier this month. Rahber was a graduate of Al Azher in Egypt and West Germany. After his brothers execution he immigrated to Pakistan and took on the leadership of SAMA.
      Most members of his family have been killed in the jehad or by the regime. Rahber was the last member of the Kalakani family when he was shot in front of his brother-in-law's residential house in Hayatabad on January 27. One of his relatives, a 20-year-old young man was also hurt in the incident. Rahber was due to leave for West Germany the next day and join his family. He had gone to Hayatabad to say farewell to his relatives.
      Rahber 50, was a speaker in most gatherings and international forums. He used to express his view freely and was committed to Democracy and the non-dependence of Afghanistan.

***
***
                  Freedom is that great revolutionary force that can smash each tyrant regime. Variety of thoughts and diversity of beliefs is a token of freedom as is a variety of cultures, histories and ways of life. This way each individual preserves his social and individual identity.
                  The basic character of our struggle is to fix and preserve our national identity and traditional roots and respect individual rights.
                  In those societies in which the moral conscience of the individuals is mature, no tyranny can ever emerge or establish itself. Therefore, the tyrant regimes consider individuals and the ability of individual conscience in differentiating good from evil, as an enemy and a great danger for its survival, and says:" It is not the duty of individuals to judge on the bases of good or evil in social and individual affairs."
                  in fact this is the duty of political leaders and the duty of the individuals is limited to obey their political leaders, and to adjust with the conditions they provide for them.
                  The problem of an ideological regime is to keep a balance between two opposing realities. The natural fact of the society on one side and ideological ideals and hypothesis on the other the latter taking its power and impetus from the society itself. But the exploitation should not reach the limit of destroying completely the original society. If it is ever fully destroyed, how could the ideology be implemented?
                  The relationship of the Soviet regime with the society is that of a parasite living on a host.
           Know the Enemy
           by
           Late Prof. S.B. Majrooh