
            jCr'SUJlJ.lclUil
 Afghan
   JNFORMATION QENTRE
                MONTHLY BULLETIN
Nos. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
                          The aim$ of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)   International news media
        (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder        :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor         : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription Institutions            : US$    100
Individuals              : US$     70
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, S J. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
         AFGHAN INFORMATION
               CENTRE
             Monthly Bulletin
 Nos.116-117                     Nov. & Dec.1990
CONTENTS :
 I    . OPEN LETTER
3
 II   . ELECTION IN AFGHANISTAN                10
           - Election commission gathering(10)
           - AIG Election plan(11)
           - Zaher Shah6s peace plan(14)
 III  . MUJADEDDI PRESS CONFERENCE              18
           - Najib6s Swiss visit(19)
 IV   .   DEFORESTATION IN KUNAR                22
         * •
V     .   SITUATION IN PROVINCES                28
           - Health in Samangan(28)
           - Situation in faryab(30)
           - Situation in Ningarhar(33)
VI         NEWS FROM PROVINCES                 37
                         *** * * * *** ***
                                OPEN LETTER
 The letter sent to Nobel Peace Committee by AIC Director , Naim Majrooh on 3rd December 1990
 Nobel Peace Prize Committee
 Oslo
 Norway
 Esteemed Members, '
      At the invitation of the Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan, I paid a visit last March to Norway, where I found an opporunity to hold a meeting with you at the Pen Club.
      As you recall, we discussed at length the situation in Afghanistan; I was surprised by the nomination of Mr. Gorbachev for the Nobel Peace Prize by your esteemed Committee. I explained to you the Soviet atrocities which continued during the rule of the Soviet leader since his coming into power in the spring of 1985, till the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanisntan by February 1989. The Soviets withdrew from Afghanisntan without looking back to see what they had left behind.
      While you have forgotten Afghanistan and Mr. Gorbachev is receiving this prestigeous prize in grand ceremonies in Oslo, let us remind you of the tragedy which is still going on in Afghanistan. Let us cast a glance at Gorbachev's era.
                                     3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The Monthly Bulletin of AIC, by the late Professor Majrooh in its issue of June 1985, carried the following lines:
      "Since 1980, four Soviet leaders have held power in the Kremlin. But under the new leadership of Gorbachev -whom the West found "young", "dynamic", "sympathetic", "with whom one can do business" (as Mrs. Thatcher put it) - th situation seems to have become much worse. A short comparison of the four leaders with reference to Afghanistan, will help us to situate the latest one.
      "1, Brezhnev Eraritis the time of invasion...
      "2. Andropov Era:  it is the time of subversion...
      "3. Chernenko Era: i£ is a time of no-character...
      "4. Gorbachev Era: the time of an offensive on all fronts. On the religious front, a new ministry for Islamic affairs is created. The intention is to appease the religious feeling of the people by showing them that Marxism is compatible with Islam. A big show of Loya Jirgah (the great traditional council) is organized; the Kabul regime wants to make the so-called assembly approve the presence of Soviet forces in Afghanistan and also to find for itself a kind of legitimacy on a traditional base.
      "However, |the min effort is still focused on the military field whepe an evident escalation is observed. Since 1980 the number of troops is doubled to between 150 and 160 thousand. Damaged and destroyed military equipment is not only immediately replaced, but also much improved. Large offensives are carried out all over the country: in Herat, Farah, Kandahar, around Kabul, in the northern provinces, in Ningrahar and Kunar. Vast areas are covered with land mines; new types of explosives are used, heliborne commando operations are increased...
                              4
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE- Monthly Bulletin
      "Under Gorbachev, operations against civil populations seem to have been intensified___
      "In Helmand prvince, some 60 civilians, including women and children, were killed; in Fefol valley (Baghlan province) about 150; in Khanabad (Kunduz province) over 100 people; in the outskirts of Kunduz city 120; in Dehsabz district (Kabul province) about 200; at Mangwal village in Kunar 60; in a small village of Shinwar district, west of Jalalabad, 35 women and children were executed in a mosque where they had taken shelter...
      "In the areas of Qarghayee, Mindrawar, Haidar Khani and Charbagh (Laghman province) , between 500 and 550 civilians were killed...
      "The difference in these operations from previous ones was that they were carried out in a professional way; it is no longer Russian recruits of the regular army who commit crimes out of anger or fear, but some very special commandos seem to be in charge of the operations. Well-informed sources in Kabul talk about KGB special units, called "the commandos of death", which are now operating in Afghanistan—
      "Mohammad Yossof, a former Afghan army officer, resident of Kanda, a village near the Laghman provincial centre, was in his village at the time of the incident. Interviewed in Peshawar on June 4, he said, 'Suddenly it was the big attack. BM-13 rockets started falling and aircraft bombarded the surrounding hills. The population was running in panic to hide but tanks and armoured vehicles entered the' villages of Charbagh, Qarghayee, Mindrawar. Nobody could go from one village to another. The Russians asked for money and those who had none to give were killed alike. Even in the smallest villages between 20 and 25 people were exterminated. The operations lasted two days; then the Russians started moving towards Jalalabad.
                                             5
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.-Dec. 1990
 The population had only one day to bury their dead. The following day, the enemy returned returned and advanced up to Pul-e-Jogi and Shaltak; houses were looted again and burned down. In our region 150 civilians lost their lives in this second attack.           Women were raped and
 summarily executed. At Shaltak, about 20 women and children had shut themselves inside a house. The Russians first threw hand-grenades inside the house and then set it on fire; all ocupants . were burned to death___'                              .
      "The resistance fighter confirmed that young women, about 20, running in panic from the Russians who chased after them, jumped into the river and drowned. Also, 25 elders of Sorkhakan (Laghman) took shelter in the headguarters of the district headquarters; all were executed...
      "Jamruz, witness to these incidents said, 'The astonishing thing was that the Russians had brought with them cameramen who were filming and taking pictures of the horror scenes. Soviet soldiers forcefully dragged crying and shouting women in front of the cameras..."
      Jamruz wondered why? His information was soon confirmed and his question answered:     On  June 3 at 11
 p.m. the radio of Soviet Tajikistan, during its evening service in Tajiki-Persian for Afghanistan, heard in Peshawar, announced that when a unit of their glorious army cleaned the district of Qarghayee in Laghman from bandits and murderers, their reporters were witness to touching scenes:   local women, weeping for joy, threw
 themselves in the arms of the friendly              Soviet
 soldiers..."
      These are but a few exanples of Soviet atrocities in Afghanistan during the era of Gorbachev.
                                                         j
      Even today, with Soviet troops allegedly withdrawn from Afghanistan there are numerous reports of Soviet
                         6
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 military activities inside the country. Dr. Ralph Magnus, professor at the Naval Postgraduate Institue said this month, "small groups of Soviet Central Asian soldiers are stationed in different parts of northern Afghanistan for the purpose of waging a guerilla war. The soldiers are chosen from among Uzbak and Tajik ethnic groups to give the impression they are Afghans."
      During our meeting last March,, I promised that I would present the witnesses of all those atrocities to you for research purposes.
      However, it was practically observed that the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize       takes place as a
 result of a political decision rather than a sound and objective assessment of one's deeds.
      Let Mr. Gorbachev judge himself. He and his associates admit the fact that they have learned from the "mistakes" of his predecessors in Afghanistan, but he cannot be absolved from the responsibilities of his own "mistakes"..
      Under the pretext of preventing the formation of a radical Islamic government,in-Afghanistan, Mr. Gorbachev still supports the puppet regime in Kabul despite economic and political pressure within his own country. This clearly encourages others to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and attempt to install in that country governments of their own liking.
        The great sacrifices, such as the killing of over one million Afghans, the maiming of thousands of others and the migration of more than five million to o'ther countries, was a solid proof that the Afghan struggle which is based upon national and Islamic principles — right to self-determination, complete independence, non-all ignment, mutual respect and peaceful co-existence.
               \                                        V - ■-
7.
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.-.Dec. 1990
      Interference by foreign countries forced the Afghans to live in undesirble environments and to become dependent upon foreign assistance. They were fgreed to compromise on their national values and become a silent majority for survival.
      As long as regional rivalries continue and the Afghans are not allowed to exercise their right to self-determination, the nation will remain a victim of foreign interference and an imposed war. The solution to these problems depend* upon the good will of concerned parties.
      We always believed that the Soviet Communist system would finally collapse due to its internal contradictions, but the sacrifices of the Afghan people accelerated the process with .incredible speed. • If the Afghan nation had suffered a defeat at the hands of the mighty Red Army, could anybody think of the collapse of the Berlin Wall? Could anybody think of the execution of Romanian ruler Ceausescu?         Could  the  two Germanies
 unite- so rapidly? Could the freedom movements in and outside the Soviet Union reach their peak?
      And finally, could anybody think that immediate changes, such as the defeat of Communism in the Soviet Union, tine transformatin of the ojd enemies Into new friends and the transofrmation of world stratgies and designs, would        follow the  Soviet  withdrawal from
 Afghanistan. The Afghans are proud of their struggle and sacrifices which resulted in these remarkable changes and achievements.
      If the Nobel Phace Prize attracts the attention of Mr. Gorbachev to his past ^.'mistakes" and inspires Mm to stop violation of human rights and allows the restoration of peace and justice in Afghanistan, we, the Afghans, will gladly withdraw our objection. He will also honour the Nobel Committee if he lets a war-torn nation live in peace.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Mr. Cordovez, former special envoy of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan, once said that the Afghans should be happy that The Nobel peace Prize was given to Gorbachev. This would be an appropriate statement only if the expectations mentioned above are fulfilled. Otherwise, I regret his statement.
     The Nobel Peace Prize is respected throughout the World. It will be respected in Afghanistan, only after Peace comes to the country. And that is as much in the hands of Mr. Gorbachev as anyone else.
                     ***          *** ***
                                 9
                           ELECTION IN AFGHANISTAN
Election Commission Gathering
     Leaders and reprentatives of the Peshawar-based organisations attended a gathering held on December 2 on the occasion of the despatch of supervisory teams to to Afghanistan.
     The election commission of the Supreme Court of the AIG arranged the gathering, which was was attended by over 1,500 representatives and authorities of the the Peshawar-based parties, the independent group and the Iran-based Shia organisations.
     The gathering was addressed by Prof. Mujadeddi, President of the AIG, Prof-. Sayyaf, Prime Minister, Maulawi Mohammadi, Minister of Defence, Maulawi Abdul Waris, Deputy Leader of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) , Ayatullah Taqadussi, Spokesman of the Iran-based Coalition, Qazi Mohammad Amin Wiqad, independent leader, Farouq Azam, Deputy Leader of Mahaz, Sayed Noorullah Emad, Deputy Leader of Jamiat. All the speakers declared their support for the AIG plan based on holding of elections inside Afghanistan.
     In his address to the members of the supervisor teams. Prof. Mujadeddi said,"Try your best to find fair and virtuous persons for the formation of Loya Jirgah-e-Hal-o-Aqd, so
                               10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 that my responsibility is handed over to some one else."
     Prof. Sayaf, with his sharp tone, condemned the participation of Communists in any government. He said that he would not live with the Communists in our country.
     In compliance with the election plan, the supervisory teams will visit each constituency and approach commanders, relgious scholars and elders of the area to unanimously introduce ten persons as members.
     The AIG announced that the process of elections will come to an end prior to March 18, 1991. Some 138 members of suprvisory teams left Peshawar for         20 provinces inside
 Afghanistan. Similar teams will leave Quetta next week for ten provinces inside the country.
     Interestingly, the gathering was attended by high ranking officials of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) , which had severed ties with the AIG in August 1989 and had called the AIG plan as "defective." The representative of Hezb-e-Islami announced that they agreed to the AIG plan.
     Furthermore, Ayatullah Taqadussi, spokesman of the Iran-based Coalition also declared his support for #the election plan.
 AIG Election plan
    The Election Commission of the AIG has recently published the first ever election law
                                   II
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.-Dec. 1990
in Peshawar. A small booklet carries 44 articles of the law, which has been named as "Qanun-e-Tashkil-e-Loya Jiraga-e-Muntakhab-e-Islami-e-Hal-o-Aqd-e-Afghanistan ( Law for the Formation of an Islamic Elective Competent Loya Jirgah of Afghanistan)
     Following a short introduction, the booklet carries definitions of some terms used in the law.
     Article 3:   Commander is a persons, who,
having performed his duty for two years, leads at least 30 armd mujahideen and who possesses the qualtities of a voter.
     Article 4:   Relgious Scholar  is a ^teacher
known for his religious knowledge in an area.
     Article 6:     Loya Jirgah-e-Muntakhab-e-
Islami-e-Hal-o-Aqd is an assembly of members who, possessing Ausaf-e-Hal-Aqd (competent or opinion making qualtities), has been elected in compliance with the principles of this law.
     Article 7:   Ahl-e-Hal-o-Aqd are fair
persons, who enjoy the power of judgement and the authority to decide upon the judicial affairs of the people.
     Article 10. Fehrest-e-Ahl-e-Hal-o-Aqd is a list which includes the names of commanders, religious scholars, and elders, who possess the qualifications of Hal-o-Aqd.
Structure:
     Article 3: Ten elected persons from each
                           12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 constituency; fifteen selected persons from each component in accordance with the decision of January 8 ,  1989  by the  components  of  the
 government; Twenty persons, who possess satisfactory Islamic identity and personality are unanimously selected throughout Afghanistan among religious scholars, elite, clergy and tribal elders.
     Article 4:   The  Islamic  council of Wulasi
 Jirgah (National Assembly) of Afghanistan is composed of the following persons:
     One of the ten elected persons of each constituency; ten selected persons from each component in accordance with the decision of January 8,    1989 by the components of the
 government.
 Qalifications for Candidates
     One who has prticipated in the Afghan jehad; who has not been sentenced by Islamic courts for a crime or misdeed in the course of jehad; who possess- proper religious knowledge; who is not notorius for treachery debauchery; who is not affiliated to deviant political groups; who not taken stand against the Islamic jehad.
 Chapter Four: Qualfications for Voters:
     Persons having the following qualifications may elect members of Loya Jirga:
     1.     Muslim and national of Afghanisntan; who has not taken stand against the Islamic jehad;
                            13
No- 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.-Dec. 1990
 who is sane and adult? who is not affiliated to to any deviant political groups.
 Procedure for Election of Jirgah Members:
     In case a constituency belongs to a certain organisation, the council of the organisation elect ten persons as members to Loya Jirgah.
     If these conditions are not met in a certain constituency, the commanders, religious scholars and elders may elect members to Loya Jirgah in any easy way.
     Article 22:       In case the commanders are
 refugees, they may be elected from the refugee quota.
     Article 31: The decision of the Central Council of Loya Jirgah is final               and
 unappealable in the task assigned.
     Article 35:  The  selective members of Loya
 Jirgah and Wulasi Jirgah should pass the purification process of the Central Commission of Loya Jirgah.
     Article 44: j The        qualifications   of
 commanders, religious scholars and elders are determined by a supervisory team with the understanding of the people * and mujahideen authorities in a certain constituency.
 Zaher Shah's Peace Plan
     Following is the -Saglish translation "of
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Zahir Shah's proposed plan for the political settlement of the Afghan issue:
     In the Name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate
  PROPOSED PLAN FOR THE POLITICAL SETTLEMENT OF
                           AFGHANISTAN
     The developments arising from the regional and international dimension of the Afghan issue, the lack of a political achievement in the field of jehad and the premature attempt for the formation of a political leadership within the framework of organisations and individuals by ignoring the free will of the Afghan nation is indicative of the danger that will,God forbid, threaten the basic objectives of jehad and the national interests as well as the existence of Afghanistan, if the Afghans do not abandon their specific political and party considerations to prevent it with realism and insight.
     In order to pass this dangerous stage and achieve the basic objectives "of jehad, an inter-Afghan understanding should be created at the national level to seek          a  just  and
 acceptable . solution for the organization of polticial life in Afghanistan.
     The     political     orgahisations,    the
 mujahideen commanders, the pro-jehad political personalities and the influential forces of the Afghan society who have also favoured jehad will play a dominant role in initiating such an inter-Afghan undrstanding.
                                15
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
     An Afghan commission of (about 30) projehad personalities, who are also acceptable to the considerable majority of the parties involved, should be established; Some specific standards (national reputation, background and...) should be taken into consideration.
     The commission should be asked to prepare a list of the members of an emergency Afghan jirgah (assembly) following an understanding with all mujahiddeen organisations and the parties involved. The members, who will be listed according to the said three standards, are:
1.Representatives of mujahideen organisations , including commanders.
2.  Representatives of all pro-jehad Afghan organisations.
3.   Well known Islamic scholars inside and outside the country.
4.  Afghan Political personalities inside and outside the country.
3. Tribal elders (local and nomadic) inside and outside the country.
6. All influential individuals of the Afghan society inside and outside the country.
                               16
     These members, whose number will be fixed by the commission, should attend an emergeny Afghan jirgah (assembly) inside Afghanistan (taking security conditions into consideration) or one of the Islamic countries, such as Egypt or Turkey or one the neiitral counties, such as Switzerland or Austria.
     The UN will provide facilities for holding the jirgah and inviting its members.
     The jirgah 'will establish an interim political structure for the transitional period. Besides its executive ‘functions, the political structure will perform specific functions ( which are designed by the jirgah) to maintain stability, draft the new constitution and adopt measures for holding an Afghan loya jirgah (grand assembly) 'aimed at approving the consitution, preparing the ground for free elections, establishing a political system based on Islamic principles in Afghanistan and organising parliamentarian life into the framework of that system.
 November 9 , 1990
                            ★ ** *** ****
                           17
                   MUJADEDDI PRESS CONFERENCE
     Following Najib's visit to Switzerland, Prof. Mujadeddi, Presdent of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) returned to Peshawar recently and held a press conference in Peshawar on Nov. 27.
     At the outset. Prof. Mujadeddi spoke at length about his t-rip to Afghanistan and his meeting with Commander Ismail 'Khan of Herat. He then replied to the querries of journalists.
     Asked about his reported meeting with Dr. Najib, Prof. Mujadeddi called 'the .report as baselss and part of the enemy propaganda. He said, "Neither I nor my representatives are prepared to talk to Njib, because he is a puppet and rules Kabul with the military backing of the Soviet Union." He added that had rejected many similar offers in the past.
          i                        ,
     The (Election Commission of the AIG has recently published an election law.          Asked
 whether the law reflects the views of the Afghan people. Prof. Mujadeddi said that he also did not agree with the law. He said that he would refer the law for review to the cabinet of the AIG.
     Prof. Mujadeddi called the Hezb-Jamiat election agreement as        "not reasonable." The
 agreement, .^which is aimed at           dividing
 Afghanistan between two organizations, has saddened commanders of' all organization.
18
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
     The Pressident of the AIG expressed satisfaction over his meetings with Ayatullah Khamenaie, Mr. Rafsanjani and Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati regarding the problems of Afghans in Iran. He said that he met leaders of Hezb-e-Wahdat (Islamic Unity Party) and other Afghn organisations in Iran. He said that it was agreed that a three-=member team should be sent by the election commission of the AIG to Iran to review the election plan of the AIG.
     Prof. Mujadeddi confirmed the planned visit of a mujahideen delegation to the Soviet Union at the invitation of the President of Russian Federation, Boris Yelstin. He however added that he would not lead the delegation to Mos cow.
     Regarding the latest offer of King Zahir Shah , Prof. Mujadeddi said that he would welcome any offer that leads to the settlement of the Afghan issue, ensuring the Islamic status of Afghanistan.
     Prof. Mujadeddi     said that some ministers
 of the present Pakistan government accused the former government for not recognising the AIG. He added that they have come into power,' so they should recognise our government. He said that he was plannig to hold discussions with the government of Nawaz Sharif in this regard.
                       *** *** ***
 NAJIB'S SWISS VISIT
     "We are prepared to destroy all stockpiles
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 of our arms in order to restore peace in the country, but the opposition should also reciprocate.An international understanding should be created in order to bring an end to the war in Afghanistan. During the process of this understanding, a committee acceptable to all sides should be ^established to hold elections under the suprvision of the U*N. The committee may enjoy control over the ministries of national defence and interior".
     The above   expressions were made by      Dr.
 Najib in a press conference on October 26 in Kabul regarding his visit to Switzerland.
  • Najib said that he decided to pay a visit to Switzerland when he- recieved a ' peace plan from King Zahir Shah on October 9. He said that the plan contained many useful points for the future of Afghanistan. He said that he held disussions with moderate leaders of the opposition as      well as  a delegation of    the
 former monarch.   During the discussions, .it was
 pointed out        that   an inter-Afghan under
 standing should be created for the settlement of the Afghan issue. In order to achieve peace in the country,         the   process   of     the
 understanding should be accelrated, and the Afghans allowed to take the responsibilities of their country on their own shoulders.
     Najib, who reached Switzerland on October 18, said that he held disussions with Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan,        members  of Swiss
 Parliament and high ranking officials of the International Committee of        the Red    Cross
 (ICRC). He said that he requested           Swiss
 authorities t>Q host a grand meeting for the maintenance of peace in Afghanisntan.
                           20
Nos. 116-117
Tenth Year
1990
Nov.- Dec.
 He said, "On my way to Kabul, I stayed for a short time in Mashad', where I met Iraniary authorities and opposition leaders."          Th^
 Iranian     authorities     expressed      their
 preparedness to extend some cooperation, he said.     He also met Turkish         authorities
 regarding the situation in Afghanistan in Anqara.
     While Najib was visiting Switzerland, leaders of the Afghan jehad moved in some European countries. Pir Gailani was one of those leaders who was reported to have discussed a plan with Najib, but he said, " Though we did not talk to Najib, We are ready to talk to him, if he wants to hand over the power to a third Muslim Afghan.
     Maulwi Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, said: "All  Afghans living in other parts of the
 world are our brothers. They will never talk to Najib. I think that he (Najib) has fled Kabul, becuse the mujahideen have launched their attack on Kabul."
     A spokesman of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) said:        "Our jehad will
 continue, because not a single mujahid is ready to talk to Najib. Similar acts have exposed all faces in the garb of j'ehad."
     The President of the AIG, in a press conference.' rejected a meeting with Najib. He said that jehad would continue against Najib while he held on to power. However - he added, "If he hands power to us, there might be some ways for consultations."
                         *** *** ***
                            21
                     DEFORESTATION IN KUNAR
     Afghanistan is a country rich in natural resources in the world. In particular, its dense forests, which covered two percent of its area, added beauty to the high mountains of Kunar, Ningrahar and Paktia to the east of the country.       For years,  the forests remained
intact due to their limited use by the local population.
     Prior to the Communist coup of 1978, the governments of King Zaher Shah and President Daoud had adopted various measures to protect the forests of the country.             In this
connection, French and German experts ran projects in Kunar and Paktia for protection of forests in those provinces. In addition, the then ministry of agriculture, which enjoyed support of local tribes, had appointed a number of its personnel to look after the forests in the areas. However, tribal agreements played an important role in the protection of the forests. Heavy .tribal fines had discouraged the people to use the timber of the forests carelessly. They were allowed only to use forests for their domestic needs, such as beams and firewood.
     When the gap between the people and the government widened after the April coup of 1978, foreign friends were forced to abandon and stop their projects in those provinces.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 The air and ground operations by the enemy caused heavy damages to the forests in those provinces.         In Paktia, enemy bombardment
 and cutting of trees by businessmen caused deforestation in the province. The people still sell the product of their forests for chepaer prices on the free markets.          The
 process of deforestation also continued in the areas to the left side of the Kunar river; the local people transferred timber of those forests by mules to Pakistan. However, the forests to the right side of the river remained intact due to the presence of regime posts and the absence of roads in the areas.
     Following the liberation of Kunar by the mujahideen, the wreckage of Russian tanks and vehicles were removed and transferred to Pakistan for sale. These destroyed vehicles were a proof of the Afghan heroism and an evidence of Russian brutalities in Afghanistan. Besides, roads were repaired in various valleys of Kunar by timber traders to transfer the timber of the province to Pakistan.
     Cutting of trees in' the forests of Barikot, Dangam, Narai and Sonak Khwar and Sao (Asmar district) as .well as Chinar Khwar, Gawardesh, Kamoo and Ailgal (lower Nuristan) is at its apex. Beams are transferred by mules from the cutting sites to the roads in tl)e side valleys of lower Nuristan and Barikot. Between 20 and 30 trucks, each loaded with one hundred beams of 13/26 cm width and 250/300 cm length, reach daily Dangam from those areas . From Dangam, the beams are transferred to the border by pick-up vehicles and to Bajwar Agency by mules. Each mule              charges Rs. 180   for the
 transportation of two beams from the border to Bajawar Agency.-
                                23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
24
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 The beams are stored at various places in Bajawar and then sent to Peshawar, Punjab and other parts of Pakistan. •
     A beam is sold for Rs.    50 in the (forests
 by the villagers) , Rs. 300 in Barikot, Rs. 450 in Asmar, Rs.   700  in Bajawar and Rs.    900 in
 Peshawar(by Afghan and Pakistani traders).
     The people are concerned about the process of deforestation in their province, because forests will be an important means of income after their return to the province. There is limited agricultural land in the province, because its area is mainly covered by mountains.          Despite their      opposition to
 deforestation, the refugees from Kunar are unable to stop the practice.        Because their
 trible system for protection is interrupted.
     First, they are unable to reimburse the money they received for the use of their forests during the presence of Russian troops in Kunar. Some years ago, Pakistani traders paid a number of selfish Afghans to seek the agreement of the Kunari refuges in Pakistan for the use of their forests. These Afghans paid money to the refugees and tactfully sought their agreement over the use of their forests. The economic problems and the pessimism about a Russian withdrawal were the main factors of the
agreement expressed by the  refugees at the  
time.                                        
    Second, they think that the traders will 
create various problems for them in Pakistan.
                   %
     In order to stop the practice, the influential elders and intellectuals of Kunar
                                 25
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov-.- Dec. 19 90
 province held a joint meeting in November 1989 and decided that they would stop misuse of forests in Kunar. They approached Pakistani authorities who argued that it was an internal affair of the Afghans. They also approached the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) but in vain. Various influential people, such as Commanders, Pakisani traders and some organisations, are involved in the timber trade.
     Oliver Crossee, known as Ajab Khan, is in charge of the forest project of French NGC, MDERA, in Kunar. Here is the text of his interview:
     The organisation    of   Madera has     been
 carrying out its activities in the the field of agriculture and animal husbandry in the provinces of Laghman and Kunar since 1985. When we realised that there was no power to control deforestation in Kunar, we established a project in the province to protect forests.
     We know that the local community is the only force which can stop,; exploitation of forests in the province. We do not work with commanders or members of provincial shuras (councils). We prefer to enjoy good relations with the local population, especially the villagers who need our help due to their closeness with the forests. The people of the area say that forest is their common wealth, so it should be used according to local traditions.
     The organisation of Madira tries to pass its knowledge about the protection of forests to the people through courses, posters, books and slices.
                           26
No. 116-117
Nov.- Dec. 1990
                       Tenth Year
                       ----------*r-
 We approach village shuras and explain the objectives of our project. We ask them to introduce about five candidates with some educational background to us for training and job purpose. We select the best candidates who receive a six-week traning in Peshawar. We ho*ld another training session inside Kunar under the supervision of a French consultant. We teach various tecniques to the villages regarding the limited wastage of saplings and other trees, so that forests are protected in a productive way.
     Forestation, protection, improved thinning techniques, selection of trees and marking of trees are our main concerns. We can help villages in the %production rather than destruction of forests. Our message is:      less
 profit, less trees cut.-
     We began our work in Waigal by training ten forest agents in the area.      Our work became
 successeful, because the residents of six out of nine villages decided to stop deforestation in their areas. We tell the forest owners that they loose much money by taking only         five
 percent of the timber value in Pakistan. The profit only goes to Pakistani traders. As the villagers divide the profit of the forests among themselves, the practice has created divisions among the people. Such a division developed in Kamdesh and Barikot when some villagers^ opposed and others favoured purchase of forests by Pakistani traders.
     Twenty-five perent deforestation has taken place in     Kunar in    few spots,which      are
 deforestated forever. If the Afghans decide to stop timber supply to Pakistan, they will face many problems.
                               27
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
The Pakistanis may also stop supply of their goods to Kunar.          The only solution to the
problem is to say no to the traders in the forests. They however cannot refuse the traders, if they receive money.
    ■ Pakistani forests are under quite good governmental control. The traders have to pay high taxses,that way wood in Pakistan is much more expensive than in Europe. Pakistani traders escape taxes by smmugling Kunar timber to Pakistan.
                         *** *** ***
                              28
                            SITUATION IN PROVINCES
Health in Samangan
     Mir Mohammad Amin Beg. has been carrying out health activities for the pajst nine years at the  fronts of Mohammad Islam Mohammadi in
Samangan for the past nine years. He was recently interviewed by AIC upon his arrival in Peshawar. Here is description:
     The percentage of various diseases is very high in            Samangan this year.        In
particular, there are numerous cases of small pox, whooping cough, malnutrition, dysentry and diarrhoea among the children in the area, where between 15 nd 20 children die daily. A dire need for an effective preventive system is felt in the province, though we we try  to provide           basic  treatment for  these
diseases.
     We receive          medical supplies after every
six-month period from foreign donating agencies in Pakistan. I have approached some agencies in Peshawar to extend possible assistance to us in the field of vaccination. There are no well equipped hospitals in the province; foreign donating agencies and mujhideen organisations have set up a few clinics in the area where the whole treatment can be summarised only by province, I have also held discussions with some organisations on vaccination.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
There are no well equipped hospitals in the area.      Some foreign and the mujahideen
orgnisations have set up some clinics in the            ,
area where the patients can receive only first aid stuff, vitamins and analgesics.            In
addition,   we provide first aid to those who
are wounded by bullets or mines in the area.
We usually tranfer seriously injured persons to Peshawar. However, most of the patients lose their lives on their long eleven-day route to Pakistan.
     Some one hundred thousand mines have been planted in central Samangan, Dara-e-Soof and Khulm. The mines have wounded many shepherds and farmers in various parts of the province.
As farmers cannot move freely in the area, we           |
have asked some orgnisations to send mine clearing groups to the area.
     The presence of mines, the paucity of seeds and chemical fertilizer, the presence of locusts and the high costs of ploughing animals has highly affected agricultural products in the province. - Th&* residents have not cultivated twenty percent land due to the presence of mines in the areas. Also, between twenty and thirty percent land has remained barren due to non-availiability of seeds and chemical fertilizer.' The presence of locusts in the province has also resulted in lower products, though some orgnizations sprayed drugs on crops in the province. Between 20 and 30 percent of people are feared to be be killed in the coming winter due an expected food shortage in the province. If this problem is not solved, many people will evacuate the area; eiher they will migrate to other areas or seek shelter in regime-controlled regions.
                           30
Nos . 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
    The food shortage has also brought about an increase in the percentage of patients, because fruit, dairiy, meat, eggs and other vitaminbearing stuffs are vital for human health.
     Following is a comparative list of foodstuffs in the province of Samangan:
I tern                 1987   1990    
                       Af s . Af S .  
Wheat Flour      nkgs. 3,000  2,000   
Rice         / 7 kgs.   700   3,000   
Onion        /7 kgs.    100   1,000   
Potatoes     /' 7 kgs.  200     1,000 
Firewood     /7 kgs.     50       100 
Washing Soap /piece      50       200 
Chicken      /head      7*00    2,000 
Ox           /head     30,000 100,000 
Sheep        /head     10,000 30,000  
Egg          /piece      10        25 
Situation in Faryab:                  
      An aged traveller, who has recently arrived from Andkhoi district (Faryab province) in Peshawar, was interviewed by ‘AIC. He said that his native district, Andkhoi, was part of Faryab till the period of Babrak Karmal. When the Kabul* regime formed the new province of Sar-e-Pul, some districts and sub-districts of Balkh, Jowzjan and Faryab were made part of it. In this connection, the new change also affected the status of Andkhi which became part of Jowzjan province.
                                   31
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Andkhoi, which shares a dry border with the Soviet Union, was a serni-agricultural and semiindustrial district where livestock breding was in full swing in the pre-war Afghanistan. Karakul sheep and camels were bred on a large scale. There were•industries of hides, carpets and rugs. The residents cultivated maily wheat and barley crops in the agricultural lands of the district.
     According to the old man, many communities, such as Uzbek, Turkuman, Pashtun, Tajik and Arabs had settled in Andkhoi, but Uzbeks and Turkuman constituted the majority. All the ethnic groups enjoyedgood relations between themselves. These relations weakened after the April coup of 1978. Following the Soviet invasion, differences developed between the communisties which resulted in the migration of Pashtuns from the district as a result of Soviet-Kabul conspiracies. The lands of Pashtuns have been occupied by Uzbeks and Turkumans. A limited number of the residents have left the district.
     About the military operations, the traveller said:
     "Mujahideen operations^ are weaker in the district than those in the other areas. The road between Andkhoi and Faryab is controlled by the mujahideen. But the Andkhoi-Shiberghan highway, which was constantly under mujahideen attacks in the past, is in the hands of the regime. In the past I would see mujahideen in more than 50 places on the roads between Mazar and Shiberghan, but I did not see a single mujahid on the road this year.
                           32
No. 116-117
Tenth Year .
Nov.-Dec. 1990
     Compared to destruction in other districts of Afghanistan, few government buildings and houses have been destroyed in the area. However, the residents have faced some problems in their social relationships and dealings. A drop has occurred in agriculture produced and livestock due to the presence of Soviet mines in pastures and farmlands.          In  addition,
karezes (underground water channels), canals, dams and bridges have been destroyed during the war. The prices are very high and the Afghani has lost its value.           For example, a daily
labour takes between 1,500 and 2,000 Afghanis, while a mason reeives daily wages of Afs. 5,000.
     He said that prices of consumer goods were very high in the district. He gave            the
following list in October 1990:
Prices in October 1990
Item
Afs
Wheat Flour * Rice(No.1) Rice(No.2) Firewood Edile Oil Mutton Beef
Green Tea Black Tea Sugar Egg
Chicken
Sheep
Washing Soap
/7 kgs.
/7 kgs. /7 kgs. /7 kgs. /16 kgs.
1,000
2,500
2,000
                                                                   150
                                                                 8,000
/kg.
/kg.
/kg.
/kg.
/kg.
1,800
2,000
300
 20
800
600
/piece
/piece
/head
/head
                                                              1,500
                                                     20,000-30,000
                                                            120-150
33
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Situation in Ningarhar;
     Rahmat Shinwari, a resident of Shinwar district, has recently returned from Ningrahar. Here is his account:
     Following the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the mujahideen launched an overall offensive to capture Jalalabad, the provincial centre of Ningrahar. The mujahideen made effective advances towards JalaTabad in early offensives, but were unble to capture the centre due to the lack of a unified command and coordination in their ranks. Having suffered heavy losses in the offensive, the mujahidneen could only keep the area between Torkham and Samarkhel.
     During the offensive, the mujahideen captured government buildings, farms, vehicles and workshops in the area between Torkham and Samarkhel. However, they could not fully protect them from slight plunder. Finally, Commander Khalid of Hezb-e-Islami (Maulawi Khales) employed some people to look after the farms and other property, but the situation changed after     his death in 1989 in fighting.
 All the captured property, including innumerable vehicles, tractors,agricultural equipment,machinary,electric telephone poles was plundered and sold as scrap metal at cheaper prices on markets in Pakistan. Many buildings , bridges iron installation in Ningahar canal were destropyed to take out their iron and other valuable material for sale.
     Following the destruction of bridges and buildigs, the process of deforestation continued in the area.
                           34
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
The mujahideen and the residents cut farm trees to use their timber as firewood and as beams for their trenches and houses in the area. Some seventy percent of trees have been destroyed and thirty percent bear no fruit due to lack of care and water.
     The UN repatriation program has practically failed, because its team has stopped working in Landi Kotal, where each_ returning family received        Rs. 3,000 in cash and 300 kgs. of
wheat. Only those refugees could receive the assistance who possessed ration passes (mostly fraudulent).       The program did not attract
refugees to return to their areas.Because most of the refugees       in  Khaiber agency are
unregestered .But these refugees are still going to liberated areas on their own.There is no security in       the liberated    areas of
Ningrahar. People are kidnapped from their houses and then released on ransom.
     The residents     of the area have not
received     requisite   assistance from world
donating agencies. Though%1imited quantities of seeds and chemical fertilizer are sent to the area by some donating agencies, they are monopolised 'by the persons or commander who enjoy links with the agencies. While some quantity of the materials is distributed among a number of people, the rest are sold.
     The tribes of the areas allow limited use of forests in order to prevent deforestation in the areas.    The people may cut trees for
their domestic use under the supervision of a tribal team.
     For narcotics control, the residents of the liberated areas did not receive any assistance.
                                 35
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Poppy was cultivated on over ninety percent of the area, because the price of opium is very high this    year.    Also, the    people  cannot
 compensate the high prices of consumer goods by cultivation of other crops.
     Health  problems are common   in the areas.
 Many people died this summer of malaria and typhoid.     The diagnosis of diseases are
 conducted by a few people who had attended three or six months training in Pakistan.
     There   is only  one school   with   limited
 attendance in the district of Achin. There are no edcuational facilities in the remaining areas.
     There is great vehicular movement on the roads in the area. Foodstuffs are transported from Pakistan to the liberated     areas   of the
 province. Foodstuffs are also smmuggled via Chaparhar to Jalalabad.
     Pakistani tribemen transfer smmuggled foreign goods from Kabul via Jalalabad        and
 Hadda Farm along Kanal (the canal) to' the mujahideen controlled area near Samarkhel. They pay between Afs. 200,000 and 100,000 as custom duty for each vehicle.
     There is no military activity in the area. Whenever mujahideen shell regime positions in the province, the liberated areas are rocketted by the regime in retaliation. •• Most of the regime rockets hit the area between Hissar Shahi and Piawa Kandau.      The rockets pose a .
 danger to the movement of the mujahideen and residents of Chaparhar and Khugiani. A rocket recently hit a vehicle near Piawa Kandau, killing three persons.
                           36
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Meanwhile, differences have developed between the tribes of Shinwari and Mohmmand Koch is over the area of Torkham. * Prominent commanders on Shinwari side are Hafiz-ulHaq (Itehad-e-Islami), Haji Qadir (Hezb-e-Islami, Khales), etc. The Kochis side is led by Shomali, Zahir and Khial, etc.
                        *** *** * * *
                          37
                       NEWS FROM PROVINCES
Hezb-e-Islami announces overall operations
     On Nov. 19, Hezbe-Islami (Hekmatyar), declared that' it began overall operations in the provinces of Kabul, Logar, Maidan, Parwan, Baghlan,   Kunduz and       Laghman    with   the
participation of commanders of other organizations.
     The declaration, known as War Communique No. 1, said that the overall operations began with the fire of the first bullet by Eng. Hekmatyar in Logar.
     Hezb  authorities     declared    that   the
operations are different from those planned by the council of commanders.
     On Nov. 20, Hezb-e-Islami's ANA(Afghan News Agency) claimed that Najib's visit            was
defection to Switzerland.
     A source of Hezb, unofficially said that Kabul might be conquered in four days.
     ANA, in various press releases during the last days of November, published various advances of mujahideen, such as Mujahideen attack on the important regime base in Shakardara (north of Kabul), destruction of a large deport of BM-41 rockets, disoperation of
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
Bagram airbase, blockade of the Mazar-Kabul highway in three areas, heavy mujahideen rocket attacks on Kabul airport, heavy losses in the Fourth Armoured Force of Pul-e-Charkhi, capture of posts of the southern security belt of Kabul, capture of Dasht-e-Baboos in Logar, blockade of             the Kabul-Paktia highway,
liberation of the district of Mohammad Agha (Logar) , tightening of the siege of Kab‘u and the readiness for a big offensive On Kabul and other activities.
     The mujahideen and commanders of Jamiat (Prof. Rabani) , Hezb-e-Islami (Maulawi Khales) , Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi), Mahaz (Pir Gailani) and Harakat (Sheikh MOhsini) neither confirmed nor denied the reports by ANA. AIC also contacted well known commanders of Kabul, such as Abdul Haq, Anwarri, Mohammad Anwar and Dr. Shahrukh Gran who expressed their ignorance about such incidents in the vicinity of Kabul.
     On Dec. 1, regime authorities claimed that they took foreign journalists to Mohammad Agha and showed them its control over the district.
Kabu1:
     According to a traveller from Kabul, 39 persons, including children and wome, were killed and, many others wounded in a strong regime bombardment in Shomali and Bagram.
     The bombardment was carried our by regime aircraft following mujahideen rocket attacks on Bagbram airbase on Nov. 27.
     In retaliation to the overall offensive by Hezb-e-Islami, regime troops carried our mopping up operations in the vicnity of Kabul.
                                 39
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      as a result of regime operations,. 500 families of Paghman and Logar were forced to leave their areas. In this connection, ten new families have arrived in the camp of Azakhel near Peshawar due to the recent regime operations.
 Kandahar
 Regime convoy reaches Kandahar, Lashkargah, Qala—e-Nau in Badghis:
     In an interview with AIC, Ahmadullah Pacha, a mujahid from Kandahar, disclosed that units of a large regime convoy, which had left Torghundi during the second half of October, arrived finally in Kandahar, Lashkargah (Helmand) and Qala-e^Nau (Badghis). The convoy was attacked at various points by             the
 mujahideen who destroyed six tanks and captured 21 vehicles in working order, he said.         He
 believed that the convoy caried mi-litary supplies, because there were no food and medical problems in the cities of Kandahar and Lashkargah.
     He said that the mujahideen of Kandahar had begun fighting' in the areas of Chehel zino, Maiwand and Abasabad, but there were no mujahideen activity in other parts of the city. He said that regime authorities in Kandahar feared a concentration of mujahideen pressure on Kandahar and Zabul following the capture of .Tirinkot (Uruzgan) .
     Regarding the situation in the mujahideen-controlled areas, he said:
                                       40
Nos. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
JL
    On October 11, with the cooperation of some commanders and staff members, local people plundered    some 3,000 sacks      of    chemical
fertilizer in the district of Khakrez.        The
fertilizer had been sent to the area by Save the Children Fund.
Zabul:
     On October 13, some of mujahideen of Mahaz (Pir Gailani) , were killed in the vicnity of
Qalat, the provincial centre of Zabul.
                                   -
     The three-month fighting has slowed in the area following • the mujahideen retreat from their early positions due to the killing.
Ghazni:
     On Nov. 16, a regime helicopter was captured by the mujahideen in the-area of Nawaz in Qarabagh district.
     The crewmen of the aircraft, which landed in the area due to techicaldefualts, had left the area by other helicopters.
Uruzgan:
    According to some 50 nomads who have entered Pakistani territory with their weapons, 12 nomads and 50 Hazaramen were killed in a recent clash in Uruzgan.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     "Agricultural activity continues in. these areas. Barren lands and canals are being prepared for agriculture. The residents are working on their orchards which had suffered great damage in the war. A double increase took place this year in the agricultural products.
     "There is no infighting in the area, because the residents pay their attention to their basic problems. They are not fully interested in political groupings. Their legal cases are handled by an Islamic court which has been established by the mujahideen.
     "Gen. Uloomi was summoned to Kabul in November. Gen. Mohammad Akram, a Mohammadzai from Kandahar, has been appointed governor of Kandahar. He has begun his contacts with the mujahideen with high promises of assistance."
     About the situation in Uruzgan, Pacha said the mujahideen plunered all government belongings following the fall of Tirirtkot to them.       There were no shools in Uruzgan,  but
 there were plenty of foodstuffs and medicines. Fighting between the Pashtuns and the Hazaras still continued, but with less intensity.
     On October 13, the mujahideen carried out a major attack on the security posts in the district of Maiwand.
     In the ensuring fighting that continued for several days the mujahideen captured four posts. Twenty-one mujahids were killed.
     Meanwhile, the mujahideen captured 20 •regime trucks loaded with goods in the area of Ref, south-west of Kandahar.
                                   42
No. 116-117
Tenth Year
Nov.- Dec. 1990
      Some 300 Hazaramen have recently arrived in Baluchistan due to the recent Pahtun-Hazara clashes in Uruzgan.
      According to another report from Uruzgan, the residents have cultivated poppy on vast lands due to the high price of opium in the province.
      Following   the fall of       Tirinkot,   the
  residents launched a program to build the irrigatin system in the province.
                 *** *** ***
      Between 70 and 80 disabled persons recently broke window panes of the vehicles of AIG officials in the Surkhab refugee camp (Baluchistan).
      The enraged persons resorted to the violent act due to non-receipt of their salaries from the AIG.
      In another incident near Cherat, 25 km east of Peshawar, the disabled blocked a road for traffic due to the same factor.
  Corruption in AIG
      Since the beginning of Jehad, corruption has been continuing in full swing in the aid received by the Afghan organizations and individuals, because noone knows about the exact record of the assistance. So far, nobody has been held responsible for corruption in the past several years of jehad.
43
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Some elements are reported to have unexpectedly embezzled huge amounts of money in their dealings.
     The expected signs of an Afghan settlement has deepened the avarice of corrupt * elements, who are making frantic efforts to get money by any means.
    * *
     In this connection, the treasurer of the defence ministry of the AIG recently claimed that he was plundered by some unknown armed men near Cherat, 20 km east of PeshaWar. He said that the armed men took away 4,500,000 rupees from him.(l$=about 22Rs.)Surprisingly, the alleged attackers did not take the kalshnikovs of his armed bodyguards.
Meanwhile, similar incidents were reported in other ministries of the AIG.
Condition of Refugees in Nasirbagh Camp
     There is no security in the well known camp' of Nasirbagh, where     several    incidents of
burglary took place during the past month.
     Fearing acts of burglary, the residents of the camp guard their houses at night.
     Meanwhile, between 30 and 40 Afghans have been employed by two Pakistani elders to participate       in   the  clashes  with their
Pakistani rivals on a land         dispute near
Nasirbagh Camp. These Afghans, each of whom gets a monthly salary of RS. 1,500, also guard the houses of their bosses.
***
***
***
I
