AFGHAN
  JNFORMATION
         QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
 PhoLo: AMRC
 Address: I8e s.j. Afghani Road ’I rcilv
 •                        *   “^erswy Town, PESHAWAR-***'"'-
 P. 0 i>oa. 228   -   Telanhono--v
          The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
          1.        To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
          2.        To make this information available in the form of articles, news bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
            (a) International news media,
            (b) Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
          The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
          The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
Founder: Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor : Sayd Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription      Bank account No        
Pakistan . Rs        400 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK 
Abroad      Dollar : 50  Grindlays Bank P L C   
                         Peshawar Pakistan      
   THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER. WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
                AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
                   Monthly Bulletin
     No. 102        September 1989
CONTENTS:
I   . EX - PRISONER FROM PUL-E-CHARKHI
II       SITUATION REPORTS
        -  Kandahar & Helmand
        -  Farah
        -  Laghman
        -  Khost
        -  Kabul & Shamali
III  . ASSASSINATION OF COMMANDERS
IV  . MILITAR NEWS
***
***

                       EX- PRISONER FROM PUL-E- CHARKHI
      A former prisoner who has come from Pule Charkhi two months ago and is not in a position to disclose his name describe the jail situation as follows:
      Back in 1366(1987) my friend and I were busy trading. My friend had 3,000,000 Afghanis in cash. The government security men took away this money and accused him of working for the mujahideen. They jailed both of us and hatched a conspiracy against us. The regime people tortured us     for six    consecutive months in the
interrogation department of KHAD at Shash Darak. Here six more people were also interrotated. Later we were taken to-Block no. 2 of Pule Charkhi Jail and waited for the verdict.
      In Block no. 3, a boy named Abdul Rahim who was to be released three months later told the prisoners that their rations were halved by the officers who then sold it. When the officer heard this they took him to the fourth floor of the same block and tortured him till he died. They then ordered the henchmen to tie his turban around his neck as if he has committed suicide. When the detention period term was over, the boy's father inquired about the release of uds son and was told that he hadkilled himself. They showed him a tomb and told him that his son was buried there.
      Russians were present at the time of interrogation and the torture was done on the orders of the Russians.
The block where I was placed in has housed 1200 prisoners. The jail has eight such blocks, therefore, in my estimation altogether 10,000 prisoners may languish in this dreaded prison.

                                                1
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     There were some women prisoners also in Block 7. I myself saw some women holding their babies in their arms. As long as their term is not known, their husbands and relatives are not allowed to visit them.
     Some ten Katawazi people were also brought to the prison. They had been taken by helicopters from there farmlands leaving their flocks of sheep behind. They had been severely beaten and their skins had turned dark. I have seen many prisoners in the jail who had lost their hands and feet and other organs from the dreadful tortures, but were still kept in the cells. Prisoners from 9 to 90 years are languishing in the prison cells.
   v I passed two years in there. Whenever, a team from the I.C.R.C. came to inspect the jail , the authorities would show them pseudo-prisoners who were mostly Khad agents and specially kept there for this purpose. Sometimes, the prisoners won privileges if they said what they were told to say.          The team was not
allowed to visit the miserable and feeble prisoners or those who would speakthe truth. We knew that the I.C.R.C.team had come but nobody allowed us to visit the team.
                                *** *** ***
                                                2
                              SITUATION REPORTS
 KANDAHAR AND HELMAND
      Abdullah, the AIC correspondent after a trip to Kandahar and Helmand provinces on September 23 filed this report:
      On September 16, I attended a grand function in Arghandab which was attended by over 500 elders of Kandahar province and mujahideen commanders of the area including Mola Naqib(Jamiat).
      The function was chaired by Jonab Baba Sahib, 95, a well-known religious scholar. Most of the scholars in Kandahar and Helmand province are his pupils. Baba Sahib is teaching in religious schools in Baghran area north of Helmand. He was invited by the tribal elders to come there and chair the gathering. In the function it was decided unanimously that Kandahar citizens should not be hurt further by the war.
      The people have suffered enough in the war against the Russians.    No single rocket should be targeted
 against the city. The military targets of the Mujahideen rockets should be precisely located.   Such as the posts
 around the city, the airport and the new garrison.
      In the gathering it was also decided that the economic blockade of the city is unlawful in Islam, for the people that are strongly supporting the cause of. jihad within the city will suffer most from such restrictions.
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
      They further decided that any resolution adopted outside the country to decide the destiny of the people against the will of the people is not acceptable and has no legal foundation in Islam.
      Baba Sahib said that any government to be set up on alien soil has no lawful ground and the Interim Government of the mujahideen is also not acceptable for them. He also objected to the demands of those ulema who favour rocketing the city.
      The economic blockade of the city is still in forced.Some of those commanders who apparently are supporting the idea of the economic blockade, secretly allow shipments to the city at night time against the large sums of money payed by the regime..
      The supply caravan of the regime which entered via Torghundi port to Afghanistan , North of Heart, and consisting of 1300 vehicles which mainly carried arms and ammunition beside foodstuff reahed Keshk Nakhod of Maiwand district in Kandahar without any major losses. Since the way connecting Maiwand with Kandahar city is under the control of Mujahideen, they changed their route way and went through Raigistan (a desert area)to the south of the city. They reached Kandahar airport in mid September. The, caravan was supported by helicopters and fighter jets.
       On the way to the airport, the caravan took away arms and apnunition from         three  mujahideen posts
 belonging to commanders Haji Maghash from Jabha (Mojadidi) and Pacha of Jamiat (Rabani) and took them to the airport.
      Some of the commanders aimlessly fired tockets on the caravan but caused no considerable damage to it.
      The caravan was followed by about 200 Mercedes Benz
4
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 (302 Model) buses belonging to the private sector and were freshly imported from the West Germany. ' Later on the buses some of which were loaded with tyres left for Kabul.
      Since the economic blockade caused much suffering for the local people, the caravan was welcomed in the city.
      When the caravan entered the airport, the city came under rocket fire from the mujahideen on September 14 and 15 which killed 30 citizens and wounded some others.
        Recently, the regime has sent some armoured tanks to the Takhta Pul and Torkotal areas and its goal seems to be recapturing Spinboldak.
      On September 22, mujahideen of Etehad Island. (Sayyaf) launched an attack on Arghandab posts but they sustained 22 losses and there were probably more on the regime side. Mujahideen had to retreat in this attack. There is sporadic fighting around Kandahar airport.
      In serious infighting in Helmand province between Mawlavi Nasim Akhondzada, a Harakat "(Mohammadi) commander, and commander Yahya of Etehad (Sayyaf) for the control of a bridge on the Helmand River, after about 400 casualties on both sides, ended in the victory of Akhondzada. Yahya had to retreat from the area to Pakistan.
      The correspondent of AIC went to Baghran district in the north of Helmand province on September 11 and met here Mulla Abdullah Akhund, who is known as Rais Sahib and has under him more than ten thousand armed mujahideen. He supervises 39 madrasas, nine hostels and 129 teachers. There is a health clinic which is aided by IMC and is run by 18 medical staff. Our correspondent reported the local prices as following:
                                             5
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
-4 kgs
wheat flour
corn
mutton
beef
sugar
fat
dried cheese
350 Afghanis
300
1800
1500
1500
4000
1500
      On September 15, 19 89 six Afghans and Pakistanis who had travelled to the Sangin district with Afs 700,000,000 in forged one thousand Afghani notes to buy goods and animals were caught by the mujahideen of commander Haji Mawlavi Ataullah. Four of the accused were executed in accordance with the verdict of an Islamic court.
INTERVIEW WITH DR. GUL HUSSAIN
      Dr. Gul Hussain was sent to Kandahar by M.S.H. agency in affiliation with NIFA. He spent altogether six months in the Sixth precinct by Kandahar silo and filed this report for us from the health, military and social conditions in the city:
      I have treated as many as 2600 patients in the city and with the possibilities at hand helped the mujahideen and locals with first aid. He commented that this year not many cases of disease were reported in Kandahar.
      Previously when the Russians were here many weapons were fired and heavy bombardments caused the emission of ‘ harmful gases arid thus effected the people. Many throat and chest diseases used to be reported then. Due to the withdrawal of the Russian contingents, now the war has ceased somewhat. The most dreaded disease now is malaria and war injuries.
                                           6
Ninth Year
September 1989
No. 102
      If serious wounded cases are reported to the hospital, after first aid the patient would, be         to
 Pakistan for further treatment. There were some clinics functional here. Among them a clinic was funded by Saudi Arabia and the Hizb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) had another one in Arghandab.
      But they are not sufficient for the whole community. The number of such health clinics should be increased in the area to meet the growing need of people here. In the course of jihad I have been visiting the area every sooften and treated mujahideen and the local population.
      I have seen several provinces, but Kandahar has been severely destroyed by the barbarism of the Russians. Very little has been done in Kandahar for reconstruction and rehabilitation. Although some ditches have been restored and some roads maintained.
      Beside some religious schools very little education was available for the youngsters. Some of the students were taught lessons in the mosques. After the pull out of the Russians from some areas some families have returned to their home towns and resumed their agricultural activities. They have numerous problems.
      They lack agricultural facilities and tools.. Prices are also very high in the liberated area compared to the income of the people. People were striving to restore their farms and orchards but they were in urgent need of assistance.
      The local people in the liberated areas transport the harvest of their orchards to Baluchistan. In the beginning there were some disputes over the export of this harvest but later the people succeeded in convincing the commanders and now markets are available for the orchard owners to bring their crops to in Spinboldak, Chaman and Quetta in Pakistan. The people thus, solve some of their living problems.
 7
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The Kabul regime only controls two kilometres from the city and has numerous posts there. The Mujahideen are^ stationed all around the city. It has been six months' now that mujahideen have been planning an attack on the city but they have not come to any constructive move yet.
      Only sometimes, the mujahideen and the regime exchange rocket firing on one another.
      If the mujahideen made an orderly attack on the city, the regime would not be strong enough to defend it. But the mujahideen are reluctant to launch any major attack for they afraid that the second largest and historical     city    of Afghanistan  would  be further
 destroyed. The highway leading from Kabul to Kandahar has been blocked for a few months now in several points by the mujahideen which prevents the traffic of the Kabul regime passing between these cities.
      The regime resupplies its troops through the air. This year when hajis came to Kabul and wanted to fly to Kandahar they were not able to do so and remained in the city for several months.
 Far ah:
      Haji Mohammad Shah Ghazi, the commander of Sharafat Koh front, chief commander in Farah province/ related to ’ Haraket ( Mohammadi ), was interviewed by AIC, excerpts:
      All mujahidin in the liberated areas of Farah province have consultative councils and every commander rules the area under his control according to the charter of their own respective parties. In the Juvain district, Abdul, Haji Rashid and Rasul are the famous commanders who relate to Jamiat and Harakat parties. Harakat is the strongest party in the region.
8
No. 102         Ninth Year        September 1989
         Our mujahidin attacked the caravaan coming from Herat to Kandahar in Kardangah area. The attack was launched by the Balablook mujahidin who also suffered 11 deads. The same caravaan came under the attack of Nasim .Akhondza mujahidin in Delaram and Helmand. The mujahidin commanders in Far ah province were about to form a council. An eight member committee has been set up for the purpose. Mujahidin are united in Farah province for there is no war spoils to fight over.
         Mohammad Shah Ghazi said:     Many houses have been
    demolished in Far ah province by the war and people have been compeled to emmigrate to other areas. So far non of the relief organisations has started any reconstruction projects in this province. We once had a health clinic in Sharafat Koh but it is not functioning anymore. No clinics are available in the liberated areas. Lack of Schools causes illiteracy in our young children.
         The people from the area who have defected to Iran have difficult living conditions there. No schooling, no clinics or rations are available for the miserable ^Afghans there . The life of people resembles that of ilf centuries ago. If somebody would like to work', he has to ? a permit.
         Even if they work, the toil of their work is looted by Passdaran. Haji Mohammad Shah who was also a member of the mujahidin council says, altogether 150 commanders from the western part of Afghanistan have come to Peshawar in a bid create unity among members of the Mujahidin Interim Government. If this do not happen, the commanders inside Afghanistan will take their own decisions.
         Discussing the internal clashes he said:       If is
    most unfortunate to hear that mujahidin attack one another. The clashes are only the personal differences of the leaders it does not have tribal or other rootings.
                                9
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
  For almost two years now in Pashtun Zarghoon and Ubai of Herat the two parties of Jamiat and Mojadidi (Jabha) have been fighting Commander Arabzada and Ismael Khan have some disagrements.
     Commenting on the peace process and how to achieve it, Haji Shah Mohammad told our reporter that the local population holds assemblies and meetings. They plan to decide on the future of their country. Many people are backing the return of his majesty who will herald us peace and calm life.
LAGHMAN
      Late in September some sixty families from Kulman valley, Alingar district of Laghman province, arrived in Pakistan. In this connection we talked with a group chieftain, Mohammad Azam of Harakate, his assertions:
      The residents of Kulman valley bore all the hardship of bombardments and war over the last 11 years but only a few were willing to leave their houses. Gradually they faced more and more difficulties in securing essential commodities. The people's major occupation is animal husbandry and transportation. Some people were busy gathering fire wood and selling it in the areas away from the forests in mainland Laghman.
      Selling wood was a traditional income for the Kulman people. The decade of war caused the destruction of most of the trees in the forests and large .nearby tracts of forest have been denuded. On the other hand the mujahideen do not permit people to take out the scarce fire wood from their localities. The local population used to procure their needed items from Alingar district and Dare Noor sub district.
                              10
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
         Nowadays, these regions themselves face acute' shortages of essential goods including food. The miserable living conditions have forced many people to leave their areas and seek refuge inside Pakistan.
         Food shortages is among the most compelling force to leave their houses. In Laghman province the government purchases the meagre quantity of food (especially rice) available in the markets which cause the food prices to rise.
    Meanwhile, when Mujahideen saw that the regime is benefiting from the imported food that comes from Pakistan through the Nawa Pass, Kunar to the Gamberi desert in Laghman where there was a new bazaar called Char Bagh, they have imposed restrictions on this.
         Henceforth, the demand for food is rising and so are the prices. The people who have lost their income resources are compelled to leave their houses and come to Pakistan. In Kulman valley in Noorulam locality out of about 300 families         So  far only 60 families have
    reached Pakistan.
         If this situation continues many more families will come. The caravan of sixty families moved through Kashmond, Gamberi, Khiwa and later Koz Kunat and the Nawa Pass. In Koz Kunar they rented vehicles for 1300 Ruppies each to Gandab. The families are now in Peshawar and settled in Haji camp without having shelter, sitting on the bare ground.
    Interview with Oommander Fasihuddn
         Fasihuddn, a Haraket commander of Mohammadi, who has recently returned from the front to Peshawar,- talked to the AIC correspondent on the social and military situation in Laghman province.
                                  11
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Before the evacuation of the Soviet forces from Laghman province, the regime had some control over an area close to Alingar district. The centres of Alingar and Nooristan were semi-functional. After the pull out the whole area came under Mujahideen control.
      The regime suffered great losses in Nooristan, the full report of the regime defeat there has been publicised earlier.
      At the moment, regime forces are under constant attack from Mujahideen in Laghman centre. The Regime has been able to station some security posts on the way leading from Mehterlam city to Surkhakan joining the Kabul-Jalalabad highway and the regime is confined in a narrow strip within the city. The rest of the province is under the control of the mujahideen forces.
      After assigning the new governor to the province, the regime depends mainly on air bombardments. The liberated areas come under attack from the air and sometimes other heavy weaponry such as BM 21 and BM 13, and mortars are fired in these areas. The bombs that are thrown from the war planes are very dangerous ones. They turn to numerous mines while striking the ground and covers a large area.
      The mujahideen are thinking of a possible joint attack on Mehterlam city (the centre of the province) to end the rule of the government in the province. The infighting and the skirmishes among the 'mujahideen have prolonged the dying rule of the government in this area. So far, mujahideen have not been able to launch a joint attack on the province centre.
      Some people have emigrated from Laghman province, but the number of those from the distant districts is comparatively small. The local population have many health and food problems. People can partially cultivate their lands and acquire their foods with much
12
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
difficulty. Lack of animal manure and chemical fertilizers is another acute problem which most of the farmers face in this province.
                                                      ■ i.
     Most of the ditches and irrigation systems are completly ruined. Animals for ploughing such as oxen are scarce while tractors are not available in this province. After the pull out of the Russians not many people have returned to their homes due to lack of security and lack of food.
     Some of the land is heavily mined while occasional bombardments also discourages the people from returning to their localities. Animal husbandry is badly hit by the devastating war.
     The houses which had been deserted for so many years have turned to ghost towns for the rains have further destroyed them. Besides the decrease in farming the lack of essential goods has raised the prices unbearabley for the ordinary people who have less access to income sources. The ’main resources for the people in Laghman province were farming, livestock and selling fire wood. All these resources are badly hit. Most of the people who stayed in their houses are suffering from lack of income and availability of food and other essential goods.
Most parts of the province are liberated and only the narrow strip in the centre is controlled by the regime. The regime has imposed some restrictions on the distribution of. chemical fertilizers and other goods.
     The people are suffering from lack of health facilities and drugs. They are deprived of curative and preventive facilities. No single rehabilitation project can be seen functioning in the province. If somebody is interested to start Dams, schools, mosques, houses and ditches all need reconstruction.
                            13
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      Education is another issue to think about. Other than a few religious madrasas housed in some mosques no functional schools can be seen. Most of the children and youngsters remained illiterate. In all Alingar district only an intermediate school is functioning with only 13 teachers and a vice-principle. The books and teaching materials are assisted by the Islamic parties. The schools offer mostly religious subjects and some modern sciences. The teachers salaries are paid by the front fund.
     The Swedish Committee finances a health clinic here but it cannot meet the ever-increasing demand of the people. Two other clinics are sponsored by Hezbe Islami but both are not functioning to their full capacity and face shortages of medicine and medics. Only the uplands in the province have to some extent their former livestock.
     We hope that some international relief committees can help in raising livestock in the province. The prices of some essential commodities are very* high some of them can not even be found here.
-seven kg of wheat flour cost 800 Afghanis
-a kg of sugar cost 1200 Afghanis
-potatoes cannot be found
-onions are not available
-a kg of tea 2000 Afghanis
-a chicken is 1000 Afghanis
-a medium sized goat 20,000 Afghanis
-a medium sized sheep 30,000 Afghanis
-a large can of Pakistani vegetable oil 15,000 Afghanis
THE INTERNAL Atm EXTERNAL CONDITIONS IN KHOST
     Engineer Ghairat Khan, the correspondent of AIC who had gone to Khost on August 24, 1989 and lived with the
                             14
Ninth Year
-------—
No• 102
September 1989
 local mujahideen there, received a splinter injury on the face and was admited to an hospital in Peshawar.He reports on the current situation in the city:
      The centre of Khost division is under the control of the regime forces. The two factions of Khalq and Parcham are always having clashes, and the soldiers seek an appropriate time to escape and join the mujahideen. In one instance, eleven soldiers on August 28 along with their arms escaped and joined the mujahideen. They brought along 11 klashnikovs, five T T pistols and two karabins rifles.
      They fled while their commander was out. The adjacent posts fired on them but they escaped safely. On August 27 early in the morning at about 8:30 a bomb blast shook the office of the party chief of Precinct Four of the city but the secretary had not yet arrived. The Khalq faction was held responsible for the incident.
      The bomb killed two of the other Parchamis who were working there. Two of the Khalqis were imprisoned in this connection and the Parchamis claim that the bomb was planted by the opposite faction. An investigation is underway. Abdul Karim the custodian is also imprisoned alleged to have cooperated in the incident with the Khalqis.
      Likewise, a commander and an officer of a post in Gurbuz sub district were killed by a soldier from Kuduz security post in their offices while they were guarded by another soldier. After the killing the soldier fled toward the mujahideen positions. The adjacent posts fired on the escapee.
  While occupied with the firing he stepped on a mine and was seriously wounded. " The solders caught him.and took him to the hospital to be investigated after hospitalization and try to find the provocateur.
                                        IS
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      In another incident, the son of the security commander, Habibullah, who belonged to the Parchami faction was killed by Lt. Mohammad Ismael who belonged to the Khalqi faction. The real cause of the incident was the daughter of the Lt. Mohammad Ismael who was in 12th grade at the girls high school.
      Habibullah used to annoy the girl and harassed her. The girl complained to her father. The father went to see for himself and carried along a weapon. After school, the boy appeared once again. Lt. Ismael asked the boy why he was annoying the girl. Habibullah said "I know that you are her father and advise you not to marry her to anybody she belongs to me". The father was irritated with the rude conduct of the boy. For the Afghans, honour od worth more than life, so he fired his pistol and killed the boy right on the spot. He was imprisoned by KHAD and security authorities in the city.
       The father of Habibullah tried in vain to kill Lt. Ismael before the burial of his son but the Khalqis are trying hard to free him and transfer him to Kabul. The same conflicts often occur between regime backers who belong to different factions of the PDPA.
      Besides these incidents the mujahideen have started fresh attacks on the city and on the bases of regime supporters. In these operations all Islamic parties have taken part. So far the regime has sustained heavy losses and eight posts have been completely wiped out. In Tanai all the regime bases are now conquered by mujahideen and they have their strongholds there.
      Mujahideen forces are centred about three kilometres from the enemy's frontline. The mujahideen are constantly rocketing the enemy's positions. The regime, however, hoped to make a headway to the Ghulam Khan area but were confronted with the staunch defence of the mujahideen and also the Khost citizens were reluctant to launch an attack and the plan failed.
                              16
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
      On Augugt 19, mujahideen fired four missiles into the city markets and killed six and wounded two persons. In another attack a week after this incident, two regime supporters were killed in their houses and five others wounded. Likewise, on August 17 and 28 rockets came down on the city and altogether killed four and wounded 11.
      Khost city is under constant rocket attack from the mujahideen. In the beginning people suffered a great deal but now they hide themselves in hideouts dug for this purpose when hear the sound of the rockets, and the human loss is minimul.
      If mujahideen prolong their siege and continue the war and meanwhile prevent the airsupply of the regime forces in the city, the soldiers might give up and the city fall into the hands of mujahideen. Since many party members live in the city and the government materially supports them and they, inspite of internal difference take a united stand, the collapse of the city does not seem probable in the near future. They see their very existence in the resistance of the city, this is why they resist.
      On the other hand, some rumours spread in the area that people in Zadran and Mangal have hoisted the banner in favour of Zahir Shah, this affected the morale of the mujahideen groups. Some believed that this is a trick by the Najib government and others believed that this is a tribal decision.
      In the areas which recently came under the control of mujahideen, the residents who number more than 1000 households and some of the militias who were also among the families either stayed in their home villages or travelled to safer areas in the more mountainous regions.
      In the liberated areas people suffer from lack of food and medicine. Some people were afflicted with malaria and some others with vomiting and throat
                              17
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
diseases. The gun powder used in the shelling by the regime caused pollution. The prices are very high here and the children and the youngsters are deprived of education. Some food is brought to the area from Miranshah but is only available for an high price.
     The Mujahideen sources reported that on 16th Sep. at 2:00 am the mujahideen destroyed a transport plane in Khost airport. The report adds that on 17thSep a jet fighter which was bombing the mujahideen position was shot down by mujahideen with a Stingier and crashed south of Khost city.
A TRAVELLER FROM KABUL
     A traveller who came to Peshawar at the beginning of September, dwelt on Kabul's political and military situation and the regime in general.
     About one month ago, a large arms depot in which numerous rockets and ammunition were deposited was burnt. The depot was located in Khair Khana area of Kabul city. The Mujahideen started firing rockets on the military installations of Kabul city at 6 p.m. One of the rockets hit the depot and it caught fire. The intensity of the fire was so strong the regime could not attempt to extinguish it. The explosions lasted until the morning. The flames were 20 to 30 meters high in the sky.       The
depot had been handed over to the regime when the Russians left the base. It has been kept intact and no arms or ammunition had been taken out from the depot. As a result of the explosions four nearby army posts have been completely destroyed and all the personnel killed in the incident.’ The Russian advisors, Najib and ambassadors of the communist countries were present ai the site.
                            18
Ninth Year
September 1989
No. 102
      Around 350 to 400 nearby houses were evacuated to prevent possible danger to the local people from the explosions and the devastating fire. When the people returned to their houses in the morning they found their houses looted by members of the regime. The people cried helplessly . They blamed the government for carelessness and apathy toward the people. They said that during the night a curfew is observed and nobody except the regime security forces can dare come out from their houses.
      Inspite of the complaints, the regime remained indifferent to the peoples' claims, while itself it sus ‘ eavy losses.
 residential houses at Ariana Karta and killed several people including the director of Area Four of the Kabul Municipality. Aslam Watanjar, the Interior Minister of the regime had come to the scene. People blamed the regime, him and his colleagues for the incidents. They claimed that they suffer because of the regime, without it    no hostility would     existbetween them and the
 mujahideen. The minister assured them that the government would compensate the losses.         The people  protested
 that , material compensation is not enough the human losses are irreparable.
      A few months ago several rockets hit the Presidential Headquarters but nobody knows the extent of the damage either to life or property. Sometimes the airport also comes under rocket attack. In effect, the people are hostages for the regime. But they always express their hatred and indignation towards it regime and support the mujahideen.
      Loadshedding and , lack of fuel and food are acute problems which face the people in Kabul. The fear of rocket firing and conscription of the students are major
lie, in April the mujahideen rockets hit some
                               19
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
concerns for parents. Most of them keep their teenagers in hideouts dug in their houses to be used during searches conducted by the regime.       It has been three
months now that the schools have been closed. The regime has announced that boys under 18 years will not be drawn into military service. Still the secondary schools have remained half closed.
     At night the curfew is still in force. The regime uses the mosques as its propaganda bases. In response, some of the people say their night and morning prayers at home. The people prefer to go home early in the evening and leave later in the morning. .
     Members of the regime loot peoples' houses and steal their property. Every week there are several incidents in Kabul city. A few days ago, security officials of the regime robbed some shops in Hazargul Market while the watchmen were tied up. The robbers looted the shops taking cash money and valuable items.
    The regime high officials are suspicious of each other. They have formed groupings and each official tries to advance his own men. So far several coups have been detected by the Russians. Several days ago, the city markets and the streets were closed at 4 p.m. in the evening and remained so until the next morning. Silence prevailed over the whole city. Later it became known that a coup had been launched but nobody know what had happened however some of the ministers remained in their respective ministries for 15 days without going home. Meanwhile, some of those who had come over to the regime i.e. Asmat Muslim and Sayed Ahmad, who previously rode proudly around the city and were heavily guarded could no longer been seen. They used to give commands not any longer. Their authority has been takn away.
     There are some rumours that the crew of the gas transportation project has been replaced by Russians again.
                             20
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The Najib regime is strongly backed by the Russians. Everyday about 15 flights from the Soviet Union to Kabul bring necessary items to the regime. Scud missiles are included in the arms delivered to the regime. On average daily 10 scud missiles are airlifted to Kabul city besides armaments and food. The scuds are then transportated to the firing site near Darul Aman. In the bakeries and gas stations people form long lines sometimes without receiving^ a liter of gasoline or a loaf of bread.
      Non-party government employees and civil servants have a harsh life. Their earnings are very small but prices are beyond their purchasing power.
      After the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan, the Kabul citizens held full recitations of the holy Koran to ask God the Almighty for the mujahideen to be successful. The regime has continued strong propaganda against the mujahideen blaming them for every thing. The people are aware of the regime's tricks. The regime continues to enpahsis the battle for Jalalabad.
      The mujahideen should be aware of the 'every day occurances. Before the fighting in Jalalabad Najib used to refer to them respectfully, but as the fighting continued, his tone changed and now his approach is aggressive. The people know that most of Nangarhar province is in the hands of the mujahideen and only an area of a few square KMs is under the control of the regime'. Still most of the high officials in the regime are against the regime and are pro-mujahideen. Most of them are reluctant to go to the Soviet Union and instead are yearning to come to Pakistan.
      In the hospitals drugs are scarce. The medicine is kept for the war injured. Various diseases are now prevalent in and around the Kabul city.
                               21
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     Among the diseases that the children .mainly suffer from are malaria, whooping cough and malnutrition. Preventive as well as curative systems are no longer functioning in the city to guard the health of the people.
     There are many political prisoners in the jails. There were around 10 to 12 thousand in Pule Charkhi the central jail of the regime. Now that enough food cannot be found in the city, the prisoners are given food only once a day.      They are fed only with potatoes and
sometimes only spinich.
     No meat is given to the prisoners. The Kabul citizens were very disappointed with the Najib participation in the Non Aligned Summit. They expected an envoy from mujahideen side to go to the conference and where suprised when this did not occur.
       Kabul citizens are expecting the Mujahideen not to let the city turn to ashes because they think the city is the heart of the nation. Its sensitive places and historical monuments should be kept intact and instead the regime military bases should come under attack from the mujahideen. The regime tries hard to blame mujahideen for the miseries of people when their houses are destroyed by rockets while the people themselves blame the regime for this.
     The mujahideen should try hard to "have closer ties with the people in Kabul and should mobilize them. They should beprepared to neutralize the regime propaganda and on the other' hand whenever is necessary they should resort to armed uprisings against the regime at appropriate times.
     The price list of essential goods in September in the Kabul city:
                              22
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
-7 kg of wheat         1200 Afghanis  
-7 kg of rice          2000    II     
-7 kg of potatoes      45C     If     
-7 kg of onions        600     II     
-7 kg of beans         4000    II     
-a large can of ghee   7000    II     
-a kg of beef          500     II     
-a kg of black tea     1800    II     
-a kg of tomatoes      250     II     
-a kg of eggplants     120     II     
-a gallon of diesel    2000    II     
-a gallon of petroleu  2000    II     
-a gallon of kerosin   not available  
-a dollar(US)          416     II     
SITUATION IN KABUL UNIVERSITY
      Samae, a student of the Law Faculty, at        Kabul
University, who has recently come to Pakistan narrates the situation in the university and in Kabul city:
      In our class there were 70 girls and 40 boys altogether. A teacher told me that he had a salary of 4000 Afghanis. The money is not enough to buy one kg of meat or sugar in a month. " To feed my children I have to pay 10 to 20 Afghanis for purchasing some bones in the market and making a soup out of them."
       The ration allowance for the state employees are scarce. University professors have to spend whole days searching for the scanty supplies available. Instead of carrying briefcases and books they always have a flour sack or a tin for edible oil. This looks strange with a c ’’J and tie. They have to spend many of their lecture ^urs searching for supplies rather than teaching. Finally they can be seen carrying full sacks and tins, the contents of which are splattered all over their clothes.
                                        23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     These they take home walking, unable to pay the cost of hiring transport. Many lecture hours are lost in this manner.The lack of means of transport contributes to the further deterioration of the socio-economic and political life of Kabul city.
     Conscription to the military service drives out many youngsters but those who enrol voluntarily are paid 12000 Afghanis. The salary for the special guard soldiers and officers is very high. They are paid from 20000 to 22000 per month.
     Girls are also enrolled into the defence committees and paid handsomely. The Kabul girls served close to Balahesar (the city fort ) and within the city. Party members and those employed in miliaty service who have failed university examinations are automatically promoted to higher grades in the colleges and universities.
     Afraid of rocket firing, people had started digging hideouts within their houses to protect themselves from possible rocket attacks. We had built a hideout in our house.
Within the university the students are not allowed to meet in groups out of lectures. Such groups are broken up by militia, often known as the Jowzjani. These militia are often known to harrass the girl students, insisting that they go with them unescorted, and threaten retaliation on their parents if they will not do so. The militia patrol the university with rocket launchers.
     The militia also patrol the city and they have made life, in there uneasy. They mainly belong to Dostom, a Jouzjani militia commander.
     Looting is the common order of the day. Regime men are behind most of the cases of robbery and looting.
                                        24
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
Lack of security is bothering people. Some places in the city suffer more than others from lack of security. Khair Khana, Khushal Khan Mina, Qalai Wahid, Karte- Naw, Dashte Barchi, Qargha are among the parts of the city disrupted by gangs looting.
     Students of the primary schools and some classes in the secondary schools are not able to attend for reasons of security.
     Students of the 11th and 12th grades attend the schools but their number in the classes has dropped from 50 to only 7 to 9 students per class. Those whoes ages are higher than 17 are recruited in the army.
     There is a constant clash between the Parcham and Khalq factions of the PDPA. Last August they had an armed encounter in the Interior Ministry. People from both factions died in the incident.
     The regime check points bordering the areas under the control of the mujahideen take money from those who leave the areas under government control. This also has created skirmishes among different security organs within the regime circles. To prevent mass defection of the people, the government has assigned personnel from various security organisations and placed them in these check points.
   I Usually I walked to the University and most of the students and employees did so due to lack of transport which is mainly due to the lack of feul. Classes began at 9 a.m. Only a few        vehicles could be seen in the
city. Most of the university professors could come for their lectures for only 60 minutes and then left to manage their hard family life.
 A Inspite of these hardships they were still threatened by party and KHAD agents.
 INTERVIEW WITH AN AFGHAN JOURNALIST
      Tamim Ahmad, an Afghan reporter, who lately came from the districts of Shakardara (Kabul), Saray Khoja and Paghman to Peshawar on September 12 and had spent one and half months in these districts of Kabul province narrated his eyewitness account of these areas:
      Other than two major posts in Paghman by the name of Burjak and Komaki and a few smaller ones located between Paghman and Shakardara, the rest of these are under the full control of the mujahideen. They were wiped out by the communists some time ago. Unfortunately, in Saray Khoja district, there is constant fighting between commanders of Hezbe Island Hekmatyar and Samad Sangi who was a militia earlier and who recently joined Jamiat.
      The number of refugees varies in these districts. Forty per cent of the local population in Saray Khoja, 90 per cent in Shakardara and 98 per cent from Paghman have destroyed their homes and have taken refuge in other parts of the country or in Pakistan.
      It can be said clearly that the agricultural lands have been damaged substantially in these areas. Vast areas are planted with deadly mines. In Saray Khoja where most of the people stayed there are daily casualties of death and wounding by explosion of mines. Not long ago a nomad child lost his arm'in a mine blast. Food comes from Maidan to all three districts but with difficulty. In the past people procured their necessities through the Kabul-Parwan highway. As the highway is closed they have to bring food from Maidan. Some of the people supply the region with essential goods from Charikar, the centre of Parwan province.
      The civilians in Saray Khoja are having many problems now when the highway is blocked. Their only outlet to take their fruits such as grapes, apples and
26
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
  pears to Kabul city was the highway. The growers of these fruits lost their harvest and most of the fruits are rotten now, and have no value.
       The people continue cultivating their lands inspite of the heavy bombardments while in other districts (Paghman and Shakardcbra) such an operation is impossible for the reason given. The daily bombardment and destruction of the irrigation system is the key problem to the resumtion of life there.
       Last year, VITA planned to clean and restore around 100 karizes in the area due to money being stolen. Not even a single kariz was put back to its normal status .
       Paghman has a unique location- the nearest district to the Kabul city. Most of the people have migrated to other places. The farms and houses are totally demolished.         It could be hardly believed that once
  Paghman was a resort for the people. Most parts of the city are liberated but years are needed to restor it to its former status..
       There are few schools, functioning in Saray Khoja, but the parents do not dare send their children to the schools for the fear of air attacks.
       People have serious problems to locate a single clinic to treat the people. People once again use the traditional ways of treating their illnesses. The serious injuries are taken to Maidan and Wardak for treatment where there is a French medical hospital.
       The Kabul regime claims that it has been able to form a 60 KM security belt around Kabul city. This is quite an exaggeration. Mujahideen are 15 kms away in the North, 12 kms away in Paghman and 10 kms away in the South. In all these three districts mujahideen are busy digging trenches and preparing themselves for long term fighting.
                                         27
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
   EYEWITNESS FROM PAGHMAN
        Ghulam Farouq, who works for Solidarity Afghanistan was despatched by the agency to.Paghman and Maidan areas to conduct serveys on the agricultural situation, subterranian canals (karizes), ditches and other irrigational installations. He set off for the trip on September 1 and returned on the 18 of the same month. He narrates his eyewitness as follows:
        All the irrigation system in Paghman area has been almost totally destroyed as a result of heavy bombardment. From 4000 jeribs (800. hectares) of land in an area which was previously under cultivation now only 500 jeribs is cultivated the rest is left barren.
        Health clinics do not exist. Only some drugs could be found in some of the mujahidin bases. School buildings are totally destroyed and the boys continue their schooling in the village mosques. The students are taught religious and scientific subjects only for one or two hours due to the constant bombardment of the regime. The teachers are paid by the local people and subsidised by the mujahidin of the area. No help comes from outside and the people face acute problems both medical and educational. Students have the chance to study up to fourth grade .
        The Kabul regime fires at least three to four hundred missiles daily to the area. The northern part of the district is totally in ruins but mujahidin are still stationed here. Only a small number of people live in the southern part which is close to Bande Qargha (Qargha dam).. Some of the older people who come to Pakistan once in awhile have to spend over seven thousand Afghanis which not many people can afford.
        Most of the people have abandoned their houses in Paghman and resettled in Maidan or in Kabul city. No
28
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
    commodities can be transported from Kabul city to the liberated areas but commodities are routed to the city through people to their relatives. Prices are rocketing. Seven kilos of wheat flower cost 1200 Afghanis while the same quantity of rice cost 2000, potatoes though cultiviated in these areas cost 4 to 5 hundred, a kilo of meat cost 800 to 1000 Afghanis.
        All Islamic parties of the mujahidin exist in Maidan and Paghman. Mujahidin are armed with heavy weapons in these areas, they do not use light weapons anymore.
        Our agency has the task of the rehabilitation of irrigation systems like karizes, ditches, and dams and also of rebuilding mosques, schools and other facilities. Our work is carried on with the help and counsel of the local commanders. For the moment working in Paghman entails great risks for the Kabul regime uses heavy artillery and other weapons. For the timebeing we have centered most of our effort in Maidan region.
        Before my departure to the area tense fighting was going on between Hezb Islami and Harakat and a well-known Itehad commander Kochi was killed. After his death, some of his men joined Harakat, while his opponents in the group joined Abdui Ahmad from Hezbe Islami.
        Durani, about six kms from Maidan shahr, is a mujahidin market. They buy essentials from this market. The people in Wardak are settled in in their respective areas and are busy cultivating their agricultural lands. Poeple long for a peaceful life. They will accept anyone provided he brings peace and stability to the country. People complain of both the regime and the mujahidin and do not know what will come next.
        The infrastructure is in corrplete ruins. ' The highway leading from Maidan to Ghazni has been considerably damaged and very few vehicles go through
29
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
this way. The families who fled from Kabul now stayed in Wardak. They have no money to reach Pakistan and join their family merrbers here. The families going through the check points have to pay handsomely to the security guards otherwise they would be in trouble.
     Three security belts maintained the security around Qargha dam. The first belt has been demolished and the remaining two still resist against the mujahidin. The soldiers are eager to join the mujahidin but establishing contact is risky. Mujahidin stationed in Paghman can preserve their position in the district provided they are supplied with food and warm clothing. Even now they face some problems.
Situation in Bagram:
     Mohammad Akram, a resident of Rubat village of Bagram and a NIFA commander, came to Peshawar a week ago from the area and elucidates on the situation here:
     Bagram airfield has come under rocket attacks from Dossaraka of Charekar and the Salang pass. The former route to the Salang pass is heavily damaged and deserted but the regime has built a new road. The highway is strictly guarded by a series of posts from Salang to Pule Charkhi, inside Kabul city. For some time now , the road has been blocked by the government. Whenever the regime wanted to open it, vehicles go through .and the resistance forces have not completely obstructed the way yet.
     Food is delivered from here to different areas inside the cbuntry.
       We stopped some trucks loaded with food hiding armaments underneath which travel to different regions. When regime troops want to go to Bagram airport, the mujahidin stationed in the area attack them in the area
30
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
   from Hufian shrine up to Bagram Dosaraka. The war in this area is concentrated on this road. The convoy caravaans coming from the North are heavily guarded against sudden attacks from the Mujahidin. The caravaans come here under the protection of helicopters.
       A few days before my departure, mujahidin of all parties jointly launched an attack on Charikar, the capital city of the province. The regime has suffered great human losses. The government still has two posts in the Qarabagh area which are resupplied by air. The Mujahidin have a consultative council here in Parwan province. They resolve all problems which arise.
      This year shortage of food is strongly felt here, and the prices are higher than ever.
      Some schools and clinics exist in the province but they cannot meet the growing need of the local population.    The regime now usually uses        missiles
 instead of air bombardments. The long range missiles are fired from Kabul, Bagram airport and Jabel Saraj area to distant places. Gulbahar Textile mills are now under the control of mujahideen.
      We operate very close to the Bagram airfield just two kms from the runway and our mortars can hit it. Sometime ago we hit the airport and killed 30 of the regime officers here and damaged the workshop. The life of the people here is not that bad but if the Interim Government tries to remove their problems they will naturally back the government.
      This. year's grapes sales were poor because the product cannot be shipped to Kabul or to Pakistan and India unlike previous years. Due to the blocking of the highways, the products were spoiled and the owner's of the orcharders suffered great losses. The trade of fruits has stopped and the products are not sold. The prices of other commodities are as following:
                                         31
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
-seven kgs of wheat flour 650 Afghanis
II II  " potatoes      600  
n- ii  " sugar         3600 
ii ii  " rice          1600 
ii ii  " slim rice     2200 
half a kilo of tea     1000 
17 kgs of cooking oil  6500 
       ***             ***  
                                           •32
                         ASSASSINATION OF OOW1ANDERS
Ccwnander Kochi
     Commander Kochi Sangardost or Kochi Maidani who belonged to Etehad Island ( Prof. Sayyaf ) in Maidan province was killed in an ambush by Commander Abdul Ahmad related to Hezbe Island ( Hekmatyar ) on September 8. He was killed in Khwaja Sahib in Maidan area. He was a very famous commander and several times has conducted successful operations on the highway leading from Kabul to Kandahar.
     Clashes are a common phenomenon in Maidan area. In 1983 the commanders of Hezbe Island with support from Etehad fought against Harakat (Mohammadi). With the intervention of Shaikh Asif Mohsini, the clashes ceased. Now once again the clashes have erupted but this time between the former two allies and as a result commander Kochi has been killed.
Haji Hussain Khel
     Haji Hussainkhel,the commander of Jabha (Prof.Mojadidi) was assassinated along With his pregnant wife on September 14th night in the Bada Bira camp, 6 KM from Peshawar city.
     Haji Hussain Khel, 65, was one of the famous commanders belonged to Ahmadzai tribe           who had a
substantial share in the liberation of the districts of Azara and Hesarak and the capturing of the Gulghondi military unit.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     His three strongholds were located in Azara District.
     His coffin was taken to Logar province and his funeral was attended by thousands of his tribas! supporters, relatives and members and high officials from different parties. . The killers are unknown.
An Attenpt on life of a Lady Teacher
     On September 19, an armed man, whose identity is unknown, entered the Malalai girls high school in Peshawar city and attempted to kill the principle.
     At 2:45 p.m. the man entered the premises of the lycee and told the gateman that he /anted to see the principle. The principle told a teacher to go and see the stranger. When the man saw Mahmouda the teacher, he took out his pistol. Mahmouda fainted when she saw the pistol. The man fired random shots and in this incident the gateman was wounded. The man fled thinking that his victim had been killed.
     The Malalai girls' high school is one of the lycees run by the International Rescue Committee(IRC). The principle said, such threats had also been made in the past.
     The IRC English Language Programme for • girls has been closed down in the past due to similar threats.
                     *** ***
***
                                      MTT.T.TTARY NEWS
Mazare Sharif, August 22
      Mujahideen have conducted courageous attacks on the regime posts. From among the posts 25 fell to the hands of the mujahideen. This was the major offensive by mujahideen this year. In the operation the posts in Qarshi village, Qizel Qala, Oran Qala, Delberjin, Gulbahador, Hussain Khel, Eilqachi Bala were captured by the mujahideen.
      In the operation which lasted 16 days altogether 80 assorted weapons were recovered by the local mujahideen. Meanwhile, 13 KHAD agents were killed and a depot was blown up. From the civilians so far 14 have died in the operation.
August 25
     As a result of consistent operations by mujahideen on the regime posts around Charbolak' district, Balkh province, three major posts fell into the hands of the mujahideen. In the operation four were killed, 11 wounded and 13 members of the Najib regime were captured.
     To take revenge the regime bombarded the civilians houses and killed 56 civilian people and injured 79. In a similar operation in Shirin Tagab district, so far 23 regime soldiers have been killed and 60 more defected to mujahideen.
September 2
     Mujahideen attacked the posts related to Walga
                                         35
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 garrison located in Nayeb Abad, Mazare Sharif, the posts fell to the hands of the mujahideen, nine klashnikovs were recovered from the posts, and five soldiers were captured.
 September 11
      Mujahideen attacked the Serahi in Hairatan and captured all the posts stationed here. Three famous militia commanders were killed. Eleven klashnikovs, a mortar, one PRG 7, a Zikoyak and a heavy machine gun fell into the hands of the mujahideen.
 KABUL-JALALABAD HIGHWAY September 24
      According to the Interim Government news agency and NIFA, the mujahideen of NIFA under the command of Dr. Shahrukh Gran and backed by Jamiat Islami commander Anwar Khan conducted a series of operations for blocking the Kabul-Jalalabad highway. They were able to capture some of the posts in Tangi Abrishum, which included the strtegic ones of Dado and Dargo.
      As was reported, the highway was blocked in September and the link between the two Afghan major cities is now cut. In response, the regime forces fired scud missiles and bombed mujahideen bases. Mujahideen tried hard to capture Shula post which-is strategically the most important one on the highway. So far, the casualties are reported as following:
      Eight tanks destroyed, 10 more captured, 105 regime soldiers killed, 85 soldiers        and two officers made
 captive. Besides this the , mujahideen have recovered sufficient quantities of food and ammunition. From the mujahideen side three have been killed and 8 wounded.
                                          36
No. 102
Ninth Year
September 1989
Operation in North:
September 11
     According to Jamiat Island, reports that have not been confirmed by independent sources. Mujahideen under the command of Ahmad Shah Massoud have attacked five very important strategic points in Bagram airfield, Charikar, Pule Matak, Tapa Surkh of Jabel Saraj and the Salang highway. Authorities of the Supervisory Council of the North said that the attacks were aimed at other important regime centers and these incidents were only to divert attention from the real targets.
               •
     According to the same report, seven important regime posts were captured by mujahideen on the Salang highway. In these operations 19 tanks destroyed and the highway blocked while the Bagram airfield was crippled. No war planes can fly now. Meanwhile, 17 DJ cannons, 2 BM units, one BM 12 were also destroyed.
September 12
     The auxiliary forces which headed north to Salang came under attack of the mujahideen. The forces which moved from Tapa Surkh of Jabel Saraj wanted to rescue the caravan trapped in the Salang. They lost 14 tanks and the rest of the forces retreated to Charikar. The Salang highway and the Bagram airfield are still closed.
September 13
The operation in Tapa Surkh of Jabel Saraj was successful. The important depot was put on fire. The fire lasted for four hours.
***
***
***
      The Lord said once to his Friend:
     -Do you wish to know a secret ? Then ask Satan
     When one day he met the Devil , he asked him for his secret.
     Dear man , answered Satan , always remember never to say "I", if you do not want to become as I am .
                                * * *
     A filthy dog ran up to a sufi master who made no attenpt to drive it away . A bewildered disciple asked:
     -O Master with the pur set heart ! How could you allow that dirty animal to come near you ?
     My friend ! answered the sufi , the dirt you saw in the external appearance of the dog is what I keep hidden inside myself . If his outside appearance is what I am on the inside , hew could I reject him ? Any obstacle along the path is able to delay the traveller ; it may be a mountain , it rrtay be a straw.
                                * * *
                                          From the Book " Sufism In The Modem World" . By Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh