AFGHAN
  INFORMATION
  1QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
 No.99
 Ninth Year
 June 1989
Address: ISe s.j. Afghani Road, University Town, PESHAWAR-PAMSTAN P. O. Box: 228 - Telephone:40953 - Telegram: AFIC
            The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
            1.       To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itselt.
            2.       To make this information available in the form of articles, news bulletins,' tapes, photographs and films to :
             (a)  International news media,
             (b)  Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
            The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non partisan organisation.and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
            The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
FOUNDER: Late Prof.Dr.Syed B.Majrooh
EDITOR : S. Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription : Pakistan     Rs.       400
Abroad       Dollar :  50
Bank account No 284822306 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank P.L.C Peshawar Pakistan
            AFGHAN INFORMATION
                  CENTRE
             Monthly Bulletin No. 99       June 1989
CONTENTS:
I     THE SITUATION IN AND AROUND JALALABAD  1 
II .  THE PRESENT POLITICAL AND MILITARY       
      ASPECTS OF JEHAD                       8 
Ill . THE PROVINCIAL SITUATION              12 
IV .  KABUL REGIME FAKING NEWS              19 
V     HUMANITRIAN ASSISTANCE                23 
                 *****************
                      THE SITUATION IN AND AROUND JALALABAD
       (1): Mirwais, an officer of the 81st Mechanised Regiment, recently deserted his unit and arrived in Peshawar on 11th June. He gave the following report about the situation in Jalalabad:
       "The morale of the regime troops and supporters was at its lowest when the Mujahideen overran the Samarkhel garrison and then soon reached the outskirts of the Jalalabad airfield.
       "In those initial days of fighting, the regime supporters were terror stricken and alarmed at the Mujahideen's quick advances, as a result of which most families    of regime supporters were evacuated from   the
  city to     Kabul. At the same   time regime blocked   all
  outgoing civilian traffic so as to stop the further panic of its troops and supporters.
       "The regime also brought in fresh reinforcements and massive supplies of advanced weaponry, including the Oregan rockets with a range of 90 km. It alsb increased the salaries of its troops as a      result,.of which   an
  ordinary soldier was now receiving between 12000-15000 Afghanis, a soldier of Special Guards between 20,GOO-24, 000, and members of tribal units around 24,000 Afghanis.
       "Due     to food  shortages, the regime had relaxed
  somewhat its restrictions on the movement of people out of the city But this movement of people is also fraught with great dangers as regime troops frequently ambush these refugees, many of whom have already sought refuge Ln the adjoining districts and Pakistan. I too was
No.99
Ninth Year
June 1989
  ambushed by regime troops which resulted in the killing of four of my companions.
       "During the initial days, Jalalabad was defended by about 15,000 troops. But now the number has increased to well over 17,000. So far the regime has lost 1700 men, about 1500 have been wounded and around 2000 have deserted their units. The regime has constantly been sending reinforcements to fill the gap of high casualty and defection rate.
       "The regime had also sent Jozjani militia under the command of ' Rasool Bey Khuda' ( a pseudonym ) to Jalalabad while the Jozjani militia of Gelam Gem were positioned along the Kabul-Jalalabad highway.
       "Gelam Gem had taken the responsibility for keeping the highway open, while 'Rasool Bey Khuda' the responsibility of recapturing territories from Mujahideen and assuring the security of Jalalabad city.
       "The Jozjani militia had reached an understanding with the regime by which all weapons and war-booty captured by the militia to be sold to the regime at high prices.
       "The propaganda advanced by the regime about the skill and fighting prowess of these militia did not last long as the militia failed to keep the .Kabul-Jalalabad highway permanently open, nor did they succeed in capturing lost territories from the Mujahideen.
       "Though Mujahideen rocket attack had killed many civilians in the city, but inspite of that people were still praying for a quick Mujahideen victory. It was also said the regime was shelling the city to discredit the Mujahideen.
                                           - 2 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        "The food situation had also improved somewhat during the last two months as the regime had succeeded in bringing large quantities of supplies. Most of the supplies were being brought in by helicopters to the city and the distribution of supplies to their outposts was only taking place at night.
        "I believe the two main reasons for the delay in Mujahideen victory are 1. not attacking Jalalabad from all four sides at the same time and 2. not locking the Kabul-Jalalabad highway permanently. For a Mujahideen victory, the blocking of the highway is a must."
        (2): Regarding the Jalalabad situation, the AIC also interviewed Abdul Majid, a regimental commander of the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan (Mahaz) in the Khogiani district of Ningarhar. Commander Majid has a degree in economics from Kabul University:
        "I have 400 Mujahideen under my command while the total number of Mujahideen on the western front of Jalalabad(Surkh Rud area) was around 4000 Mujahideen.
        "All operations on the western front are conducted in accordance with the' joint decisions of commanders of all Jehadic organisations.
        "The Mujahideen achieved spectacular victories on all four fronts, but the eastern front made greater progress than the other three fronts. The western front on which I served was greatly hampered by the problem of supplies and logistics in comparison to the other fronts.
        "Despite these difficulties, we were able to storm more than 30 security posts, forcing the enemy to leave behind 400 dead officers and soldiers on the field. We have also destroyed between 60-80 tanks/APCs/BMPs and
                                                                   - .3 -
No.99
Ninth Year
June 1989
 more than 50 other types of vehicles. Eight tanks have been captured intact which are now being used against the enemy.
       "Our casualties are around 80 martyrs and 250 wounded. About 1000 regime troops have also surrendered since the start of the fighting.
       "I have tried my best to mete’ out good treatment to regime troops captured by us. In fact we have given them money and clothes and then the choice of either staying with us , going back to their villages or leaving for Pakistan.
       "Since the Jalalabad fighting, a steady stream of refugees have also* been coming our way and my Mujahideen have helped them in carrying their packs and children and guiding them safely through our areas. We have also given to them travelling expenses and some food supplies to enable them to reach their destination without further hardships.
       "There are several reasons for ’the prolongation of the Jalalabad fighting : 1. Incoordination among the four fighting fronts 2. not simultaneously attacking Jalalabad from the four sides, 3. lack of military and food supplies, 4. not permanently blocking the Kabul-Jalalabad highway, 5. not seriously engaging the enemy in other parts of the country as a result of which .the enemy has concentrated all its strength in the Jalalabad sector and 6. disunity among Mujahideen and foreign interferences.
       "As a matter* of fact we strongly condemn all foreign interference in our affairs. I believe the disunity among Mujahideen also stems from these interferences. All Afghan should beware of these interferences, under whatever name and garb, and take necessary measures to stop this meddling.
                             - 4 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        "The prolongation of the Jalalabad fighting , however, does not mean that the regime has gained an upper hand . In fact the Mujahideen still hold the advantage and are gradually closing the noose around the besieged troops.
        "The regime troops are on the defensive on all fronts though, from time to time, they have tried to break out from their defensive shell by launching attacks against Mujahideen positions. For instance, in Deh Walid and Kharkaran, the regime used some of her best troops and Jozjani militia in an effort to throw back Mujahideen from the area. But the Mujahideen routed the enemy, inflicting heavy casualties on them.
        "In the end, I would once again like to stress the point that despite the many deficiencies in our ranks and incoordination among our fronts, the Mujahideen still have an upper hand in Jalalabad while the regime is in a state of perpetual siege and on the verge of collapse."
        (3): Corpses of Soldiers Thrown From Helicopters:
        Sher Mohammad, a vegetable        vendor of Jalalabad,
   recently closed down his shop due to security reasons and took refuge in Pakistan. His account:
        "Recently I,     and nine other passengers, boarded a
   regime helicopter    bound for Kabul  by bribing the pilot
   with     large sums    of money. The  helicopter was also
   carrying six dead bodies of regime soldiers killed in the Jalalabad fighting.
        "Half-way, the pilots told us to close our eyes and ears as they were going to attack Mujahideen positions. After a while we felt cold air entering, thinking that the helicopter must have been hit. When we opened our
No.99
Ninth Year
June 1989
   eyes, we saw that the helicopter door had been opened and the crew was throwing the dead bodies in uninhibited areas.
        "Seven other helicopters had also flown on that day of June 10, carrying dead and wounded soldiers to Kabul. According to their passengers, the same treatment was meted out to the dead troops.
        "The regime was deceiving people into believing that
   the dead bodies were being carried to Kabul to deliver
   them to their family members. But such was not the case-
   as was witnessed by many passengers.
                         ♦
        "The regime was trying to give the members of the dead soldiers' families the impression that their kith and kin were still alive and well. They did this out of fear of further increasing the discontentment in the regime-held areas.
        "coming out of Kabul, I had to-pay 10,000 Afghanis to a driver to bring me to Mujahideen-controlled areas in Logar. Most of the regime posts allow passengers to pass by taking bribes from the drivers."
         (4): Die Latest News From Jalalabad:
                                           $
                                     • *
         According to fresh reports from Jalalabad, long convoys of regime supplies have been- pouring in to Jalalabad during the closing days of June.
         Most of .these convoys are bringing weapons and ammunition. Some reports also indicate the arrival of fresh reinforcements of troops from Kabul.
         It is believed the regime forces are preparing for a major offensive against Mujahideen positions east of
                                       - 6 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
    Jalalabad. The offensive is expected sometime around the Eid festival.
         Aerial and Scud bombardment around Jalalabad has already intensified .
                                                              it            it            It
                      HIGH-RANKING REGIME OFFICERS DEFECT
         During the past one month, 11 high- ranking Kabul regime army officers have defected from the regime and taken refuge in Peshawar. They include seven brigadiers, three colonels and one captain.
         Following are the names of the defecting officers: •
         1- Brig.Dr. Faquir Mohammad, Deputy Director of the construction Dept, of the Defence Ministry. 2- Brig. Sayed Abdul Ghafoor, planning member of Engineers Dept..3- Brig. Sayed Farooq. 4- Brig. Fazl Haq. 5- Brig. Shah Wali. 6- Brig. Sultan Hamid. 7-Brig. Mohammad Asif. 8- Col. Mohammad Yahya. 9- Lt.Col. Zikriya. 10- Col. Zowan and 11- Capt. Abdul Wadood, logistics commander of the 66th Regiment of the 11 th Division of Ningarhar.
                      * * * * *
                                       - 7 -
               THE PRESENT POLITICAL & MILITARY ASPECTS OF JEHAD
        The AIC interviewed Gen.Rahmatullah Khan Safi regarding the political and military situation . Gen Safi is a graduate from the Military University of Kabul. He has also undergone training in the Soviet Union, the USA and Great Britain, subseguently taking command of the commando units of the Afghan Army. During the 1973 Coup of Daoud, he v’as imprisoned for two and a half years. After the communist takeover in 1978, Gen. Safi joined the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan and since then has led various Mujahideen operations against the enemy.
        Ques: In what state is the Jehad after the Soviet troops withdrawal?                       '
        Ans:After the Soviet troops withdrawal our political cadres tried to fill up the political deficiencies of the past at a very rapid pace, as a result of this our Mujahideen entered a phase of hesitation, uncertainty and bewilderment. They were rather in a suspended state between their allegiance for the newly formed Afghan Interim Government and their own Jehad organisations.
        But now, after most of the initial confusion is over, our Jehad is coming back to its track and it should be our utmost endeavour to organise the Jehad and get rid of the eguivocacy between the two centres of power. We should solve this problem as soon as possible and transfer all authority to the Interim government.
        Another difficulty we faced after the Soviet withdrawal was the naivety of the western nations who
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
   thought the Jehad was over, therefore winding up. many of their assistance programmes.
        I think it would also be naive and unrealistic to think that the Mujahideen' hate and abhorance for the Najib regime has decreased. In fact if our political cadres organise themselves and come out of the present state of ambiguity, it will enable the Mujahideen to persue with the same zeal as before, the goal of toppling the Najib regime without any further hesitation.
        Why has the Jalalabad fighting not given any results so far ?
        I think it would be wrong to expect the mujahideen to win each and every battle with lightning speed. Why are people ignoring the swift advances made by the Mujahideen, in a very short span of time, from Barikot to Behsud and from Torkham to Samarkhel and Khush Gumbad, and likewise in many other parts of Afghanistan. Have all these achievements come to naught just because our advance towards the city has become sluggish.
        The reasons for our sluggishness on the 'Jalalabad front are : not bringing enough pressure on the regime forces in other parts of the country as a result of which the regime has concentrated its maximum strength in Jalalabad ; the balance between the two opposing forces is not tactically sound ; the enemy's supply lines have not been blocked permanently ; incoordination among our fronts ; ignoring the latest weaponry system of the regime ; not preparing ourselves for a conventional type of war ; the lack of a joint command structure; and most important of ‘all the hostage taking of the Jalalabad population by the regime which has prevented the Mujahideen from launching an all-out attack against the city.
No.99
Ninth Year
June 1989
       Who is in charge of Jehad affairs. The Interim Government, the Jehad organisations, or some other agency?
       In general, the Mujahideen are still attached to their respective organisations and the military committee of the Alliance is still active. The Defence Ministry of the government has not started its activities yet, but if it does, with full authority and powers, I think most of our difficulties will be solved.
       In the presence of the Jehad organisations, the functioning of the Interim government seems a gigantic task. When the organisations are dissolved and merged into the government, and full powers transferred to it, only then will the government , and Defence Ministry in particular, be able to work and serve the Jehad.
       What is your opinion regarding a political solution and what kind of a government can bring peace and tranquillity to Afghanistan ?
       The exigencies of time dictate that we should unite and accelerate our pace for toppling the Najib regime so that we will be able to rid ourselves quickly of all foreign influences and stop Afghanistan from being used as a 'buzkashi' field between the East and West, and between the neighbouring countries.
       Our Jehad was a national uprising' in which every Afghan has given due sacrifices, therefore, it is our national, Islamic, and fundamental right to participate in choosing .the future destiny and, government of Afghanistan in accordance with the wishes and aspirations of the majority population.
       Why has Pakistan, Iran and other countries not extended recognition to the Interim government ?
                                            - 10-.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     How can we blame others when we ourselves have not extended due recognition to it. The question of recognition will arise only when the control and administration of Jehad affairs are handed over to them by the organisations as a result’ of its .merger in the government
     After Benazir Bhutto’s visit to the USA, certain policy changes in the US-Pak stand vis-a-vis Afghanistan have become evident, would you care to comment ?
     If there are any changes in their policies, I hope it will be in the greater interest and benefit of our Islamic nation and lead to a truly representive government that will reflect the wishes of our people.
     What about the former king's role in any future setup ?
     If he has a role that is beneficial for the future of Afghanistan then I will consider it a sin if he, as an Afghan and Muslim, does not participate and play that role during this critical juncture of our history.
*
*
*
*
*
                           THE PROVINCIAL SITUATION
GHAZNI:
      Inayatullah Khan, a resident of Qarabagh district, Ghazni, recently arrived in Peshawar from his province. His report to the AIC :
      "The Kabul-Kandahar highway is closed to all government traffic but Mujahideen and other civilian vehicles were plying regularly without any hindrance.
      "Mujahideen had left their fixed bases and were now residing in their villages and houses.
      "Fighting around the provincial capital was at a very low key during the last three months but is expected to entensify after a month when the wheat crop is harvested.
      "The crops in. the liberated regions of the province is expected to be much better this year than previous years because of sufficient water and the relative calm that is prevailing.
      "But the prices were still high as most commodities were being brought in from Pakistan.This trade had resulted in the creation of a large bazaar from where commodities were sent to Hazarajat, Uruzgan and other regions.
      "Kabul regime's air and artillery activity • over the province had greatly decreased. The regime was only
                              -12-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
holding the provincial centre and the village of Taraki(the_ home-village of the former head of Kabul regime,Noor Mohd.Taraki). Supplies to these areas are brought by air as the Mujahideen control all the roads.
      "The people of Ghazni were facing immense problems due to the non-existence of medical facilities. Diseases like malaria, hepatitis and dysenteries were rampant."
                                                                                  f
      Inayatullah Khan gave the following commodity prices in Qarabagh as of the beginning of June:
      Wheat (7kg)...........550 Afghanis                            '
      Flour.... (7kg).......610       "
      Potatoes. (7kg)......... 400    "
      Onions... (7kg).......800       "
      Black tea(lkg)........660      "
      Sugar (lkg)...'.......240       "
      Beef (7kg)...^....2800          "
      Lamb (7kg)............4400      "
      1 Chicken ..........1300        "
      Petrol (1 gal)________ 1000-1200
      (Approx 220 Afghanis * $1)
RAMI AN:
     Ali Akbar Mohammadi, a member of the Central Shura of Bamian talked to the AIC about the situation in the province:
     "The whole province has been liberated but antipersonal mines forms the biggest hurdle in the return of life to normalcy. Mining has been so extensive that each day it results in the killing or maiming of innocent people.
                        “ 13~
No.99
Ninth Year
June 1989
       "The Russians and the Kabul regime have also mined the areas around the world's twa largest statues of Buddha, the historic site of Shahre Gholghola and many other historic relics and sites as a result of which many foreigners who wanted to visit these sites were unable to do so because of the presence of these mines.
       "The Central Shura of Bamian has been formed by nine Jehad organisations, each represented by two members. It has both Shi'ite and Sunni members.
       "All the affairs of the province is supervised by our Shura. For instance, we administer and supervise all the educational and health affairs, the protection of all historical sites, the control of prices, and the demining of the province.
       "There are 13000 students who are attending school in the liberated regions. But upto the level of Baccalaureate we only have two schools. The standard of education is rather low due to the nonavailibilty of teaching materials. Most of the teachers are volunteers who are paid nominal salaries by the Shura.
       "There are four clinics which are run by professional people. Their main problem is the lack of medicines.
       "Tuberculosis and cholera are on the increase, while leprosy has become a scourge in the area. If nothing is done soon, these diseases will become of epidemic proportions and soon spread throughout the country.
       "At present the people have once again started rebuilding their destroyed houses and farmlands. We have upto a great extent already alleviated some of the food shortages that we faced previously. For exanple, wheat was being sold at 520 Afghanis per 7kg and potatoes at
                       -14-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 620 Afghanis per 7kg. other commodity prices were also within reasonable limits.
      "I think Bamian will be able to flourish once again only if foreign experts could help us in clearing the area of mines and assist us in eradicating some of the disease that has become the bane of the people of Bamian."
                          * * *
 KANDAHAR:
      The AIC corresponded in Quetta recently visited Kandahar and Helmand provinces. His report:
      "On my way to Kandahar, I saw several Afghan refugee families near the Pak-Afghan border entering their country from Pakistan.
      "In Kandahar city the Mujahideen and the local population were in full control of the situation. The regime forces were also not bombarding Mujahideen positions around the city
      "Fighting was continuing only around Kandahar airfield as a result of which most of the local residents of the area had evacuated the area. I saw the Khoshab area near the airfield completely deserted of its local inhabitants and only Mujahideen activity could be seen..
      "The Mujahideen in the 'area looked well equipped with arms and in one of their operations on the airfield, which I witnessed, Mujahideen suffered heavy casualties.
No 99
Ninth Year
June 1989
       "Most of the commanders I met were against any kind of compromise with the regime and were ready to continue the resistance against the regime. However, they told me that they did not want their city to turn into ruins, like Jalalabad, and harm their own Muslim compatriots who have given them whole-hearted support during the war.
       "The returning refugees have strong tribal affiliations in the south. Most of their problems were being solved in accordance with Islamic Shari'a and tribal and local customs.
       "The most powerful organ of administration in the province is the Central Shura of Kandahar which has commanders, tribal elders and religious scholars as its members.
       "The courts in the districts are also under its jurisdiction but they are not empowered to pass judgement of capital punishment as only the Central Court of the Shura has these powers.
       "During my presence, I also say a 26-member delegation of religious scholars of some Mujahideen organisations who had come from Pakistan' Baluchistan province. They were delivering lectures on religion and Jehad. They said that the Afghans had launched Jehad against the communists and even if the Russians had left now, the communists were still there, and therefore it was their duty to continue the Jehad.
       "I found the people of Kandahar ready to give greater sacrifices and help the Mujahideen in their struggle but they could not bear the thought of Mujahideen of other provinces fighting in Kandahar as this was considered an insult to their fighting prowess and abilities.
                       -16-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly' Bulletin
         "Likewise, the people of Kandahar were also greatly dismayed when Eng. Hikmatyar visited the province with 300 Mujahideen of other provinces.
   AGRICULTURAL & HEALTH-CARE SITUATION:
              t
         "The agriculture situation in the province is much better this year than previous years because of reduction in regime bombing and plenty of water supply.
         "People had started tilling their land and were taking care of the 1r neglected orchards. This was being done with their owr resources and initiative. The reconstruction programmes had not yet touched the province though the Swedish Committee had helped some farmers with wheat seeds.
         "Most of the major canals and irrigation systems were still in a state of disrepair, as a result thousands of acres of farmlands and orchards were still lying barren.
         "The lack of doctors, clinics and medicines had greatly affected the rural population. Many diseases had also become rampant.
         "The livestock population of the province had also greatly reduced due to the war and the diseases that is afflicting their livestock."
                          * * *
   HELMAND:
         "The agricultural situation had improved greatly and the farmers were of the view that this years wheat yield
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •a. 17-
No.99
Ninth Year
June 1989
 would be enough to satisfy the needs of the three southern provinces. The reason for this was that not many people had migrated from the province, and whatever was destroyed during these years, the people had already started rebuilding it.
      "I met the renowned commander of the area, Maulavi Naseem Akhundzada, who said that none of. the international aid agencies had extended any help in their reconstruction programmes. He said that it was unwise to depend upon others assistance though he himself was extending some help to the farmers' in rebuilding their destroyed houses and irrigation systems.
      "Recently, Commander Akhundzada visited Uruzgan province to launch attacks against the provincial capital, Tirin Kot. The Mujahideen operations are still in progress and the Mujahideen had captured large quantities of supplies when the regime mistakenly airdropped it over Mujahideen areas.
      "It was said that the Mujahideen of Uruzgan have resented the coming of Mujahideen from Helmand and fighting there. Some sources claimed that clashes had also taken place .
                            KABUL REGIME FAKING NEWS
          According to Mir Abdul Ahad Mirzad, the former editor of domestic news of Bakhtar News Agency, the regime was giving out false news from Afghanistan's radio and TV network.
          Mr. Mirzad defected from Kabul and sought refuge in Peshawar, along with his family, at the end of May. Mirzad said:
          "A new military news department has been set up in Bakhtar News Agency and which receives news directly from the Defence Ministry.
          "While the news about the Jalalabad battle are sent by the Information office of the Presidency who in turn receive the battle-field reports from thfe desks of the army generals in Jalalabad.
          "More than 60% of the news given out by the regime media are only of propagandists value. For example Mujahideen casualties are shown very high while those of the regime very low.
          "Once when a supply convoy arrived in Kabul via the Salang highway, our correspondent reported 50 trucks, 12 of which were destroyed on the way by Mujahideen. But Khad reported that 500 trucks had arrived unharmed. During the Jalalabad fighting our correspondent • reported 80 Mujahideen casualties, but the Information office of the Presidency informed us that 250 Mujahideen had been killed .
                            -19
A.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       "The regime also puts up news about armed Mujahideen defecting to regime ranks. More than 90% of such news are sheer propaganda and untrue. When 8 Mujahideen defected in Shakardara, the regime gave the number of defectors as 80.
       "About several months ago, the regime directed us to send our reporters to cover a ceremony for a group of 100-defecting Mujahideen in the Charasiab district of Kabul. When our reporter reached the venue, he found out that in fact they were regime militia impersonating Mujahideen.
       "The Ministry of Information, and the propaganda machinery of Bakhtar News Agency, radio and television networks are all in control of the Parchamis. When a Khalqi high-ranking official pays a visit , his activities are hardly given any coverage, but the activities of Parchamis are given extensive coverage as a result the Khalqi members are complaining about this bias
       "Sometimes, the regime news media also report about the tribal and provincial councils of different regions meeting with Najib. MdSt of these news items are false or the members of these councils are regime loyalists who are residing in Kabul. These are the people who cannot go back to their respective districts and provinces because of fear of retaliatory action from the people."
                   * * * * *
                       -20-
                    DR. LODIN ASSASSINATED
        Dr. Mohammad Naseem Lodin, the head of Health & Social Assistance Programme for Afghans and a former assistant professor at the Ningarhar Medical College, was assassinated on June 7 in-Peshawar. He was killed by some unknown persons with kalashnikov fire as he stepped down from his car in front of his house .
        The police later apprehended two persons but their identities were so far not disclosed.
        The murder of Dr. Lodin brings to the fore the murders of other numerous Afghan intellectuals in the past, including that of Janat Khan Gharwal, Azizur Rahman Ulfat and Prof. Sayed Bahauddin Majrooh, whose kil,lers have never been caught and their murders remain a mystery till this day.
        Dr. Lodin was born in 1950 in the Surkh Rud district of Ningarhar province. A graduate of Ningarhar Medical College, he later joined the college as a member of its teaching staff.
        During the later years of the democracy phase(1963-1973) in Afghanistan, Dr. Lodin become popular among the university and intellectual circles of the country by being imprisoned several times for his political activities.
        After the Saur coup (Apr' 1 1978), Lodin was thrown into the Pul-e-Charkhi prisan by the communist regime. He sought refuge in Pakistan shortly after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        In Pakistan, Dr. Lodin established the Health & Social Assistance programme for Afghans through which he extended help and assistance to Afghan widows, orphans, and other refugees in need.
        Lately, his organisation had started helping people inside Afghanistan by extending his humanitarian programmes to Kunar and Ningarhar provinces.
                     * * * * *
                       -22-
                            HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
          The AIC interviewed several personnel of MADERA and Freedom Medicine, two humanitarian aid agencies whose commendable work has brought much-needed relief and succour to many people in Afghanistan.
          (1) : We interviewed Eng. Farouq and Eng. Ghulam Nabi, two Afghan engineers working with the French aid agency MADERA:
          "This agency has been active in Kunar province since 1985 and in Laghman province since 1987. It's sphere of activities involve agriculture and animal husbandry projects in the two provinces.
          "In the sphere of animal husbandry, it has launched both preventive and curative measures for increasing the livestock population in Kunar and Laghman.
          "In the sphere of agriculture it has provided superior hybrid seeds and is helping the population in clearing away all existing blocked water and irrigation channels and culverts.
          "In 1985 in Kunar province, MADERA extended help to 550 families by vaccinating and treating 8750 of their livestock and providing 20 tons of advanced varieties of wheat and corn seeds.
          "While in 1988, we extended help to 8500 families in both Kunar and Laghman provinces by providing 100 tons of seeds and treating and vaccinating 166,000 livestock.
23-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      "For the current year, our programme target is 16,000 families and the distribution of over 200 tons of seeds,
      "It is due to these programmes that the livestock population in the two provinces has now stabilised and is expected to increase in the coming years
      "Previously we were facing great difficulties in transferring seeds and other materials to the required locations but now that problem has somewhat decreased due to the building of new roads.
      "The Mujahideen of all organisations are helping us in implementing these programmes. The French government and many other European countries are extending assistance, while in the current year the United Nations has also started helping our projects.
      "There are around 80 Afghan personnel working with MADERA in Peshawar and Afghanistan. Among them are veterinary doctors and surgeons, nurses, agronomists and other experts in agriculture.
      "These experts hold regular courses in agriculture and livestock breeding. On completion of these courses, the new graduates are sent to Afghanistan to train the local people to look after their own agricultural and livestock-breeding projects.
      "In Laghman province, where we started our activities in 1987, we already have a clinic where one doctor, 10 vet assistants and one vaccinator are working.
      "One of the problems we are facing in the agricultural sector is the lack of chemical fertilisers. Despite that, we hope to get a yield of 30 tons of grain for each ton of seeds.
                      -24-
No 99
Ninth Year
June 1989
           "Another perhaps bigger problem that we are facing in the reconstruction programmes of the two provinces is the presence of mines and the aerial bombing which invariably takes place two-three-times per week."
           (2): Mohammadullah, a worker of Freedom Medicine, also talked to the AIC in Peshawar:
           "Freedom Medicine is a non-governmental humanitarian agency that mostly extends emergency and first-aid services to the war-wounded. It also holds regularly six-months training courses for Afghans in emergency and first-aid services, and who are then sent to different regions inside Afghanistan.
           "Recently I was sent to Logar and Wardak provinces for survey and supervision purposes. In Logar, Freedom Medicine has 8 clinics, in Wardak 12 clinics and in its adjacent province of Bamian 15 clinics.
           "Most of the areas I visited were either partially or completely devasted. Whole villages lay in ruins, karez and irrigation channels destroyed and_ in many places the land had turned marshy.
           "But I could also see people rebuilding their houses, farms and irrigation systems in the areas under Mujahideen control. But peace is still eluding these areas, especially Logar, where regime aircrafts were making frequent bombing runs against civilian targets because it had become the main route of escape for the people of Kabul.
           "Most of Wardak province has been liberated and only Maidan Shaher,the provincial capital, was in regime hands. Some humanitarian agencies were also helping people in Wardak province in rebuilding their farms and irrigation systems.
                               -25-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
         "In Wardak there are two hospitals which has both x-ray and other laboratory facilities.
         "The most common diseases encountered in Wardak and Logar provinces are malaria, dysenteries, tuberculosis, pneumonias and mal-nutrition.
         "A great number of patients brought to Freedom Medicine clinics .were either victims of anti-personnel mines or air bombing."
                          SUFISM AND THE MODERN WORUD
          A woman, who had spent her life as a beggar, died. Someone saw her in his dream and asked:
          -What happend to you in the other world?
          -I was asked, she said, what have I brought and I said that all my life when I was going from door to door begging, I was always referred to this door and was told that God would give. And now you ask me to give you ■something?
          Then a Voice from Above came and Said:
          -She is right. Let her through.
                                      * * *
          Someone saw Bayezid Bistami, the. greatest Sufi master, in a dream after his death and asked:
          -Gaeat master! tell me how you were received in the other world?
          - I was*asked, said Bistami, what I had brought and my answer was: "A poor traveller coming to the gate of a king's palace is never asked what he has brought to give, but what he wishes to be given."