       * 1 1A
jfl^FGHAN
             INFORMATION
           QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
No. 109          Ninth  Year          April 1990
Photo; ( A.M.R.C )
              The aims of AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE are:
   1.     To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the bases of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country itself.
   2.     To make this information available in the form of articles news, bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to:
        (a)   International news media
        (b)   Individuals, international private and public organisations interested
              in events in Afghanistan
                 ¥
   The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organization and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
        The Afghan Information Centre in non-profit organization. In order to fulfil its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it dose not compromise in any way its independence.
  Founder       :  Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh
  Editor        : Sayed Naim Majrooh
Annual Subscription Institutions            : US$    100
Individuals              : US$     70
or equivalent Pakistan Rupe
Bank Account No. 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar - Pakistan
  THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CASE COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
Office : 18 E, SJ. Afghani Road University Town. Peshawar Phone: 40953 Postal Add.: GPO Box 228, Peshawar - Pakistan
                   AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
                      Monthly Bulletin
        no. 109          April 1990
  CONSENTS:
  I     . NAIM ON AFGHANISTAN IN NORWAY                1
  II    . TERROR IN PESHAWAR
            -  Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada killed         3
            -  Afghan Melat leader killed -Haji Maghash died
  III    . VIEWS ON MARCH COUP                         10
            -  Interview with a pilot
            -  Interview with a police officer
            -  Interview with university student
  IV     .  AFGHAN REFUGEES ON REHABILITATION            17
                                              /•
  V      .  SITUATION IN NORTHERN   AFGHANISTAN          21
  VI     .  ELECTION IN RUNAR                            23
  VII    .  MILITARY NEWS                                26
                                 *** *** ***
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                          NAIM CN AFGHANISTAN IN NORWAY
      On March 21 (the first day of the Afghan year), conferences, seminars and press conferences were held by the Norwegian Afghanistan Committee to mark "Solidairty Week with Afghanistan."
      Naim Majrooh, director of AIC, was invited to these meetings to inform the participants of the new developments in Afghanistan. The Centre prepared the following report of his presentation.
      "Besides a press conference for state radio, TV and media, I attended seminars held in Bergen University, Peace Research Institute, NURAD Club and PEN Club. I answered questions from the participants.
      "I talked about the current situation in Afghanistan in the meeting held by the PEN Club in the centre of the Noble Peace Committee. It was surprising that Mikhail Gorbachev was considered as a candidate for the Noble Prize by the committee. I outlined for the participants the double standard policy of Gorbachev who on the One hand supports movements of democracy and freedom -and on the other militarily supports the communist regime. I said:" The Soviets arm the degraded regime with destructive weapons, such as SCUD and OREGAN, which results in the death of civilians. The AIC is prepared to introduce the survivors of civilian massacres committed during the Gorbachev era to the committee. This will show clearly the fact that severe atrocities have been committed against the civilian population during the period of the new Soviet leadership. The heroic nation of Afghanistan was caught between the war front of the mujahideen and the ' civilians. If the
1
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
resistance of the Afghan people had been defeated, would the collapse of the Berlin Wail have been possible? Would anyone have dared execute Caesescu ?
      " Trade Unions came into existence in Eastern Europd and other countries of the Soviet bloc. Anti-Kremlin demonstrations, strikes and covert and overt activities were conducted, but no subjected nation offered a sacrifice for their rights. Liberation from the Kremlin's colonialism needed sacrifice, and the Afghans, by offering a sacrifice of more than one million people and a vast part of the country forced the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan. We are still the victims of this war, while the people of Eastern Europe are eating the fruit of the Afghan sacrifice. We have been lost in oblivion today, and we want to be a free country. However, it does not mean that we should come under the influence of some other country, ^obody lets the Afghans utilise the heroism they have achieved.’ We are still victims of foreign, interference and do not know when this will end.
      "As an Af^nan, I am not opposed to the suggestion that- Gorbachov should ‘be awarded the Noble Prize. However, I add that this prize is so great that its holder should ensure peace in the world. If awarding this prize encourages Gorbachov- to ensure peace in Afghanistan and other countries, I favour it as ar) Afghan. It will be a honour for the Committee to let a war-torn nation live in peace."
                                 ♦
                                   ***            Itlfk            kkk
                           2
                               TERROR IN PESHAWAR
 Maulawi Nasim Akhundzadah killed
      Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada, general commander of Harakat (Maulawi Mohammadi) in the provinces of Helmand, Kandahar and Uruzgan, was killed along with five group commanders in the area of Cherat, 25 km east of Peshawar city.
      Hie commander, who was the Deputy Minister of Defence in the Afghan Interim Government, led some 18,000 armed mujahideen inside Afghanistan.
      An.AIC correspondent contacted the deputy leader of Harakat, who, in his interview, gave the following information about the incident:
      There was a meeting of the notable commanders of the Afghan Interim Government in Peshawar on March 25. Having attended the meeting, the commander left for the Harakat base at Cherat at 2 p.m. However, armed persons attacked his car with automatic weapons1. When Harakat 's security personnel heard the sound of fire, they proceeded <-o the site of the incident, where they did not see the assailants but found the commander and his mujahids deed on the spot. At once, orders were issued to all security personnel to arrest the killers. After one hour one killer, Allah Noor s/o Khudaidad and resident of Helmand was arrested and sent to the base for interrogation.
                                   3
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The killer said that he was one of 20 persons who had been assigned the task to kill Nasim Akhundzada whether in Peshawar or Quetta. He said:
      "For that reason, we left Quetta and followed the commander for ten days in Peshawar. Finally, it was decided that four commanders should implement the plan under the command of Talib. I (Allah Noor), along with Gul Hassan, Fida Mohammad and Talib (who drove our vehicle) went to Cherat. At 2:25 we opened fire on the vehicle of Nasim Akhundzada, but Talib fled in th vehicle. Those who had assigned the task to us gave us Rs. 10,600,000. We (the 20 people) had been offered Rs. 80,000,000 after the death of the commander. I was arrested, but the rest fled the area."
      The deputy leader of Harakat said .that his organisation tried to transfer the bodies of the dead commander and his group commanders on the same date. The following day, they were transferred to Helmand via Quetta in a vehicular convoy which was joined by a large number of mujahideen. It was the first time such a large number of mujahideen attended the funeral ceremonies of a martyred commander. On March 28, the bodies of the commander and his group commanders were laid to rest in the village of Musa Qala (Helmand province), a place where the commander had been bom, studied, started jehad and established a strong base.
      Concerning * the operations of the commander, the deputy leader of Harakat said that Maulavi Nasim Akhundza- .a began jehad with the April coup of 1978. He continued jehad for eleven years.       He was the last
 commander of Afghanistan whose base was not captured either by the Russians or the Kabul regime. Some 18,000 mujahideen fought against the Russians and the Kabul regime under his command. He established an Islamic council in Helmand which decided all cases in compliance with the Sharia . Such an organization has enabled the
                                    4
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
 commander to fully eliminate all kinds of criminal acts in the province. The commander, apart from his jehad activity, had performed other tasks in the public interest such as building hospitals, schools, madrassas, and houses. He had around 4,000 students in Helmand. The power station at Kajaki was operated under his administration. His activity proved most effective when mujahidneen faced problems in their movement in the areas of Hazarajat. In fact, he has opened a path of peace and tranquility for the mujahideen of south-western and northern Afghanistan.
      While pointing out the involvement of the commnder in poppy cultivation as propagated by the world mass media, especially the BBC, he said:
      "It is a fact that poppy is cultivated in the areas where the central government enjoys no authority and where agricultural land is scarce. However, the commander had forbidden poppy cultivation for a year in the area uner his influence. It is regretful that a religious scholar and a well known commander of mujahideen is accused of acts which are forbidden in the Holy Quran Such acts are committed consciously or uncosciously. Those who commit such acts consciously are the identified enemies of the freedom of Afghanistan and the religion of Islam. There are alsopeople who have sold the national wealth of Afghanistan. Some world media have joined such anti-Islamic and anti-Afghan campaigns.
      There might be some people who are not attentive to their daily actions and become a tool in propagating against a religious scholar of Afghanistan and a hero of the Afghan war in order to please their masters. It is a distortion of the facts. Time will shew who had a hand in the conspiracy of the killing of Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada, but we regard as a disgrace the propaganda against such a mujahid of the Islamic jehad' of Afghanistan who took his last step on the way of jehad.
5
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     According to the deputy leader, Maulawi Nasir Akhundzada was a person who waged jehad for 12 years against Russian imperialism and its puppet regime. The Russians conducted seven operations against him, and he carried out several operations against the Russians. He not only survived throughout these operations, but was killed in place which consolidated jehad in Afghanistan. The agents of Russia and the West may try to distort the personality of the commander, but the religious scholars, mujhideen, civilins, refugees and conscious people should be aware of of the fact that Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada was an honest Afghan, a brave Muslim and a pioneer of the jehad front. He did not bow to any foreign power being full of Islamic and Afghan pride. This led to his assassination and this will give him an individual place in the history of Afghanistan.
 Afghan Melat Deader Killed
      Dr. Saadat Shagiwal, a member of the supreme council of the Afghan Social Democratic Party (Afghan Melat) and the head of the Afghan Aid Association, was killed by armed men near University Town in Peshawar on March 27.
      The late Dr. Shagiwal was on hiis way to his clinic when some armed men opened fire on him with pistols. He died on the spot.
      His funeral ceremonies were atteneded the, same day by a number of mujahideen, tribal elders, refugees and locals in Spina Warai. Dr. Sayed Ghulam Farqouq Miranai read out the biography of the deceased.
                    •
      His body was transfered to his native graveyard in
      Yasin Baba Ziarat, Kuz Kunar, Ningrahar Province.
                              6
No. 103
Ninth Year
April 1990
      Dr. Shagiwal was bom in 1951 in the village of Shaga (Kuz Kunar district, Nigrahar province). He graduated from Ningrahar Medical College in 1976 having joined the Afghan Melat party in 1969. After the April of 1978, he was imprisoned twice by the Kabul regime before leaving for Pakistan in 1982. He was an active member of the Society of Afghan Doctors in Peshawar. He founded the Afghan Aid Association in 1987 with which he collaborated until his last breath.
      On April 5, the Afghan Social Democratic Party held fateha for the late doctor in Spin Jumat. The fateha was attended by hundreds of refugees, mujahideen and Pakistani tribals. After fateha, the party organised a demonstration that moved towards the office of the UNHCR. The demnstrators were carrying placards with slogans "Death    to  terrorism,"          "Death to the enemies of
 Afghanistan and Afghans", "Death to the enemies of peace", "Death of the enemies of humanity", "We want the killers of Shagiwal", "Allah-o-Akbar".
      The demonstration was addressed by Dr. Sayed Farouq Miranai and the secretary-general of the party Stana Gul Sherzad. The speakers shed light on the struggle of the late doctor. They warned that they would never compromise on the territorial integrity, national sovreignty and Islamic   government in         Afghanistan. They   said that
 Pakistan is   obliged to       maintain the safety of Afghan
 refugees and   that they had brought to the        notice of
 Pakistani authorities the killing of Afghan intellectuals, mujahideen commanders and national personalities but not a single terrorist has been arrested so far. . They warned that such terrorist activities would have dire consequences and the responsibility would lie upon the terrorists and their supporters.
     The demonstrators gave a memorandum to UNHCR.

AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      In an open letter addressed to the president and the prime minister of Pakistan, the Afghan Social Democratic Party said that many of its party members had been kidnapped and killed since its members sought refuge in Pakistan. It says that the government of Pakistan is responsible to see that all Afghns are treated equally and to protect their lives. The Pakistani authorities should arrest the killers and their supporters and prosecute them. If the terrorists were not stopped from carrying out these killings, the Afghans would search for a third country to live in. The party called upon Pakistan and all peace loving nations to assist Afghans in finding a comprehensive solution to the Afghan crisis so that peace could be achieved in Afghanistan.
 Haji Majhadi died
      Haji Maghash, a well known commander of Jabha (Prof. Mujadeddi) in Kandahar and a strong supporter of King Zahir Shah, died of heart attack at the age of 60 in Quetta on April 19.
      Haji Maghash, whose xue name was Haji Gharib Shah, had bom in the district of Spin Boldak. He was a recognised elder of the Achakzai tribe. He started his jehad in 1978, and was imprisoned three times prior to the Soviet invsion of Afghanistan.
      Haji Maghash was known as 'the Star of Jehad'. He was also known, as the motivating force for peace in the jehad; he stopped many armed clashes between the mujahideen; he led many tribes to unity and peace in his area. He worked for a free, independent Afghanistan. It was his sole wish that an elected government be established in Islamic Afghanistan.
                               8
No. 109
Ninth Vear          April 1990
      He was one of the commanders who had been invited to the Consultative Council in Rawalpindi in February 1989. Haji Maghash, in the sessions of the Council, raised his voice against the imposed distatorship of Afghanistan and said that a Loya Jirgah (Grand Assembly) should be held in compliance with the historical tradition of Afghanisan to restore peace and form an Islamic government in that country. He also added that all strata of Afghan society, including King Zaher Shah, should attend such a jirgah. For that reason, he was kept in prison for three days. He voiced his protest again when he was released after thee days. He then boycotted the sessions and went to Afghanistan for jehad.
                  *** *** ***
                                   9
                              VIEWS CN MARCH COOP
      Commander Mousa Khan of Ghazni province says that Gen. Tanai was a conmander for 12 years against the mujahideen.How is it possible for him now to join the mujahideen and work in the interest of Islam? It is a blatant trick. He has been given the task by the Rusians to cultivate seeds of dissention among the mujahideen. But the mujahideen will not be deceived by Tanai and will never consider him as a friend of the Jehad.

      Zabet Sayed Mohammad, a headmaster, remarks hew strange it is for a Khalqi or Parchami to collaborate with the mujahideen. The differences between Tanai and Najib are due to power. If Tanai had wanted to collaborate with the mujahideen, he should have fought against Najib in a mujahideen front. Why did he come to Pakistan? No military unit joined the mujahideen during his coup attenpt in March. This shows clearly that he is still opposed to the mujahideen. He should oe tried in a court for his deeds during the past 12 years.
                       • *** ***
      Commander Maulawi Hafizul Haq of Kabul says that the mujahidneen would have fought against the Tanai-Gulbuddin coup, if it had succeeded. Hie Resistance did not have weapons at the beginnng of jehad and they would have
                              10
            AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
fought against Tanai and Gulbuddin until the formation of an Islamic Government even if they did not receive further support.
                                     *** ***
     Commander Maulawi Faqir claimed that he could never support Tanai, because there is no difference between him and Najib. Tanai          fought for 12 years
against the mujahideen. He is a comnunist.        Maulawi
Faqir intends to continue jihad against those who support or defend Tanai.
                                     *** ***
     Malik Sardar Khan says that Tanai's coup shews the weakness of the regime. It is in the interest of the mujahideen to some extent, but it does not mean that the Resistance should form a government with Tanai. It is ur .slamic to form a government with some one whose hands aue red with blood. He should be tried. The mujahideen cure well aware of the fact that the Russians assigned him the task of creating dissention among the mujahideen in this way.
                                     *** ***
     Maj. Ibrahim says that Tanai became a general after only ten years, because he killed and inprisoned innumerable mujahideen and civilians. These 'services' enabled him to become Minister of Defence. He was one of the most trusted members of the Party. It is surprising that he stands beside the mujahideen and wants to topple
                                II
No. 109
April 1990
Ninth Year
 Najib in Kabul. He should not dream or uemy a minister in a future arrangement because the Resistance cannot accept a cormunist party in Afghanistan.
                                                •** ***
     Mamur Ghulam Sarwar thinks that no government in in the name of a particular party is possible             in
 Afghanistan becuase the people of Afghanistan hate the parties. Under different guises these parties deceive the people Plow is it possible for the mujahideen to trust Tanai who has devoured the blood of the people as Minister for Defence for the past several years. There can be no agreement between the communists and the Muslims. He is a cormunist.
 Interview with a regime pilot
      Maj. Bakht Jamal, a pilot of the-regime air force, arrived recently in Peshawar along with his brother, Capt. Rahiratullah.
      The pilot said that he did not knew about the coup when he received orders from the air force chief to fly to Bagram. He only understood what was happening when he was ordered whilst flying to bombard-the presidential palace. Then he conducted seven flights through which he bombed Qargha, Bagh-e-Daoud, Kabul airport and Oregan in Karta-e-Parwan.
      Twenty-five fighters, all flying from Bagram, participated in the coup attempt.
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     According to Jamal, Bagram was shelled by regime' supporters with SCUDS and OREGANS. On the second day of the coup, it was made inoperational and captured by pro-Najib troops. Jamal thought that twenty planes, were destroyed in the coup atterrpt. He himself saw seven planes explode in Bagram.
     Jamal said that he was arrested and sent to the air force KHAD where his brother. Col. Rahmatullah planned his escape.
     Col. Rahmatullah, brother of Maj. Bakht Jamal and deputy director of air force KHAD, said that KHAD knew about the coup, but its exact date was unknown.
     He sid that on March 4, in a secret meeting of KHAD, it was disclosed that Gen. Tanai was going to stage a coup along with his supporters in the air force. All agents were assigned the task to arrest the supporters of Tanai during the coup.
     The former deputy chief of the air force KHAD said that 2,000 soldiers and 100 civilians wei;e killed and hundreds of them wounded in the coup „atterrpt. He also claimed that 5,000 people were arrested by the regime before his defection t the mujahideen.
•*•** ***
Interview with a police officer
     A police officer, who has recently arrived in Peshawar , says that the differences between Tanai and
                         AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTER ~ Monthly Bulletin
 Na j ib which resulted in the abortive coup have created instability in the different factions of Khalq and Parcham,
      The officer did not disclose his name to the AIC, because his family is still in Kabul. He said that on the first day of the coup attempt, the citizens of Kabul were engulfed in a state of terror. An aircraft dropped bombs shaking the whole city.       Bombs caused  many losses in
 Jada-e-Mandawi, Pul-e-Khishti and the presidential palace. The Bagram airbase was damaged in an air bombardment. People said that the aircraft ‘flew either from Dehdadi airbase (Mazar) or Tashkent (USSR). The militiamen of Rashid Dustam and Gelam Jam (most of whom are Uzbeks) along with the Hazara members of Khad-e-Panj played an effective role in favour of Najib. The city remained in a state of terror for a week. Finally, supporters of Najib stationed tanks and APCs in all parts of the city and thus the situation returned to normal.
      According to the officer, Najib removed all pro-Tanai and pro-Zarghun (a Khosti Marxist who was killed by Amin) officers from civil and military posts. Najib kept some powerless Khalqis in the government. Though the coup attenpt resulted in militay losses for Najib, it provided him with the opportunity to remove his opponents Who had been constant pressure on him.
      The officer said, "The citizens of Kabul are secretly opposed to the regime. They wish to eat and drink in peace and security. Food was- comparatively abundant this year, but prices were higher than peoples' income. Except for members of KHAD, Special Guard, the party and Gelam Jam, the remainder live in distressed conditions. ‘Malnutrition is common. There are people who cannot eat meat in six months."
      Following is a list of prices in Kabul in April
 1990:
                              14
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
Wheat Flour         /7 kgs. 1,000-1,200 Af 
Onion               /7 kgs. 1,000          
Sugar               H kgs.  3,000-3,500    
Rice (high quality) /7 kgs.          2,500 
Rice (lew quality)  H kgs.           1,800 
Beef                /kg.             1,200 
Mutton              /kg.             1,350 
Green Tea           /kg.             2,200 
Tetoron Cloth       /metre  1,000          
Egg                 /piece              50 
Edible Oil          /cane   7,000-7,900    
Potatoes            /kgs.              300 
Interview with a student of Kabul University
      On April 2, an AIC correspondent conducted an interview with a student of Kabul University who has recently fled to Pakistan.
      According to the student, a limited number, of students leave their houses and attend classes in the university. When their classes end they return home directly on security grounds. In the past, university students roamed in the cairpus of the University and amused themselves by having tea in the cafeteria of the univeristy. However, such entertaiment is no longer possible due to the scarcity of food and unstable security conditions.
      Regarding the coup atte of March 6 by Gen. Shah Nawaz Tanai (former Defence Minister), the student said:
      "Had the coup been successful, it would have rescued us from several years of miserey. As the arrest of the Khalqis and other suspected people is increasing day be d y, the students could not talk about relevant matters due to the fear of arrest."
                            15
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
     About the facilities of transport in the city, the student says that shortage of oil has created problems. Oil is only available for government vehicles, especially military and KHAD vehicles. Taxis which charged a fare of Afs. 200 from one point to another in the city now charge Afs. 600. The regime has started reducing the number of vehicles which transport government enployees and these facilities may cease after some weeks
     Asked what were the targets of the rebel aircraft during the recent coup attempt in Kabul, the student said that one bomb hit the area of Jada-e-Maiwand, destroying one apartment. The bomb was so strong that it drew water from the ground. The rebels dropped one bomb on the Pul-e-Khishti mosque and had many casulties. Some bombs hit Charahi-e-Pashtunistan which resulted in the killing of civilians. Two bombs were dropped on the River Kabul and another in Nazir Akbar Khan Mena on the house of Khair Bakhsh Murree, the self-exiled Baluch leader of Pakistan. The air bombardment destroyed the palace on the hill of Tajbeg and the headquarters of Riasat-e-Panj of KHAD. The historical palace of Darul Amen, which was built by King Amanullah, was destroyed; dead bodies of 120 officers and soldiers were taken out of the debris after three days. The rebels also dropped several bombs on the presidential palace, where innunberable soldiers ad offioers were killed.
     Between 350 and 400 civilians and around 4,000 military personnel were killed in the coup of March 6, the student said.
                                                                                 ***
*** ***
                              16
                        AFGHANS REFUGEES CN REHABILITATION
      A number of Afghans have expressed their opinion about the rehabilitation of refugees in Afghanistan. Here are some of them:
      Haji Atta Mohammad, a resident of Nahr-e-Shahi district (Balkh province), said that he began jehad for the sake of Islam and the freedom of the country. He lost 14 members of his family during the period of Taraki and Amin. He left his property and reached Pakistan with much difficulty. He has suffered many hardships during eight years of refuge in Pakistan due to the Soviet presence ir, Afghanistan. He said:
      "Unfortunately, we are moving towards dissention and disunity. If the mujahideen end their hostilities in our area and the regime stops bombardments, our tribe (about several hundred families) will not continue to suffer the hot air of summer and the cold season of winter in a foreign      country.            We, however, suggest that
organisations working for refugees should launch rehabilitation programmes enabling the reugees to return to their homeland. Ninety-five percent of the money for rehabilitation has been wasted during the past two years. Some organisations have created dissention and differences between various tribes."
      Sayed Ibrahim, Israel, Wazir, Marki Khan and Fazal Rahim, residents of Mazar, talked about the return of refugees to the country. They individually pointed out the sacrifices they have offered for the sake of jehad in the country. They said that it was sad that they could notbenefit from the sacrifices due to lack of harmony and unity among resistance groups. Nobody thought that the
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Russians would withdraw from Afghanistan. The strong resistance of the valiant people of Afghanistan has not only forced them to withdraw from Afghanisntan but also inspired the people of Eastern Europe to struggle for their freedom. They said:
      "We left the country to fight for freedom. We did not free it. Foreign interference created differences and splits among us and killed our spirit of patriotism. We call on the friends of Afghan jehad to prepare the way for our repatriation with honour. Our security should be ensured, an Interim Government acceptable to the majority of Afghans should be established and the ground prepared for general elections. Neither side keeps its word.       Inter-mujahideen differences and regime
 intereference will cause difficulty for the people.
      "As a first step, programmes for the repair of houses should be launched along with .agricultural assistance and the construction of canals, karezes and dams. Mines should be cleared and schools, roads, and ospitals should be built. Friends of Afghanistan should bear these expenses. We will then be prepaed to return to the country. International aid should be distributed to deserving Afghans. The distribtion to refugees here is not satisfactory. Occasionally we have received edible and kerosene oil, but we do not see dates, quilts, tents, etc. The ration is only enm^gh for a week. There are refugees in the camps who cannot buy a pair of shoes in a year, and cannot eat meat in a month.
 Interview with Dr. Gul Hussain
      Dr. Gul Hussai, who has recently arrived from Kandahar to Peshawar, held an interview with AIC regarding Kandahar and Baluchistan. He said:
                               18
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
      "The refugees from the westen provinces of Afghanistan in Baluchistan are prepared to welcome the programme of Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan and return to their homeland in safety and security. This is subject to guarantees that the regime will not pressurise than with bombardments. . They are also afraid of intermujahideen differences. Though they have adopted some professions, they are not keen to prolong their life here any longer. Except for some rich members of organisations, the remainder will not continue to live here if their rations cure stopped. After the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the refugees of Sangsar (Maiwand district) have returned to their village. Hunderds of refugees families have left Baluchistan for their dwellings inside Afghanistan. Very few families have sought refuge in Baluchistan this year.
      The doctor said that the refugees looked with displeasure at the organisaions. They did not attach any importance to the Afghan Interim Government. They also detested Shahnawaz Tanai, because they consider him as a killer of Afghan people. They said that soldiers and militiamen are killed but their cormunist leaders are supported here.
      According to Gul Hussain, many commanders do not want to shell Kandahar city. There are others who-have offered sacrifices during the past 12 years, but the lack of a united objective has disappointed them. One such example is Hamid Agha.
      The residents of the western provinces of Afghanisntan in Baluchistan consider the traditional system of jirga as the only solution to the Afghan problem. They say that such a jirga should be attended by tribal elders, intellectuals, clergy and mujahideen. They are highly interested in the former monarch Zahir Shah. They cue angry over the death of Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada and consider it an unreparable loss to the country.
                              19
     AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
because he inflicted heavy losses on the enemy during the long years of the war.
     The doctor says that the mujahideen occasionaly shell . Kandahar city with rockets which mostly hit the airport. The mujahideen control 6th Ward inside the city, but the regime has posts in the districts of Maiwand (20 km west) and Aman (15 km east of the city).
     Regarding medical facilities in Kandahar, Dr. Gul Hussain said that the Swedes and the Arabs have established clinics in Arghandab, Mohalajat and Dand which do not meet the needs of the areas. An hospital has been started in Arghandab by the UN with Afghan staff. Another hospital is being planned in Panjwaii district. Rheumatism, stomach problems, T.B., small pox and some skin diseases were common this year.
     Illiteracy is common in Kandahar due to the lack of any education program for the region.
     No effective program of reconstruction exists in the province. Work on roads and karezes has remained incomplete in many areas due to lack of a central authority.
                                 *** *** ***
                               20
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
                         SITUATION IN NORTHERN AFGHANISTA (Interview with Ghulam Rabani)
      Ghulam Rabani paid a six-month trip to Panjsher, Andarab, Nahrin, Ishkamish, Takhar and Farkhar. He gave the following account of his trip:
      There was peace in Panjsher fighting continued only in Jabal Saraj. There were schools and medical facilities for the people in the valley though shortage of food was a problem for the residents.
      In Andarab, clashes continued between Jamiat (Prof. Rabani) and Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar). The regime was present in Khenjan. Cultivation of lands continues by the limited number of people who have not left the area. There are no schools and clinics in the area*
      The suporters of Sayed Kayan have established posts on the Salang highway. He has links both with the mujahideen and the regime. Clashes have occurred between Jamiat and Hezb in Baghlan. Hie situation was normal in Nahrin. The regime did not bombard the area which was controled by the mujahiden. Hie residents received their food and other basic items from northern provinces, especially Mazar. There were schools and clinics. Wheat was cheaper than in other areas.
      Agricultural activity continued in the liberated area of Ishkamish. Itehad-e-Islami (Prof. Sayaf) and Jamiat (Prof. Rabani) enjoy inluence in the area. Food is available. Except for the district of Khwaja Ghar, the remaining area was controlled by the mujahideen. There was no inter-mujahideen problems in the area . Hie six mujahideen organisations enjoyed unified influence in- the province.
                        AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The district of Farkhar was controlled by the mujahideen of Jamiat. Food was available, and the prices of consumer goods were satisfactory. There were schools and clinics in the area. The people were confronted with a lack of medicine. The mujahideen continue their operations against regime positions in Khwaja Ghar district.
      Regime troops are based in Mehtar Lam, the provincial centre of Laghman. The regime has established posts on the road between the centre and Surkhakan. Limited operations continued on the regime by the mujahideen. There were severe differences among the mujahideen of the province; fighting was continuing between Harakat (Mohammadi) and Hezb (Hekmatyar). Prices of consumer goods were high in Laghman. The mujahideen of Laghman disfavoured the coup atteirpt by Gen. Tanai.
      Generally, the residents of all areas were concerned about the siuation in the country. The people longed for peace and thus enjoyed good relations with the mujahideen.
      The Supervisory Council has established educational institutions in Chaman and Farkhar. The council is dominated by the mujahideen of Jamiat. In Taluqan, the council was also represented by other organisations excluding Hezb.
      Following were prices of consumer goods in northern provinces:
Wheat      Hkgs.   700 Afs 
Rice     /7 kgs. 1,800   n 
Beef      /kg.     250   n 
Mutton .  /kg.     500  •t 
                                *** **• ***
                            22
                  EJECTIONS IN KUNAR
      The AIC, in its March issue, published a detailed report on the elections held in Kunar by Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and the Salafi organisation of Maulawi Hussain (Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman). The result of the elections was kept secret for a long tine by each organisation.      Each organisation talked about its own
 victory and rejected the claims of the other.
      In this regard, a resident of Kunar who resides in Chitral, described the recent developments in that province as follows:
      The Hezb-e-Islami and the Wahabis agreed to hold elections on an unknown date in opposition to the Afghan Interim Government (AIG). Both sides endeavoured to attract people through money and propaganda.
      People from other provinces voted in favour of Hezb-e-Islami. Jamat-e-Islami of Pakistan used all its resources in favur of Hezb-e-Islami. In this connecion, Pakistani residents of Arandu and Drosh cast their votes in favour of Hezb-e-Islami for money.
      Elections were demonstrative in the canps of Kalkatak and Sheedi in Chitral. There was no order during the elections in Chitral and inside Kunar. A person could cast his vote in three and four polling stations. When elections were conpleted in Kaltak Carrp, several vehicles picked up the people and took them to Nari sub-district inside Afghanistan.
      It appeared that the Wahabis obtained more votes than Hezb- e -Island. Even in Kamdesh, which is known as
                            23
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 the base of Hezb-e-Islami, the party remained in a minority. Many residents of Kunar did not take an interest in the elections.- Between 25 and 30 percent people might have taken part.
      Both sides spent large amounts of money on the election canpaign. Both sides had agreed that they would jointly bear the expenses of the elections, but differences emerged when members of the organisations asked their organisations to give them money. This angered many commnders. These differences were further deepened when each organisation claimed that it enjoyed a majority. These differences enabled the AIG to send its governor to Kunar who had previously been taken out of the area when the two organisations were on good terms with each other.
      At present, there are three governors in Kunar: The governor of the AIG (Mohammad Ali Rahmani) who is based in Kerala; the governor of the Wahabis in Chaghaserai (the provincial centre of Kunar) and the governor of Hezb-e-Islami (MaUlawi Faqirullah) who is based in a comer of Chaghassarai.
      The governor of the AIG is trying to extend his influence in the ara through money. A 60-man council (10 from each organisation) has been set up; each member receives a large amount of money. Each of these members has recruited 25 men for security purposes with a monthly salary of Rs. 1,300. The Wahabis paid Rs. 800 to such security personnel. The AIG has established a checkpoint on the Nawa Pass for the security of its goods to Kunar.
      The naturl resources are exploited in Kunar. The Arabs have distributed more than 40 million Pakistani rupees to a limited number of people to cut forests. The deforestaion has led to clashes in the provinces *. Two
                               24
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
  locals and two Bajawari (Pakistan) tirrber traders vrere recently killed in the area of Gordesh. Deforrestaion continues in Asmar, Dara Seen and Kamdesh. All organisations are active in the deforestation. Arabs have also invested money in the mines of precious stones in Pech and Nuristan through Mullah God who is a relative of Maulawi Jamil-u-Rahman. This mullah buys mines in the area.
                                 *** *** ***
                                 25
                                  MILITARY NEWS
Bloody incident in Herat
      Gen. Jalal Razminda, the deputy minister of state security (WAD), was killed along with four officers in the district of Pashtun Zarghun on April 6. The governor of Herat, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, was also injured in the incident.
      The incident occurred in the district when 2,500 armed mujahids and 7,000 civilians were joining the "National Reconciliation" policy of the Kabul regime under the command of Agha Abdul Aziz, Haji Malang and Ghulam Mohayuddin. When the governor of Herat was embracing one of the commanders, some bystanders opened fire on them, killing the general and 20 others. Also, more than 50 people, including children, were killed in the incident.
      Hezbullah, a pro-Iranian group, claims that they planned the operation to kill Najib who had gone to Herat six days before the incident. However, sources of Jamiat say that the operation had been planned by Commander Ismail Khan.
      Independent sources say that the number of the attackers were only five. They did not agree with the surrender of a large number of mujahideen.
Paktia
—. ♦
     On April 7 , the mujahideen of Commander Hagani's
                                  26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 front attacked regime posts in the area of Khushal Laima near Farm Bagh, south of Khost. As a result ,four posts were captured, nine troops were killed and 14 injured. Or the mujahideens' side, eight mujahids were killed and wounded.
      As the posts were located at a distance of 1,500 metres from Khost airfield and were in close range of artillery, the mujahideen" could not protect the posts despite heavy casulaties. In a short period, regime militiamen came from a nearby base and recaptured the posts.
      On April 9, a regime aircaft bombarding mujahideen positions was shot down in the area of Tauda Cheena. The pilot of the aircraft was captured and later killed.
      On April 11, an exchange of the dead took place between regime troops and the mujhideen of Commander Haqani. The mujahideen let regime troops collect the dead body of the pilot in exchange for two mujahids
      According to reports from Khost, the birth-place of Gen. Tanai, Khost Radio broadcast impartial (neither pro-Najib nor pro-Tanai) programmes during the coup attenpt by the general in Kabul. A limited number of pro-Tanai officers were either arrested or replaced by pro-Najib officers in the military units. Some relatives of the general fled to mujahideen in the district of Tanai. Regime troops have consolidated their positions around Khost. The mujahideen are unable to maintain links with their supporters in Khost as they did in the past, because the pro-regime militimen of the tribes living around Khost have joined together.
      The residents of the town receive their supplies by three means: by pro-Kabul Pakistani tribemen; by night landing of aircraft, and when pressurised by the mujahideen, by parachute.
                               27
No. 109
Ninth Year
April 1990
      Maulawi Pir Mohammad, a commander of Itehad-e-Islami (Prof. Sayaf) in southern Khost, in an interview with AIC, said that the mujahideen attacked the enemy base at Karri in Khost . However, severe bombardment by 30 aircraft forced the mujahideen to retreat from their positions near the base. Three mujahid were killed in the bombardment.
      According to the commander all parts of Khost have been besieged by the mujahideen for the past five months. As the mujahideen possess automatic weapons, lack of ammunition obstructs their victories in the area.
      He said, "I know well Shahnawaz Tanai. His friends in Hezb-e-Islami want Khost to surrender through connections, but only mujahideen pressure will bring positive results. I believe that the agreement between Tanai and Hezb-e-Islami was a Russian assignment to create dissention among the mujahideen. It is surprising that a Khalqi turns to befriend a mujahid.
 Helmand
      The AIC correspondent in Quetta reports that the mujahideen of the late Commander Maulawi Nasim Akhundzada attacked the base of Haji Abdul Rahman of Hezb-e-Islami (Eng. Hekmatyar). The exact number of casualties was not known, but the wounded were transferred to hospitals in Quetta. All the tanks in the base were transferred to Musa Qala by the mujahideen of the late Commander.
      The death of Commander Nasim Akhundzada has caused great anger among the people in Kandahar, Zabul, Ghazni, Uruzgan, Herat, Nimroz, Farah and other provinces. Prayers for the departed soul of the late commander still continue in the province*
                             28
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
Kandahar
     On April 1, the mujahideen shelled regime posts in the area of Manzil Bagh in Kandahar. Ond post was destroyed in the shelling.
     On April 2', armed men looted personnel of a voluntary organisation in the area of Panjwaii.
     The four personnel had visited the area to distribute fertiliser and seed to the residents.
     On April 8, regime aircraft bombarded mujahideen positions in the area of Baba Wali Sahib. The losses were not known.
     The bombardment was conducted in retaliation to mujahideen shelling of regime positions in the district of Arghandab.
Zabul
     On April 6, the AIG sent a delegation to Zabul province to appoint district administrators and their staff in the province. When elections in each district have been completed by mujahideen commanders and elders, military supplies and food will be sent by the AIG to that district. Food and military suplies will not be sent to a district where the mujahideen did not or could not hold elections.
                                *** *** ***
                           29
                           Sufism and the Modem World
      A nan of the True Faith and an idol worshipper were fighting. When the time for prayer came, the believer wanted to perform his religious duty, so he asked for a short truce, which was granted. The battle was then resumed and after a while the unbeliever also asked to be allowed to perform the rite of his own cult. He went to his idol and prostrated himself on the ground. The believer said to himself: "New is the best opportunity for me to send this miscreant to hell," and drew his sword.
      At that moment a Voice came from above:
      - You coward! The unbeliever kept his word, and you who claim to be a true believer are going to break yours! Do to others what you wish to be done to you if you are a true man of faith.
                                                                  Farideddin Attar of Neyshapur Manteq-Ut-Teyr p 142
                                       From the book "Sufism In Hie Modem World" by Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh
* *
 * *
*