
                   Pa ' ^
^FGHAN
  JNFORMATION
  QENTRE
MONTHLY BULLETIN
 No. 100
 Ninth Year
 v 1989
v
 Address:    igE S.J.  Afghani Road,  University Town, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN
 PO Box: zza       __       Telephone: 40953        —       Telegram: AP1C


                                                                                                                                                                                                           z
          The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
          1.        To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within the country
' itself.
          2.        To make this information available in the form of articles, news bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
            (a)  International news media,
            (b)  Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
          The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
          The' Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
Founder: Late Prof. Dr. Sayd B. Majrooh Editor : Sayd Naim Majrooh
   THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
jt.
Annual Subscription Pakistan     Rs        400
Abroad       Dollar :  50
Bank account No^ 1131354558001 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grindlays Bank PLC Peshawar Pakistan
               AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE
                             Monthly Bulletin
CONTENTS:
        No. 100           July 1989
I   . EVERYTHING IS NOT WAR BOOTY IN AFGHANISTAN 1
 II  . TAKHAR INCIDENT                              5
 III . INTERVIEW WITH G0M4ANDER SHAMALI            12
 IV  . A TRAVETER'S TALES FROM JALALABAD           15
 V   . NANCARHAR SITUATION REPORT                  20
 VI  . INTERVIEW WITH OOIMANDER ABDUL HAQ          22
 VII . INTERVIEW WITH OOIMANDER SAYED AHMAD        25
 VIII. REPORTS FROM PAKTIA , KABUL , KANDAHAR      28
                      * * * *
 COVER PHOTO : A.M.R.C.*
        EVERYTHING IS NOT WAR BOOTY IN AFGHANISTAN
 The sacrifices that the Afghan people gave in the lad_ year long Afghan-Soviet conflict has been unique in the history of mankind. The Afghan people actually started the resistance with empty hands but strong faith and determined will against the world's wildest and strongest empire: the Soviet Union. Every valley, village, road and pass has been witness of the symbols, indications and proofs of the Soviet defeat. Tens of thousands of war equipment including tanks and vehicles of the Soviet army were left behind each offensive they carried out.
      Before the Soviet invasion, the Afghan people, including military officers ahd patriotic civilians all over the country, managed to attack the enemy units with their primitive tools and simple arms, and they imposed considerable casualties on the enemy as a whole.
      During all these years, all the people have participated in resistance in one way or another. No one group or sector of the people has the right to dominate and monopolise the privilege of the great sacrifices that all Afghans share. The outside world supported the Afghan liberation struggle on a very large scale in terms of financial, military and political assistance." This support has been very valuable and of extreme importance for the development of .the Afghan cause and is deeply appreciated by the Afghan masses.
      Before the completion of the Soviet troop withdrawal the red army left as proof of their military defeat tens of thousands of pieces of damaged military equipment including tanks, armoured personnel carriers, machine guns, heavy artillery, transport vehicles, heavy guns and aircraft. All routes and valleys were full of such destroyed and broken equipment. It was just like an old military museum. The Soviet army always attempted' to collect and take away all those destroyed war equipment
1
No. 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
 from various parts of the country. The Soviets wanted to bring the ruined equipment back to their country to hide the evidence of their military defeat in Afghanistan.
      Unfortunately, some mujahideen have been indirectly helping the Soviets in this effort. Throughout the war, traders and businessmen have brought out all the metal equipment, tools, parts,, vehicles and all portable and fixed installations of the Soviet military setups captured by mujahideen in the border provinces. This was in the eastern and southern parts of Afghanistan in Konar, Nangarhar, Logar, Ghazni, Paktia, Paktika, Kandahar, Helmand and else where.
       These symbols of honour and historical memories of the Soviet defeat by the Afghan mujahideen are being taken out of Afghanistan as ordinary iron of a very low price. All these important symbols of the Afghan victory are being sold very cheaply to the outsiders. These historically rich symbols should have been preserved in their places for centuries to come. Returning refugees children and future generations will now find little evidence of the sacrifices of their parents against the invaders.
       The Soviet Union has a common border of about 2000 kilometres with Afghanistan and calls itself a great neighbour and a friend! Without the physical evidence of the war, the destroyed equipment and cemeteries which are monuments to that friendship, how can the heroic spirit of the present' generation be transferred to future generations.
      The traders and the businessmen who bring Soviet equipment out the country are definitely supported by or are members of the resistance groups. This is actually a big help and a long-term support to the Soviet. Union.
      Large pieces, of heavy Soviet war equipment which could not be carried whole out of Afghanistan has been broken and shattered into pieces by bombs and gas welding torches. The traders and business men who do this then sell the pieces outside Afghanistan as scrap
2
              AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
    metal. Aircraft, tanks, armoured personnel carriers, artillery pieces, heavy and light trucks have all been subjected to this treatment. In addition, some' of the equipment was captured in workable condition and should have been kept intact, as the property of the nation. This included tractors, generators, water purrps, drilling machines, road building equipment, bulldozers, and even telephone and electricity poles and cables.
            All of this could have been used to help rebuild Afghanistan. Instead, construction equipment, irrigation gates and tools, flour mill machines, and finally gates, doors, windows, roof beams and every type of private and public property one can imagine has been looted and being sold outside of the country.
         Particularly in the border provinces, where the forests and wood resources of Afghanistan were heavily bombarded and burnt by the Soviets, the remaining forests have been cut throughout the war and taken out of the country for very cheap prices. There are large market places in border areas where all the timber is accumulated.
         When one considers the construction of roads in the border provinces,particularly those leading to Pakistan, in terms of usefulness, it's good to have roads for a proper supply system to mujahideen and people Jiving in the liberated areas. On the other hand, these newly-constructed roads will definitely intensify the outflow of the Afghan natural resources and national property.
         Although the volunteer organisations are planning to construct these roads for the benefit and good-well of people, they cannot see its negative effects and the unexpected aspects which are extremely dangerous for Afghanistan. Likewise, these newly- improved roads serve the outflow of all the damaged equipment and symbols of our victory mentioned earlier.
         For instance, there has been a road _ under construction in Asmar district of Konar towards Shal Khwar, with the support of Vita and with the agreement of
No.100
Ninth Year
July 1989
    the mujahideen shuras (councils).           The  road  was
    originally constructed in President Dauod's time in the 70's, and reached to Shal village up to the last point where people lived. The only reason for extending the road past that point, towards the tree-covered mountains and side valleys, can be to provide access to the valuable source of wood to be cut and sold.
         During the last ten years, all the accessible timber from Konar, and Paktia, has felled and sold. There is nothing left. The large and heavy timber which could not be carried on mules and camels before, will now be carried away easily by trucks. One aid organization has been told by a party member in As mar District that the new road will serve 30 villages in the Shal Khwar valley. But the truth is that there are not even 30 families living there.
         This work will have two negative effects:      First,
    the budget specified for the reconstruction of Afghanistan is being wasted on such projects which have no priority. In this case, a few people will benefit from selling timber now, while reckless de-forestation eventually leads our people to more poverty and dependence on outsiders. Actually, the effectiveness of a project must be evaluated precisely first and should be judged on the basis of the benefit' that the all local people can take.
         It is sad that mujahideen, resistance organisations, commanders and the interim government, plus the friends of the Afghan resistance, share ignorance about this great loss. It is further unfortunate that mujahideen can not tell the difference between legitimate war booty — and public property or precious national resources, and that there is no mentality .to think for the future of Afghanistan..
                               The Editor * * * * *
                                                      \
                          TAKHAR INCIDENT
          "Hezb Islami of           Hekmatyar   committed   an
    unprecedented crime by killing 30 Jamiat Mujahideen and commanders in Takhar province on July 9", stated through a press release of Jamiat political office on July 19.
    The press release added:     "Commander Ahmad Shah Masood
    convened a meeting of Jamiat comhanders from Takhar, Kunduz, Badakshan and Baghlan in Farkhar district on july 9...The commanders were returning to their own areas when some of them were ambushed in Tangi Farkhar, a gorge between Farkhar district and Taloqan city. Mujahideen from Hezbe Islami Hekmatyar under the command of Sayed Jamal carried out the attack.
          The press release said Hezb Islami had prepared the way for the Takhar incident by starting a propaganda campaign against commander Masood.
    "Hezb Islami involved some Arab volunteers who did not like Masood for his independent policies in this propaganda war. A delegation of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan who had gone to the area also returned from Afghanistan with similar stories, which were spread extensively."
          The press release continued: "In the past, Jamiat played down the problems between Mujahideen parties. Small incidents were not made public. The Farkhar massacre changed Jamiat's view."
          This is not the first or only incident during the past eleven years of jehad history. In fact, there are records of even worse internal armed conflicts Jjl many parts of the country over the years.
          In the past, due to the existence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, the resistance organisations and Afghan mujahideen mass media, and resistance- supporting press
No. 100
Ninth Year
Ju|y 1989
    all together did not want to publicise such cases. The intention was to minimize the risk that the enemy might exploit the situation to impair the resistance as a whole.
         The Afghans wholeheartedly carried on resistance against foreign invaders and the lcral communists with all the possibilities they had. They have always been loyal to their belief, religious values and national interests and they have sacrificed their life and property in this way. Unfortunately behind the curtain there are invisible hands working for special private and competitive political interests which conflict with the national interests shared by the majority of the Afghan population. These competitive interests and outside influences divert the genuine route of the liberation struggle and pure jehad. All the internal conflicts and clashes must be interpreted within this framework.
         The bitter fact is that tens of thousands of our countrymen including children, old people and women have become victims of such clashes during the last eleven years in the country. Many people have been forced to leave their homes and properties in order to survive such regional, party-based and other kinds of competitive clashes. The internal clashes did not remain only within Afghan territory but were exported outside to the refugee settlements. A considerable number of important and well-known commanders have been killed in various parts of Pakistan as well. The loss of many such commanders actually turned the backbone of all the jehad into a skeleton, but no one paid attention. Many of the educated staff and intellectuals became victims of terrorism and many more fled from Pakistan for their survival. The political madness and absolute monopoly of certain interests has imposed a dead silence on the Afghan community. Under the prevailing circumstances
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
   here, expressing facts and indicating reality leads to risks equal to suicide.
        The clashes in Maidan, Ghazni, Parwan, Hazarajat, Laghman, Baghlan, Kapisa, Takhar, Badakshan and Kunduz are examples and proof of this bitter fact. Yet despite these many internal problems — when the Afghan people wished to concentrate on the Soviet and communist forces alone — the people have continued in their heroic struggle. The ugly realities about internal suffering will come to light when the war ends, and the people can come forward with their stories of what happened and express themselves freely. The free world will be amazed to learn how the Afghan people continued in spite of these internal problems. Even now, by offering a lot of sacrifices, they have already pushed the Soviet troops out of Afghanistan.
        The Takhar incident is a unique one after the Soviet withdrawal. The mujahideen leaders themselves expressed their views openly in the international mass media — which is some thing new in the history of jehad. We are presenting the exact text of the comments and interviews of some of them to our readers hereby:
        At a large demonstration meeting held by Jamiat Island, in Chamkani outside Peshawar on 29 July 1989, to concern Hezbe Island, for the Takhar killings, Jamiat leader Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, in a speech to the gathering said:    "We have witnessed several times the
   commitment of Hezbe Island, in such criminal action. A group of Hezbe Island, had prepared itself to kill a Jamiat commander sometimes back, but the group was arrested. Soon after hearing the news of the incident I ordered Jamiat Island, mujahideen to release the group. A member of that group Jamal Abdul Nasir is alive now. The same group was armed once again with 700 rifles, and
No.100
Ninth Year
July 1989
  stood against us once again. In fact we do not want to hand documents to our enemies indicating disunity of mujahideen and probability of internal clashes. But for this intention to be implemented properly, the following conditions should be provided satisfactorily:
  1-  We request the interim government of mujahideen, religious figures, spiritual leaders and all of • our brothers to openly condemn this criminal and shameful action.
  2-  Punish the persons who committed this crime
  3-  The key persons leading to this crime on the level of leadership who have given instructions, orders or green light to the criminals to carry on the crime should be brought to an Islamic court. We want to achieve justice. The point is not to take revenge in terms of bloodshed. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar must be1 expelled from the interim government."
       During the demonstration, Prof. Rabbani added that the he had just received a message from Eng. Ayoub (head of Jamiat military affairs) on wire less telling him that when Hekmatyar arrived with his supporters in Shakardara district of Parwan province recently, they launched a large attack on the mujahideen there, killing many people.
       Concerning the Peshawar gathering and the incident in Takhar, Abdul Abdul Qadir Karyab, one of Hezbe Island. ' leaders, in an interview with BBC said: "For the solution of this problem, we proposed the formation of, a delegation but was unfortunately rejected. At the prayer ceremony of the victims of this incident, Prof. Rabbani gave anti-Hezbe Island, slogans and condemned the party. We propose that the responsible persons should be brought to Peshawar." Karyab also said:       "Similarly Professor
  Mujadidi could not preserve his impartiality about the incident in his expressions. Mujadidir wants to exploit the situation in order to get closer to Jamiat. The term
8
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 of the president of the interim government is coming to an end. Prof. Mujadidi wants to extend his term and likewise prevent holding of elections."
      Yahya Masood is the brother of Ahmad Shah Masood and a well-known commander of Jamiat Islami. In an interview with B.B.C. on 19 July 89, he said:    "The  killing of 30
 mujahideen commanders of Jamiat Islami is really a grave criminal commitment.      The order for killing these             }
 commanders was directly given by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Amir of Hezbe Islami. The commanders were killed one day after they were captured by Hezb. It can easily be understood that the order of killing them must have been given from Peshawar. This is not a new case, in fact Hezbe Islami has killed hundreds of such important mujahideen commanders in Afghanistan during the last eight years.
 Hekmatyar is actually fighting against the mujahideen commanders of other resistance groups before he fights against Najib and the communist regime of Kabul. He1 wants to remove obstacles from the way in order to open way for future power monopoly.
 The interim government of Afghan mujahideen should take strong measures about the incident, if not the Shurai Nezar (Supervisory Council of the North) will otherwise definitely take necessary decisions about the case.
      A spokesman of Hezbe Islami explained the situation in a guite different manner. He said:        there was a
 conscience being buiit up under the supervision of Ahmad Shah Masood to attack the military base of commander              *
 Sayed Jamal. These people have been killed at the battle attacking the Hezbe Islami base.
      The assistant to Hekmatyar of Hezbe Islami speaking         «
 about the incident said:   When  I was informed about -the
 case I immediately -contacted the military incharge of Jamiat Island' and asked him about the case. I appointed
9 ■'
No. 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
         a delegation to study and investigate the case and to inform the leadership of Hezbe Island immediately.
         We actually hate such incidents and denounce them and we are really disappointed by the case. The internal differences among mujahideen weakens the strength of mujahideen itself. Therefore a high-level delegation should be appointed to investigate the case and prevent .        case as this in the future.
' r
               Similarly, another spokesman, Doctor Halim Karim, said to BBC. "The real responsible for this incident is Ahmad Shah Masood himself. He has attacked mujahideen bases several times during the past year. Many Hezbe Island, commanders have been killed by the order of Ahmad Shah Masood during the last few years. We did not want to reflect these cases in the media because it would have destroyed mujahideen reputation. We strongly condemn internal clashes and condemn the people who encourage them." Dr. Halim Karim told Muslim daily in Pakistan that the incident occurred because of an blood feud between commander Said Jamal and Jamiat commanders.
         He recalled that commander Said Jamal's brother was killed some time ago by supporters of Jamiat comrrartder Ahmad Shah Masood. Moreover, he said commander Abdul Wahab of Hezbe Islami was also assassinated last year by Jamiat people.        He claimed      that Jamait-i-Islami
         commanders were planning to extend their influence in Takhar province and   that their   meeting in Farkhar  was
         convened precisely for this purpose.
< _ *
               Regarding the    same case, the President of      the
         Interim Government of Mujahideen, Prof. S. Mujadidi, said . to the radio of Voice of America that:    "The incident of
1        Takhar which took place recently is a matter of great
         concern. We condemn that and persons responsible for it. The incident is really an action against Islam. There have been similar incidents among mujahideen the past but they have not been    continuous.    Hezbe Islami has  had
                                      10
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
several attacks against Jamait, ANLF and Harakat- and they have terrorized many commanders in Afghanistan as well as in Pakistan.
We have given our complaints to the Pakistani authorities and the government of those countries which support the Afghan jehad. But they have not listened to us. The killing of 30 mujahideen commanders is a serious case and it should be solved according to Islamic principles in Islamic court".
*
*
*
*
*
                INTERVIEW WITH COMANDER SHAMALI
  Interview with NIFA commander, Shamali about the recent situation in Jalalabad:
        According to him, mujahideen have divided among themselves the areas located, around Jalalabad on a party basis both for defence and offence. NIFA was in Khushgunbad, Hezbe Islami and Itehad in Karez Kabir and Sakhi bridge, Hezbe Islami Khales in Hada and Chaprihar, with other resistance groups in other nearby areas.
        When the Kabul regime started an offensive from Surkhrod and Hada directions on • the mujahideen bases on 12 July in the south and west of Jalalabad, the regime troops reached Surkhdiwal, about 15 km in the southeastern direction from Jalalabad, or 3km southeast of Sam^rkhel. Actually, we were not ready for fighting back at time. We were not prepared when the regime troops arrived, and they occupied the posts in Kan and Katarghi.
       Ws had our position between Surkhdiwal and Khushgunbad. .There was only one way open for us to step back and get out of the area that the enemy troops were advancing to occupy. That was a narrow path in the north along the Kabul river. Our mujahideen followed this path and came to G^rdi Kach. We installed our heavy guns and artillery in Ghaziabad farm. We were prepared to resist if the regime troops were going to advance towards Torkham.        We  soon   found   out  from  the
 communication messages of the enemy that they had no plan for further advance. Rather, the enemy wanted to strengthen their security belt up to Surkhdiwal only. As soon as we realized their plans we arranged to attack them. We managed to liberate Surkhdiwal, Samarkhel, Kan and Katarghi on 13 July. The enemy troops were only present in Surkhdiwal for one and a half days before they were forced to pull out back.
                            12
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
                       After Eid. the regime once again attacked southern parts of Samarkhel and occupied the posts in Kan,
 Katarghi and Karkand. In Samarkhel itself, the fenemy could not move further due to a strong resistance from mujahideen side. Surkhdiwal, Samarkhel mountains and the          ?
 surrounding areas are under mujahideen control now. The western parts of Samarkhel where the Soviet staff used to live is under the regime control and Saracha and Karez Kabir are also with the regime. The regime is still trying hard to occupy Surkhdiwal and the surrounding areas. The regime has installed heavy guns and artillery, i.e. BM-21, BM-13, D-30 howitzers, Oregon and Obuz 122mm cannon, all around Jalalabad. They carry on air bombardment every day which brings heavy destruction to houses and villages.
        Some people think that the regime is carrying out these bombardments in preparation for a withdrawal of its troops from Jalalabad city to Kabul. It is believed that the regime is not well-prepared to resist for long time. Even though sometimes they make temporary advancements, they can not keep the occupied areas under their control. Every attack costs them a lot, both in terms of life and expense. Jalalabad has been extremely expensive for them.
      At the beginning of the Jalalabad- battles, the mujahideen advance was considerably successful. The reason for that was that the route between Kabul and Jalalabad was blocked. The mujahideen were attacking • Jalalabad from all directions. The mujahideen on the eastern fronts were more successful because the supplies to them were easy. But as soon as the .Kabul-Jalalabad route was opened, the regime forces strengthened their positions once again. On the one hand, regime forces started receiving supplies from Kabul; and on the other hand, and mujahideen could not keep up coordination in their attacks on the city. Even so, the regime suffered heavy casualties, many of their military officers were killed and many of them deserted to mujahideen. They
                                13
No 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
lost a tremendous amount of war equipment and arms.
      The general military commander of eastern zone, General Barakzai, and police general commander were killed in the first days of the Jalalabad battle. Chief Commander General Asif Delawar and General Ismail were killed recently.
      On July 31st. the regime launched another offensive towards Surkhdiwal, with 12 tanks. According to a report from commander Shamali (NIFA), mujahideen captured two tanks in working condition, and destroyed three others. Enemy looses were not clear, although some regime soldiers were killed. The rest of the regime forces, and tanks, retreated back towards Samarkhel. Nine mujahideen died, and 15 were wounded.
      In other battles which took place in July, about 20 mujahideen were killed and 30 others were injured. Two of their BM-12 guns were destroyed by aerial bombardment. Although regime forces also captured some mujahideen ammunition and recaptured some armoured vehicles, regime claims about taking many mujahideen prisoners, with their weapons, are baseless.
                 * * * * *
                             14
             A TRAVELLER'S TALES FROM JALALABAD
       Engineer Hazrat Mir was the head of the technical division of the government Construction Unit in Jalalabad. He has recently left his job there, and came to Peshawar with his family on 12 July 89. He faced a lot of problems in getting his family out of .Jalalabad. He spent about Afs. 85000 giving bribes to the security personnel for leaving the city.
       He explained the situation of the Kabul regime and life in Jalalabad and Kabul. He said that the Najib government , has completely lost its stability and political popularity. All the regime supporters are. unstable, uncertain and worrying. The party members are trying to collect money. The bureaucracy has been much worse compared to that in previous regimes, and corruption is now a common practice in daily life. The administration structure       and efficiency are almost
 nonexistent. This is due to the loose connection of the government with the masses, the lack of availability of raw materials and primary needs,, the absence of academic and educated cadres, and, finally, due to war. This affects the life of people on all levels.
       During the last few months, while heavy fighting was going on around Jalalabad, people living in Jalalabad city tried to rush to Kabul. Among them were many communist party members who brought their families to Kabul. While ordinary civilians were forbidden to leave Jalalabad, the party members were allowing their party comrades to leave the city.
        When there was a grave shortage of food and other supplies as a result of increased fighting pressure, the prices increased a lot, and then the people living in the city went on strike. They asked the government to guarantee their security and provide them with sufficient foodstuffs. They said that if the government
No. 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
           could not do that it should let them leave the city. The regime responded that citizens should have food, but they also had an obligation to defend the city.
                 Engineer Hazrat Mir said that the regime seemed to want to push the people to the point of starvation to (          force them to fight for the regime. In fact, the regime
           further restricted the movement of people across the ,          security  belts around the city!
                There are five checkpoints within the Daronta t          tunnel, which  is along the main route out of Jalalabad to
           Kabul. These checkpoints are manned by Khad, the provincial party committee, the governor's office, the police and the military. All the passengers using this tunnel must get permission of all these five agencies, and permission from Khad and the provincial party is particularly important.
                Once,   the general military compander,       General
           Delawar, said to the staff of the mill tar'/ checkpoint in the Daronta tunnel not to let any person pass without permission of the military authorities. Similarly, the governor of Jalalabad, Monokai Mangal, instructed the governor's checkpoint staff that is is absolutely necessary that every person leaving Jalalabad should have his office's permission. So there are always fields of competition and disagreements among the staff of the various government agencies.
                Nevertheless, the population of Jalalabad has been considerably reduced recently, as people seek ways and take risks to leave the city.Some people were even sent to jail. Still people tried various ways and methods to take their families out. Many such people got shot to \         death by the security belt guards and sudden ambushes
           made by the regime militia and troops which wanted to stop people from going out of the city.
^               The regime.* is trying hard to keep its followers and
 '         supporters happy, so they doubled the salaries of all
           their military personnel, soldiers, officers, police, during February and March. All civil staff received one
                                         16
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 month additional salary in February.
      Some citizens of Jalalabad contact pilots for help to take their families out of the city, and when they reach a compromise about the payment, then the amount is paid in advan< '                              > and  place
 passengers get on board in a hurry and fly for Kabul, he amount one family has to pay can range from Afs 80*000 up to 100,000 in such cases.
        The pilots are pleased to carry Hindus and Sikhs, because they pay more money. Muslims sometimes try to get close to Hindus awaiting the arrival of a helicopter, but the Hindus refuse. The Hindus tell the Muslims, if they are standing nearby, the helicopters will never dare to land there.
      Engineer Hazrat Mir said he and a few other people were standing near Hindus one day, when a helicopter landed. 'About 30 people, mixed Hindus and Muslims, clirrbed into the military gunship helicopter. On board, Engineer Hazrat Mir and the other Muslims paid Afs 5,000 per person while Hindus paid to the pilot 10,000 to 15,000 per person. The total amount of money paid to the pilot was about Afs 300,000. When he found someone on board who could not pay the fare, the pilot landed his helicopter and got the person out.
      On one occasion, a Jalalabad Hindu sold his shop and property. He had all his cash and jewellery in a small bag. When the helicopter landed , he took his son into the helicopter first and then handed the bag to his son. As soon as the pilot realized that the bag was full of cash and jewellery, he took the bag from the boy's hand, pushed him off the helicopter and flew away. The Hindu stood surprised with his family. He went to inform the officials, Khad and military, but it did not help. The Hindu was then reduced to selling onions in bazaar; Anyone buying onions from him would have to hear his story about how all of his property with cash and jewellery was stolen by a pilot.
are fixed
and the
                             17
No 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
      A similar and famous case concerns a Hindu who was loading two pieces of his luggage onto a waiting helicopter. But before he could climb aboard, the helicopter took off. The Hindu grabbed onto the helicopter from outside, and hung onto it. As he dangled from the helicopter in the air above the city, people looked up at him.      Near the University Hospital in
 Jalalabad, the Hindu's hands got tired, he lost his grip and finally fell to earth, where he died on the spot.
      Many pilots have made a lot of money. The regime is well aware of this practise but can not prevent it. No one obeys other's orders at all. Everyone does what he wants. The families which go to Kabul should actually get a permit, but this permit is not being issued to every family. Only special people can get such permits and the agents were getting a lot of money in bribes for that.
      A fresh troop convoy including 90 tanks arrived in Jalalabad on 5.7.89 from Kabul. Most of the Jowzjani militiamen in Jalalabad have been killed and the regime has a total of 15,000 to 17,000 troops.
      The regime has weak control over Saracha and Karez Kabir to the east, Kharkaran Surkhrod posts to the west, Behsud and Kama bridge in the north, and Hada farm on the' western side of Jalalabad. There are many BM-21 and Oregon missile installations in Jalalabad. Large trucks carrying these missiles have been seen within the government controlled area of Jalalabad.
      Engineer Hazrat Mir said that he returned from Kabul to Jalalabad three days before he left Jalalabad for Peshawar. Kabul is silent and people look tired and exhausted . People in Kabul are really' tired of high, prices and Mujahideen missiles being fired on the city. The ^people living in Kabul are trying equally hard to leave for safe places inside and outside Afghanistan. As a result, the prices and rent on Kabul houses have decreased these days. Due to lack of available raw •Tnaterials, construction projects are fully collapsed.
                                             i8
No 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
      A similar and famous case concerns a Hindu who was loading two pieces of his luggage onto a waiting helicopter. But before he could climb aboard, the helicopter took off. The Hindu grabbed onto the helicopter from outside, and hung onto it. As he dangled from the helicopter in the air above the city, people looked up at him. Near the University Hospital in Jalalabad, the Hindu's hands got tired, he lost his grip and finally fell to earth, where he died on the spot.
      Many pilots have made a lot of money. The regime is well aware of this practise but can not prevent it. No one obeys other's orders at all. Everyone does what he wants. The families which go to Kabul should actually get a permit, but this permit is not being issued to every family. Only special people can get such permits and the agents were getting a lot of money in bribes for that.
      A fresh troop convoy including 90 tanks arrived in Jalalabad on 5.7.89 from Kabul. Most of the Jowzjani militiamen in Jalalabad have been killed and the regime has a total of 15,000 to 17,000 troops.
      The regime has weak control over Saracha and Karez Kabir to the east, Kharkaran Surkhrod posts to the west, Behsud and Kama bridge in the north, and Hada farm on the' western side of Jalalabad. There are many BM-21 and Oregon missile installations in Jalalabad. Large trucks carrying these missiles have been seen within the government controlled area of Jalalabad.
      Engineer Hazrat Mir said that he returned from Kabul to Jalalabad three days before he left Jalalabad for Peshawar. Kabul is. silent and people look tired and exhausted . People, in Kabul are really' tired of high, prices and Mujahideen missiles being fired on the city. The ^people living in Kabul are trying equally hard to leave for safe places inside and outside Afghanistan. As a result, the prices and rent on Kabul houses have decreased these days. Due to lack of available raw materials, construction projects are fully collapsed.
                                             i8
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
The trucks and vehicles of the construction projects are being used for carrying new BM-type and Oregon missiles.
PRICE INDEX, Jalalabad city July 1989:
wheat ^lour   7 kgs  Afs 1400      
onioi         7 kgs  Afs 400       
•ttoes        7 kgs  Afs 300-400   
wood fuel     7 kgs  Afs 150-200   
vegetable oil 7 kgs  Afs 7500-8000 
sugar         1 kg   Afs 300-400   
green tea     1 kg   Afs 1500      
black tea     1 kg   Afs 1500      
diesel                   N. A.     
kerosene                 N. A.     
gasoline      1 gal  Afs 1400-1500 
beef          1 kg      Afs-750    
lamb          1 kg       N.A.      
chicken       1      Afs 1500-2000 
rice          7 kgs  Afs 1200-1400 
bread         1 loaf Afs 25        
egg           1          N.A.      
peas          1 kg       N.A.      
lettuce       1 kg       N.A.      
fruit         1 kg       N.A.      
               * *           * * * 
                              19
                          NANGARHAR SITUATION REPORT
      When Shinwar district was liberated from Kabul regime control in November 1988, the water flow decreased in Nangarhar canal. Some of' the lower parts of the land irrigated by the Nangarhar canal were not getting water. People living on these lands did not have drinking water for their animals or for themselves. Because of that, many people who were living on the 25th, 26th, 27th and 28th sub-canals left their homes and moved to the high mountains in the south, and some of them even migrated to Pakistan. All the trees are now dying due to the lack of water. If the situation continues as such, probably the future of farms numbers 3, 4 and Ghaziabad farm will be the same.
      One reason why sufficient water does not flow in the canal is that the inflow has been decreased by the regime personnel at its intake in Daronta. The second reason is that most of the control gates of the subcanals diverting from the main canal have been taken away or deliberately broken by some elements, and then sold as scrap metal. That is why water flows without any control in the first few canals, and then does not reach the lower lands.
      If there is no proper plan for the restoration of the canal, it is very likely that the whole fertile and green land will turn back into a desert just as it was before the construction of this irrigation 'scheme in the 1960’s.
 ACHIN DISTRICT, NANGARHAR PROVINCE
      After the liberation of eastern Nangarhar at the end of last year, many refugees have returned home to their villages in Achin district. Of course, most of their
                             20
No. 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
 houses have been destroyed, their villages as follows:
 The people have returned to
 1- Dir Sarak village
 2- Paikhi Khwa
 3- Bander
 4- Abdul Khil
 5- Paikha
 6- Momand
 7- Achin, Gardi, Baton
 8- Chilgasi
 9- Wach Kote
 60 families 65 families 100 families 65 families 60 families 55 families 90 families 20 families 10 families
      Ip most of these villages of Achin district about 80% of the irrigated lands are cultivated. The new returnees are badly in need of plowing equipment, fertilizers, improved seeds and accommodation facilities. An estimated 35%-40% of the homes in this area have been destroyed totally or partially.
      There is no health clinic in the whole district. The people are having a lot of problems in this regard. In some villages i.e. Paikha, Abdul Khil and Mamand; Afghanaid has assisted about 60 families in construction of one room for each family, and about 60 pairs of oxen have been distributed for the farmers.
                               * * * * *
                             21
                       AN INTERVIEW WITH (COMMANDER ABDUL HAQ
 Kabul, 20 July 89
            Interview on wireless with Commander Abdul Haq of Kabul.
      Concerning the mujahideen activities he said:
 On 30 June, rockets hit the Soviet embassy in Kabul which caused considerable damage to the embassy.
 1 July, Rockets were fired on the building of the ministry of Interior, where a number of personnel were killed and the building was damaged.
 3 July, Rocket operations were directed on the airport where a depots of the regime was destroyed.
 27 June, There were rocket operations against the special guard in Darulaman. Light arms were fired in coordination with the rockets. Some soldiers were killed and some war equipment, i.e. BM-21, BM-13 rockets and Oregon missiles, was destroyed.
 14 July. Rocket fire on the ministry of defence and the president palace, Arg, caused casualties. Similarly, rocket fire killed several people in Microrayan.
 13 July. Rockets were fired at the 8th military division in Qargha, and its depot was burnt.
      Concerning shooting at civilian targets, commander Abdul Haq said:     The  aim of  Afghan mujahideen is to
 liberate Afghanistan for its people. We try our best to distinguish our targets well and precisely. But the lack of both experience and sophisticated equipment among the mujahideen, plus the fact that regime military installations are located close to the civilian accommodations make our mission quite complicated. This is why some of the rockets do hit civilian targets. He said that all the commanders are firmly instructed to make their utmost effort not to strike civilians and to avoid irresponsible actions in this regard.
            He said that in its global propaganda campaign, the
                              22
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 regime exaggerates the number of civilian casualties, and characterizes each and every mujahideen operation, even against a military target, as something harming civilians. In fact mujahideen are trying hard to give the civilians all kinds of support in terms of protection, and assistance in providing them with foodstuff and medical care. Mujahideen also give their full support to those families willing to leave the regime controlled areas. He added that mujahideen don't want to destroy their own cities and make their people more dependent on outside aid, as a result of which the foreign hands can become more active inside Afghanistan.
      About the problems of mujahideen, Abdul Haq said that mujahideen are under continuous bombardment and artillery fire from the Kabul regime. Concerning the need for effective air defence weapons, he said that most mujahideen groups do not have Stinger missiles now, and the Singers that are available to some are not effective against high altitude bombardment.
      About the further programmes of mujahideen, he added that in order to bring the regime under effective siege, mujahideen are trying to make another security belt around the already existing ones of the regime. This is to help mujahideen bring regime supply lines under tighter control. It will also help mujahideen study the military positions of     the  regime  so they    can plan
 effective offensive actions against regime military targets, and minimize civilian losses.
 Similarly, Abdul Haq said, by having close contact with the Kabul citizens,       we   should  exploit    all  the
 possibilities to introduce disorder and mismanagement within the regime, while creating obstacles to regime plots. In this way, the regime will face gradual failure from within, and the lives of Kabul citizens and the city structure itself will not be hurt too much.
No.100
Ninth Year
July 1989
      About the AIG (Afghan Interim Government) commander Abdul Haq said that some commanders are still expecting that the 7 political parties of the AIG will transfer their power and authority to the government. Most of the commanders think that military pressure alone is not enough. The resistance leadership should be politically effective.lt should be acceptable to the majority of Afghans and it should be able to replace Najib regime.
 He said that I believe that the leaders of Peshawar based parties, the politicians, intellectuals and all those Afghans with useful experience should get together, and all of then) should abandon rivalries and differences. They should put the national interest ahead of everything else. They should give up their personal ambitions for superiority. They must work on a practical solution of the crises in Afghanistan concerning all the involved factors under the prevailing circumstances.
      He said that the AIG has yet not contacted any; mujahideen groups directly or indirectly for any kind of consultation.     There are        no signs of this inside
 Afghanistan. He said that so far the ministry of defence has played no role in organizing mujahideen at all.
                               * * * * *
                                          24
                      INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER SAYED AHMAD
      Interview at the Afghan Information Centre with Commander Sayed Ahmad Khan, Deh Sabz (Itehad Sayyaf), K.'ibul province, 10 July 89
      He said in his interview that they hit Kabul airport with heavy artillery on 25 June 89. Three rockets were fired on the building near the terminal of the airport and two others hit the military training base within the airport. As a result, two aircraft were destroyed and 6 regime supporters weie killed. A few minutes later, a searching aircraft flew over mujahideen bases and bombarded their hideouts.        The regime used their new
model artillery called Oregon in this operation.
      On  21 June,         mujahideen conducted  artillery
operations against the militia posts located along the Puli-Gharkhi-Bagrami road, in an area called Kholsan. During the operation, 8 regime supporters were killed and two tanks and a vehicle were destroyed. On 27 June , the Kabul regime fired 14 scud missiles towards mujahideen bases.    Three of these missiles hit the houses of
civilians within Kabul province.
      A large number of transport aircraft that fly between Kabul and the Soviet Union are standing at Kabul airport.
Many such aircraft fly between Kabul and Moscow.
The position of the Kabul regime has been considerably weakened among people of Kabul. Civilians as well as government employees openly express their disapproval of Najib, complaining that as long as he is in power there is no way peace can be achieved in Afghanistan. Those government employees who told Najib this to his face at a public meeting were removed immediately from their posts and a maulawi called Abdur Rauef was imprisoned.
                                          25
No 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
      The road between Bagram airport and Kabul leading to the armoured force number Four of Puli Charkhi is usually under strict security control, particularly when it is being used for military purposes.        In other times
 mujahideen sometimes use this road. The reason why the government troops alv/ays use this new road instead of the existing one is that it goes through the desert, so there are no trees along the road and no water , making access to the road difficult for mujahideen.
      Kariz Amir area is all under the control of mujahideen, who can get as close as 20 meters to the regime posts. The regime posts are stationed on the top of the hills near the pass Khair Khana, in the northern outskirts of Kabul. From here, regime troops can easily watch the surrounding areas. These days. Mujahideen attacks are concentrated in Khair Khana pass, Sialkot and Kariz Mir.
      Qarabagh district was liberated by mujahideen recently just before I left for Peshawar a few days ago. Mujahideen captured a considerable number of heavy and light arms. Some military officers as well as some soldiers surrendered to mujahideen. About 20 persons were held by the mujahideen in Kariz Amir. Some followers of Majid Kalakani (Maoist) who were serving the regime surrendered to a Jamiat Islami commander two months ago. These people deserted to Jamiat for their survival. They have openly indicated their continuing opposition to Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar.)
      The mujahideen of Kabul province will never follow the way what the mujahideen in Nangarhar did. The Jalalabad war has become an important lesson for the mujahideen of other parts of Afghanistan. We were not in favour of this attack since its beginning and we still don't support it. The Kabul Mujahideen all share the idea of strengthening their bases'*- and hideouts with
26
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
security belts. We have announced general amnesty to all government employees who join mujahideen ranks.
     About the interim government I should say that the leaders of the interim government should unite both objectively and subjectively. As long as they are united, all the mujahideen will follow them and obey their orders — but disunity and disintegration in the nucleus cause diversion in the ranks.
                   * * * *
                                         21
                               REPORT FROM PAKTIA
     Mujahideen occupied Nader Shah Kot subdistrict (north of Khost) in Paktia Province, on 13 July 89. Mujahideen of the area united to attack the military base of the Kabul regime in Nader Shah Kot. They managed to attack the military posts in Dwamando and Shikh Mir areas. A total of about 800 mujahideen participated in this attack. The mujahideen were equipped with heavy artillery that the^ had earlier captured from the regime forces. During-this battle about 200 regime soldiers surrendered to mujahideen and a number of them were killed. The mujahideen occupied Dwamando just after they occupied Nader Shah Kot. The arms that mujahideen recovered from -the regime forces are as -fol lows: 4 tanks, 175 AK-47 Kalashnikov, 105 TT pistols, 45 communication sets, 18 British guns, 2 Sheika machine guns, 4-4 barrel guns,  4  Zigo  1 anti-aircraft  guns,    4  Grenov heavy
machine guns, 8 howitzers, 3 mortars and cloth and other materials.
     It should be mentioned that Nader Shah Kot is located in a very strategically important border area north of Khost. It is very important both for the regime as well as for mujahideen. After the occupation of Nader Shah Kot, mujahideen can attack Khost without any obstacle in front.
     A few days later, Molavi Matiullah, (the number three of Khales party and previously minister of agriculture of Ahmad Shah cabinet) went to Nader Shah Kot. His vehicle was blown up by a mine and he died with some other mujahideen.
                              * * * * *
                              28
                            OTHER NEWS FROM KABUL
 Kabul 11 July 1989
      Mujahideen under the command of Abdul Haq started their operations at 3:00 o'clock in the afternoon on the special guard base in Division 4 of Kabul. The special guard of the 4th division is responsible for the security of southern and western suburban areas of the Kabul city. The mujahideen base is in Chehlton about ten kilometres to the west of Qargha. The attack started with light arms fire from mujahideen at the enemy bases. The regime troops all went out of their rooms to the open ground and returned gunfire. Once the troops were flushed out of their rooms, the mujahideen struck suddenly, firing 1200 mortar shots and 300 rockets on the base in short period of time. This resulted in heavy casualties among the regime forces. A foreign journalist who witnessed the operation, and was also slightly wounded there, said that the attacks of heavy artillery were carried on the base from twenty different places. The attack was so sudden and fast that the regime artillery troops were not given any chance to shoot back at the mujahideen.
 The journalist met a military officer who deserted to mujahideen. In his conversation with Abdul Haq, the defbctor explained the regime casualties and losses as follows:
 -The centre of command of Oregon rockets was destroyed. -BM-21 rocket bases were destroyed and silenced.
 -60 vehicles including tanks were destroyed . -Communication systems and electricity generators were shot.
 -350 soldiers were killed and many were wounded. -Ammunition depots and food supplies were burnt.
 Mujahideen losses were 14 killed and 9 wounded. Later, the Kabul regime in Kabul targetted Paghman with about
                              29
No. 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
200 rounds of heavy artillery and rocket launchers. Although this did not cause many casualties among mujahideen, it caused destruction in the city of Paghman, including the death of two civilians.
      Other reports from Kabul say that on July 13th, a bomb explosion in Microrayan block #7 killed four people, amongst them one woman,two children, and a Brigadier. Eleven people were wounded. In connection with this incident, the regime arrested three local security men.
      On July 18th, a rocket hit a residence in Qairgha, killing two people. On tfife 21sta bomb exploded under a bridge, near a housing block Vin Qargha, and nineteen people were killed, and many others were wounded. Since mujahideen access to the area would be difficult, the regime is investigating the incident internally as well. On july 22nd, mujahideen attacked a security post in Bibi Marou, near the airport. The three security guards in the post escaped, but heavy arms were captured by the mujahideen. On July 23rd, mujahideen attacked Darulaman Palace with rockets and small arms. Since the Palace is used by the armed forces, losses and damage were difficult to assess. The number of rockets hitting Kabul has increased, as has fighting on the city security belt.
                             30

                             SITUATION IN KANDAHAR
      Mujahideen of Kandahar have continued their attacks on the Kandahar airport since the beginning of July, and the regime troops have suffered heavy casualties. The representative of Afghan Information Centre in Quetta reports that the casualties on the mujahideen side are higher than on the Kabul regime side. The reason is that the regime troops are stationed in their bases under good "protection while mujahideen are exposed to the shootings, on rather open ground. Mujahideen in Kandahar are of divided opinion on the subject of blockading the city to prevent foodstuff inflow and shooting at the city. Some of the Mujahideen are in favour of carrying military operations within the city, while others are against this idea.
      A commander of Itehad Islamic ordered his mujahideen a few days ago to march into the airport. The mujahideen not. only rejected the command but left Itehad-i-Islami and joined the National Islamic Front.
      Some commanders receive their expenses and allowances with conditions imposed upon them. Some of them indicate that if they don't carry on military operations on the city, they will not be eligible to receive their expenses. .Therefore, the commanders are under great pressure. If they want to keep their mujahideen, they have to obey the orders being given to them.
      Concerning this subject, the general commanders of mujahideen in Kandahar said that we should allow the inflow of foodstuff to the people living in the city because these people have been supporters of jehad since the beginning. Kandahar should not be destroyed with missiles, like Jalalabad.
                                31
No. 100
Ninth Year
July 1989
      On recent occasions, some mujahideen commanders began shelling Kandahar City with mortars and rockets in the evening, resulting in the death of civilians. , This forced city people to live underground for protection and angered many other mujahideen with relatives in the city. The government has taken advantage of this situation by trying to encourage- Kandaharis to form militia units against the mujahideen. This issue has also created dissension among the mujahideen groups.
      The representative of the Afghan Information Centre continues that the regime airforce planes bombarded two civilian transportation vehicles at Wat near Spin Boldak on 5th July. Both of the vehicles were vOmpletely burnt and all their passengers died. As a result of both* regime bombing, and the obstacles created by some mujahideen, the number of returning refugees has decreased; now only mujahideen use the road for going and coming.
      There are continuous gatherings of religious elements, students, fighters and elders in the refugee camps in Baluchistan discussing the political future of Afghanistan.Most of the concerned people expressed their views in favour of a kind of political solution which will help to stop further bloodshed of the Afghan people. The refugees and mujahideen held a meeting on 6 July in Surkhab camp. The participants supported the guidelines of following Hanafi doctrine; and searching for ways and methods to minimize foreign cultural, political and religious influence. They discussed various alternatives for the restoration of peace and tranquility in Afghanistan.
      The US special envoy to Afghan resistance, Mr. Peter Tomsen visited Quetta and held a meeting with some influential Afghan elders on 8 July. The elders said that the United States should under no circumstances cause an extension of the suffering of the Afghan people.
                              32
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
If the United States sincerely wants to achieve peace in Afghanistan, the conditions for that are that the Najib government should collapse and the Afghan people should make their own socio-political system themselves, and determine their fate by themselves. This problem can be solved through the Afghan traditional way, "jirga". Any form of government being imposed on the Afghan people will cause a backlash. .
FARAH PROVINCE, 7 July 89-
     Mujahideen of commander Haji Mohammad Shah Ghazi attacked the regime military convoy in Siaw Baba and Khurmasak area between Farahroad and Dilaram.         In a
telephone conversation from Iran, he told AIC that the convoy was transporting supplies to Helmand and Nimroz provinces. About 17 vehicles of the regime, including tanks, were destroyed and twenty soldiers were killed and many more wounded. Mujahideen lost 6 killed and 5 wounded. Except for the provincial capital of Farah and district headquarters of Farahraod, the remaining parts of the province are under mujahideen control.
                  * * * * *
33
               Sufism and the Modem World
  The Ever-Present Eyes
      One of Juneyd's disciples was specially favoured by the great master, wich provoked the jealousy of his other followers. When they complained, the master told them:
      -      Dear friends, I like the man more then the rest of you, bicause he has attained a higher stage of understanding. If you do not believe me, let us try an experiment.
      He asked for twenty live chickens to be brouth and distributed them among the twenty disciples saying:
      - Go now and kill your chicken irf a place where no
 one can see you.         >
      After a while they came back with the chickens beheaded, all except the favourite disciple who brought his chicken still alive. He was asked the reason.
       - Master, -answered the man, you said that the chicken must be killed in a place where no one saw ire. But I couldn't find such a place. Because everywhere I went I felt He was there looking at me. -
 From the book "Sufism and the Modem World'1 by Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh
A
USSR
USSR
I RAN
                                                                                                                      V >
                                                                                                                     ) %
                                                                                                                       SJ
Toh^n BAOAKHSHANj.-^ /        JamiTlU
             ./ . /
TAKHAR      /      j
r
/
*BAD |
® > Kashmir
   « .*
P A kJi s tan
RAN
    /UlMROZ: *
 Outfit
                                                                                    AFGHANISTAN
      • - —  Imonatonal bound»r\
  ——— Kasbmx dittio Duurrt* i Plov/AOm.n oounbn)
       1     Mjkx rota*
   .......
   -----ci R.v«'S
 0    SO  »00  l»0   MO    IV