 AFGHAN
    JNFORMATION QENTRE
       MONTHLY BULLETIN
     No.96 Eighth Year March 1989
Address: ISe s.j. Afghani Road, University Town, PESHAW^R-PAKISTAN P. O. Cox: 228  T£lephone:40953     Telegram: AF1C
      The aims of Afghan Information Centre are :
      1.        To report on the exact situation inside Afghanistan on the basis of accurate and reliable information obtained from within tjie country itselt.
      2.        To make this information available in the form of articles, news bulletins, tapes, photographs and films to :
        (a)  International news media,
        (b)  Individuals, international private and public organisations interested in events in Afghanistan.
      The Afghan Information Centre is an independent and non-partisan organisation^and is not affiliated to any particular resistance group.
      The Afghan Information Centre is a non-profit organisation. In order to fulfill its task the Centre accepts financial assistance provided it does not compromise in any way its independence.
FOUNDER: Late Prof.Dr.Syed B.Majrooh
EDITOR : S. Naim Majrooh
  Annual Subscription :
  Pakistan    Rs.      400
  Abroad      Dollar : 50
Bank account No 284822306 Telex No 5210 GBPEW PK Grmdlays Bank P.L.C Peshawar Pakistan
THE AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE HAS NO OBJECTION TO ITS MATERIALS BEING USED OR REPRODUCED ELSEWHERE FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISSEMINATING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AFGHAN CAUSE. COMPLETE CITATION OF THE SOURCE, HOWEVER, WOULD BE APPRECIATED.
             AFGHAN INFORMATION
                   CENTRE
                      Monthly Bulletin
               No. 96          March 1989
      CONTENTS
      I    Professor Louis Dupree - A Tribute                 1
      II   The Third Phase Of The War In Afghanistan          3
      III  The Battle For Jalalabad                           9
      IV   The Situation In Kabul                            21
      V    A Report From Khost, Paktia Province              30
      VI   Business Thriving In Logar                        34
      VII  The Situation In Ghor Province                    37
      COVER PHOTOGRAPH:
      REFUGEES COM!NGFROM JALALABAD ( Photo:AMRC )
                 LOUIS DUPREE (1925-1989) - A Tribute
           Louis  Dupree, the most famous scholar of
      Afghanistan, died of cancer on 21 March.
           Dupree had been interested in Afghanistan since 1949, when he first visited the country as a young archaeologist. He spent most of his time in the next 40 years inside Afghanistan.
           In 1959 he joined the American Universities Field Staff and for 24 years devoted most of his attention to writing on Afghanistan. He became famous for his numerous AUFC reports, which still serve as basic material on the modem history of Afghanistan.
           His most famous work, however, was his monumental book on the country, Afghanistan (Princeton University Press), published an 1973 and republished in a revised edition in 1980.
           In 1978 he was imprisoned for several months by the Taraki regime, and after his release spent most of his time in Pakistan studying and reporting on the Afghan mujahideen war effort. He made many public speeches and several appearances before the United States Congress on behalf of the Afghan jihad. He and his wife, Nancy Dupree, were at the time of his death working on a book on the Afghan refugees.
           Dupree was more than Afghanistan's most prominent advocate to the United States and the Western world; he was a cherished personal friend of hundreds of Afghans. Many Afghans will remember the many good times they spent with Louis, and many can testify to the personal favours and special services that Louis and Nancy did for them.
- 1 -
No 96
Eighth Year
March 1989
      Louis's deatn is therefore a great personal loss Lw many Afghans. On behalf of the many Afghan friends who mourn his loss, the Afghan Information Centre extends its sincerest condolences to his wife, Nancy, and his three children.
                            * * * * *
                                         - 2 -
       TOE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN ENTERS ITS THIRD PHASE
      The first phase of the war in Afghanistan began with the armed jihad, or holy war, following the April 1978 Communist coup in Kabul.
      The invasion of the Soviets in December 1979, which was undertaRen to prevent the collapse of the Kabul regime, marked the beginning of the second phase.
      The war has new entered its third phase with the completion of the Soviet withdrawal on 15 February. The Afghan people started their resistance against the Communist regime in Kabul, continued it against the Soviet-installed regime, and will continue the struggle until the complete collapse of President Najib's government.
      The withdrawal of the Soviet troops was a unique victory for the mujahideen after 10 years of war. It is up to every Afghan to take advantage of the opportunity this presents.
       The Soviet withdrawal will alter the nature of the war. Wise and practical changes should be made in the tactics of resistance and attitude of the mujahideen towards the regime and the civilians (in particular those living under regime control in the cities).
      The third phase of the war could prove injurious to the mujahideen if such changes are not made. The outside world may consider the conflict to be simply an internal Afghan war. Their sympathy and assistance may be challenged and affected adversely. It could lead to a situation in which the mujahideen may be winning the
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
 battle on the ground, but the communists are winning on the political level.
      It is time for the Resistance movement to establish itself politically and militarily. The Resistance should be prepared to react in a thoughtful, organized and steady manner as new developments - both military and political - arise.
      The war cannot be prosecuted in the same manner as it was when the Soviets ware still in Afghanistan. The regime in Kabul says that its attitude is not the same as it was during the Soviet occupation. According to the Najib regime, Marxism and Leninism has been replaced by a professed desire to return to Islamic principles and to protect national interests. In a recent speech on Kabul Radio, Najib said "We believe in God and our people."
      When the Soviets were in Afghanistan, Najib was calling the mujahideen "bandits, criminals and antirevolutionary elements."
      In his speeches now Najib is addressing the commanders thus: "Dear countrymen and commanders in the jihad fronts, you-are the ones who suffered the most. You are actually the other side of the conflict. Whatever you have in mind, let us negotiate on it. You have tolerated a lot of hardship for the sake of this'country. If you are not willing to negotiate with the government, then ensure peace in the areas you control, select government officials - governors, magistrates and so on - from amongst yourselves, and we will provide you with every kind of support you may need."
      The Resistance must be on guard against losing the political initiative to the Communist regime. The Resistance must shew itself capable of adapting its policies to meet the new challenge presented by the
                                         - 4 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 Soviet withdrawal and Kabul's attenpts to win the support of the urban population inside Afghanistan, and that of world opinion '(the regime is presenting itself as being in favour of compromise).
      The Resistance must train its mujahideen in conventional warfare tactics. Now the mujahideen are launching conventional assaults on well-defended positions concentrated around the cities. The mujahideen casualties have been very high, because they have been fighting a guerrilla war for the past 10 years; they have not been trained in conventional tactics, and- they are not ready for such frontal assaults. This shortcoming was not foreseen by the mujahideen; it should be put right. In conjunction with the necessary training, it is imperative to have a united comnand and efficient coordination.
      Plans must be produced to protect the people, their property and the property and resources (such as museums and monuments, industrial and agricultural centres) that belong to the Afghan nation as a whole.
      (There must be a clear distinction made between what is personal property and must be protected and what can be considered as war booty. So far, everything has been treated as war booty. People have looted things for their cwn private use. Most of the state-owned material and equipment has been sold for personal profit.)
      The killing of prisoners and other incidents that have occurred in Ningarhar, Kunar and other liberated areas must be prevented. Any repetition of such acts only serves to damage the Resistance cause. The Kabul regime has used these incidents as an effective propaganda tool against the jihad.
                                       - 5 -
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
      Much of the killing and looting took place because of .the presence of irresponsible elements. Some of them carry on these activities consciously and intentionally, while others just follow them without thinking. These elements fear that they will have no future in Afghanistan. The only way they can exert any influence is by encouraging a state of anarchy.
      If this is allowed to continue, it will drive the civilian population into the hands of the regime. People living in the cities will take up arms to defend themselves. Already some self-protection committees have been formed in the cities.
      During the second phase of the war, when the Soviets were fighting against Afghans, the mujahideen criticisms of people who remained in the cities to live side by side with the Soviets were valid.
      Nevertheless, many were still actively participating in 'underground' jihad by organizing demonstrations, not co-operating with the regime, providing information to the mujahideen and even taking part in terrorist activity against the communists.
      There were people who were unable to leave the cities for other reasons. Some were relatives of high-ranking government officials. Some had family members who were being held as hostages by the regime. Others were financially dependent on the regime, and did not have the means to leave. That these people stayed in the cities did not mean that they supported the regime. Yet those who have.come to Pakistan recently have been criticized by some longstanding refugees for staying so long under Communist rule in Afghanistan.
      New that the Soviets have gone, these people are expecting a change in the attitude of the mujahideen. If
                                       - 6 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 the Resistance does not consider sympathetically their explanations, they will lose the support of these people - support which they badly need.
      There is a danger that uncorrpromis ing attitudes of the Resistance will enable the Kabul regime and the Soviet invaders to achieve what they failed to do in the last 10 years - win the support of Afghanistan's urban population.
      If the Resistance is not careful, it will push many people into looking towards the regime for protection, and this will help the Communists to turn attention away from the crimes and atrocities they have committed. The sacrifices of the Afghan people will have been wasted.
      At this critical phase of the struggle the mujahideen need the whole-hearted support of the masses in the country. They need the support of the military officers, the low-rank government employees and others who are willing to admit their faults and. help the mujahideen in order to compensate for their mistakes.
      Without this support, it will be very difficult for the mujahideen to capture the cities, particularly those deeper inside Afghanistan where there are problems for the mujahideen in supply, reinforcement and evacuation of casualties.
      The regime has reinforced their positions in all the cities under their control and they seem ready to fight hard for their survival. They are using the rest of the people as their hostages.
      What should the Resistance he doing?
- ,7 -
Eighth Year
No.96
March 1989
      The mujahideen should riot exert so much military pressure on the cities that it leaves no opportunity for individuals to desert or surrender.
      Besides carrying out well-planned military operations, there is a need for political manoeuvring. The Resistance must work to keep the support of the estimated nine million civilians still living in Afghanistan.
      The friends of the Afghans should know our people by now. They should be well aware that trying to exert influence on the Afghans will eventually backfire. Our friends are playing with the risk of destroying the mutual friendship and goodwill that has built up in the last decade.
      The Afghan Resistance still needs support. But that support should not be used as a tool to encourage divisiveness within the mujahideen, nor should it be used to force the mujahideen to engage in military operations that they are not yet capable of carrying out successfully.
      In the past the Afghans have settled their internal .differences through traditional means, through jirgas or councils. Everyone should recognize that the Afghans should be left alone to work out a practical solution to their problems.                           '
               .                                The Editor
*
*
*
- 8 -
                          THE BATTL£ FOR JALALABAD
      After the liberation of neighbouring Kunar province in October 1988, the mujahideen concentrated their attentions on Jalalabad, the provincial capital of Ningarhar and the third largest city in Afghanistan.
      Jalalabad, with an estimated population of 200,000, was besieged from all sides at distances varying from 8 to 15 kilometres from the city centre.
 On 6 March the mujahideen of Mahaz (Gailani) began a major offensive against the regime posts in Sarshahi, Surkhdewal and Sarrarkhel. These were quickly captured. The last post in Samarkhel fell on the night of 9 March to mujahideen of Hezb-Islami (Khales), and the following day the mujahideen reached the airport, inflicting heavy material and troop losses on the regime.
      The mujahideen were able to enter the south-eastern corner of the airfield, but strong regime resistance and extensive minefields forced the mujahideen to withdraw.
      Between 10 March and 12 March, inconclusive assaults were launched by mujahideen groups on government .positions in the airport. The mujahideen were also able to make their way round the north-eastern perimeter of the airport to attack the government divisional garrison at Kul-i-Urdu. The mujahideen were unable to make any further progress as they encountered stiff resistance from well-entrenched, well-trained, and well-armed regime army troops.
      At this stage, the momentum that had carried the mujahideen forward was lost. Lack of co-ordination and of an efficient command structure, tactical shortcomings, inappropriate weapons for attacking fixed armour
- 9 -
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
 positions covered by entrenched infantry, and lack of training in conventional warfare all contributed to halting the mujahideen advance.
      The regime air force proved itself to be still effective; during the second week of the offensive, the regime began to launch low-level cluster bombing raids. The mujahideen's lack of sufficient air defence put them at a severe disadvantage.
      A further failing has been the inability of the mujahideen to cut off Jalalabad from resupply. Although the airport has been closed since the second week of March, the regime has been able J       *ly in transport
 helicopters to Jalalabad city itselr.       ver, at least
 one resupply convoy was able to reach the city by road from Kabul.
      The plan to capture Jalalabad was for the mujahideen to launch a simultaneous attack from all sides. In the event, the attack only came from the eastern* side. Considerable advances were rrade in a short time, but the attack suffered because the operations from the three other directions were slow. The attack from the north did not begin until 10 March.
      In the south near Chaprihar, mujahideen attacked Hada farm, destroying four enemy posts.
      From 17-20 March mujahideen attacked regime posts in Kharkaran and Adam Khel villages in Surkhrod district to the west of Jalalabad. The posts were finally destroyed after strong resistance from the regime militia. Casualties were high on both sides. With the first security belt breached, the mujahideen were able to close in on the city.
-10-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
        From the east, the mujahideen have continued to launch attacks against the regime positions in the airport and around Kul-i-Urdu. However, as of 3 April no more ground had been taken, and a stalemate appeared to have been reached.
        There are new about 12,000 mujahideen gathered around Jalalabad, waiting to attack the city from all directions.
        Resistance sources have put the strength of the defending regime force at 20,000. With conventional military wisdom requiring that the attacking force outnumber the defenders by three to one, the prospects for success look doubtful if the assault is prosecuted without altering the tactics.
        The Kabul regime has suffered considerable casualties and lost a large quantity of arms and equipment - including tanks - to the mujahideen. Similarly, many mujahideen and civilians were kiiled.
        The exact number of mujahideen casualties has been difficult to determine. There has been no central | collecting area for the wounded and dead; many mujahideen shaheed (martyred) were buried inside Afghanistan; the wounded who are brought back to Pakistan for treatment have been taken to the many independent hospitals run by different medical organizations.
!
        As of 28 March, Resistance sources were estimating that the mujahideen had lost 450 dead and more than 1,500 wounded.
        "The main reason for the losses is that before our operations would last only a couple of hours and we would not be exposed for long to enemy fire," said General Rahim Wardak'of Mahaz (Gailani).
                                          - 11 -
No 96
Eighth Year
March 1989
         "We are fighting an enemy that has complete air superiority, very strong armoured forces available, and is superior in firepower. Naturally in such intensive fighting the level of casualties rises.
         "We should have raised regular forces that would have had the same level of equipment, training and discipline as the enemy," said General War dak.
         He explained that the main policy had been to get closer to Jalalabad and then tighten the siege, prevent the Kabul air force from resupplying the city, cut the road and give the people the chance to surrender. But after the success at Samarkhel, expectations were raised
                     that Jalalabad would fall. These were wrong expectations.
              /
         After the experiences of the past, the general said, "It was agreed that proper measures had to be taken to prevent any sort of disorder and looting, and to look after the civilians.
         "All commanders were briefed extensively on this. I don't think it will be a serious problem this time.. I think our conduct will be such that it will set ar example to facilitate the fall of many other cities."
         Another Mahaz commander. General Rahmatullah Safi, said that before starting any operation against any city, the mujahideen should make the civilians understand that it is they the mujahideen are fighting for.
         "We should. separate the minority of the regime supporters from the majority of civilians. We should become a united force against the regime. If we do this the people will threw Najib out," said General Safi, a former brigadier in the Afghan army.
-12-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      The general said that lack of communication, coordination and co-operation had kept the enemy in a strong position. "The enemy was fighting against one force at a time, not against a giant force attacking from all directions at once," he said.
      "The regime will make propaganda that they have            *
 enough power to defend a major city. It was not that they regime was strong, it was because the mujahideen were weak. The planning was weak and hurried, and coordination was lacking.
      "We should take time, plan, and continuously contact the defenders. That will allow the Najib regime to change their mind about resisting and hand over power to the mujahideen.
      "We should say to the people that our job was to fight against the Russians and the Communists. The Russians have gone. New it is your job to understand who is Khalqi, who is Parchami, and throw them out."
                       * * *
      Mujahideen sources report that about 10,000 rifles have been distributed by the regime to civilians living in the city.
      A traveller from Jalalabad reports that the families of high-ranking regime officers and officials have been transferred to Kabul. The regime has attempted to keep this information out of public knowledge.
      It is suspected that the . general commander of Jalalabad,    General   Barakzai, has         been killed.
 Eyewitnesses report that he lost both legs in a mujahideen rocket attack during the regime retreat from
                               - 13 -
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
  Samarkhel garrison. He was seen to be carried away, but there is no confirmation of his death.
       The traveller also reported that some refugees had been able to make their way out of the city, indicating that a refugee 'corridor' was in existence.
       The Refugee Situation
       Regime bombing and mujahideen rocketing in the city suburbs has resulted in many people leaving these areas to seek refuge in Pakistan.
       The people of outlying districts such as Momandara, , Shinwar, Goshta, Kama, and Khaiwa left their homes in 1 November and December .
       As the fighting has moved towards the city, so the villagers have left their homes. The people of Samarkhel, Saracha, Karez Kabir, Khush Gunbad, Chordehi, Qasaba, Chaprihar, Zakhel, Laima, Hada, Sultanpur, Behsud, Zairani, Ghauchak and other villages became refugees in March, many of them going to Pakistan.
       Before the Communist coup in 1978, many of these villages were heavily populated. Some people left after the coup, and many more following the Spviet invasion. The following figures, compiled from AIC interviews with refugees, compare the population in 1978 to that in October 1988:
              1978 (number of families) 1988 
Samarkhel.... ..1400                     200 
Saracha...... .. 200                      80 
Karez Kabir.. .. 200                      75 
Khush Gunbad. .. 500                     380 
                      -14-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      In January 1989, rrany people left the neighbouring province of Kunar and came to Jalalabad and its suburbs. At this stage the majority of people living in the above villages were not natives of the area. All of the inhabitants, both native and immigrant, have now left these villages.                                  1
      Many of the new refugees left all their belongings behind. The mujahideen helped them as much as they could to leave the battle ground.
      The       Commissionerate of Afghan Refugees     and
 international aid organizations helped the refugees when they arrived in Pakistan. Upon crossing the border, the refugees are asked where they are planning to live. Some have gone to live with relatives already established in refugee camps in Pakistan. Others are being taken to new camps in Nasir Bagh and Kohat. They are supplied with food, tents and clothes.
      According to the Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees, 18,000 have fled from the Jalalabad since the offensive began on 6 March. Every day between 10 and 80 families arrive in Pakistan. Often the groups are of women and children only.
               The Situation Inside Jalalabad - An Interview With A Refugee Who Recently Arrived In Peshawar
      Associate Professor Ghulam Sakhi Rahmanzai, a doctor of medicine, has been teaching at Jalalabad medical college since the early 1970s. During that time he said he had been arrested twice and been in Pul-i-Charkhi prison, Kabul. He left Jalalabad on 24 March.
      "The population of Jalalabad has increased a great deal recently. Many people from Kunar and some from the
                               -15-
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
 countryside in Laghman and Ningarhar have come to the city.
      "There are many ordinary civilians among them who have come for a variety of reasons. Of course, some are supporters of the regime and followers of the Khalq party, those who had official posts in the districts. When the mujahideen liberated these areas, these people came to Jalalabad.
      "After the evacuation of Kunar in October 1988, so many people came to Jalalabad that there was no place for them to live. Schools were closed and these people were accommodated in the buildings.
      "About 90% of the people in Jalalabad are against the Kabul regime and support the mujahideen. The stability of the Kabul regime in Jalalabad has been weakened a lot by the disunity of the Khalq and Parcham factions, mujahideen attacks, increasing economic problems in the city and the insecurity felt by the people.
      "Particularly when the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan, the * communists were under a lot of psychological pressure and their morale was weakened. The lack of basic commodities and foodstuffs has increased the hatred of the civilians for the government.
      "After the mujahideen began their operation around Jalalabad in S^markhel and Surkhdewal on 6 March, and particularly following the fall of Samarkhel three days later, the regime imposed restrictions on the people living in the city.
      "All the civilian administrative offices were closed. All the personnel, students and civil service employees were told to take leave. Everyone was sitting
                               - 16 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
 at home and could not go out. All the bazaars and rrarkets were closed. Only people in military uniform were allowed outside.
      "This has made the people extremely tired. They were faced with hunger, suffering and death. All of the people were trying to escape from the city, but there was a continuous curfew day and night, inposed for three main reasons:
 a) To stop people giving assistance to the mujahideen.
 b) To prevent looting.
 c) To stop people leaving the city.
      "If the people stay in the city this will give the regime courage. If civilians are killed by mujahideen artillery, this can be exploited for propaganda purposes and consequently increase the gap between mujahideen and civilians.
      "The people, particularly daily wage earners, have found it very hard during the last six weeks - to find food. They cannot go out of their houses, and these people usually have no savings.
      "It is also hard for those civilian government employees who are not party members, and for some lcwer ranking party members too. Their salaries were not enough to meet their expenses. Many used to do other jobs as well as their official one.
      "Even the military officers with their high salaries find that prices are so high they cannot cover their needs. Apart from the high rank party members, everyone is suffering in Jalalabad.
      "For the. first'two or three days after the curfew was implemented, the regime sold bread and some food to
                      -17-
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
  people in their houses, but they were not able to continue this.
       "The people leaving the city can take none of their belongings with them. They leave their houses full. The government still has not had time to take a decision what to do about the abandoned houses.
       "As a result of heavy artillery and rocket bombardments from both sides the city has been mostly destroyed, but the western side has been less damaged so far.
        "Some mujahideen missiles hit their military targets well. At the beginning of the second week of fighting, the KHAD arms depot, situated behind the medical college hospital, was hit, as was the arms depot of the First Frontier Brigade. The depot for general supplies near the airport was also blown up.
        "Since the   fighting    began, planes have used the
  airport once only. Since then, the regime has used Sera: park in the city itself for landing helicopters. Most of the trees have been cut down for that purpose. Transport helicopters are    being used which can fly at    very lok
  altitude to bring in supplies.
        "High school students in Jalalabad .and Kabul have been     organized into a      unit called Guards   of the
  Revolution. They are assigned for security duty in the city     and those who are     physically big are sent  tc
  battlefields. All of them are paid.
        "The regime uses radio, television and loudspeakers for propaganda about the arrival of fresh soldiers from Kabul and other cities. The regime also claimed to have reoccupied Samarkhel.
                                 - 18 -
.AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
      "The regime has concentrated its troops in the south in Chaprihar and Hada, in the west in Surkhrod, in the north in Behsud, and in the east near the airport in Sheshambagh and in Seraj park.
      "The areas of regime control are as follows:
 1) Up to the airport in the east.
 2) Up to Behsud in the north.
 3) Up to Shah Naser Agha in the west.
 4) Up to Hada farm and Daulatzai in the east.
      "There are many small posts in different parts of the city, mostly in trenches and underground bunkers for protection against mujahideen attacks. The regime has little strength within the city.
      "The Coinnunist coup in 1978 and the arrival of the Soviets in December 1979 has led to the collapse of the education system. The present educational level of the Jalalabad medical college is equivalent to the second year in former times.
      "Experienced professors were killed, .left the country or were dismissed from their jobs. Very few have remained. Many times students have failed their examinations but the dean or political officer has declared that they have passed. The doctors who graduated would leave the country, or serve in the military or be busy in some other field.
      "Before the 1978 coup there were 7-800 students in the medical college, and there were about 100 teachers. Now the number of students is 300, and there are only 30 teachers, of whom only four or five are experienced,
      "There is no preventative care in the hospital, and curative care is given to war wounded patients only.
                     -19-
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
         "Malaria, tuberculosis and malnutrition are common. There has been no insecticide spray for several years.
         "All the people in Jalalabad are in need of peace. They want to see the mujahideen victorious, but at the same time they want to leave the city. They want a regime which can ensure peace and which has the support of the people.
         "I think methods should be explored to stop the bloodshed and bring peace to the country. The killing of civilians living in the city should stop."
         The Professor provided the following comparison of commodity prices:
January        February
Wheat       ( 7 kg)..  ____800  1500 (Afghanis) 
Potatoes    ( 7 kg ..  ____400              600 
Onions      ( 7 kg)..                       600 
Sugar       ( 1 kg)..                       400 
Lamb        ( 1 kg)..  ----500              600 
Beef        ( 1 kg)..  ____350              400 
Cooking oil .(16 kg).. ____6000         9-10000 
Tea         ( 1 k$)..  ____1000            1200 
Egg         (one)....                        30 
Bread       (loaf)...                        30 
Firewood    ( 7 kg)..  ..80-100           ' 130 
Petrol      (4.5 lit)  .... 800            1300 
NB: 200 Afghanis is approximately 1 US dollar.
                     * * * * *
                        -20-
                      INSIDE KABUL - THE CURRENT SITUATION
        A traveller from Kabul brought the following news from the capital:
        Political Developments
        Following the declaration of a state of emergency. President Najib has dismissed or arrested some high-ranking officials, installing his cwn supporters in their place.
        Najib has been continuing his attenpts to reach a compromise with Babrak Karma1 (who heads another faction within the Parchami party); if he can get the support of Karmal and his followers, he will have the support of the majority within the communist party. For the same reason he has tried to attract the support of Amin's followers in the Khalqi party as well. He is also planning similar compromises with leading Khalqis such as .Gulabzoi (currently ambassador in Moscow) and Saleh Mohammad Zerai (Minister of Agriculture).
        Some sources say that the removal of Hassan Sharq from the prime ministry was decided after consultation between Najib and Sharq himself. The appointment of Keshtmand was calculated to attract the support of Hazara Shias both inside and outside Afghanistan. As the Iran-based Shias were left out of the shura held in Rawalpindi (which led to the formation of the Afghan Mujahideen interim government) in February, they may be encouraged to join the regime.
        The Kabul regime has started a large-scale propaganda campaign against the February shura, saying it
                               -21-
No 96
Eighth Year
March 1989
      was illegitimate because it the refugees in Pakistan and I rein were not represented. The regime continuously draws attention to the mistakes and behaviour of mujahideen in the liberated areas such as Kunar, Ningarhar and other provinces.
           The campaign is designed to convince the people living in the major cities like Kabul, Kandahar and Jalalabad to fight against the mujahideen. Some people were expecting the Kabul regime to fall following the Soviet withdrawal. Regime resistance in Jalalabad has raised the morale of the Khalq party in general and their military forces in particular.
           Regime Negotiations With The Mujahideen
           Najib is trying hard to establish ties with the mujahideen commanders in Afghanistan in order to negotiate a political settlement.
           Parallel to that, former King Zahir Shah's verdict has been published in the Akhbar newspaper. The paper says that Zahir Shah is the only person so far who can ensure peace in Afghanistan. The paper further says that there are groups within the mujahideen who support the return of the king.
           Regime Oppression
           The state of emergency in Kabul has led to further oppression of the people. The objectives and consequences of the emergency measures are seen to be:
      1)  Reducing the chances of a coup d'etat by opposition elements in the regime.
      2)  Arresting potential and active dissidents.
                             -22 -
AFGHAiN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
    3) Using house searches «to pressgang young boys for war service.
    4) Reducing opportunities for mujahideen to penetrate the city.
         A curfew has been imposed from 10 pm until 5 am. Since the withdrawal of Soviet troops, the authorities have forced artisans to man defence posts in the city for five nights each week. Civilian government employees have been sent to defence posts too, in return for a monthly salary of 8,000 Afghanis (approx. $40). The regime has forced mullahs and elders to condemn openly the mujahideen.
         Popular Dissatisfaction With Mujahideen Shura
         Many people in Kabul have indicated that they are dissatisfied with the mujahideen shura and the subsequently formed interim government because it made no provision for the representatives of those civilians living in Afghanistan. The Kabul regime is exploiting this for propaganda purposes.
         Kabul University In A State Of Collapse
         A former professor at Kabul University says that the education system there has collapsed. Most of the male students have been sent to the battlefield. The 2,500 high school graduates who sat the University entrance exam were all sent to the war.
         Those students remaining are mostly girls. About 1200 girls attend classes in the various colleges.. Even they carry weapons with them in class. The professor said that when he was confronted with a class of girls carrying rifles he found it difficult to teach properly.

                                           - 23 -
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
        At nights the girls too stand guard at defence posts inside the city.
             Comnodity Prices
                         An eyewitness has supplied the following prices for
food and fuel:                                  
Gasoline       (per litre)... .. 300 (Afghanis) 
Diesel                        .. 190            
Kerosene                      .. 120            
Beef           (per kg)...... .. 500            
Tea                           .. 800            
Firewood       (7 kg)........ .. 240            
Flour                         ..810             
Vegetable oil  (17 kg)....... ..6100            
* * * * *
           AN INTERVIEW WITH A WESTER* JOURNALIST WD WAS SH0GGU3) HfPO KABUL BY THE MUJAHIDEEN
             In March British cameraman Peter Jouvenal, on assignment for. the BBC, spent three days in Kabul with the mujahideen.
             "I was travelling with Commander Anwari's mujahideen of the Shia Harakat (Mohseni) group. They say they are very active inside Kabul. Because they are Shia (who have been the underdogs of Afghan society), when their villages were bombed, they did not have enough money to go to Pakistan and so many of them went to Kabul. It is those people that Anwari cultivates to spread their contacts in Kabul.
             "The people I met in Kabul were from KHAD , (the Afghan Soviet-trained secret service), the police and one
                             -24-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
     nan who was an army officer. They had aLl been sent by Anwari to infiltrate these organizations. I don't know hew long they had been there, but they were very comfortable in the city and able to move about freely. There were also some nujahideen who do not belong to any organization but have fake identity Cards so that when they get stopped in the street they can "prove" their identity.
          "At Sanglakh Anwari has training programmes both for nornal military operations and some for making bombs for operations inside the city.
          "The route we were to take in and out of Kabul was made unpredictable because soldiers in the nearby posts kept coming over to the mujahideen, arid the government had to keep sending fresh soldiers to reinforce the security posts.
          "I hid my camera in an Afghan-Soviet friendship bags. We walked between the checkposts amongst people who were going in to the city to work. There was a taxi waiting for us. We had a quick tour of Kabul, going past the Soviet embassy, the Ministry of Defence and some KHAD buildings, and the British embassy, which we filmed through the windows of the taxi in the afternoon.
          "We wanted to meet some people who were working in the government. The next day two men from KHAD drove us around in their jeep. Afterwards at their house an army officer came in. They told us about their operations, what the government planned to do, and what other mujahideen commanders operating in the city planned to do. They said that there were 15 Soviet pilots at Bagram airbase, living in a separate corrpound.
          "We filmed one of their rocket attacks on KHAD Centre number three. They set up some rockets with timer
                              -25-
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
       devices about one kilometre away. The rockets missed. Hie commander was very upset by this, as he didn't know where the rockets would land, and was concerned about killing civilians.
            "Many people, now that the Soviets have left - a lot of them didn't support the Russians, but they are intelligent Afghans - are very frightened about some of the less educated mujahideen. They are worried that the fate of Kabul will be like that of Kunar, with a lot of Arabs running around, shooting and destroying. This is what is uniting the government. I think the government can make a deal with the mujahideen. It is this fear of the future that is holding the government together.
            "On the day I left there were a lot of Soviet transport planes coming in to the airport, one every five minutes.
            "We saw queues at bread shops, but they weren't that big. But because we were guests they were trying very hard, and also their positions within the government made it easier for them to get food.
            "There was, a fuel shortage. Our mujahideen had to give petrol to KHAD to drive us around the city. But taxis are still moving around.
            "Their were not many rocket attacks* from outside the city as far as I could see. The lack of military operations is because of the weather and it is better to concentrate * the mujahideen effort on the defensive perimeter around the city. I was there when 38 soldiers defected. They had taken over a Russian position. They were very well received by the Harakat mujahideen.
            "For security reasons they did not want us to talk to people in the streets. The people we were with were of
-26-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
    course very pro-mujahideen and Islam. There is an attitude of them and us, the people in the city and the hordes outside. When the food supplies come in, the government considers it a major victory. There are a lot of people trying to live in between. They are not in the government, are not in the army, such as the shopkeepers.
                                                \
         "A major mujahideen offensive on Kabvil like the one at Jalalabad will not achieve its objective. The government has the means to destroy a large assault. There is not a lot of cover around Kabul.
         "I think a military victory is very unlikely. It would be very difficult and very costly. None of the seven parties will co-ordinate well enough together. They are also having trouble converting guerrillas into a regular army, which they now need.
         "Another reason why there might not be a big push is the civilians. A lot of the mujahideen have family and friends in the city.
         "There is only one line of defence around Kabul and I walked through that. The activities of the mujahideen inside Kabul are very important. They undermine the people's confidence in the government and they undermine the government's confidence. If there is no pressure, and the government is too confident, they will not come to an agreement.
         "But I think the regime is going to go, and the way it is going to go is if these small defence perimeter posts keep defecting. There is a balance; you have to put pressure on the government. Another problem .with Jalalabad is that they are cornered. In the past, the mujahideen have always given the government a back door to run away. But in Jalalabad now they have their backs to the wall. The road to Kabul is closed, and they hear
                              -27-
No. 96
Eighth Year
March 1989
      about the execution of 74 prisoners at Torkham in November last year and reports of Arabs killing prisoners.
                          "One of the reasons why the government is hanging on
      is because it might be able to negotiate with the
      mujahideen. A lot of the commanders who have been
      fighting fro years under terrible conditions are very
      annoyed about the increased Pakistani involvement, and
      because of the shura which is a Pakistani creation and
      because of the interim government which the Pakistanis
      and Saudis are trying to impose on the Afghans -
      basically taking on where the Russians left off. They are
                    bitter that when they do not listen to the Pakistanis,
      they have their supplies cut.
                                ♦
           "The commanders inside are being faced with the choice of having a Pakistani-Arab irrposed government, or, if they are prepared to negotiate with the regime, one that they Can have some say in themselves. The regime is making use of this very cleverly. If this happened there would be less bloodshed and the war would be over quicker."
                           KABUL CITY MILITARY NEWS
           On 14 February, six rockets were fired on Darulaman, Pamir Cinema and Kartai Sakhee, killing three people and wounding eight.
           On 17 February, two missiles were fired on the city, killing four people and wounding two.
           On 20 February, two Parcham party activists were killed in the Chelsitoon area of Kabul. In their search for those responsible the government police arrested 19 people.
                            -28 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
          On 26 February, mujahideen carried out an attack on the Microrayon government residential area, killing three regime soldiers.
          On 27 February, mujahideen kidnapped two regime army officers from Qargha. Both were from the Parchami faction of the Comnunist Party, and were supporters of Babrak Karma1.
          On 28 February, mujahideen fired two rockets in Taimani and two in Khairkhana. Three people were killed and seven injured.
                             -29-
                   THE SITUATION IN KHDST, PAKTIA PROVINCE
           In the last days of January the mujahideen took several important posts around the city of Khost. The city itself has been reinforced by Soviet-trained Afghans. Most of these new troops are said to be natives of the city. There are 12 flights a week to Khost, which bring in food and ammunition for the city.
           Ch 21 January, a high-level military delegation, including officials from the Ministry of.Tribal Affairs and from KHAD (the Afghan secret service) visited Khost. They reviewed the military and Sarandoy (Police) forces defending the city. They distributed a considerable quantity of arms to civilians, and established militia posts in and around the city. The posts outside the city are manned by trustworthy militia; one of their tasks is to prevent people from leaving Khost.
           The military delegation felt that the posts in Alisher, Tora Ghara and Manay Kandu to the south of the city should be evacuated in order to strengthen the security forces, in the city itself. However, the commander of the Khost division disagreed, reasoning that if those posts were evacuated, the mujahideen would be able to come closer to the city, further threatening the security of Khost and its airport. The commander's point of view was accepted and the posts are still being maintained.
                   •
           It was also decided that in the Sanaki area, which is inhabited by the Tani tribe, new strongholds should be established. If this were not possible, then at least the mujahideen should be prevented from using the area to attack the city and airport with rockets and other heavy
                             -30-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       weapons. So far, the Tani tribe has not given a positive answer to this request.
            On 22 January, militia and army strongholds in Tora Ghara were attacked by the mujahideen. Two tanks and one other vehicle were destroyed, and 19 regime troops killed. Subsequently, these posts were recaptured by the regime following fierce fighting.
            The city is rocketed by mujahideen every day. Civilians have built their own shelters, and they are organized in defence committees; their monthly salary has doubled and now amounts to 8,000 Afghanis ($45).
            Recently the Zadran, Tani and Manga 1 tribes have established shuras (councils) of elders, tribal leaders and commanders. At present, these tribes are assisted economically by the commanders of the resistance parties. These tribes prefer their tribal shura to the party system. They receive assistance from the parties, but despite the attenpts of the parties, do not join them.
            The Kabul regime from  time to      time .sends   its
       military delegates to Khost      in order to persuade  the
       people there to co-operate with them. They offer cash to attract the borderline tribes. They have also installed artillery and other heavy weapons to threaten areas from which the mujahideen launch attacks.
            Governinent forces have retreated from Sato Kandau and Tani districts. The main road in Tani had been blocked by the government for several months. Three weeks ago the regime withdrew, leaving the road open. The regime contacted the people who    had left the area   and
       encouraged them to return        to their villages. They
       promised not to bomb them, and offered help in rebuilding houses and removing minefields. In return they wanted the people to guarantee that they would not fire at
No.96
> Eighth Year
 March 1989
     government positions from this area. It has been said that the people accepted the offer and reached a corrpromise with the government.
           Following the Soviet withdrawal, mujahideen attacks on posts to the south of the city have increased. Thirteen posts were taken in Tora Ghara, which is about 8 km from the airport, but these have new been recaptured by the regime. If the mujahideen can gain control of these strategic posts, it will be very difficult for the regime to supply Khost by air.
           However, there are no food shortages in Khost. Although Khost is cut off from Kabul by road, goods are smuggled in to the city from Pakistan by local tribesman. No decision has been taken by the mujahideen to prevent this, as they do not want to hurt the civilians living in the city with whom they have tribal affiliations.
           The    security posts around Khost have been
     reinforced, and the mujahideen have to fire their missiles from a greater distance. Most 'of these missiles hit     the  civilian population. Such missile      attacks
     occurred-on 12, 15, 17, 20 and 24 February. On 3 March, a rocket hit the main mosque while people were praying. Three people died     and five were wounded.        Such an
     operation badly damages the popularity of the mujahideen and causes more people to look to the government for protection.
           On 18 February there was a clash between the Khalqis and Parchamis in Khost. One Parchami was killed, and two others wounded. On the same day in the military club of the    25th  Division in Khost, three Khalqi       officers
     attacked Commander Abdul Satar. He was wounded and his nephew was killed.
                             -32-
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
       It is reported from Khar Dand and Ali Shair that some communist party members have asked the mujahideen to start negotiations with them. Some of these party members then went to Kabul to inform their superiors.
       Most of the people living around Khost are forming local shuras in villages to discuss both military and civilian administration. Representatives of all the resistance groups are included. *****
              *****
                        TRADE THRIVES IN LOGAR
           The capture of Torkham by the mujahideen and the operations along the Kabul-Jalalabad road have led to businessmen creating a new trade route between Kabul and Pakistan, according to a mujahideen commander interviewed at the Afghan Information Centre.
           The centre for the trade is Kulangar in Logar, some 30 kilometres south of Kabul on the road to Gardez. Kulangar market is full of foodstuffs from Pakistan destined for Kabul, such as cooking oil, rice, tea, oil, kerosene, vegetables and fruits.
           The rrarket also receives foreign-made electrical goods from Kabul, including refrigerators, air-conditioners, Russian-made kitchen utensils and many other manufactured goods. The products, many from Japan, are exported to the Soviet Union and are then brought down to Kabul from the north along the Salang road.
           These goods are being smuggled to Dara, Bara, Landikotal and other markets in the tribal areas in Pakistan.
           The snuggling route used to be along the Kabul-Torkham road, but since November this route has been closed. That route had increased in importance since the fall of Spin Boldak in Kandahar last Novenber severed the smuggling link between Karachi in Pakistan and Kabul.
           An average of 300 vehicles including heavily loaded trucks move daily between Kulangar and Teri Mangal, a town on the Pakistan side of the border with Paktia province in Afghanistan.
                                    - 34 -
AFGHAN INFORMATION CENTRE - Monthly Bulletin
           Even during the winter when rain and snow badly effect travel, about 2000 people visit Kulangar every day. Some go to buy goods that are not available elsewhere; they bring United States dollars and other international currencies to pay the Kabul traders.
           Some people are businessmen engaged in trade with counterparts in Kabul. Others are families leaving Kabul for Pakistan, who use this route because there is a fast transport service to Teri Mangal.
           Some people have left Kabul to live in Ibgar to escape the direct effect of the war. Since many of the houses in Logar are empty, the mujahideen encourage people from Kabul to come and live there.
           These internal refugees prefer to stay there because there is little chance for them to be registered as refugees if they go to Pakistan.
           Gradually the empty houses and villages of Logar are being reoccupied. If the mujahideen begin their attacks on Kabul this spring, many more people will then move to Logar and adjacent areas.
           New that there is no fighting in Logar, some of the commanders have set up in business. The Kabul-Gardez highway is under mujahideen control from Mohammad Agha in the north to Pul-i-Alain (the provincial capital of Logar).
           The mujahideen bases and Kabul regime defence posts are near to each other in Pul-i-Alam; both sides check the vehicles travelling between Kabul and Gardez, the provincial capital of Paktia to the south. Sometimes they call to each other to say that a certain vehicle has been checked and there is no need to check it again.
                                          - 35 -
No 96
Eighth Year
March 1989
           Apart from limited artillery and rocket exchanges, the situation is calm. Pul-i-Alam is well protected and defended by dug-in regime forces.
           It seems that the mujahideen prefer not to be bothered much by fighting, and want to stay in peace. If people new living in Kabul come to Logar in the spring, this will decrease the probability of fighting starting-up again in the province.
                          Regime Recapture Tera Pass
           The regime has reoccupied the strategic Tera pass on the Kabul-Gardez highway. The Tera pass links Pul-i-Alam (provincial capital of Logar) with Gardez, the provincial capital of Paktia. Because of severe winter; conditions there were no mujahideen in the area when the regime moved in. They have now established security posts along the road. Gardez, which is being besieged by the tujahideen is now able to receive supplies by road from ?ul-i“Alam. Before new, it had to rely on its small airport.
                                                               * * * *
*
                             -36-
                       THE SITUATION IN GHQR PROVINCE
           An Interview With Oommander Rahmatullah Amani of Jandat
           "Even though we have all kinds of economic, health and food problems, the mujahideen of Ghor have still been attacking the regime forces.
           "The people are having a hard time because of the lack of water, fertilizer and good seed has hit crops. This has resulted in an insufficiency of foodstuff. The price of wheat sometimes goes as high as 500 Afghanis for 7 kg, and it is always difficult to find wheat to buy.
           "Due to lack of medical assistance there is a lot of sickness and disease. For instance, tuberculosis, smallpox, malaria and hepatitis are common. The very cold winter has cause the death of many, a high percentage of them children. Even though a few clinics have recently started operating in the province, and some doctors and nurses are busy treating patients, the number of clinics is too small for the size of the population.
           "There are just six madrassas (religious schools) in the province. Each has about 400 students. The curriculum includes religious, scientific and social subjects. As there is no support from abroad, the education programmes are very steady and stable. However, the students dq not have school materials and proper facilities for study.
           "Ghor is one of the poorest and least developed provinces in Afghanistan. Unlike some other provinces, it has not received any financial support from the United Nations or non-government aid organizations. In the past, Ghor received no help from any government in Kabul. I hope after the liberation of Afghanistan the authorities
                             -37-
No.96
Eighth Year
March 1989
      will pay attention to the reconstruction of this province in a rather better way.
           "The mujahideen have been able to form two shuras (councils). One, consisting of religious leaders, deals with civilian religious and social matters. The other is a military council, which deals with the jihad and related matters. It consists of commanders only. All the resistance groups in Ghor are represented.
           "The provincial capital Chaghcharan and the garrison headquarters at Shahrak and Tolak are in regime hands. Government forces cannot use land routes and supplies are carried to these places by air only. Mujahideen carry out operations on the towns controlled by the regime. They are tightening the siege on Chaghcharan."
                             * * * * *
                       RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN KMOftHAR
           The AIC interviewed a commander of Harakat (Mohammadi) who came from Kandahar on 25 March:
           "Armed mujahideen can walk freely in the city except in the region of the military garrison and the airport. The regime has ordered troops not to walk in the city when armed, because they fear the mujahideen will capture them for their weapons.
           "The mujahideen only attack government posts in the city. They do not want to repeat the tactics used at Jalalabad. They do not want to damage the city any further, and they do not want to destroy the airport,
           "There is a problem with food shortages in Kandahar city, but it is not serious. An average of 30 refugee families daily leave the canps in Baluchistan for Afghanistan. They receive no help when they move."
                                         - 38 -
                    Sufism and the Modem World
           A young disciple entered the teaching of a well-known Sufi master. But he was too fond of his beard, constantly trimming and combing it in order to keep it in good shape.
           After a while he went to the master and said:
           -      Master, I have strictly followed your teaching but still I have not experienced any mystic state and have not seen any sign of God's approval. Tell me, what is wrong with me?
           -      Come tomorrow, said the master, and you will get your answer.
           The following morning the master told him:
           -      God says that you are paying more attention to your beard than to Him.
           The disciple became desperate and started tearing out his beard with both hands.
           -      You see! came the heavenly Voice. He is still preoccupied with his beard.
                                                                                  Farideddin Attar of Neyshapur Manteq-Ut-Teyr p 155
                                                        From the bode "Sufism In The Modern World" by Professor Sayd Bahauddin Majrooh
*
*
*
*
... SAYS THAT YOU'RE PAYING MORE ATTENTION TO YOUR BEARD THAN TO HIM