JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990      AffltlAN JtHAD                  VOL.3 NO.4
            IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, HOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
 Editorial x
              THE OMINOUS STALEMATE
    At no juncture of Afghan jehad the people of our country have been so disillusioned with the state of affairs of their cuntry as. they are today.Due to a failure of the Afghan interim government to come up with either a military or political solution, for solving the Afghan problem and due to pending problems on the political scene in Pakistan and international community, for both of which other problems seem to have become more urgent than the Afghanistan issue, the sufferings of our people have been
             i                 >
 continuing. As a matter of fact, for a nation like Afghanistan which astonished the world throughout a good part of the eighties in fighting the Soviet aggressors, it is a source of sorrow and indeed shame to rely on others to solve its problems. It was primarily up to our own jehad leadership to have taken boldly the initiative in ending the miseries of our people. As this leadership has failed to come up with a solution, our eyes arc at times focused on the two super powers or our host country to come up with a solution of the Afghanistan issue. And as nowadays the United States is pre-occupied with the Persian Gulf crisis and the Soviet Union and Pakistan with their own internal issues, there are little chances of having them concentrate on the Afghanistan issue to an extent to lead to a speedy solution. The Peshawar leadership should realize that the nation has given them ample time arid opportunities during the past 11 years to solve the drgent issues facing the country. If the Russian were forced to
                                                   3
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AHlHAN JEHAD                      VOL.3 NO.4
 leave Afghanistan, it was not due to prudent policies pursued by these leaders. For all along they have only antagonized each other and have been in most cases destructive rather than constructive* The Russians were forced to leave Afghanistan primarily because of the valour and sacrifices of our entire nation. And as the Russians found out through own hard ways that they were unable to defeat us,, under the guise of the UN mediating, efforts, found for themselves the kind of solution which they could not obtain on the battle field, namely the perpetuation of the rule of its puppet regime which would be able to serve all kinds of Russian interests. If the Afghan mujaheddin government had come up with an acceptable leadership of its own at that time we are sure that the Geneva accords would have not had provisions aimed                at
 legitimizing the Kabul communist government. The Geneva act, leading to a Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, was only of a limited benefit for Afghanistan. It did not achieve our overall objective -the establishment of a government urged by the genuine forces of our jehad.
      But even with the signing and implementation of the Geneva accords, the Afghan nation and, indeed, the bulk of international community would have been ready to legitimize and back the Afghan interim government had it fulfilled its own pronounced objectives and for sure the Kabul government would have collapsed and miseries of the nation would have ended by now.
      It seems as that we need a two stage solution for ending the Afghan crisis. The first stage could be that excluding the Soviet agents manifested in the Kabul government and other atheist, all elements of the Afghan society should get together and come up with a solution of the crisis. We Afghans so far have failed to bring together these acceptable and credible elements. The second stage could be to work out ways for implementing the accord reached jointly by these elements.
      It will be indeed futile and unworthwhile to expect the AIG with all its problems acute and dangerous" shortcomings to broaden its base to include all the acceptable and credible elements of the Afghan society and to undertake coordinated policies.A team of advisors, comprised of former Afghan statesmen, intellectual and political figures, had said this summer in this connection that
                                                    4
VOL.3 NO.4
  JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 fllGHANJ(HAB
 despite its own inability, the AIG should at least pa've the way for the creation of a new political condition to enable the Afghans to implement a solution to the issue. However, the AIG, which itself had invited these "advisors", rejected unjustifiably and immediately the whole proposals put forward by the advisors.
      But the AIG ought to realize that the preservation and continuation of the present political situation will not only not achieve the objectives of the jehad, as expected, but it is feared that the very noble objectives of our jehad and the Afghan nation will be faced with unforeseeable dangers. And for this very reason it is important that a new approach is soyght to the crisis.
      Nowadays, the diplomatic circles talk about a UN initiative in solving the Afghanistan crisis. It is being said that the UN will bring about a gathering of a number of prominent Afghans, reportedly belonging to the past,to pave the way for the formation of an interim government or these very pepple form such a government. This interim government will, among other things, be expected to pave the way for elections. The UN is said tobe holding dialogues about its plan with all sides concerned including the puppet government in Kabul.
      In case such a solution is worked out, what will happen . to the genuine interests of the Afghan nation?' The Afghan mujaheddin as a whole had been representing and manifesting these interests and it would have been indeed great and ideal to have seen their leaders or their representatives fulfilled these interests.
      But if the present leadership is incapable of serving and. fulfilling these interests, we should with our own participation seek other means for achieving our                   goals. We should
  make a clear distinction between the interests of the AIG or any single party or group of parties and those of the Afghan jehad and our people. It is the supreme responsibility of all Afghans to see that these interests are served. We should not allow any organization, country or individual to compromise these interests.
      But, first of all let us spellout these interests and
 objectives:-
      1. Bringing about an understanding and paving the way for
                                               5
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990      WlillflNJIHAD                 VOL.3 NO.4
 joint cooperation among all the acceptable elements of the Afghan society for the transfer of power to an acceptable government.
      2.       Chartering of an all-embracing program, as a result of which the people of Afghanistan are assured that the objectives of the jehad -the preservation of the independence, territorial integrity of Afghanistan and establishment of a stdte based on Islamic principles and Afghan Islamic culture are achieved.
      3.       Affording the people of the country to participate freely and without any discrimination in the political, social, cultural and economic affairs of the country.
       It will be indeed a very bitter reality to swallow if we Afghans ourselves fail to create the new conditions in the light of which our problems are solved now that the AIG has utterly failed to do so.                                    1
      If others are allowed to accomplish the job of bringing peace in Afghanistan they may very well ignore two basic and fundamental principles for the attainment of which our people have rendered so much sacrifice. These principles are: (1) to get rid of the atheist elements both in our governmental ranks and to subdue them in our society to an extent so that they may no longer have the opportunity to cause mischief and resort to conspiracies and (2) to establish a fair and just system of government and society. And as far as we are concerned,' Islam is the only system which provides the basis for such a society.
      But to create a body to pave the way for the transfer of power to a leadership which in turn should establish the system urged by our people is the most delicate issue confronting us at this juncture. The AIG misrably failed to be such a body. The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, who played a key role last June-July in convening a team of former important Afghan officials to advise the government on eliminating the stalemate, himself referred time and again t6 the AIG inabilities in this respect.
       But unfortunately the AIG readily and without any reasonable amount of attention to the proposals extended by the team of advisors turned them down. The advisors had called for the appointment of a task force comprised of informed Afghans who are sincere to the jehad objectives and not related to the jehad organizations or parties to work * for understanding ancl joint
                                             6
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfGUflNJEHAD                         VOL.3 N0.4
 cooperation among all acceptable elements .of the Afghan society to work out a new strategy for solving the crisis.
      Recent overtures by a number of Peshawar based mujaheddin organizations to create a "Supreme Council" of these parties, under which an AIG government will also operate, will be a repetition of the formula under which the government of Engineer Ahmad Shah was established almost three years ago. Furthermore, two other Peshawar based mujaheddin organizations have apparently either boycotted the new plan or have been excluded, from it. Nothing has been said publicly about the participation of Iranian based mujaheddin organizations, etc. The success of any initiative would, depend on (1) to what extent all the acceptable elements of the soceity are embraced in any given political framework and (2) to what extent there is a will, unity and ability in implementing the policies worked out by this body. Several months ago a prominent Peshawar leader rightly said the main question was whether we have the ability to fill the vacuum after the toppling of the Kabul Communist regime.
      We call at this eleventh hour on all the leaders of jehad not to let things related to our supreme interests slip out of our hands. We should. have the courage and the will to put aside our petty, and selfish interests and end the miseries facing our people and do not loose the good name and honor which we .earned in fighting and driving the Russians out of our country. The AIG should have the moral courage to admit its failure and either this body as a whole or a number of its components come up with a viable alternative for ending the crisis. The plan should be bold and new and not a repetition of old ones which will be doomed to failure.
      Even if United Nations tries to workout an arrangement for solving the Afghanistan issue it should tackle the issue on the basis of ah understanding reached among all acceptable and credible segements of the Afghan society. It should help in appointing an Afghan task force and engage the task force in carving out an Afghan solution though understanding reached among all acceptable elements of the Afghan society.
7
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AFGHAN JIHAD      VOL.3 NO.4
         AFGHAN REALITIES AND AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
    The Annual Report of the Amensty International on Afghanistan (page 37.) in our view contains biased and unrealistic views in regard to the position of the Kabul government and exaggerated and unrealistic reports about mujaheddin activities. Although an organization such asamnesty International is normally expected to follow a strict neutral position in regard to issues under its investigation, about the Afghan events it has followed a biased an a times an anti-mujaheddin position and its report this year has somehow treated the Kabul regime crimes and oppression mildly and has considered the mujaheddin to be more cruel in their approach towards their opponents.
    The Amnesty International has confined the Kabul regime violations of human right and treatment of political prisoner to only a few examples of imprisonment and mal-treatment and in regard to the violation of human rights by the mujaheddin it has reported large scale massacres and killings. In its reports on. the activities of the Kabul regime it has mostly relied on the Kabul official sources but about the mujaheddin it has quoted rumors and press reports.
    Is the Amnesty International annual report on Afghanistan about political prisonzers or about the war and clashes that have occured between the mujaheddin and the Kabul government troops? If the Amnesty International has confined its reports about the treatment of political prisoners, then surely the Amnesty International itself has reported that the Kabul regime authorities are still not adhering to principles of justice and fairness. However the report in regard to the mujaheddin has not discussed the mujaheddin treatment of the political prisoners but it has dealt with war prisoners and operations. It must be said that even it the allegations in regard to violation by some mujaheddin groups are true, why the report has failed to refer to Kabul regime, activities in the areas of military conflicts and treatment of Afghan mujaheddin captured by the Kabul authorities?
               Are the military means and deadly rocket provided by the
8
   JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AFGHAN JIHAD                     VOL. 3 N0.4
   Soviet Union to the Kabul regime used for humanitarian purposes? Are they used in accordance with the norms of human fights? Only a few days ago in eastern Afghanistan a ^CUD rocket killed more than 60 civilians and mujaheddin. What kind of killing is this in the eyes of Amnesty International. According to reports issued by the Kabul regime and Moscow themselves, as a result of rockets fired on the city of Kabul (and one is not sure who is actually firing them)    during the course of all the years of war only more
   than 700 people have died. While as a result of the  use  of deadly
                weapons provided by the Soviets to Kabul regime authorities directly, during the first three months of current Afghan year -482 civilians have been killed in other parts of Afghanistan.
        Ou first aims here is not to defend the mujaheddin by saying that they have not resorted to any kind of violation. However it will be far from justice and fairness to put at par the
   violations committed by tlie Kabul regime authorities with those of the mujaheddin.
        At the same time these developments speak of another sad reality:  Our   resistance    has failed to resort to an  affective
   means to propagate its just position as well as its activities to the world community at large while the Kabul regime,by resorting to false an    unrealistic  publicity and propaganda, has  tried to
   justify many of its activities which in reality have all been contrary to international norms , of justice and fairness. It has posed itself as seeking democracy and freedom.
        Although we expect that neutral institutions such as Amnesty International adhere to realism and justice in their reports and analysis, we are ourselves to be blamed first f.or not being able to tell our story in its proper proportion and context to the world —the story of an oppressed people subjected to kindsof and torture by an oppressive regime supported by a country whose leader happened to be branded by apologist as the champion of peace.                                    ?
 I JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 IKCHMIlltHMI VOL.3 NQ.4
 Political Dimension:
                OBSTACLES BARRING AFGHAN SETTELMENT
 (1) Inter-Mujaheddin Bickering
 (2) Pakistani Crisis (3) Gulf Crisis
 AFGHANS RESIST U N. REPATRIATION SCHEME
    The political dimension of the Afghanistan issue looked bleak and full of tragedy and disillusionment during the past three months. Efforts launched in this connection at national and international levels all in reality ended in failure.
    The AIG promise to hold elections in six months time did not materialize as it passed its August deadline despite the fact that for several times in the past it had made announcement and issued the regulations which it had worked out for holding the elections, however, during the past three months, it did not refer to these promises and all its ministers decided to keep silent about it.
 Only the AIG Minister of Education Dr. Farook Azam once said that efforts for holding elections are underway but elections cannot be held until the Afghan mujaheddin in Iran agree to these plans.
    The initiative and efforts of the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, who invited a number of former Afghan statesmen and intellectuals from the US, Europe •<>
 and other parts of the world,also failed. The AIG cabinet turned down right away the proposals forwarded by the group of so-called advisors. Although Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, had already expressed his opposition to the idea of seeking the help of advisors for solving, the Afghan issue by not attending the sessions held between the advisors and AIG ministers, in a speech later he expressively said "those who have not participated in the sacrifices rendered by the nation, left the country to the enemies and went to other countries, have no right how to interfere in regard to issues about a decision on the future of Afghanistan". And there were a number of AIG ministers who at the first stage welcomed with open arms the guests by saying "all the people of Muslim Afghanistan, whereever j they may be, who considered Afghanistan their country and Islam their religion, have an obligation to exert efforts for the establishment of the future Islamic government of Afghanistan". However, after the departure of the team, they too said, "our nation will not be tricked by the promises Of those who say, if they are afforded with the opportunity, they will convert the country into a flower garden because they are the very people who
                                            10
  JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 IlfGjjflNJiHAQ                       VOL.3 NO.4
  Soviet Union to the Kabul regime used for humanitarian purposes? Are they used in accordance with the norms of human fights? Only a few days ago in eastern Afghanistan a ^CUD rocket killed more than 60 civilians and mujaheddin. What kind of killing is this in the eyes of Amnesty International. According to reports issued by the Kabul regime and Moscow themselves, as a result of rockets fired on the city of Kabul (and one is not sure who is actually firing them) during the course of all the years of war only more than 700 people have died. While as a result of the use of deadly weapons provided by the Soviets to Kabul regime authorities directly, during the first three months of current Afghan year -482 civilians have been killed in other parts of Afghanistan.
       Ou first aims here is not to defend the mujaheddin by saying that they have not resorted to any kind of violation. However it will be far from justice and fairness to put at par the
  violations committed by the Kabul regime authorities with those of the mujaheddin.
       At the same time these developments speak of another sad reality:   Our resistance has failed to resort to an affective
  means to propagate its just position as well as its activities to the world community at large while the Kabul regime,by resorting to false an unrealistic publicity and propaganda, has tried to justify many of its activities which in reality have all been contrary to international norms , of justice and fairness. It has posed itself as seeking democracy and freedom.
       Although we expect that neutral institutions such as Amnesty International adhere to realism and justice in their reports and analysis, we are ourselves to be blamed first f.or not being able to tell our story in its proper proportion and context to the world --the story of an oppressed people subjected to kindsof and torture by an oppressive regime supported by a Country whose leader happened to be branded by apologist as the champion of peace.                                       t
  9
 jJULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MCMIIlllHMI VOL.3 NO.4
 Political Dimension:
           OBSTACLES BARRING AFGHAN SETTELMENT
 (1) Inter-Mujaheddin Bickering
 (2) Pakistani Crisis (3) Gulf Crisis
 AFGHANS RESIST U N. REPATRIATION SCHEME
   The political dimension of the Afghanistan issue looked bleak and full of tragedy and disillusionment during the past three months. Efforts launched in this connection at national and international levels all in reality ended in failure.
   The AIG promise to hold elections in six months time did not materialize as it passed its August deadline despite the fact that for several times in the past it had made announcement and issued the regulations which it had worked out for holding the elections, however, during the past three months, it did not refer to these promises and all its ministers decided to keep silent about it.
 Only the AIG Minister of Education Dr. Farook Azam once said that efforts for holding elections are underway but elections cannot be held until the Afghan
                                                          f
 mujaheddin in Iran agree to these plans.
   The initiative and efforts of the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, who invited a number of former Afghan statesmen and intellectuals from the US, Europe and other parts of the world,also failed. The AIG cabinet turned down right away the proposals forwarded by the group of so-called advisors. Although Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, had already expressed his opposition to the idea of seeking the help of advisors for solving, the Afghan issue by not attending the sessions held between the advisors and AIG ministers, in a speech later he expressively said "those who have not participated in the sacrifices rendered by the nation, left the country to the enemies and went to other countries, have no right now to interfere in regard to issues about a decision on the future of Afghanistan". And there were a number of AIG ministers who at the first stage welcomed with open arms the guests by saying "all the people of Muslim Afghanistan, whereever j they may be, who considered Afghanistan their country/ and Islam their religion, have an obligation to exert efforts for the establishment of the future Islamic government of Afghanistan". However, after the departure of the team, they too said, "our nation will not be tricked by the promises of those who say, if they are afforded with the opportunity, they will convert the country into a flower garden because they are the very people who
10
      JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 wCHM JtHAB_______________________________ VOL.3 NO.4
      were given the opportunity for many years but the result of their work was nothing but disgrace and tragedy". The cabinet of the AIG turned down the recommendations of the advisers as without any value and even the President of AIG, who had invited them, did not take any practical step to implement their proposals.
                             CALLING FOR NEW CONDITIONS
           The advisors had expressively said that "the jehad organizations, despite their significant'role in the process of jehad, had so far not been able to form, an effective political entity acceptable to all or the majority of the Afghan mujaheddin, refugees and other segment of the Muslim Afghan nation inside or outside the country". They said the interim government, formed in 1988, has not achieved its own declared objectives over the last 18 months since its formation.
           The advisors offered the following proposals in regard to the solving of the Afghanistan problems
      1.   Bringing about an understanding and joint cooperation among all acceptable
           elements of the Afghan society including those elements which were not taken into account in the Rawalpindi Council of February  1988..
      2.   Chartering of an all - embracing political program, as     a result of which
           the Muslim and mujahed people of Afghanistan are assured that the objectives of the jehad - the preservation of the independence, territorial integrity of Afghanistan and establishment of a state based on Islamic principles and Afghan Islamic culture, without bigotry and prejudices - are being achieved.
      3.   In the framework of the joint strategy, the Afghan nation should also be
           assured that, under the new political conditions, all     the people of the
           country are afforded with an opportunity to participate   freely and without
           any discrimination in the political, social, cultural and economic affairs of the country.
      4.   Bringing about of an all-embracing understanding and      creating a secure
           atmosphere so that free and general elections, without outside pressure, are held and, with the transfer of power .to the mujahed people of Afghanistan, stability of the political situation in the country is achieved.
            They said:  "If a new political condition, based on a joint strategy is
      worked out, the necessary conditions could be speedily brought about in national and international levels for the transfer of power to the Afghan nation, through an acceptable mechanism in conformity with the interests of the mujahed people of Afghanistan".
            The advisors urged the AIG to seriously study this proposal by fully taking into account the realities as well as the time factors and express its reaction to it in less than one month.'
            They added:  "If the  present political institution of the jehad agrees to
          implement this proposal, which entails the necessity of the creation of a new
                                                    11
  JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990                   MfiHMI'JIHAD                             VOL.3   NO.4
  political condition and chartering of a joint strategy and the affairs of which should be handled by informed people who are sincere to the jehad objectives and not related to the jehad organizations, in that case we will be in a position to participate in the realization of these objectives and ways for their implementation so that, with the initiative and support of the present political institution (the AIG) , the way is paved for the evolution of a new political condition".
                              MASS RESIGNATIONS
       In July it was announced after an eight day session of the Central Council of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan that nine members of the Council including the deputy leader of the party have jointly offered their resignations. Although the move was described by the leaders of the Hezb as a manifestation of democracy within the party, the media and other circles interpreted the action as a sign of disagreements among party members over the role which was given to Shah Nawaz Tani, the former Minister of Defense of the Kabul regime who last March after his unsuccessful attempt to overthrow the Najib regime, defected to the Hezb-e-Islami‘ Afghanistan. And although the deputy' leader of the party, Obaidullah Seerat, in an interview with the BBC described this mass resignation an ordinary act and said that differences of opinion in the system pursued by the Hezb was a    natural phenomenon and                          denied that the resignation was due to
  the role given to Tani, the leader of the. party Hekmatyar said 8 September "We are trying to forge unity in the party. Anyone who infuses hatred, pessimism and animosity in the party, he is a friend of the Satan and is a big enemy of the Hezb. A party can exist only when it .has a leader and then that leader is obeyed. Some   arrogent people, who claim                          to be senior members of the
  party and have     joined it in 1969 or before that, have always been factors
  for lack of descipline. Such arrogent veterans are of no use for the movement and for the party ..."
       Before this internal crisis of the Hezb became public, the leader of the party, while showing obvious flexibility and a conciliatory tone towards other mujaheddin groups, announced:  "  It is necessary to realize the sensitivity of
  the situation and the dangerous plot hatched by the enemies of Islam and by taking into consideration the joint responsibilities entrusted upon us by Almighty God and the martyr loving and oppressed Afghan nation, we should leave aside our selfish and narrow mindded party and personal interests, join hands, seek ways for     solving the countries'                          crisis, end  the war, revive peace and
  establish an Islamic government. We should forget the past and open a new page of friendship, understanding and cooperation ..." In his message he urged a gathering of all parties without pre-conditions but at the same time considered the continuation of the AIG outside the country as unnecessary.
                              ANOTHER ALLIANCE (?)
       The message paved the way in a way for another split and another alliance.
       In March this year there were signs that relations between the President and Prime Minister of the AIG have deteriorated. However, the rumors and speclations were further intensified when a group of Afghan ex-statesmen and
                                              12
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990            fllGHANJtHflB                         VOL.3 NO.4
   intellectuals was invited by the AIG President from the west and other parts of the world but ‘the AIG Prime Minister refused to hold talks with these advisors and cabinet sessions were chaired by the President and not the Prime Minister of the AIG. On the other hand, as. already stated, disputes and differences also emerged within the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan of Hekmatyar.
        In the wake of these developments, rumors circulated, about a new unity between Sayyaf and Hekmatyar and at a later stage the media reported the holding of a session at Sayyaf's residence among five of the AIG leaders. Although the details of this session was not revealed, Hekmatyar in a press conference later said "God willing, soon you will have the good news of an alliance between the effective jehad organizations and the entire .world will hear about resort to a strong attack on the Kabul regime". In this session in addition to Sayyaf and Hekmatyar, Rabbani, the leader of Jamiat-e-Islamia Afghanistan, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi,leader of the Enqelab-e-Afghanistan,also took part.
        The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, in relation to this meeting between the five mujaheddin leaders said in an interview with the BBC that he would never attend a session in which Gulbuddin Hekmatyar was present and would never work with him together.
          Following this, Mujaddedi undertook a long journey to the interior of the country,but prior to this journey, it was said that Mujaddedi and Rabbani will jointly go to the interior of Afghanistan and will talk with the renowned commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, about ' breaking the present deadlock in the Afghanistan issue but when Rabbani joined Hekmatyar to break the deadlock, Mujaddedi had .to undertake the journey by himself. During the course of his tour while visiting Panjsher, he renamed the area to Hazarsher (Panj in Dari means five, and sher means lion and hazar means thousands, so the area will now have the connotation of a region resided by thousands of brave people). The head of the AIG was busy with this tour until the end of September arid although in the beginning he called his trip without any political significance, observers are of the opinion that he has held talks with Ahmad Shah Masood about political plans.
                       DISCORD AMONG IRAN BASED PARTIES
        The disputes and disagreements did not remain confine among the seven Peshawar based parties but it embraced the Iranian based Shia Afghan parties as well.
        In the latter part of August, Noor Mohammad Taqaddusi, a spokesmen, of the Islamic coalition council of Iran, while explaining the reason for the transfer of the central office of the council from Iran to Peshawar, Pakistan, said there was a need for closer contact with other jehad parties, but at the saipe time he brought into surface the differences whiph had prevailed among the Shia Afghan parties and said that no longer the so-called coalition existed. However, he said that in the coalition, the Harqat-e-Islami,                 Shoora-e-Ettefaq,
   pasdaran-e-Ettehad-e-Tslami and the United Front are still taking part find these
                                                   13
    JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 IlfRHANJIHAD                                 VOL.3 NO.4
   parties have no longer any relationship with the Wahdat-e-Islami based in Iran. He said altough the Shia's of Afghanistan have common religious and cultural ties with Iran, their policies are independent and free and not attached and aligned with any other country.
                                    ISLAM DISDAINS DISUNITY
        A Sudanese thinker and intellectual, Abdul Rehman Mohammad Saeed, in a confrence in Peshawar held by the Islamic Cultural Center, while discussing the mujaheddin differences, said the Afghan mujaheddn have won the military war; however they have been defeated in the political arena. Each one of the mujaheddin leaders is trying to find an excuse for fanning disputes with another leader and it has been for this reason that, while the rest of the world has benefitted from the fruits of the Afghan jehad, only those who have been deprived to benefit from this jehad haive been the Afghans themselves. He said if the Afghan mujaheddin leaders do not forge unity among themselves, they will be faced with strong interrogation by the Almighty God.
                                COMMANDERS MEET
                                                              M
        The three past months, although dominated by disputes and differences among the mujaheddin leaders and there was no signs for an early end to the Afghan crisis, the meetings which took place among mujaheddin commanders inside the country were among the positive and happy developments of the Afghan situation.
    '                             t         v
        Following a previous session of the mujaheddin commanders in Paktia, another meeting among them was held 7-9 June in that province in which about 300 commanders from all over Afghanistan including the Shia commanders participated. They discussed a joint strategy for coordinating their military operations. Also during the past three months another session of the mujaheddin commanders was held in Teheran although only commanders of the southwestern parts of the country attended it. The Paktia meeting in its final declaration said that super power intervention in the Afghan affairs should end and future Afghanistan should enjoy good relations with its nighbours. Before that in the Khwaja Mulk of Kandahar, another session of 600 mujaheddin commanders of the Kandahar region was held. That meeting had decided that the right to the self determination of the Afghan nation belonged to the Afghan's themselves. A menifestation of security in the liberated areas and the foresightedness of the mujaheddin were observed when the traditional picnic of the Eid-ul-Adha, held in the Shahr-e-Safa of Kandahar *for seven days, was attended by some 30,000 people. It is being said that during the past 12 years this was the firs.t picnic of its kind held in the area.
                                 PDPA OVERTURES
        The Khalq party, still in power in Kabul, held its second party Congress with the participation of 800 members.Najibullah,the leader of the Kabul regime, admitted that the PDPA had committed serious mistakes, resorted to the oppression, suppression and harassment of the people, committed injustice to the intellectuals, spirituals, artisans and merchants and the people had
                                                   14
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 fifGUflNJiHilO                                   VOL.3   NO.4
   developed a strong sense of hatred against the. state (it seemed as though that Najib himself was in no way involved in such crimes). He blamed the former leaders of the PDPA for these mistakes. In order to make the public forget these episodes, he changed the name of the party to the Watan (country) Party, dissolved the Central Committee and the Political Bureau of the party but instead he created a so-called Executive Council comprized of 15 members and a Central Council with 135 members; he himself became the leader of the party for another four years and assigned his Parchami and Khalqi comrades to the political offices of the party. Thus he demonstrated that nothing has changed other than the names and portfolios.
         By- bringing about these changes, Najib wants in fact to participate in a broad-based government of Afghanistan in the future and thus prolong his tenure of political ife. However, observers predict that such efforts not only will not help him survive, but will further weaken his position.
         Due to these unpleasant events and crisis, the future picture of Afghanistan was further confused and, perhaps because of this, everyone offered solutions for the Afghanistan issue as well as its future order, the following being a sample of them:
   * The President of the AIG in an interview with the Independence magazine published in Peshawar said if peace in Afghanistan could be restored with the formation.of a neutral government for7a specific period of time and the way is
   .paved for elections, I will support the establishment of such government. And for the sake of the interest of the mujahed people of Afghanistan, I will give up my present political status and even my personal privileges. I strongly believe that after such a government which will hold elections, an Islamic order supported by the people of Afghanistan will be established. And this Islamic regime will remain in Afghanistan for ever. However, in another comment he said that a government of neutrals, while the entire people are armed, will not be able to accomplish anything.
   *  Sheikh Mohammad AsefM°hseni leader of the Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a
   press interview said:      Elections will not be conducive to a solution of
   the Afghanistan problem. Because it will not be practical and, if held, will result in a great deal of bloodshed. If a military solution could not be achieved, we should resort to the formation of a transitional government. The communists cannot participate in such a government because they are criminals. This government should be formed from among those Muslims who do not have a corrupt record. However, the mujaheddin and the communistswill not participate in this government.
   *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyarx leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, proposed:
   Unconditional talks should start among the mujaheddin organizations and other mujaheddin groups so that the way is paved for an alliance between all the mujaheddin groups. A leadership council should be formed so this may in turn pave the way for a central council and an elected government. He emphasized the formation of the leadership council and said the present government should be dissolved and all the forces should be mobilized for the toppling of the Najib regime.                                       •         7
                                                    15
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990______________IlfllllJIMJ1HH1I       ___________ VOL.3 NO.4
   *  Ali Mazari, a spokesman of the Wahdat-e-Islamiy which is based in Iran/
   emphasised in an interview the holding of elections and said:     A just and proper
   plan should be worked out for elections, men and women both should be able to vote,there should be one vote for one person, and the elections should be held inside the country. He also added that if seven portfolios are offered to his party and six portolios in the leadership council, the party will participate in the AIG. He also emphasized cooperation and coordination with the jehad parties not included in the AIG or in the Wahdat-e-Islami Party and said a committee for this purpose should be formed and mujaheddin leaders such as Judge Mohammad Amin Weqad, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazen, Naqibullah, Abdul Sattar Siddiqi, two representatives from the nine Shia parties and two representatives of former political figures should also participate.
   *  Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former Prime Minister, who was a member of the group of advisors invited by the AIG President, said for solving the Afghanistan issue, all the different elements of the Afghan society should work out a joint plan but the Kabul regime should not be included in this.
   *  Haji Nader Khan Afridi, tribal chief with ties with some mujaheddin and
   Kabul government, said:   A tribal peace delegation will travel to Kabul and the
   Afghan issue could be solved by the establishment of an interim government headed by Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former monarch,and another person agreed upon by all parties.
   *  Benazir Bhutto, when still the Prime Minister of Pakistan, said:         Pakistan
   wants normalization of relations with Afghanistan as well as a voluntary and honorable return of the Afghan refugees to their country and this could be achieved when the Afghan people have an elected government of their own.
   *  Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi, the Prime Minister of Pakistan., said:   Afghanistan so far
   has been a controversial issue. An acceptable government to all the people' should be formed there so peace may be revived.
   *  Kazi Hussain Ahmad , leader of the Jamat-i-lslami Pakistan/has said that a caretaker government in which a number of technocrats’ are included should be formed in Afghanistan to pave the way for fair and free elections.
   * The former Afghan monarch, Zaher Shah, described the US-USSR high level talks as important and added: The talks held between US Secretary of State and the Soviet Foreign Minister in Siberia are having a great deal of importance and it is hoped they are not 'against the wishes and aspirations of the people of Afghanistan. Ground should be paved for understanding between the organized groups in relation to the Afghan jehad and all other usefull elements of the Afghanistan society.
   *  The leader of the puppet Kabul regime expressed his readiness for elections provided he himself is not asked to step down until elections results are known. He has said that a commission comprized of the representatives of the mujaheddin and his own regime should provide rules and regulations for elections and then the elections should be held under the supervision of the United Nations.
                                                 16
        JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AWN MAO ,                                    VOL.3  NO.4
        * Farid Mozdak, one of his deputies, said: Seeking a third force other than present forces prevailing on the Afghan scene might be a futile attempt and even this third force should be formed from the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime.
        * Professor Mohammad Asghar, president of the National Salvation Society in
        Kabul, gave details of his plan for peace in Afghanistan which, he said, he has sent to the United Nations.He said:   A "peace committee" should be formed in
        consultation with the Afghans by the UN Secretary General. This body should have 25 elite members of the Afghan society. They should in turn call a convention of 300 Afghans and they in their own turn elect from their midst 30 or 40 people to form a supreme council. Simultaneously both the mujaheddin ahd the Kabul governments should be dissolved and replaced by an interim government. Then a loya jirgah should be convened to enact laws and form a legal government.
        * The US Secretary of State explained his own plan in these terms:     At first
        the government of Najib will remain intact, the mujaheddin government will be broadened and a consultative council will be formed. At a second stage, supporters of Najib will talk with the mujaheddin about a UN supervised elections and neuteral persons will be elected to control the elections. In the third stage, Najib should resign but should have the right to contest the elections. He added, the Soviet union agrees with this plan only if Najib remains a symbolic president until the results of elections are known. However, Peter Tomsen,the UN special envoy to Afghan mujaheddin,made it clear that the US and the Soviet Union have reached an agreement in regard to Afghanistan. He said they have agreed that the United Nations should take part in the formation of a Shoora and pave the way for free elections. If the Watan Party contests the
^      elections,  the United States will not oppose it.
            Thus it seemed as though everybody has a solution for the Afghanistan problem in his pocket. Some were deceiving and it was upto the mujaheddin of Afghanistan to not allow an imposed solution for the destiny of the Afghan people by providing its own fair plan. This first of all needs unity and cohesion among the mujaheddin.
                                OIC SUPPORT FOR MUJAHEDDIN
        *  The OIC foreign ministers, conference was also convened during this period and,although the Afghanistan issue was debated in the forum, since at the very
 ,     time the  Gulf crisis took-place, the ministers had very little chance and time
       to discuss Afghanistan. The AIG sent to the OIC conference a six member delegation headed by Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani,Minister of Reconstruction. Despite its occupation with the Kuwait crisis,the OIC foreign ministers approved two resolutions on Afghanistan:
            Reviving peace in Afghanistan and making available to the people of Afghanistan the opportunity to exercise their right for choosing their own political, economic and social order without foreign intervention and to be able to form a broadbased government. The OIC foreign ministers also supported and re-affirmed the mujaheddin position in order to enable Afghanistan to evolve an Islamic order and a free and non-aligned nation.
17
      JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
             However   it was quite   apparent that both the        Arab     world and the
        international  community as a  whole ignored to a great    extent  the Afghanistan
        issue due to their pre-occupation with the Gulf crisis emanating from the occupation of Kuwait by Iraq. Pakistan too during this period faced an internal crisis as a     result of the  dismissal of the Benazir     Bhutto   government and
        dissolution of the National Assembly and it will also be not in a position to revive its active role in solving the Afghanistan issue for some time.
                                                                                       •J
             On the top of the prevailing situation, the continuation and even intensification of inter-mujaheddin differences both in Peshawar and Iran brought to an unprecedented stalemate the possibilities for reaching a solution of the Afghanistan issue.
             After going through the political difficulties inherent in the Afghanistan issue, now we come to such a humanitarian problem of the same issue which has been misused and manipulated by some quarters under the pretext of humanitarian gesture but actually aimed at further consolidating the political bases of the Kabul puppet regime.
             The office of Sadruddin Aga Khan, coordinator of the UN humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, who through his relationships with one of his religious deciples, Sayyed Kaiyan, is having close relations with the Kabul government, has been working Out with the Pakistani authorities a plan for the return of refugees to Afghanistan. The plan calls for a donation of Rs.3,300 cash and 300 kilos of wheat to each refugee in case he decides to return to Afghanistan. The UN projected that during the three summer months about 250,000 refugee families will return, to their homes. However, when the work on implementation of this plan began 28 July not more than a handfull o'f families agreed to    embark on a journey    back home under prevailing     conditions.. The
        experiences of the 12 years of jehad and the communist aggression and barbarism have made    every  single Afghan   understand the reason for         the jehad and
        migration. They therefore with very clear voice proclaimed that they are ready to further tolerate the difficulties of life in refugee camps but as long as the Soviet puppet government in Afghanistan remains in power and it is not replaced by an Islamic order, they will not return to their homes and thus the Muslim and believing Afghan nation once more rendered futile another big plot.
    |JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHANJfHflfl VOL.3 NO.4
    Military Dimension:
      BADGHIS ON THE VERGE OF COLLAPSE TO MUJAHEDDIN
       Mujaheddin Narrow Siege AroundKhost
       During the past three months war continued in many parts of Afghanistan. The mujaheddin were able to further narrow their siege around the strategic city of Khost near the Pakistani border, and in Jalalabad and Herat sporadic but , intense fighting continued. However an Qal-e-Nau, center of Badghis province, the mujaheddin intensified their attacks on the city since 11 August and, by the end of September, the town was virtually on the verge of being conquered by the mujaheddin. The following is a brief account of the war throughout the country during the past three months:
       Mujaheddin rocket attacks continued mainly on military installations in the city of Kabul. According to radio reports, during th'is period about 250 rockets were fired on the city killing some 100 people. But at the same time reports said that the Russian delivered during this period 1,700 SCUJ) rockets to the Kabul regime and 1,400 of them were fired from Kabul on various provinces inflicting heavy losses of life and "property.
       The mujaheddin shot down more than 25 planes in fightings in fraghman, Bagram, Khost, Gardez, Jadran, Herat, Ghazni and Badghis and, among these, 12 planes were shot down in Khost.           ’
       During the past three months there were limited yet intens fighting around Jalalabad, and in Laghman the mujaheddin launched sparopdic operations on Kabul regime positions. Similarly, the mujaheddin launched operations in Sarobi, Khurd Kabul, Dar-ul-Aman and Kargha of the Kabul province as well as on the Bagram Airbase. Many clashes were reported in Charikar, Qara Bagh, the Salang Highway, Karez-e-Meer and some parts"of the Parwan province. Also there were reports of heavy fighting in some northern provinces such as Baghlan, and Chamtal and Balkh districts of the Balkh province, Dahan-e-Ghori, Kunduz, Badakshan, Jauzjan, Sangcharak and Pul-e-Khumri. And, in the midst, of this the Balkh district in northern Afghanistan was conquered by the mujaheddin. There were reports of sporadic fighting south of . Kabul such as Mohammad Agha, Baboos, Azra of the Logar province, Gardez and Jadran. In the western parts of
                                                      19
     JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 HfCHflNJIHflP                                   VOL.3 NO.4
     Afghanistan there were limited fightings in Uruzgan, Ghor, Kandahar, Zaranj, Wardak and Zabul.
          One of the hot spots for fighting was Khost during the past three months where the 'mujaheddin became closer to the city under their siege. They consistently attacked the Khost Airport and city and the Kabul government eventually had to discard the m.ain airport and establish an air base in an area still immune from the mujaheddin attacks.
          On the other hand the Kabul regime in its indiscriminate operation against the Paghman district north of Kabul killed 100 civilians and ^pounded the mujaheddijv positions by air and artillery fire and although the Kabul regime claimed it has occupied the area from the mujaheddin, the mujaheddin reported that strategic positions in Paghman were still in. thier control1. The Ghazni mujaheddin continued their raids on the - center of the province inflicting heavy losses to the enemy. A number of the government militia defected to the mujaheddin. The Kabul regime subjected Ghazni to the firing of the SCUD rockets and was reported to have also used Napalm bombs against the civilians. -
          Fighting also continued in many parts of Herat and the mujaheddin launched raids against Adraskan, Karrukh, Pashtoon Zarghoon and Shindand.
          On the basis of reports, the mujaheddin fronts belonging to Ismail Khan,the Jamiat-e-Islami commander in the south western region/ began a major operation against Qala-e-Nau, the center of Badghis province. The mujaheddin captured many of the Kabul regime military posts and entered Qalai-e-Nau arid subjected the airport to heavy raids. Latest reports indicated that only a limited number, of enemy establishments werp still to 'be conquered by the mujaheddin, otherwise the city was on the threshold of surrender to the mujaheddin.1
          In the midst of these fightings and clashes, there were some tragic news from Ghazni and Uruzgan indicating inter-fighting between the Hazara ann Pash-toon areas in which the agents of Kabul regime were said to be playing a major role. The fighting is reported to have spread even to Ghazni. In the Wardak province also there were signs of tension and clashes between .the two groups.
p DETAILS OF LOSSES DURING THREE MONTHS WAR IN AFGHAN]                                                                                                       [STAN.(jui          ie 2   2 -    Au  gust. 23          , 1990   )              Ratio: with 3   
  ■ o Particulars             7--- - P          1 "1 2    r---  Faryab ^ -  ! Ghazni   0   Helmand     n Jauzjan Kabul Kandahar Kapisa' Kunar |  N  ------   1 u  Nangarhar  .    10  Pakti.ka G • Samangan 1 Takhar    • cd  Zabul |; TOTAL previous months 
- '-a                            u Badghis Baghlan | rH     c          id   i" ;_:_v   5                                                        T3  La'ghman ; id            0    -P           <d                     c   u                                  
  C/J                           id                   <d    cd          U                                                                         C           r 0            , Vi  id           £                     id ; cd                                 
                                 x                   CQ    *H          <d                                                                        2           X              <-H   04           u                     CD 1 -3=                                
                              w                            &.                                                                                    *                          '■.2               m .                    N                                      
                                 X                          a                                                                                                                                  PU                     G                                      
                                 X                                                                                                                                                                                    P                                      
                                Id                                                                                                                                                                                    D.                                     
                                /d                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  ' 1 Aircraft shot down-       rn i                 •-     •   ♦       •      i       *             i           : 5’           - ;                 -             -               18           1                                2   !29      -3              
    2 , Tanks and Vehicles       • 5                                    5                           48           40       •1                                 19   2          2    15           208    9                   3         369      -252            
      destroyed                               12-                                                                                                                                                                                                            
    1 Securityposts captured    .. 45.        6 ’    •4 . ■. ■          1      3                    13   4       18 ■     14    '•               1  1        1    11             -       -     5            10                  3   140      +90 '           
      by the mujaheddin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
    4 Exploding .of communist      - •        1.     . 1:   •          ---   r---■    ,i      -          •-      3                                                                       •                                          9        -5              
      arm decos                                                                3                                                                                                                                                                             
 ; 5~ Demolishing communist                                 •                          4      •      3           8’             •                   I .                                                                         -   17       -38             
      military posts' ~                                                                                                   1                                                       1                                                                          
   6. Kabul troops and .      10   19         38                        41    164'    11:           403          863-    143    8               20  5        '37  64             153' •-       244    53    45            60   12   23931    +615            
      militiaman killed >                                 - . -                                                                                                                                                                                              
    7 Kabul troops and '      25.             38                        8      49                  .59 .         108'     76    -               24                - 14           .22                  8     24            10        465      -58             
      militiamen injured                                                                                                                                                                                                            J._                      
    8 Number of Kabultroops   120  194i.     1300                       •     375             •     294                                         35                               375                        44 '                '   2774     -506            
      joining the mujaheddin                               ■ T                                                           37 ■                                                                                                                                
    9 Well known communists        .■                       •   •       2'     •       •      •      6   1       1        1                     . 1 2             7'         19   7                                             1   48:      .+26            
      killed.1 .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
   10 Arms captured by the    120  2773       25     503'   •                  -              •     449  93      30C      30                    32'               -              •             44    :.3                  -         4372     +2390           
      mujaheddin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
   11 Mujaheddin martyred        •             4                       4 ..                        . 3'          57’                                              5          1    1            2            2         •             98       -251            
      •                            1                                          _15                                         1                      2                                                                                                           
   12 Mujaheddin injured         • 3'          •     ?      *   •       •                            9                                     -                                 1    3            4            4 '       •             24       -117            
   13 Civilians martyred         •             •            •   :              15             2      5   6       563'                                        30                  1 -           8                                    630      +148            
   14 Civilians injured            •           *     •          i •     -      •              5                  90                        •                      *          -    14           13     -                             122      -303            
  15; SCUD rocket fired by -       •           •            •   -              *           '■ • '                                               . •                                                                                 2        -24             
      communists'                                                                                                1                                                                1                                                                          
  161 Rocket fired on cities  >> ■            • .    •                 -       *       -      -      •           303      •                -                 -                           -     •                                    303'     -84             
  . i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  171 Tank and vehicles            17                r      •   •       *   : •        *      •     6 ,  •       6        •-               •                      30         •           •     20     l-              -         •   53       +6              
    ' captured by mujaheddin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 18 | Kabpl regime captures |   20 •          20                •       6      •              V    .219  14      11       3                •     5  27            *          •    18           35     •     18        -             i 396    -14             
                                    The       tab    1 e  i s   ba s   ed   on       r o a  3 c a  5 t S by      rad    i 0 £   tation an           d i Paki s t!ani Urdu and English newspapers                                                             
 21
  JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flfllHflNJtHflll        VOL.3 NO.4 |
       MAJOR DOCUMENTS!
                \ ' . '
      0 NAMES OF COMMANDERS WHO ATTENDED THE PAKTIA MEETING IN JUNE 23-26
AAFGHAN INTELLECTUAL BASED IN IRAN OFFERS ALTERNATIVE FOR SOLVING AFGHAN CRISIS                                       27-33
      0AIG ASSAILS FRANCE FOR ALLOWING NAJIB TO TRAVEL TO FRANCE 34-35
0AIG’S STATEMENT ON THE ANNEXATION OF KUWAIT TO IRAQ   35-36
0 AIG’S STATEMENT ON IRAQI INVASION OF KUWAIT          36-37
0 AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL ANNUAL REPORT. ON AFGHANISTAN  37-38
                                                 22
  JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990                                .BfGlIftMJtlllil)                                          VOL.3 NO.4
    COMMANDERS WHO ATTENDED PAKTIA
     MEETING IN JUNE
      . . / • . • .
                                                                       
-                                                                      
[I ■ ;                                                               3 
T  EDITOR'S NOTE: In the previous issue of AFGHAN JEHAD• the text of   
"X a resolution adopted by the mujaheddin commanders who met in        
:x                                                                     
X  Paktia province in June was published* The following are the (      
X  names of the commanders who participated in that meeting• !       | 
;x                                                                     
T                                                                      
                                         KABUL
       Mawlawi, Siddiqullah, Mohammad Jan, Abdul Razaq , Abdul Sattar Zargar, Haji Abdul Manan, Haji Abdul Razaq of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Sher Shah, Zalmai Tofan of Ittahad-e-Islami, Ajab Gul, Dr, Shahrukh Geran, Khan Mohammad of NIPA, Haji Dur Mohammad, Abdul Haq, Mohammaid Hakim Woluswal, Khairullah, Mawlawi Jalaluddin of Hezb Islami (Khales), Abuobakr Khoshnood, Ajab Gul, Sayed Makhdoom Ataullah (NLFA), Toran Sayed Yunus Amir of Nahzat-e-Islami, Mohammad Anwar, Sher Mohammad, Mahmood Ibrahimi Tamkeen, Mushtaq Ahmad, Noor Gul Besmellah, Sayyed Mohammad Alavi.
                                             NANGARHAR
       Abdul Qader, Mohammad; Alam, Nasrullah Baryalayi, Arsalaye Asif, Haji Ezmarak, Asil (Deputy of Mawlawi Ghafoor) of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Sana Gul (NLFA), Naser Khan (representing Shamali) Tahir of Jabha, Momen, Mohammad Ismail of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Kheyal Nau, Mullah Jan of Jamiat-e-Islami.
                                               PAKTIA
      Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, Mayet Khan, Haji Akhtar Mohammad Sardar, Mawlawi Meer Dad, Haji Sherin Jamal, Mawlawi Haniful Husain of Hezb-e**Islami (Khalis), Mohammad Yaqoob, Mohammad Naeem of Jabha, Daoud,' Toran Islam Gul, Mawlawi Peer Mohammad Rohani, .Nazar Mohammad of Ittehad-e-Islami, Mali Khan, Khalifa Abdul Wadood Naqash Bandai of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Baghdad Gul, Haji Abdul Rahman of NIFA, ’ representative of Rahmatullah ’ Wahid Yar of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Mawlawi Mansoor, Haji Meerza Khan, Zabet Abdul Haq, Haji Sher Mohammad Khan of Jamiat-e-Islami, Deg:arwal Meer Alam, Malik Meer Alam of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Pacha, Hazrat Rahman of Hezb-e-Islami of (Khales) Malik Mohammad Zareen (NLFA), Ehsanullab Safi (NIFA), Abdul Raouf of Jamat-Ul-Dawa,
                                                23
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
                                              KANDAHAR
                          ,/ ' . "■ . . ‘
      Saranwal Abdul Walli, Qajri Abdul Aziz, Mohammad Rabbani, Mohammad Hashim, Mawlawi Sahib Hanif, Eng. Habibullah (NIFA), MullahShereen, Mulla Mohammad, Saleh Mohammad (Mullah Malang), Hayat Khan, Mohammad Akbar, Mullan Fyzullah of Hezb-e-Islami(Khales), Qari Abdul Aziz, Mullah Abdul Salam Rakiti, Sher Mohammad Khan of Ittehad-e-Islami, Abdul Rasool Reztfani, Haji Mukhtar of Hezbullah, Sardar Malang (NLFA), Qhulam Hayd>ar of Shora-e-Ittefaq Sayed Abdul Hamid ;of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Mullah Sayyed Mohammad, Mawalawi Aktar Mohammad, Agha of Jamiat-e-Islami.               <
                                           GHAZNI
      Sardar of Shora-e-Ittafaq, Mohibullah, Moazen (NIFA), Sher' Khan, Khalilullah Hotak, Mohammad Karim of Jamiat-e-Islami, Kheyal Mohammad>Hassani, Mullah Fayzul Haq, Qari Baba of Harakat-e-Enqfelab-e-Islami, Blaghi of Pasdaran, Haji Abdul Salam, Ghulam Mustafa Wardak at Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Haji Abdul Aziz, Haji Ghulam Sarwar Neyazmand of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), Amir Mohammad Sar Jang, Mawlawi Naik Mohammad Towakal of Ittehad-e-Islami, Sayed Wahid, Sayed Alem Haydari of Neroo-e-islami, Haji Farooq (NLFA).
                                                JAUZJAN
      Sayed Jahan of Jamiat-e-Islami, Dastageer, Mohammad Zameer of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Khair Mohammad (NIFA), Hayat Mohammad . of Ittehad-e-Islami, Panjiby of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Abdul Jabar (NLFA)
                                               LAGHMAN
      Hazrat Ali, Mohammad Ebrahim Jagran of Hezb-e-Islami (Khalis), Sher Mohammad of Ittehad-e-Islami, shariati (NIFA),
           i         -1                , '         '     .   ■
                                               PAKTIKA
      Mawlawi Abdul Qayoom, Mohammad Moosa Hotak, Mullah Mohammad Siddiq, Toran Abdul Wadood of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Haji Abdul of,Sazaman-e-Naser (Naser Organization), Sayed Jamal Hassani, ,Ata Mohammad of (NIFA), Mawlawi Mahmood, Mohammad, Amin Wardak, Mohammad Aziz of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) Mawlawi Mohammad Shereen Shja’at of Jamiat-e-Islami, Qari Abdul Rahim Rahimi of Ittehad-e-Islami, Qari Abdul Rahim Rahimi of Ittehad-e-Islami, Abdul Latif, Haji Sultan of Shora-e-Ittefaq, Sayed Umar Wardak (NLFA),/
                                               WARDAK
      Mohammad Qasim, Mawlajan,Mawlawi Meer Khan Pahlawan, Mawlawi Abdul Manan, Mawlawi Taj, Mohammad, Neyaz Mohammad, Mawlawi Arsala Rahmani, Akhtar Mohammad of Ittehad-e-Islami, Mohammad Rahiq, Khan Meer (NIFA), Malawi Totee Mohammad, Mawlawi Meerajan Kurdi, Mawlawi Meerza Ali, Samiullah, Mawlawi Abdul Bari of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Albdul Rahim of Jamiat-e-Islami (Mawlawi *Masoor), Adam Khan (NLFA), Haji Ebrahim Jan, Amin, Mawlawi Bakhtar Jan, Sarda^v Mawlawi
                                                24
 JULY - SEPTEMBER# 1990 flfSHflMJIMD                                 VOL.3 NO.4
 Mohammad Hassan, Mawlawi Saleh Mohammad of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales).
                                               HERAT
      Ghulam Qader Mohseni of Nahzat-e-islami, Toran Ghulam Mohammad Nazari of Hezbullah, Haji Mohammad Reza Sheraz of Hezb Islam! (Khales).
      Abdul Jabbar Siddiqi, Abdul Wali of Harakat-e-Enqel,ab-e-Islami, Mawlawi Abdul Hakim of Harakat-e-Inqelabe-rslami, Mohammad Hanif of Shora-e-It;tehaq, Ata Mohammad, Abdul Salam of Jamiat-e-Tslami Mohammad Yunus of'(NIFA),
                                              BAGHLAN
      Modeer Sharaf, deputy of Mawlawi Mohammad Gul, Abdul Hafeez of Hezb-e’-Islami, Mawlawi Noor Mohammad, Mohammad of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami, Wali Mohammad of Ittehad-e-Islam!.
                                                BALKH
      Noor Mohammad, Mohammad Nazar, Kheyal Mohammad,-           Meer But Lodeen (NLFA),
 Mawlawi Mohammad    Juma of       Ittehad-e-Islami,- Asad Khan, Mohammad Usman, Mawlawi
 Abdul Jabar of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-islami, Akhtar Mohammad of (NIFA), Aboozar of Nasar Deputy of Zameer Khan of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales).
                                               LOGAR
      Mawlawi Sahib-e-Charkh, Husain Khail, Abdul Wakil Akhonzada, Eng., Asadullah Falah,     Mawlawi Meer Ghulam, Mullah Mohammad Yunus,           Mohammad Anas
 (NLFA), Haji      Naser Khan,  Mawlawi Hatneed Khan, Mullah Gull Ahmad of
 Ittehad-e-Islami,    Mullah             Jan, Bahram Jan (NIFA),  Nayeem,   Sahibzada at
 Hezb-e-Islami, Malik Andar of Jamiat-e-Islami, Haji Abdul Ahmad of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami.
                                              BADGHIS
      Zeyauddin, Mohammad Ali, Jalaluddin of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Mullah Saat (NLFA), Abdul Rahman of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami,                     1
                                               FARYAB
      Qari Mohammad Siddiq, Mohammad Aslam, Haji Amanullah of (NLFA), Mohammad Karim, Sayed Akbar of Jamiat-e-Islami, Joghan By of (NIFA) Deputy of Mawlawi Amanullah of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Abdul- Rahman, Mullah Abdul Wahab of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami.
                                                ZABUL
      Haji’ Baresh, Tatak, Haji Sohrab, Abdul Bari of Ittehad-e-Islami, Mawlawi Nasrullah, Salam Khan, Mawlawi Noorullah (NIFA)/ Daoud of Jamiat-e-Islami, Spin of (NLFA), Gheyas-ul-Haqq of Hezb-e-Islami, Noorullah of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, Mawlawi Obaidullah of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales).
                                            25
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990      Mill JIHAD
                                                                           VOL.3 NO.4
                                              FARYAB
      Eng. Abdul Hay, Kher Mohammad of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami, Haji Abdul Khaliq of Hezb-e-Islami, Mawlawi Khales
                                              NIMROZ
      Abdul Ghani of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales).
                                              BAHIAN
      Haji Ali Ahmad, Ustad Muhaqqiq of Shoora-e-Ettefaq deputy of Mawlawi
                                                        i
 Shamshad of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), Haji Reza Khel of Ittehad-e-Islami, Mawlawi Besmellah Ahadi at Harekat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, < Sefatullah Deputy of Abdul Qayoom, Deputy of Mullah Roozi of Harakat-e-Islami, Rajab (NLFA), Ehsani of Sepah, Rahimullah of Jamiat Islami.
                                            SAHANGAN
      Bared General. Sayed Hasan Chief of Shoora-e-Ettefaq, Talib-e-Qareya Dar, Haji Sahar of Shoora-e-Ettefaq* Abdul Qudoos, Mohammadullah Deputy of Mohammad Islam of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami, Mawlawi Abdul Bashir of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Yaseen     (NLFA),        Enayatullah, Gailani, Agha   Gul  Khan   of
 Jamiat-e-Islami, Mllah Abdul Razaq, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi, Ahmadi, Mawlawi Sahib Dad of Harakatre-Inqelab-e-Islami, Hayatullah of I,ttehad-e-Islami, Akram Rabat (NIFA), Abdul Manaf of Hezb Islami (Khales),            Baba  Ebrahim  of
 Shoora-e-Ettefaq.
                                              KAPISA
      Mawlawi Abdul   Hakeem    of Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami,  Abdul Hadi   of
 Jamiat-e~Islami, Haji Agha of Ittehad-e-Islami, Qazi Amanullah (NLFA)
                                             URUZGAN
      Mawlawi Esmatullah of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Haji Noor Mohammad of Hezbullah, Mullah Mohammad Zee of Harakat-e7Enqelab-e-Islami, Amanullah of Shoora-e-Ittafaq, Sayed Nadir Mullah Basir, Ali Mohammad, Waysuddin of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), FaizKareem (NLFA), Ahmad Gul (NIFA), Ghulam Siddiq of Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami,
                                           BADAKHSHAN
      Deputy of Abdul Rashid of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales)w
                                              TAKHAR
      Sahar Gul of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami.
                                              26
   JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990                            HliltliUldtHHIl                                  VOL.3      N0.4
0 B
1 D D
a
a
a
a
o
a
  EDITOR'S NOTE: in order to help solve the Afghanistan problem, a number of Afghans have been drafting proposals •• In the previous edition of the Afghan jehad proposals made in this connection by Abdul Samad Hamed and Abdul Sat tar Seerat as well as Sultan Mahmood Ghazi were presented. The following is a proposal drafted for the solution of the Afghanistan problem by Asadullah Nuktadan, a member of the Afghan Iranian based parties and also a member of the team of advisors invited by the AIG last summer to suggest ways for solving the Afghanistan issue•
a
n
a
8
n
a
 DaooaDoooooooDaoooQDQQQaQoaaoQoaaaQaoacia
                                 PRESENT CONDITIONS
 1.   If all the   forces and powers of the sacred jehad fail      to preserve  the
      initiative of action in their hands as they were doing so vis-h-via invasion of  the Soviet forces and       before that, and in this way do  not
      reach a common and clear-cut decision and do not resort to a joint understanding and action, the super powers will make their own agreement and then our beloved nation will remain for times to come in distitude and slavery and the heros and fighters of Islam of the 12 '.years of jehad and our Muslim nation will be forgotten.
 2.   The -present conditions of the jehad,  the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees are
      considered  to be a system at their    own right, however it is an absolete,
      standstill, defensive and, static system.
 3.   The unity and merger of the centers of resistance and the jehad ranks will be impossible. HowevSr it is possible to have them take a common stand.
 4.   All jehad forces and powers (visible or non-visible) are capable and free to prove in one or another way their presence.
 5,   All those effective forces which have kept the jehad going are anxiously waiting for their opportunity and for reaping the benefits of their role in
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990          flffillAMJIHflD                        VOL.3 NO.4
      the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan.
6.    All are impatiently waiting for the interim transfer of power to a powerful central government and a unified center of decision making.
7.    It is possible that our beloved' nation may not have access to a valuable solution based on our beliefs, but during conditions of emergency and in view of the common interest of people, whatever is felt jto be in the interest of our Muslim people, is considered to *be worthwhile and of importance for us.
8.    A need is felt for a compromise proposal by interested parties to the Afghanistan issue, without weakening or strengthening of the related forces. In other words, there is a need for an overall proposal which benefit the entire Muslim people of Afghanistan, a proposal in which the interests of all Muslims (despite differences in their political tastes) are met, and would not clash with international traditions and the norms of world community, the region and the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan.
9.    The military jehad should continue as a powerful force and prestigeous backbone for political negotjations ..until a final solution is
      reached and the jehad should be kept alive in another form under changing conditions.’
                                i          '     .        - *•
10.   After coordinating the jehad forces, the door for political dialogue will be opened with super powers, international circles, neighboring countries, the non-aligned movement, OIC, and the UN. However, in the lack of any concord and coordination among jehad forces, holding of any kind of political negotiations will be tantamount to a suicide in one or another way.
11.   Under present circumstances holding of free elections will be impossible. In other words, if conditions are fit for general elections they should be held. However it is for the concerned parties to prove that conditions are conducive for holding elections and they should guarantee (fair and universal) elections. But (normally) conditions will become fit for holding general elections when there is a unified leadership.
                                          THE FUNDAMENTALS
      A book is comprised of chapters, pages, lines and sentences. If such a book is torn into pieces and some one decides to restore that book in its original form, it will indeed be a difficult and streneous job.
      In other words physical scientists are of the opinion that placing together the various components of a body under the power of God opens the gate for its life.
      No sign of life can be visible from dispersed and diffused elements and particles.
                                                       28
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfCHftNJtHilfl                                   VOL.3  NO.4
      One should not expect scattered, incoordinated and sick elements* not having a sign of visible life, to come together and each one take its proper place scientifically and on the basis of prescribed laws.
      How can we put together a'number of these scattered letters so that we may be able to make words out of them .and out of words and sentences we may be able to evolve concepts which are understandable and useful. From this introduction we can'make the following conclusions:
1.   All the letters at our disposal are constant but real.
2.   We do not have redundant letters.                             .
3.   Elimination of each one of these letters will have a negative effect on the words and their meanings.
4.   None of the letters could be merged with another letter or could be 1 eliminated nor we can give that letter a new form.
      Thus we can derive the following conclusion:
1.   All jehad forces and resistance centers as well as political, cultural and military centers of the sacred jehad of the people of Afghanistan and even each individual, women or man old or young, belonging to parties or followers of religious sects, jehad organizations and centers belonging to the mujaheddin and refugees, they all have a real existence and can prove their existence.
2.   All present forces, whether they are inside the country or outside, small or big# have a power of their own and there is very little chance for eliminating or reducing this power.
3.   All effective elements working for the continuation and preservation of the
Islamic jehad of Afghanistan, the people of Afghanistan, its neighbours, international circles, super powers and forces and parties interested in the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan, cannot be eliminated or diffused or merged with each other.                    ,  ' '
      And, therefore, there is one possibility at sight:
      By composing and bringing together all ranks, forces and elements as well as interested parties and finally from all present structures one can substitute the present system and order with a new system. In other words - each one of these forces are to be put in its proper place and one should bring a new order supported by all the components so- that in this way the sacred hook of our jehad history is put into order and become readable and as a result of the coming together of the scattered elements in a sound, fair and logical manner, a powerful and unified body is formed.
      The task of putting these elements together or the task of compromise and co-existence of all jehjad forces and powers if done at a later stage and not at this juncture of history when everyone and everything of our heroic people has come under threat, we might, reach a point' where we will face the military intervention of all the super powers and at that time they will turn the entire region into ashes' of the fire of war and. by the time we become aware of the
                                                      29
                    •« 1
  JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfCHANJfflAD                                     VOL.3 NO.4
  situation, God forbid, we might see that there is no trace of our country or people and perhaps, on the contrary,(as a result of collusion of foreign powers and super powers, we might be witness to a weak, abject and slave Afghanistan.
        There are two alternatives for solving the Afghanistan issue:
  1.   The foreign countries' (alternatives which now-a-days is beig talked about and is aimed at striking the final and decisive word in regard' to the destiny of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan.
       This alternative has been under discussion for many years but today there are chances that a final decision will be made on this basis.
  2.   The Afghans themselves take the initiative for achieving a final solution.
       In regard to the first alternative, the lack of a relationship and unity among the leaders of resistance forces has paved the way for outside interference in the destiny of the oppressed people of Afghanistan and, it tantamounts to giving a free hand to the others to ignore all the aspirations of the martyrs and wishes of the people of Afghanistan. Furthermore, this will entail slavery and abjectness for a long time to come for the people of Afghanistan.              '
       As for the second alternative, all the jehad forces are moving to different and opposite directions and therefore there is no hope that the shattered ship of our beloved nation will reach the harbor of safety.
       The situation has become so acute that even some quarters, by exploiting tl>e disarray prevailing among the jehad forces; are opening experimental contacts with the Kabul government and others are resorting to political talks with foreign powers and exerting pressure on the Kabul government through neighboring countries, super powers and international circles. This kind of inconsistent approach has been going on for about 12 years now and has not proved useful.
       We,therefore, reach the conclusion that, before resorting to any action, a concentration of power and the existence of an axis of the total forbes and powers should be brought about so that all these scattered elements come together around a powerful and strong national and Islamic ideal. This, can be achieved by adopting the following alternative:
  1.   By resorting to the views of each Afghan through holding elections so under present circumstances a common leader is elected. However, this will not be possible taking in view the disarray prevailing among the heavily armed forces of the co'untry. Also it will mean ignoring of the services of present leaders during the course of resistance. Also it may entail the intensification of armed clahses among internal fprces for many years to come.
       By bringing together the top leadership of the jehad forces in order to create this central force.           _                                '
                                            ■30",                   .  ■ ■' '
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 llfllliilllJIHAD                                    VOL.3 N0.4
      Although this alternative for creating a unified political organization and for establishing a fundamental and permanent basis has been usually considered as; a mistake, it could still serve as a solution for the interim period and emergency conditions.         '                                          •          ,
      It has been recorded in the history of Islam that when the Arab leaders resorted to a dispute over the right of each faction and tribe to place the sacred black stone in the wall of Kaabah and this dispute was about to give way to bloodshed and fighting, it was decided that anyone whc entered the door first should be given the authority to give the stone to anyone he wishes to place it in the wall of Kaabah. Others should not make a claim to do so and none of the leaders of the nation will have the right tp reject the. decision of that person.
        At this juncture Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, entered. All agreed to abide by his decision. They informed Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, about the episode. The Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, worked out the following plan for solving the problem:
      The leaders were asked to place a large piece of cloth on the ground. He himself put the Stone, on the cloth. Then he asked each one of the leaders of . the nation and the* notables to hold an edge of the cloth and put the stone with , the Cloth in the wall of Kaabah and then later he himself fixed the stone in its proper place. Afl the people agreed and their dispute came to an end. By learning a lesson from this historical episode we can solve the question of the future leadership of the country with bringing together all the ,• proposals and all the forces and find a common solution based on these proposals and wishes of the forces involved.                                           >
      We have to begin       the task by  holding a      gathering of. tlie leaders and
 elderlies of the forces of Islamic      jehad. As a first step,        for the sake of
 establishing a strong      and powerful  center for the leadership of  the islami<^
 jehad of Afghanistan, it is necessary to have a broadly based Islamic leadership council. This council         could have 12 members        and in fact   it will be an
 embodiment of the uprising arid jehad of the Muslim people of Afghanistan from its(start until today as well as the future history of our country.
      The first task of this council will be to create a council of the ahl-e-hal va aqd (men of wisdom).
      The qualifications and standards for selecting members of the council of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd will be:
 1.   Renowned ulamas of Islamic denominations.
 2.   Informed people in Islam and political issues cOricernihg Afghanistan, the
      region and the' jehad.
 3.   People not with a bad name in the past.
 4.   People who have visited other countries or at least had gone to the Haj, ;
      Members of this council, should not be more than 120 and not less than 60 and should either be selected or elected, as members of the leadership council. The second most important responsibility of the Islamic leadership council and
                                              31
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfBHANJHiAD                                 VOL.3 N0.4
 the council  of ahl-e-hal wa aqd will be the creation of an    Islamic national
 assembly or  a grand jirgah which, on the          basis of the census conducted by the
 Daoud government, should have between 200-400 people from various parts pf the country or    any other number which the             Islamic leadership council and the
 council of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd may agree upon or as to whether they are to be elected or selected.
                                    THE COMMANDERS' COUNCIL
      As a third step, a council of the            important commanders and a number of
 people with experience in military affairs who have had in one or another way a role in the jehad should be formed to constitute the strong and powerful military arm of the Islamic leadership council. This (commanders) council will be placed under a supreme command appointed by the Islamic leadership council. It will coordinate all the forces of armed mujaheddin. The leader or the commander-in-chief of the mujaheddin will be selected by the Islamic leadership council for three months from among the members of commanders' council taking in view the present emergency conditions. Similarly one of the commanders, with superior position arid ability, should serve in the 12 member Islamic leadership council and this will be conducive to a further solidarity of the jehad forces.
                     THE CONSULTATIVE COMMISSION FOR POLITICAL AFFAIRS
      For the execution of political activities a commission comprizing statesmen with wide-ranging political reputation and endowed with religious piety and not having atheistic background should be created under the guidance of the Islamic leadership council from other countries numbering 30-60.
      After the. formation of the Islamic leadership council, the council of ahl-e-hal wa aqd, the Islamic national council or the supreme jirgah, the commanders' council and the consultative commission on political affairs, in fact a framework has been provided for a powerfl leadership machinery.
      After the formation of these bodies an Islamic state could be formed without any obstacle from among the believing and Muslim people of Afghanistan through holding general elections. After electing the head of state on the basis of free elections, the President has to receive the vote of confidance of the majority of the members of the Islamic national council or the supreme jirgah.
      The aforementioned proposals can be summarized in the following manner:
 1.   Establishing a leadership system.
 2.   Forming an Islamic state by holding elections.    '
                                             COMMENTS
 1. The Islamic leadership council compromises the basic and central body of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan' and the sanctity of its position and members will remain immune from present changes until the final victory. In Other words, the Islamic leadership council comprized of 12 members will be a permanent body.
                                             32
 . JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfGHAHJlHAD                                   VOL.3 NO.4
  2.   The      Islamic leadership council has the right to dissolve the government
      under special conditions.
  3.   The    Islamic leadership council being the founding body of the uprising of
      the   great nation of Afghanistan will be responsible for the preservation of
      national unity and Islamic values and defense of the territorial integrity of Afghanistan under all conditions.
  4.   in free elections only members of the Islamic leadership council have the right to contest the elections for the position of the President.
  5.   if one or more than one members of the Islamic leadership council decide (s) to contest the .elections for the Presidency of the state he or they should resign from the membership of the council.
  6.   All     members of the Islamic leadership council do   not have the right to
      contest the Presidency at one time.
  7.   The      future head of state will introduce members   of his cabinet to the
      national Islamic assembly and the cabinet will begin their work after
 .     receiving a vote of confidence.
  8.   In the future Islamic state, as far as it is possible, members related to the families of the martyrs of the jehad and those who have been isolated and have assumed a solitary life during the past 12 years should be given preference to having jobs in the•administrative cadres of the government. Such people form a huge body. As a result of different conditions during the past 12 years they have been isolated from the fields of political activities or military jehad and they have engaged themselves in private activities. Most of these people have decided to resign from public life because they wanted to remain immune from material and political corruption and do not become a part of fighting and disunity among their own people, etc.
  9.   a. Members of the Islamic leadership council already exist.
      b.  For selecting members of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd shoora the Islamic leadership council should be convened.
      c.  Members of the Islamic national cuncil or supreme jirgah can be convened on the basis of the formula used in the Rawalpindi shoora. (1989).
      d.  The political affairs council also exists and only those who had not so far participated should be added to this body or, if necessary, the
         number of this council should be reduced.
      e.  The council of jehad commanders has also already been founded on a broad basis and exists.
                                              33
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfGHflNJIHAD                                                  VOL.3 N0.4
         1 ravel to tans
          EDITOR'S NOTE:    The  AIG protested  about  a French  government
          decision to allow the leader of Kabul regime Najibullah to visit France for an international conference. The following are patts of the text of the AIG protest along with the text of the answer given by the French Embassy in Islamabad. The texts have been , adopted from the 5 September, 1990» issue of Subh-e-Pairuzee.

       An official spokesman of the AIG strongly protested and expressed its consternation in regard with a permission granted by the French government to Najib to visit France.
        The communique, released, in Peshawar before the visit of Najib to France, says in part: "Some press reports recently indicated that Najib, leader of the puppet regime of Kabul, will visit France to participate in a UN sponsored conference in Paris. We hope these reports are not correct, since the government of France had already hurt the feelings of millions of Afghans by reopening its embassy in Kabul, and Najib's visit to France' will be angther addition to that injury.
       "Najib, known as 'the Butcher of Kabul', is directly responsible for the murder and torture of ten of thousands of innocent Afghans and indirectly involved in the massacre of 1.5 million people, and he is the very cause of all the miseries inflicted to the Afghan people during the past 12 years."
        The communique adds, "The people of France have strongly supported the Afghan cause from the beginning of Soviet invasion and we hope that this support for our rightful and just cause will continue until the end. We are confident that the people of France will not be deceived by the Soviet propaganda aimed at portraying Najib as a legitimate leader and a champion of peace. With such a propaganda, the Soviet Union tries to gain a political victory after its military defeat. A monthly infusion of $300 million assistance to the puppet regime is another aspect of this conspiracy."
        In the conclusion, the AIG spokesman has hoped that the French government would "not permit Najib to visit Paris. In case, the French government allows
                                            34
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfGHANJ[HA0              VOL.3 NO.4
 mmmmmmmmmmmmmmummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmiammmmmmmmmmmmmm
 Najib's visit, it is hoped that the people of France pressure their government by their strong protest and opposition to nullify its decision." decision."
                    /
     It is worthwhile to mention that the French Embassy in Islamabad has sent an answer to the news agency of the AIG Ministry - of Information, after it received the,AIG official communique. The letter says:
       "The French Embassy expresses its gratitude to the MIDIA# for sending to it the official communique of the AIG in regard with Najib's participation in the UN-sponsered conference for the developing nations of the world.
      "With an expression of regret that the communique doesn't reflect an actual context of the events, the Embassy sends now its press statement in this regard to NIDIAt
    "In regard to the second UN conference concerning the developing countries to be held 3-14 September in Paris the following points should not be forgotten:
     "This conference, to be held in Paris for evaluating the economic problems of the developing countries, has been organized by the UN under the auspices of the 'Conference on Commerce and Development' with the participation of its entire 159-member countries.
     "All member countries are not invited by French authorities but by the Secretary General of the UN to the conference. The reason for the UN invitation to the Kabul regime is that the regime occupies the Afghanistan seat in the UN General Assembly.
     "This conference will be held in the headquarters of the UNESCO, which is a Paris based international organization and belongs to ,the UN system."
 AIG’s Statement on Kuwait
 Annexation to Iraq
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a statement by the AIG Presidency condemning the Iraqi aggression against Kuwait and the concentration of Iraqi troops along the Saudi borders• The text has been adopted from 12 August • 1990* issue of the Subh-e-Pairuzee•

       While we condemn any form of expansionism, aggression, occupation and invasion, any where and in any form, we consider the recent aggression (of Kuwait by Iraq) contrary to Islamic and international principles and norms and
35
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 IKGHANJIHAD                                        VOL.3   N0.4
vehemently condemns it.
      Likewise, the Aid calls this Iraqi action and the massacre of the Muslim and innocent people of Kuwait, to which every Muslim and reasonable human being is opposed cpntrary t£ all Islamic and human principles.
      The AIG believes' that any Iraqi dispute and dispute with Kuwait should have been settled through consultation 'with a number of Islamic countries.
      Similarly, the AIG .condemns the concentration of a considerable number of Iraqi military forces along the borders of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and adds that such aggression against neighbouring countries, particularly Islamic nations, are contrary to all Islamic values and principles and can never be tolerated by any nation.
      The AIG deems any threat to the territory of Saudi Arabia as an aggression against the sacred domain of Islam and considers the defense of the integrity of Saudi Arabia as an obligation for each Muslim state and every Muslim.
      The mujaheddin of Afghanistan, with.all their strength and power are ready to defend the sacred places and the Qebla (The Holy Kaabah) of. the Muslims of the world.
                                        Sebghatullah Mujaddedi The AIG President
statement on
 EDITOR'S NOTE:  The  following is the text of a statement by the
 AIG condemning the Iraqi decision to annex ' Kuwait• The text has been dopted from Subh-e-Pairuzee 12 August• 1990.
I
   > ' The Iraq's decision to annex Kuwait is another crime which is added to their first crime.
      Annexation of Kuwait to others, is a concern of the Muslim people of Kuwait, not the Baath agents and mercenaries.
      Silence of the Muslims vis-a-vis this, event is contrary to the spirit of Islamic brotherhood -and fairness.
      Pity onto the Muslims of the world who remain as spectators,, while their brothers are being swallowed up by the Baathi giant.
      While we strongly support any decision of the Muslims of the world vis-a-vis Iraq's military invasion, we once again declare to all Muslims of the world that they have to adopt a resolute stand so there may not be any need for, the assistance and intervention of alien forces. At the same time, we
36
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfGHAN JIHAD                              VOL.3 NO.4
declare that we are ready with any cost to defend the Holy Shrine of Makkah and the tomb of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him.
                           Abd Raab Rasool Sayyaf The Prime Minister of the AIG
      Amnesty International’s
Annual Report on Afghanistan
     Thousands of political prisoners were believed to be imprisoned, including., some possible prisoners of conscience. Torture and ill-treatment of prisoners, particularly during interrogation, continued to be reported, although on a lesser scale than in prevous yeai^s.            ,
     Despite the completion of the withdrawal of Soviet troops in February, the conflict between government'forces and armed opposition groups - the mujaheddin continued; arms were supplied to the government by the USSR,, and to the mujaheddin by the USA and Pakistan. It was difficult to obtain and corroborate information about human rights violations due to the war and sobial dislocation. However, there were several reports Of mujaheddin forces carrying out extrajudicial executions of prisoners and civilians.
     In February the authorities of Kabul's Pul-e-Charkhi Prison said they were holding 2,165 political prisoners; definite information about prisoners of. conscience was available in only a few cases. Mawlawi Abdul Raoof Logari, the Imam of the Wazir Akbar Khan Mosque in Kabul, was detained in March after preaching at the mosque in the presence of President Najibullah. He reportedly recited a Persian verse which seemed to be directed at the President: "You have
 done nothing for your Creator, so you cannot do anything for His creatures." He did not advocate violence during the sermon and was considered to be a prisoner of conscience. He was released from Pul-e-Charkhi Prison later in the year.
     Among possible prisoners of conscience believed still held at the end of the year was Amin Yusufzai. He had been detained at Kabul airport (in January 1986, reportedly because he was found carrying a picture of his brother, a member of the mujaheddin. He was not known to have been charged or tried.
     There was no new information about two other possible prisoners of conscience, Sayyed Abdul Samad and Mohammad Nazar. Both Afghans, they were tried and convicted of spying in January 1988 after they had entered ,the country
 illegally with Alain Guillo, a French journalist (see. Amnesty International Report 19&9). They were sentenced to 16 years' imprisonment and were believed to
 be h^ld at Pul-e-Charkhi Prison.
  . • " ‘ ; ‘ - * ' }
                                37 '          .
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AFGHANJtHAO                                   VOL.3 N0.4
      Dr. Mohammad Younus Akbari, a nuclear physicist sentenced to death in 1984 (see Amnesty International Report 1985),was also believed to be still imprisoned,, although his whereabouts were unknown. Information was received in January that seven members of the Afghan Mellat, the Afghan Social Democratic Party, held since 1983, had been released in 1988 (see Amnesty Internatinal Report 1989).
      Torture and ill-treatment of prisoners, particularly during interrogation, by the security police and the military continued to be reported. In one case,( a member of the mujaheddin captured in combat of Deh-Sabz village in January was released in May after he had become deranged reportedly as a result of torture. He was still suffering- from its effects when he was admitted to a psychiatric clinic in Pakisan in July.
      There was no new information about people who had reportedly "disappeared" in detention in previous years, such as Zia-ul-Haq, who had "disappeared" in early 1^83 (see Amnesty International Report 1989).
      Mujaheddin forces were reported to have carried out extrajudicial executions of captured government soldiers and civilians, including children, in areas which they effectively controlled. In one case, a mujaheddin force,which included Wahabi Arab volunteers, was reported to have summarily killed an unspecified number of government soldiers and at least 20 unarmed civilians on 13 and 14 January after taking control of the village of Kuna Deh, in the Khewa district of Nangarhar province. In March and April, journalists reported that mujaheddin groups besieging the city of Jalalabad had shot dead government soldiers after they had surrendered.
      In March Amnesty International made an appeal jointly to the Afghan Government and the leaders of the seven mujaheddin groups based in Peshawar, Pakistan. It urged, them to take all possible measures ,to ensure full protection of basic human rights for all prisoners and non-combatants on both sides of the Afghan conflict. The organization also appealed to the governments of the USSR, the USA and Pakistan to use their influence with the main parties to the conflict to ensure respect for human rights. Three mujaheddin groups -Mahaz-e-Melli-e-Islami     Afghjanistan,              led by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani;
 Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan,        led     by    Burhanuddin Rabbani;        and
 Jebha-e-Nejat-e-Melli Afghanistan, led by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi - responded to Amnesty      International's appeal, saying that their organizations treated
 prisoners humanely and would continue to do so. The Pakistan Foreign Ministry responded to the appeal by referring to the Pakistan Government's role in arrnaging for the International Committee of the Red Cross to visit prisoners held by mujaheddin groups in Afghanistan and in helping to arrange meetings between the USSR a.nd the mujaheddin for an exchange of prisoners.
      During the year, Amnesty international repeatedly wrote to the Afghan authorities asking for the release of Mawlawi Abdul Raoof Logari. It also asked for Information about Amin Yusufzai, Syed Abdul Samad, Mohammad Nazar, Mohammad Younus Akbari and Zia-ul-Haq. In November the authorities informed Amnesty International that Mawlawi Logari had been released.
                                               38
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 199Q ftfCHflNJWflfl VOL.3 NO.4
                  AFGHAN
          RECONSTRUCTION,
          REHABILITATION
                      ' .        *    i
        I  ,  ’      '   ’                             ‘ .
#  CCAR SEMINAR ON AFGHAN LEGAL. JUDICIARY           40-71
#  AFGHAN UNIVERSITIES PROFESSORS OFFER PROPOSAL ON
   IMPROVING HIGHER EDUCATION                        72-29
#  SUDANESE SCHOLAR ASSAILS AFGHAN LEADERSHIP FOR FAILURE
   TO WIN POLITICAL BATTLE                           80-81
#  AFGHAN EXPERTS SUGGEST WAYS FOR RE-BUILDING AGRICULTURE 82-98
#  A WHO'S WHO OF AIG AND NGO’S WORKING IN PESHAWAR 99-104
                                               39
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990      llfl
VOL.3 no.4
SEMINAR ON AFGHAN
 W
 '•V
*:
 EDITOR*S NOTE: The Cultural Council of Afghan Resistance held a Seminar on "The Role of Judicial System in the Future Society of Afghanistan" in Islamabad from 3-6 June• More than 30 Afghan scholars attended the forum. The following is a summary of articles presented and discussions held in the seminar• Names of those who attended the fqrum have been listed at the end'of this summary•

8
 •V

INAUGURAL SPEECHES
 HABIBULLAH GHALEB: As chairman of the seminar, Ghaleb thanked the intellectuals and scholars, for accepting the invitation of the Cultural Council of Afghan Resistance to take .part in the seminar and then said:                         <
     The mujahed nation of Afghanistan by rendering unprecedented . sacrifices during the 12' years of aggression on their religion, honor, dignity, pride, territory and Islamic homeland, achieved a spectacular victory and drove, the aggressive and treacherous enemy out of their country and, by dint of this dauntless courage and sacrifice, became the pioneers of freedom movements and breakers of the colonial chains in the entire wotld end set a world record in overthrowing and upsetting of the foundation of communism throughout the world. The Afghan nation, by proving the righteousness and perpetuity of the Islamic ideology, which has been the only means and the only weapon which crushed and knocked down the . imperialist giant of the east and its hallow ideology, undeniably can pave the way for the application of Islamic Shari'at in all the individual and collective sectors of the Afghan society and all other Islamic societies which have remained away from the path of Islamic law, as the only virtuous, forward looking and sure system. All believe that the only system "which can take root in the depths of the earth and which encompasses the entire universe is the Islamic system. We all hope that this natural and humanitarian, system may prevail in our social, political, economic and Cultural
40
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990            WCWUIJ1HMI                        VOL.3 NO.4
 life. In view of the fact that this system could hot be put into effect under the rule of the previous governments for a long time and other Islamic societies also did not put into practice its complete code, <its comprehensiveness,
' capability and practicability in the present age has been questioned by some circles. Therefore, the Cultural Council of Afghan Resistance deemed it fit to assess various aspects of this complete, comprehensive, unalterable and. integrated system by holding seminars and to disclose its capacity and superiority compared to other systems through academic discussions and in the light of /historical evidence ar>d the Quran, so that a response may be provided to those who have not minutely and comprehensively studied Islamic philosophy or feel confused in the absence of living examples of complete enforcement of the Islamic system in the Muslim countries and/or, on the basis of general comparison between un-Islamic systems which are perpetually undergoing changes and adjustments and, owing to lack of comprehensive fundamentals and regulations, lag behind the caravans of civilization, scientific developments, / technology and .evaluation of mental level and human knowledge in every age period of time.
      The Islamic Shari'at (Code of Law) is a collection of Commandments based on beliefs and practices which have been constituted for improving human wisdom through faith and belief and human, spirit by practising individual worship and reforming social life in the shape of practical application of legal and judicial systems Of Islam in the society.
      These aims and objects shape the precepts of state and religion ih Islam and distinguish it from all the heavenly codes of law as well as man-made systems in the world.
    .» • •     I                           '                    ' ' '
      The legal and judicial system includes sections of private laws composed of civic' and penai laws and general laws (in the internal sector) of basic rights, administrative laws and financial regulations? and (in the external sector) of international rights. In this seminar, mainly private laws are under discussion.
 QAZI MOHAMMAD AMIN WEQAD: (Key note speaker)
      On the occasion of the opening of this valuable and academic seminar, mindful of the exigencies of time, I would like to speak about the need and effect of such seminars for the future Afghan society.                         .
      Thank God, we are. all brothers, in faith, followers of Islam, fellow-travellers on the path of religious migration, devotees of the Holy Quran and our religion and committed to the jehad. Therefore, our topics, our ideas, our analytical approach and finally our judgements should all be based on the Islamic and Quranic principles. Islam has given us honor and dignity and faith has given us the strength, in today's world, there are societies which can be categorized as advanced societies because they have expertise in technique and industry and are forerunners in the fields of economy and commerce. "But a thing which these societies could not imagine to be possible, has been made possible by a society of the faithful who dp not enjoy the privileges of the advanced societies. , Actually the power of Islam and faith are bssed on religious conviction, godliness and upholding high, and noble ideals. Hence this society
                                               41
   JULY - SEPTEMBER* 1990 AFGHAN JHMID                        VOL.3 NO.4
   has the ability and the prowess jbo perform other jobs for the future Afghan society. We had nothing else but the force of faith in our hearts and a moral and intellectual connection with the source of celestial revelation. So the Afghan society had something which was missing in the other societies. In this seminar,' our brothers will express their, views and the listeners and participants shall benefit from it. When a subject is dealt with by' a single person in different forums and put under minute scrutiny in different books, it would be quite different from the situation when the same subject is studied collectively by a group of scholars and intellectuals.
         The subject under discussion in this saininar is verification and assessment of the proposed judicial system in the future society of Afghanistan. This is a very sensitive issue. I would like to put a question in this context and the question is, whether in the past our courts and judiciary were devoid of Islamic system? Or whether we did not have Muslim judges and religious scholars? The answer is that we had all these things. Thank. Heavens, we were Muslims, we are Muslims and will always be followers of Islam. But the future system, in view of! its particular conditions, would be different from the previous system. The future judicial system in Afghanistan would be a source of transformation for all the Islamic socieities. It would become such a fountain head that religious scholars, authorities and members, of the judicial systems of the Islamic countries would take inspiration from its policy and line of action and would follow it.’
   SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI:   In the same manner that Afghanistan in this century and
   one can even say, in the course of its long history, was able to 'resist the super-powers, and knocked down a super-power and drove it out of its territory, we hope that by establishing a system, which should be consonent with the demands of the age and the time, it would be able to set a precedent in the world. We should lay the foundations of such an Islamic system which ought to be guided by the glorious Quran and the tradition of Mohammad, peace be upon him.
         Although we are holding seminars on the future fundamentals of our society, the. fact is that so far we have been unable to go to the interior of our country... Really, I feel an emptiness in my heart, because- subsequent to the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, we have not been able to reach Kabul. I distinctly remember that each one of the mujaheddin leaders used to say that, after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, they would overthrow the Kabul regime within a couple of weeks or couple of months, but today after about one and a half years, we are still sitting on an alien land. Th^re is no doubt that we have gathered here to discuss topics related to the foundations of a future system in Afghanistan, but this is not sufficient as we have not achieved our desired goal...
h

 {
        The Cultural Council of Afghan jehad is an independent and autonomous body and has brotherly and good relations with all jehad organizations and jehad leaders and we are keen to perform our duties in this field. But I wish to convey this point also to my brothers that our greatest obligation is to initiate a movement' to enable us to get rid of tjiis state of migration to an alien land, in the shortest possible time, because it is getting on our peoples' nerves. Our people desire a just and sensible move and policy by our jehad leaders so that the stalemate comes to an end...                              /
 /
42
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
                                                                          VOL.3 NOv4
                                       ARTICLE
 ABDUL AHAD ISHRATI:   "The Philosophy of Legislation in Islam" was the,title of
 his detailed lengthy research treatise. The philosophy of legislation, description of law, historical evaluation of legislation, ideas expounded by the stoic philosophers, Roman laws, philosopy of law in the medieval ages, philosophy of law in the Renaissance period, contemporary schools of law in Italy, France, UK, Austria, Germany, Spain, Portugal', Denmark, Latin America as well as in what was until recently called the communist world were among the topics discussed and investigated. Later he spoke about Islamic law-makers and the past records of law and legislation in Islam . The fundamentals and objects of Shari'at were elaborated and the sources of law explained and the system of ahl-e-hal-wa-aqd (Men of Wisdom) elucidated. -
      The article divides the evolutionary process of legislation in Islam into six periods:
 1 The lifetime of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon Jhim, when the issuance of law through divine revelation process comes to a conclusion;.
 2.   The rule of the Righteous Caliphs of Islam when the consensus of the Ummah (the entire Muslim community) emerged as the source of religious jurisprudence.
 3.   From the conclusion of the period of the Righteous Caliphate     i.e: from 41
 i    (Lunar Hijri Year) to the early second century (Hijri) before the fall of
      the Omari Sultanate^ When the Islamic jurisprudence finds a broad spectrum and differences of opinion come to the surface.
 4.   From the early second century Hirjl to the middle, of fourth    century Hijri
      when religious jurisprudence reaches a maturity stage and the   Islamic state
      is able to formulate laws for various aspects of the people's life.
 5.   From the fourth century Hijri to 656 Hijri (Lunar), i.e. the fall of Baghdad Empire .a stagnation occurred in the process of completion of religious jurisprudence because the jurisprudents tend to immitate and the door was. closed on religious initiative and practice.
 .6. From the seventh century Hijri after the fall of Baghdad Empire till today when the jurisprudents did not bring about any.change in their, attitude and' imitation or following the established schools of religious thought became the order of the day.                             -
      Throughout this period, the religious jurisprudence remained intact and its commandments did not assume or find a legal basis. Only at the end of the eleventh century Hijri, the Ottoman. Empire assigned the duty of compiling the commandments in the light of Hanafi jurisprudence to a board of jurisconsults. This board started its work in the year 1285 Hijri (Lunar) and concluded it in 1293 Hijri, The collected^ commandments were drafted in the form of legal material, totalling 1851 articles . and on 26 Sha'ban, 12.9-3 Hijri (Lunar) were enforced as civic law code under the title of, "Mujallat-ul-Ahkam" (Gazette of commandments) by the Ottoman government.        '                         ,
      The   article concludes with an appraisal of the infrastructure of
                     legislation during the Russian domination in Afghanistan' and has quoted
                                              43
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990           BFCHIINJtHflfl                           VOL.3nO,4
 examples. Ishrati made the following conclusions about the future legislation:
       In Afghanistan a law called "Islamic Law", does not exist. Hence we are compelled' to formulate Laws based on Islamic jurisprudence and the views of the mujtaheddin (scholars competent to initiate new laws based on Islamic fundamentals) as well ought to keep pace with the changes and evolution of life. For the framing of such laws, it is necessary to study. throughly all the sectors and subsidiaries of the commands ' of Islamic jurisprudence and the benefits and peculiarities of jurisprudential commands in various sects, keeping in view the spirit of the time. Consequently we would be able to have such laws in different sectors as to ensure a prosperous future for the.people in social, political and economic fields. Therefore, the legislation process demands that for the political, economic and social problems of the people such laws may be enacted which      would hot be influenced nor  threatened from any source and
 should complete the cycle of its enforcement according to the regulations of the Divine law.             *               x\
                                              DISCUSSION
 MUJAHED: Mr.- ishrati said that in the lifetime of Prophet Mohammad, peace be . upon him, Abdullah Ibn-e-Amr initiated the collection of the sayings of the Holy Prophet. At the time when the Holy Quran was still revealed, Prophet Mohammad-, peace be upon him, had ordained that nobody should write anything said by him so that the Quran and Hadith (Prophet's .saying), might not get mixed with each other. Therefore,the Ahadith Sayings and Traditions of the 'Holy Prophet) were, not inscribed in       his time  but were written in    the lifetime of his revered
 companions.
 SALJUKI AND NAFEY:   The  writing of Hadith was prohibited in the first years of
 the lifetime of        the Holy Prophet but later  on   it was permitted. Hence the
 inscription of the Ahadith started in the lifetime of Pophet Mohammad, peace be
          •:            >     • . i                 \                   • •      ■
 upon him.
 ISHRATI: This is right, I will make the correction.
 MfUMTAZ: Under the present      circumstances, is  it   necessary that a legislator
 should be eligible for ijtehad?
 FAZL-UR-REHMAN: Ijtehad and Qayas are one and the same thing.
' ISHRATI: A law-maker must be of a satisfactory character.
                                                ARTICLE
                                             .. ' ■.'•/.                       . .
 SHAH MAHMOOD KHERAD:      Presented an article .entitled "The Evaluation of
 Legislation in Afghanistan." Recounting the causes of delay in the formulation of laws in Afghanistan, he stated:
                                                        *            ■        r
       "The privilege of law-making belongs to Amir Sher Ali Khan who for the first time constituted en assembly of 12 deputies entitled "State Assembly". These deputies were knowledgeable and sagacious persons capable of taking
                                               44
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 HlUMlldtlUlU                              ■ \ VOL.3 NO.4
 logical decisions in the affairs of the state. Then in 1865 he formed a 2,000 member loya jirgah and, at the same time, initiated military training on the basis of a charter of education. In the reign of Amir Abdul Rahman Khan, all judges and legal departments were answerable to the judicial organization called "Assas-ul-Quzzat" and the accountants were governed by the charter, called "Shahab-ul-Hessab". He also introduced regulations for the attendance of government employees- in their offices and also enacted Taxation and Revenue' Laws. During the reign of Amir Habibullah Khan, the scope was expanded and rules and regulations regarding education, transit, passport and wedding and mourning ceremonies were framed. Later Amanullah Khan took more effective measures in this field, and in 1919 convened the first legislature and in 1923 the first ever constitution was framed, which comprised 63 articles. King Mohammad Nader, too, adopted a new constitution and new rules and the Constitutional Decade Under Zaher Shah’s rule was, also a period of enforcement of laws.
      The writer also has mentioned the laws enacted in the Afghan Republic under Daoud Khan and the Khalq party.      "
                                             DISCUSSION
  ZERRXN KHAIL: Would the civic laws, mentioned by Mr. Kherad, be sufficient for the future Afghanistan or fresh steps are needed?
  FARHADI: The Gazette of Ordinances (Mujallat-ul-Ahkaam) issued by the Ottoman
  Empire, had a great positive impact on Afghanistan as in the reign of Amir Sher Ali Khan, Afghanistan had good relations with the Ottoman Empire. The penal code existed since the "Ziayeh" (Amir Abdul Rahman) period and the then judicial organization'called "Assass-ul-Quzzat" was a commendable step. We have collected all the legal codes of the reign of Amanullah Khan which were often translated from Turkish and have published the collection in a book titled '’Afghanistan During the last 50 years". "Tamassak-ul-Quzzat" is another comprehensive book on judiciary related to the period of Amanullah Khan. We ought to write, books on the Hanfai school of jurisprudence in Pashtu and Dari languages.
  SHAHAB: As regards legislation, the important point to remember is that we should not rest, contented with making forecasts but ought to write a short history of the legal issues. We can take advantage of the old law books and take some extracts from them.
  NAFEY: Mr. Kherad stated that with the advent of Islam, the people of Afghanistan accepted it. But it was not so. During the Caliphate of Hazrat Omar, may God bless his soul, Islam had influenced some parts of Afghanistan, but during the Caliphate of Hazrat Osman, may God bless his Soul, an uprising took plac.e and after the ensuing wars among different Muslim factions, Islam expanded in Afghanistan.
 KAMAL SHINWARI: in the reign of Habibullah Khan, the religious injunctions were in force and in the Shinwar area of. Nangarhar six persons were executed for murdering. Mr. Kherad stated that punishment for cutting off someone's ear was six years of imprisonment. It is not clear whether the King had ordered so or the judicial committee.
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MulUlllJtliW)                            -      VOL.3 N0.4
                                       .* •
 KHERAD: In response to Mr. Zerrin Khail's query that whether these laws suffice
 or not, it must be said that. if a> law is vconsonent with the Islamic spirit, it
 is good but if ; it is not so, then it ought to be ignored or revised. The
 previous rulers were not much serious in formulating codes of law, hence their
 laws Were in conformity with the attitude of tyranny and despotism.
       In reply to the questions of Ferhadi and Shahab I must say that my object is to present matters briefly and not to go into details. I agree with Nafey thdt Islam was not accepted without resistance but I had intentionally side tracked the issue because I did not deem it proper to make an issue out of this.’
       As regard Mr. Shinwari's remarks that the Islamic injunctions were enforced, it must be said that really the past rulers and the Kings were despots. Otherwise, execution does not mean enforcement of the divine commandments. The punishment for cutting off anyone's ear Was determined by the King himself and similarly . the past rulers and Kings issued decrees contradicting verdicts passed by the judges.1
                                               ARTICLE
 DE. ABDUL GHAFOOR RAVAN FARHADI:      "Universal  Declaration  of  Human Rights in
 Islam", an Arabic text issued by the World Muslim Congress on 19 September, 1981 was translated’into Dari by Dr. Farhadi.
       This declaration has a detailed preface and the salient points of its contents are:  (1) Right pf. Living (2) right of Freedom (3) right of equality
 (4) right of justice (5) right to a fair trial (6) right of immunity against aggression (7) right of immunity against torture (8) right for the preservation of one's good name and reputation (9) right to seek refuge (10) ‘right of minorities (11) right to participate in social life (12) right of freedom of speech, thought and belief (13) right of religious freedom (14) right of, preaching (15) Economic 'rights (16) right of protecting one's property (17) rights and duties of a worker (18) right to earn one's livelihood (19) right of forming a family (20) Women's rights (21) right. of education (22) right of privacy (23) right of freedom to travel and to have a shelter.
       All these rights have been minutely varified in the light of the original text of .the Holy Quran and the traditions and sayings of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him. . . ’
                                            DISCUSSION
 SHAHAB: The items presented by Dr. Farhadi are an important treatise and must be verified.
 SALJUKI: It is a very valuable text and it is an honor for the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance that in its first seminar it presented the draft of an Islamic Constitution and in this seminar it has submitted the draft of a declaration of human rights. Now Islam has come out of its defensive posture.
 The entire world is focusing its attention on Islam but still there are. people
 ' " ' \                                                  ..          ■ v ■
                                                 46
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 BfHIMIJHMB :                   -               VOL.3                      U0.4
 who raise objections against Islam and on the other hand, Islam has not yet been introduced in its true sense,
 ISHRATI:  Islam has   no need for defense.         Rather it ought to challenge                   all
 religions. In connection with   religious freedom  it must                       be said that if in a
 State someone resorts to a coup de'tat but fails   and is caught, he is summarily
 executed. Hence, accordingly, if someone turns atheist, which is in essence not short of a coup against the State, he should be executed.
 SHINWARI: This  declaration should be translated in international languages and
 the meanings of the verses      of the Holy Quran     and                         Ahadith ought to be
 accommodated in it. The subject whether a woman can demand divorce should be analyzed and explained.
 PAZL-UR-RAHMAN:  Reference to   the holy verse    of  the                         Quran: "There is no
 compulsion in religious matters" should not be made in this context.
 GHALEB:   Such cases  should be dealt with         on the                 basis of ; apostasy and not
 "prohibition of compulsion in religion". According to the Islamic precepts, migration has a different interpretation when one migrates from "Darul Harb" (the land of war or    therule of infidels) to Darul Islam  (the land of Islam)*,
 The tributaries (or   the minorities) have the same                      rights as the Muslims.  When
 'anyone goes from one country.to an Islamic country for temporary residence, or commercial transactions pr on diplomatic mission, he has certain obligations concerning the rights of other human beings but is quite free in regard to the divine rights.
 JOWHAR SIDDIQI: The point that a woman may request a court to grant her divorce, is not correct but falls under the category of separation. Hence the word 'separation* may be inserted in the text.
 MUMTAZ:*The Hanafi jurisprudence explains the injunctions of "separation".
 BABRAKZAI:  In  the past, scholars quoted French or the UN constitutions but
 fortunately now we have'such a treatise in Islam itself.
 FAZL-UR-RAHMAN: The husband has the right to divorce and the. wife has the right to ask for divorce.
 GHALEB: A woman can secure the delegation of the right of divorce at the time of, the wedding ceremony.
 KHERAD: Why should take ptide in a declaration which the UN has accepted about Islam?
 FARHADI: This declaration is not issued by the UN but has been drafted by the Islamic scholars in response to the' UN Charter and. it has been written by a board.of Islamic scholars.       ^
                                              ARTICLE
 MOHAMMAD ALAM FAIZ-ZAD:    In his  article under the title of "Development of
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 BMlItWID                                       VOL.3  N0.4
 Legislation in the Afghan Society", has studied of the          society, frbm the
 law-making angle, in three phases:
      (1) Pre-Islamic Era, (2) after the advent of Islam and under the influence of Islamic system, (3) the contemporary Islamic governments.
      The writer has thrown light on the laws and regulations of all these periods and the subject of present legislation in Afghanistan has been discussed. A list of a large number of .legal codes and conventions has been presented in this article.
                                             DISCUSSION
 HASHEMI: Mr. Faiz-zad has elaborated the process of legislation in three phases.- It is quite obvious that Islamic government means divine government. He has referred to Islamic governments existing close to our contemporary era but we have not seen any Islamic government in Afghanistan because the judges could not give a verdict without the permission of a commissioner, governor or the King. Therefore his statement should be corrected.
                •                 | .            t  ■ ' '
        .i                        I        %              ,               *
 FAZLI: Mr. Faiz-zad did not refer to two important laws i.e. the penal code and the civil code, whereas these laws have close connection with the lives of the people.
 ISHRATI: He said that in the pre-Islamic ere no codified law existed. But Avista,   Rigvida and stone inscriptions contained details of political
 institutions. In the pre-Afghanistan era (when Ahmad Shah Baba had not yet officially named this country as "Afghanistan"), the Afghans had codified laws
  and regulations. Lands without owners were not confiscated in the interest of the King but in the name of the King and by the royal order. The unclaimed lands were considered state lands or in other words the property of "Bait-ul-Maal." (Public Treasury).
  SHINWARI: The constitution includes many articles for the welfare of the people, so how can we say that the people were isolated from politics.
 MUMTAZ: Hearing of petitions does not come under the category of law code but it was a collection of instructions which did not last more than a'year. Similarly some.of the laws have not been mentioned.
  SHAHAB: The dates should be specified in the article because only referring to the periods or eras is not enough.
 ASHARI: Mr. Hashemi’s remarks are not correct on the whole. I served as a judge for eight years but I swear by God that nobody dictated me in the execution .of my duties. Actually the shortcomings were in the character of the persons concerned and not in the system.
 GHALBB:  I also think there was a great distance between the' system and the
 practice.
                                                  48

 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990             (UMBHIIdUlHU                        VOL.3 N0.4
 MONSEF:  Some  portions of  Mr.   Faiz-zad’s  article are not correct,' Hence the
 issues relating to general history ought to be deleted in it. Though Mr. Faiz-zad has condoned the previous governments, the communists emerged on the scene during the rule of the past governments. The spirit of the article should be in accordance with the standards of the Islamic movements.
 FAIZ-ZAD: We consider those governments .Islamic, although some circles do not agree.. But this cannot be the opinion of all the people of Afghanistan. Communism came just like a tidel wave. My writing is neither about law nor about the philosophy of law but the evalution of law.
 SALJUKI: No one should impose his views on others. This is not a forum for the imposition of views or ideologies but a platform for discussion.
 FAZL-UR-RAHMAN:  It   would be unjust to -cal*l the Zaher Shah government as an
 Islamic government because many laws of that regime were repugnant to the text of the Holy Quran.
                                                ARTICLE
 ABDUL MALEK JAWHAR SIDDIQI: "Basic Human Rights in the Course of History” was the title-. >of the article written by Siddiqi, in which he discussed human rights in four parts in the light of history. Western and socialist world’s sources of knowledge, the Islamic stance between the two contradictory Schools of thought and the Islamic viewpoint regarding the human rights.
  ' , . • - . • -                                             . . • -             >
      Discussing the evolution of law from the ancient Greece to the emergence of the communist society, he has described the position of Islam between the two contradictory western and communist schools of thought, in .these words:
      "From the point of view of Islam, the only means of rescue and deliverance
  - 7s-   *               '           \ *      ^                               ^
 for humanity is to give up the complicated ways and paths Created by mankind himself and follow the path of righteousness .... Instead of production targets (as observed in the socialist system) and profiteering, targets (as seen in the capitalist system), Islam has its own moral and noble aims and objectives *
      2.       The Islamic system is based on regulations which, besides providing guide-lines for state-graft, is enshrined in the conscience of every Muslim. The Islamic system guarantees the enforcement .of justice and the fulfilment of social needs. Orj the one.hand, it holds in esteem the wishes of the individual and on the other, if persuades the government to adopt certain measures for the social welfare but not abridge the proclaimed individual rights^
      3.       In the contemporary world, in the non-lslamic states, there- is a dividing line between the government and the common man, whereas in the Islamic system such lines do not exist at all and even if it may exist, it would be ephemeral lor imaginary, because here, the ruler and the ruled -have equal responsibilities and the whole purpose, is to provide to each member of the society the opportunity to worship his God in a peaceful and healthy atmosphere.
                            In conclusion, he discussed human rights from the Islamic point of view.
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 mCHMJMBB                                    VOL.3 WO.4
 SAYYBD  HAKIM KAMAL SHINWARI: His    article was entitled "Political Rights in
 Islam": "Keeping in view the distinctions made by the, Islamic jurisconsults in
 the field of law, the rights have been divided into two sectors; one is the private rights called the rights of man and is related to personal and individual matters, the other ; is the public or social right, related to the entire society. It is also called the divide rights which includes the political rights as well ••• Personal and individual rights are protected by individuals in such a way that the moment an individual's rights are threatened, he steps in to protect them ... The responsibility of protecting the political or public rights   lies on the shoulders of the • caliph or leader of the society ...  An
 Islamic society can prosper   only    under a good leadership... The leader is
 responsible to ensure justice for all the members of a society ... Man, from the moral point of view, has so much force and power that he can illuminate the entire   world like   the sun. Prom  the economic point of view, the Islamic
 countries are so rich and prosperous that the banks of the world are, full of their wealth ... Yet despite all these resources, Muslims have lost their identity at the international level because they lack unity and solidarity and have consequently lost their glory and dignity too.
                                           DISCUSSION
 SHAHAB: Mr.. Shinwari has described the rights of man and the divine rights as
 two different kinds of rights, whereas special rights are uniform. Public rights are only confined to penal issues.                       '
 FAZL-UR-RAHMAN: Propounding   Greek views without interpretation is not correct
 and the term chief justice has also not been used rightly. It would be better to use the term, chairman of the judges. Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq was ordained to lead the prayer congregations and not to assume Imammate (Leadership of Islam)* Then the writer of the article said that Caliphate is merely a dream and cannot be given a. practical shape. It would be better to present supporting arguments in this connection. ,
 KUSHKAKI: The commendation of the Islamic countries has been exaggerated.
 SHINWARI:Mr.Shahab has made a distinction between the civic rights and the special rights.I do not think.the meaning of such a distinction is that the period of caliphate is merely a dream. In response to Mr.Kushkaki I would like to say that God has given this privilege to the Islamic countries.
 BABRAKZAI: Mr. Siddiqi has called the election right as the society'.s right and Mr. Shinwari considers it the right of ahl-e-hal-wa-aqd (men of wisdom). It would be better if this point is clarified.
 SIDDIQI: "Abdoh" (Arab thinker) says that in our time, men of wisdom are those people who have been elected as members of parliament and are representing the people.
                                              ARTICLE
 MOHAMMAD KARIM MUJAHBD: The title of Mr. Mujahed’s article is "Jehad and Defense in Islam". He has stated that the term jehad has originated from the infinitive
                                                      SO
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
                                                                          VOL.3 N0.4
 '‘jehad” which means effort and, idiomatically, it encompasses the meaning of search, quest and exertion in such a way that there is no more any need for the term "defense",,. In the Holy Quran, the term jehad has been used for "effort". This term has been used more than. 30 times to mean fighting or battle and in all these conceptions the sense conveyed has been that of resistance against the enemy and use of all kinds of force in the battle.
      The Qurani commaandment that "fight for the cause of God with the devotion due to Him", is related to all kinds of jehad. Islam, with its eternal mission is universal and perpetual and ,jehad is a means for the support and preaching of its noble ideals in different times for the welfare of mankind. Today in the Islamic world, the Muslims of Afghanistan are more than anybody else aware of the importance of jehad and. have given a-practical proof of the impact of their faith and sacrifice for the sake of Allah clearly and ppenly.
                                         ' DISCUSSION
 NAFEY: It would have been better if Mr. Mujahed had not gone into the details of the literal' meaning of jehad. He should have thrown more light on the various kinds of jehad. The other point is that he believed in some, sort of difference between defense and jehad. What is the difference between defensive and an offensive jehad* in his opinion?
 SIDPIQI: Mr* Mujahed referred to a western writer who had expressed a very fair opinion about jehad and Islamic conquests. This, is not correct# because the orientalists do not possess a deep perception of Islam. This is an ideological issue and hence any Service to Islam would be satisfactory 4only if it is accompanied with faith and devotion to the religion. 1                 ..’ .
 KUSHKAKI: In the future society when' we desire a life in peace, Mr. Mujahed should have explained the future role and meaning jehad in such circumstances.
 SHAHAB:  The Khandaq and Badr jehads during the time of • Prohet Mohammad,
 peace be upon him, were defensive and not offensive.
 MUMTAZ:  Mr.' Mujahed has said that jehad has offensive nature rather than
 defensive, whereas in the holy Quran quoted by him it is basically defensive.
 SHINWARI: It is not correct to call the view of an orientalist fair and just. He should give another explanation for "Fidyah", and throw some light on undue killings,because we now face a precarious condition. ‘The disadvantages of in-fighting should be pointed out.
 KHERAD: Mr. Mujahed ought to have explained the conditions and phases of the jehad. He has referred to "Islamic jehad'? whereas jehad does not need to be qualified with the adjective "Islamic".                     .
 MUJAHED: In reply to Mr. Nafey's query, I would like to explain that jehad is
                     not another name for war only but covers persistent effort, too; On the other
                                             51
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHAN JEHAD                                 VOL.3 NO.4
 hand I have quoted the sayings of the Imams and have classified various types of jehad-. Even jehad by ’pen, according to the tradition and ' sayings of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, is a jehad. The main aim of jehad is protection of Islam. Therefore,it should n.ot be classified as defensive or Offensive.
     ) In response to Mr. S-iddiqi, I must say that if an orientalist approves of the Islamic ideology, hundred per cent, then in my view he is better than a Muslim who does not do so.
     ’■In relation to Mr, Kamal's remarks, I should state that I haVe not mentioned the partisan battles because my main object was jehad.
      In reply to Mr. Kherad, it may be pointed out that I have used the term "Islamic jehad" to emphasise the point. But explanation of the conditions and phases of jehad could not be accommodated within the framework of my article.
 GHALEB: The Islamic jehad aims at inviting others to the fold of Jslam. The
 reason is that Islam should expand throughout the world and in case of any. obstruction, jehad becomes necessary.
                                              ARTICLE
 .SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKIr "Freedom of thought and speech in the Islamic society" was. the title of the article written by Mr. Kushkaki,: stating 'that the principle of freedom of thought and speech originated from the Freedom of Will granted by God to human beings who has also been declared as His Vice-gerent on the earth.
      God has granted freedom of choice and opinion to man so that he may properly perform the duties assigned to him in this world. And in order to perform his duties properly, he has to have access to a free flow of information. The article scrutinizes the issue of enlightening the people about' world events in the light of the Quranic text and in the true perspective, and later focuses attention on the role of future press in Afghanistan.
      Keeping informed public to enable it to take the initiative to ensure their rights and fulfill their duties and obligations, is considered a religious and Islamic responsibility and this is regarded as one of the main aims of the press.
      The Islamic press, besides being obliged to keep the people informed regarding the main events affecting their lives, is dutybound to assume the responsibility of \ safeguarding the interests of the people and to stop anyone individual or group, even though in power, to violate public or individual rights. In fact, press in an Islamic state takes the form of an institution which performs the duty of guiding the people towards morality and prohibiting them from the way of life repugnant to Divine Laws, in a well-disciplined and organized and appealing manner.
      The writer of the article believes that'in the future Afgharn society, some important and prestigious newspapers and journals ought to be .established at a national level by individual and private enterprises. These newspapers, which
                                        52
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
                                                                          VOL.3 NO.4
 should be published on the basis of healthy competition, will circulate alongside with the local newspapers and magazines.
      As regards establishment of free and independent press, not attached with any organization or group, all-out efforts are required so that responsible members of the society, devoted to social service, may find ways and means of financing these papers and handing over their management to those who could fulfill the responsibilities of a press answerable to the people arid committed to the service of the society.
      About radio and television, the writer says:         "In  our  country, the
 broadcasting system and later the television station, h,as been always and completely under state control. The Afghan mujaheddin, during the course of the jehad, had very small, radio stations with very limited range of broadcasts at their disposal.
      "I do not think, Afghanistan will be capable of establishing private or • individual radio or television stations for many years to come, because on the one hand it requires huge investment and, on the other, a large number of technical and professional cadre and personnel for the supervision and minute control of the broadcasts and telecasts.
     , But in case these organizations are placed under the control of the authorities in power and should merely become the publicity organs of the ruling group, then it would amount to taking undue advantage of the public treasury and resorting to false propaganda and misleading the public opinion. If so, then we would never be able to establish a really .. Islamic society.
     "Therefore, in the regulations which will surely be enforced for the press, this principle should be clearly inserted that as radio and [television are financed by the public treasury, the government cannot censor and supervise its contents but its limits and scope should be determined by a board composed of the best cultural experts and scholars of the country, members of the government and;, representatives of the main walks of life in the society according to specially foreseen and clear guidelines for the sake of discouraging any probable violation of t^he freedom of radio and television broadcasts."
                                             DISCUSSION
 FAKHADI: Freedom of speech is a great right, from the Islamic point of view. If a Muslim is aware of a fact, he must not hide it.. Those engaged in the media
 activities are doing a good job. We should collect. Quranic verses and Ahadith supporting the freedom of speech. The press ought *to render valuable services for checking .corruption in the society. We should analyse the day-to-day developments from the Islamic angle so that none of us be unaware of >the daily events.                                                     -
   l ,       '       '  .                                           •
 GHALEB:  The Islamic government takes advantage of the press for promoting
 Islamic aims.
                     SHINWARI: Mr. Kushkaki said, if anyone tramples anyone's else rights, one should
                                             53
 .JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 MGHJINJIHilli                                  VOL.3 NO.4
 not remain silent. This would encourage rebellion. The Wording of the sentence should be changed. If there are no limits, how can the press be controlled?
 SHERZOEY: Mr. Kushkaki said that the administration resorts to force for its survival. Who else but the press can check this trend? For this purpose, the press should be completely free to be able to check against oppression.
 NAFEY: The people should be given the opportunity to demand their rights. Hazrat Omar Farooq, may allah bless him, has said: "We have no right to enslave anyone created free by God Almighty".
      Mr. Kushkaki said that in the advanced societies healthy press exists. If there is healthy press, it should exist in the Islamic countries. I • just'cannot understand how the press can be healthy in a society not followiong the commands of God. Western societies are not following the commands of God.
 MiTMTAZ: Mr. Kushkaki  has called the press the fourth   Estate of the society. But
 in Afghanistan, there  are only Three's Estates.Then how can the   press be called,
 the Fourth Estate?
 MOJAHED: Mr. Kushkaki*s article was interesting and he has evaluated the press from an Islamic angle. He has rightly remarked that       the press has not done due
 service to Islam. As   he has referred to the.Islamic    spirit, I propose that the
 holy verses of the Quran, dealing with the, topic may also be added in this context. As in 'Surah Noor         in relation to Afak    incident, God Almighty has
 blamed those who unconsciously spread rumours. Or in surah Hojarat there is a reference to a liar. In a Hadith it is declared that a liar always spreads the false news whenever he has heard it whereas one should communicate a news to others after* verification. The Islamic press ought, to be censored from this point of view. The religious minorities do not have the right to invite anyone to their places of worship or to preach anti-Islamic views inside these places of worship.
 MONSEF:  As regards  television, the question is whether showing of pictures on
 TV is permissible in Islam. If it is prohibited then TV is not permissible for us from the Shari'at point of view and should be deleted from the press or media category. The rest of the issues relating to ideology are correct, as stated by Mr. Kushkaki.                  .
 KUSHKAKI: Mr. Nafey said the Western press is not healthy. This is not correct. The Muslims should always benefit from others' experiences and learn the good points. In the Islamic cbuntries, freedom of thought and speech do not exist. Mr. Mumtaz asked about "The Fourth Estate". This terminology has been in vogue for a long time. The press is a separate force, de facto, but has no official
 status as such. As regards television and pictures, no consensus has yet been obtained on this’ subject. In my opinion, the format and style of television
 programs in the Islamic countries should be determined and specified by a joint committee of ulama and journalists. However, in relation to communication of ideas, the role of television cannot be ignored. To delete television completely would be a cruel judgement.
                                              54
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990              AFGHANJUiAU                           VOL.3  NO.4
                                             .ARTICLE
 MAWLAWI MAHMOOD DARSWAL:  In  his article entitled,"Family .System in Islam", he
 has thrown light on the description of family, importance of order and discipline in family, honesty in the conduct of family7 affairs,, necessity of the presence of an elderly person as the head of family and obedience to him, ways of family reconciliation and the modality of arbitration, love’ and affection among' family members and regard for each other's rights, love and affection with one's, offspring, love and good relations between husband and wife, a woman's attitude towards her spouse and vice versa, more rights for a mother than for a father, the rights of mother and father and observance of Islamic way of■life in family matters. Then he has briefly drawn a comparison between the family system in the Islamic and non-Islamic systems and has elaborated the Islamic angle regarding the women's rights, in these words:
      "...When the day of blessing dawiied on the world and the rcfdiant rays of the Holy Prophet's Shari'at enlightened the earth and the dark night of ignorance changed into a bright day and the light of Islam spread all' oyer, then gradually the rights of women crystalized and 'women began enjoying honor and dignity. They were held in esteem and they stood shoulder to shoulder with men for giving shape to human civilization and gained a great and respectable status in the society. They got the right of inheritance. A day was specified for them to -attend the congregations and to listen to the sermons of the Holy Prophet. Many women became scholars ancj academicians. They had the honor pf taking part in jehad. Besides, they were blessed-with various beneficial rights concerning marriage, divorce and alimony."             .    »
                                            DISCUSSION
 SIDDIQI: The writer of the article has briefly referred ;to socialist societies.
 I think it should be added in the article, these are the only socieities in which marriages of all kind of relatives take' place.
 MONSEF: What is meant  by the  expression that woman was given a place equal to
 man in human civilization?
 KHERAD: The right of education is a part of the basic rights of a society..
 Mawlawi Darswal did not mention anything about training.
 DARSWAL:  The expression of giving equal status to women, means restoration of
 their rights. Educating and bringing up of children is among their rights.'
                                             ARTICLE
 DR* ABDUL GHAFOOR RAVAN FARHADI: "Islam and5the International Relations" was the research subject of Dr. Farhadi, in which he compared domestic issues with the foreign affairs; studied foreign policy in the light of Islamic prebepts, mentioned the special responsibilities of the Islamic ummah, specific qualities of a Muslim in the international environment, a list of those verses of the Holy Quran related to foreign policy and international relations, significance of
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 HfMiftM                                      VOL.3 NO.4
 international and national commitments, the need for world peace for progress, the necessity of defense, different kinds^ of international relations, some particulars of the present world situation, the damages suffered by the Muslims, problems of Muslims in different countries, various attitudes and . inclinations of t&e .governments in Islamic countries, problems of solidarity among the Islamic nations and cast a glance at the future and also stressed the need for paying attention to world developments. In the end, he made the following proposal regarding.regional cooperation:'
      "Now the time has passed when a government - Islamic or un-Islamic -should ignore the regional economic cooperation and be under the wrong impression that it could feel contented merely with internal progress, international trade relations and acquiring technological assistance and would not.stand in need of regional cooperation. The model of the Western Europe makes it abandantly clear that various types of economic aids by the neighours> including "common market", is a ........ necessity for strengthening international relations. As regards
 Afghanistan, the possibility of economic cooperation with Iran and Pakistan such as it exists today between France and Germany in the framework of Common Market,
                                                  t     .              •  ■  -
 is an important necessity. Inspite of the fact already mentioned, Afghanistan should not directly or indirectly com$ under the political and military influance of any Islamic or non-Islamic neighbouring country and this will be a good policy not only for Afghanistan but also for all the neighbours.
      Dr. Farhadi said at the end of his article that the books written by Imam Ghazali,- such as Kimiya-e-Sa1adat, Nassihat-ul-Malook and Mersad-ulrEbad contain valuable material about internal and external policy.
                                            DISCUSSION
 NAFEY: The book Kimiya-e-Sa’adat contains unauthentic Ahadith. One should refer to Mr. Mowdoodi's Ahkam-us-Soltaneyeh,Tafsir-ul-Menar, etc.
 SIDDZQI: In connection with Dr. Ravan Farhadi’s article, it must be said that
 the English language book by Majeed Khodri was translated 30 years ago in Iran and has been published under the title "Jang Wa Solh Dar Islam" (War and Peace in Islam). Another book "Zdkhirat-ul-Molook" also contains some material on this subject. Our past scholars were mystics as well as statesmen.
 FAZL-UR-RAHMAN: Dr. Ravan has called some countries as "those which describe their policy as Islamic"' and some others "which have Islamic policies" and remarked that these should be differentiated from each other. But Islam means one single ummah and hence all of these countries should bxe categorized as a single ummah.
 SHAHAB: About the present changes in the world body-politic, this point may be added in the article that these changes are an offshoot of the Afghan jehad.
 PARHADI: In Russia, 'the Cherrtobel accident occurred and for forty years people will die there and neither the Soviets nor the Americans can do anything about it. . The interesting point to note is that the Chetnobel incident happened <27 Aprii, the day when the Russian backed communist regime was Established in
                                                      56
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 .HlUllHilJttlftU                             VOL.3 NO.4
 Afghanistan in 1978. In reply to Mawlawi .Fazl-ur-Rahman, Iraq's policy is Islamic in name only but Pakistan is Islamic in practice.
 MUJAHED: Dr. Rawan said that one united Islamic state cannot emerge. Why?
 FARHADI: The reason is that after the early Islamic period the number of Islamic countries is increasing manifold. s
                                              ARTICLE
 MAWLAWI FAZL-UR-RAHMAN: In his article "Ownership from the Islamic View Point",
 has conducted a minute research and, after writing its preface, has1 stated ways and means of illegal income in Islam. They are:       usury, gambling, stealing,
 usurping, hoarding, embezzlement and taking undue advantage of charity and Zakat funds. He has also elaborated ways and means of earning legitimate income which are cultivating the uncultivated lands, hunting, exploitation of underground natural resources, obtaining legitimate goods of public welfare, respect for ownership and rights of others and acquiring property and assets according to Islamic rules in the light of Quranic verses and'the traditions of the Holy Prophet. In conclusion, he has explained three factors constituting Islamic ownership in these words:
      "(a) Divine Right, (b) Right of the Ummah, (c) Individual Right. Islamic ownership has specific and clear characteristics compared with other systems and religions. For instance, in a capitalist system, private ownership is based on legal principles but public ownership exists in an exceptional manner and contrary to capitalist inclinations. On the contrary in a communist system, public ownership is considered legitimate and private ownership is considered repugnant to the governing -system. In an Islamic system, public and private ownership both are based on relevant legal principles and for each sector certain rules and regulations have been enacted, which if violated, would- invite penalization. Keeping in view this principle, so far the capitalist system represented by the Western world and the socialist and communist systems represented by the Eastern. Bloc, have not been able to achieve their cherished goal. The reason is that in Western countries, though public ownership is resented by the people, in certain cases they feel compelled to take advantage of this kind of ownership.. The Eastern Bloc too has consented to accept private ownership and some of the people in these countries have acquired their own assets and properties. Only the Islamic system has provided explicit and broad guidelines concerning economic policy as well as social, political and moral affairs, provided these guidelines are enforced accordingly.
                                            DISCUSSION
 GHALEB: The writer has presented interesting points.
 FAZALI: In connection with ownership, a chapter may be added about legitimate
 occupations and trades.
 NAFBY: Research and study, is required regarding bank interests.
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MMlH                                           VOL.3 NO.4
 SHAHAB:  I agree that legitimate ways and        means for legitimate income          and
 illegitimate ways ancl1 means for illegitimate  earning do exist hut I would         like
 to know whether spying or intelligence work, be it for the sake of Islam or anti-Islamic, is illegitimate? It should be differentiated.
 BABRAKZAI: What is the banking procedure from the Islamic point of view? Detailed discussion should take place regarding taking     money- from the public
 treasury and also about the production of narcotic drugs.                               ^
 FARHADI: Is spending money for elections, in conformity with the religious code or not? Islamic ownership and economy is the burning topic of the day. Many books have been written in English on this and, as such, the addition of these matters in the article or writing more books would be an act of cooperation with the economists.
 FAZL-UR-RAHMAN: The subject of banking is under consideration . and is being worked out on the level of the Islamic world. About theatre and cinema, I must say that its present shape is not Islamic         and ought to be improved by          the
 Islamic Government.
                                              ARTICLE
 MAWLAWX NIZAMUDDIN NAFEY:  His article was entitled ‘'Rights of Children and
 Orphans in Afghanistan" and included the following topics:
      Rights of children , description of a child, compassion towards children, rights of infants, saying "Azan" in the ear of the new-born, shaving the head1of the newborn baby, naming the infant, circumcision, period of sucking milk by the infant, educating and bringing up of the child, mode of discipline, period of adolescene, period of youth and marriage.
      Other topics were: orphans in Afghanistan, rights of the orphans fr<pm the point of view of the 1 Holy Quran and the Traditions of the Holy Prophet, how to educate and take care of orphans, orphans inside Afghanistan, refugee orphans outside Afghanistan, orphan children up to the agei of seven and those from seven to eighteen years and the widows.
      In relation to orphan assets 'in Afghanistan, he said the guardian should act - according to   the Islamic            jurisprudence. But in case   the orphan has no
 guardian, charitable organizations should, / perform the duty of a judge . and appoint a guardian to look after the assets of the orphan. The guardian should once in a while        state the              condition of the orphan concerned to these
 organizations on the basis of rules worked out by the charitable institutions as well as the report given by them. . He should also put the orphan's income at the disposal of the relevant institutions. Then th4se institutions are bound to spend the sum in a legitimate manner and as and when required, meet the expenses of these orphans      from their             own assets on the basis of minute and precise
 calculations. Guardianship of the orphans continues until              they reach the age
 fixed by Shari'at and then their assets are handed over to them according to the rules of the religious code. This system should continue till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and enforcement of law and order. Later
                                                        58
• JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AluHUNJlHflll                                  VOL.3 NO.4
  on it would be beneficial for'the Islamic government, too, to allow continuation of this arrangement under the supervision of these committees *
                                             DISCUSSION
                    ,              j, ’ . . .                        ^
  KUSHKAKI:       There is no problem as  regards •  educating male children. But in
  connection with the education of girls, unfortunately some of the religious scholars recently issued a verdict, saying that, in their view, it contravenes Shari*at and the Islamic Code of Laws. Therefore Mawlawi Nafey should discuss the subject of female education in detail.
  FARHADI:  Protection of the children's rights begins from the early period of
  their lives called the "Alaq". The onus of educating the female community falls on the shoulders of the Islamic government, which is also duty-bound to come to the rescue of the Muslim children as well as all the other children in the world to • enable     them to get rid of the  danger of narcotic drugs. The subject   of
  protecting the-right of the child and his/her right to live was mentioned in the 1958 Declaration of Children's Rights.
  FAZLI:  The literal translation of the term "Alaq" is coagulated blood. Hence
  this word has not been used properly in the case of a child. This description is defective and ought to be improved. In an Islamic society, a child acquires his/her rights from the time of his/her coming into being but has no obligations. Consequently the title should be changed into "the Rights of. children in Islam and the.Rights of the Orphans in Afghanistan."
  ISHRATI: I have also written an article on this topic which covers the artificial insemination, different aspects of a child's rights and the. significance of the reformatories. Mr. Nafey'>s article needs to be completed.
  BABRAKZAI:     The rights of the child  ought to  be studied from the viewpoint of
  parents, society and state. If parents not           attend to them, what would be
  the duty of the society and the state? This subject should be given legal coverage too.
  dAFEY: With regard to female education, I must say that this is an Islamic issue and everybody knows that girls and boys must get educated. However, the present condition® of education are not in conformity with ,Shari'at. If education is conducted according to Islamic regulations, there is no objection to it. A mother can bring up her children in accordance with true and logical Islamic precepts only when she is herself well-educated. The wife of Prophet Hafasa learned reading and writing from Shefa, daughter of Abdullah.
                                               ARTICLE
  BAHAUDDIN BAHA: The title of his article was "Commercial Rights". He described the commercial rights and surveyed the various types of trade and commerce. He also explained commercial documents, different kinds of commercial loans, business commitments, terms of insurance and values of commercial trade-marks. Concluding the article, the writer stated:
                                                      59
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 IlfGHilHJfMil                                   VOL.3 WO.4
       "The future, government of Afghanistan will be established according to the Divine will and aspiration of the entire Afghan nation. Religious scholars and jurists should seriously study the situation and, by making laws in. conformity with the requirements of the Islamic jurisprudence and Shari'at, should establish a commercial rights system conforming with the supreme interests of our impoverished society in such a way that it should be completely consonant with the principles of Islam and may fulfill the requirements of our society in relation with the transactions and dealings of the international common market and between the countries concerned in a fair and profitable manner."                                                     1
                                                ARTICLE
 SHAIKH MOHAMMAD ASEP MOHSANI: The title of his article was "Independence of Judiciary in Islam". He said that this title had two interpretations:
     The current interpretation in our time is that the three powers are separate from one another and do not interfere in each other's sphere of work. Even the chief executive, like the president or the prime minister, do not have judicial right. Only the law courts and the judiciary haVe the right of judgement.
       If independence of judiciary is interpretted in this manner, it must be stated that such an independence does not exist ip Islam because the ruler of an Islamic society can perform the duty of a judge and his judgement is enforceable. The Holy Prophet,'peace be upon him, and also the Righteous Caliphs sat in judgement and pronounced judgements ... There is no objection, from a logical and social angles, with regard to performance of justice by the ruler of an Islamic country and even any other officer or authority of the executive power, qualified for judicial responsibility, to pronorince judgement in,certain cases. But if an Islamic government, in view of pertain considerations, deprives all those qualified for judicial responsibility, of the right of justice and empowers a specified grpup of judges of the courts of law to function as, such, it would;be permissible. However; this special concession cannot be regarded as the original law of the Shari’at but the political arid subsidiary offshoot of the same, enforced, by the jurisconsult fof the sake of expediency.
        Iri case the independence of judiciary means that the judge, while issuing a verdict, should take into consideration only the fair rules of justice, and should ignore to other 'considerations or the recommendations of the authorities or be influenced by any fear or favor, then he can condemn even the first person of the state, according to the existing laws arid decide the case in favor of the opposite party, and even the head of the state cannot dismiss him. It must be., pointed out that Islam has given due importance to this sort of
 judicial independence. The Holy Quran contains three versek indicating clearly that anyone who doris not enforce or implement the Divine Laws, is an infidel and a tyrant. Our famous jurisconsults have been quoted as saying that a judge should observe equality and equity, towards both the rival parties even while greeting, responding to the greeting of the complainants, allowing them to sit down, looking at them, addressing them and pronouncing his judgement and in general attitude in the course of the legal process in the court. Islam is
 60
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MCHMIJiHflH                                  VOL.3 NO.4
 totally against exerting'any sort of influence on the judge and on Islamic head bf state has no right to interfere in his judgement in whatever way intended to filter, his decision.
                                            DISCUSSION
 NAFEY: What is your view about the.existing triplicate courts in Afghanistan? Is it based on the religious laws or not?                     /
 MOHSENI:  Violation of a well-qualified and experienced judge's verdict is not
 permissible. If the triple courts are ‘eliminated, perhaps injustice may multiply. It is quite possible that the Chief Justice may advise the magistrate or the primary court judge not to issue a decree but to state only a legal opinion so that his verdict may not be contradicted and justice may be ensured.
 MUMTAZ: The question is whether the Chief Justice can deal with all the problems and whether the plaintiff and the defendant can appear before the Chief Justice or not?
 MOHSENI: He should give his verdict about minor issues, too. It is possible that the case may be referred to the court of appeal. Therefore more powers should be delegated to the Court of Appeal.                                 '   '
                                              ARTICLE
 MOHAMMAD SIDDIQ RASHED SALJUKI:    "Qualifications of a judge from the Islamic
 Viewpoint" was the title of his article. After .explaining the Quranic verses dealing with the qualification of a qazi (judge), he stated: "A judge should be a Muslim, just and mature. For enforcing -the law of retaliation, the judge should be male. A judge ought to be wise, experienced, seasoned, man of principles, honest, man of character and seriousness and dignified. The bopks "Bahr-ur-Raeq", "Hindiyah" and other similar books on this subject, relate that justice is one of the most important achievements of the Muslims. Therefore anyone who has a good reputation,- is held in esteem in the society, is considered very honorable and has a majestic and dignified personality, should be appointed as a judge. Similarly a judge must have a sound knowledge of the Islamic jurisprudence, aware of the rules of the law courts, should be able to issue a verdict based,on the Islamic jurisprudence and regulations of, the courts of law. It may however be pointed out that the court procedures have certain conditions, e.g, to distinguish between the criminal and law-abiding individual, to specify a fixed time for hearing the arguments of the rival parties, disallowing waste of time and determining the right time to issue the'verdict, etc... The judge should assess the case in the right perspective. That is why it is not permissible to appoint a minor, a simpleton, a blind or a deaf or a man hard of hearing as a judge ... A judge should never accept any piresent from anyone of the contending parties and should never accept the invitation to dinner or lunch etc. from any one of the litigant parties. On the other hand, he Can accept the public invitations of those persons who have no litigation but it would be preferrable for him to avoid frequent participation in such occasions. He should see to it that in the private or personal invitations, none of his subordinates should participate because such get-togethers are the breeding
 ,              ■ I           . . • "          <          *                 -
                                        61
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHAN JIHAD                                   VOL.3 NO.4
 ground for calumnies and rumors ... A judge should not do anything which may cause suspicion e.g. inviting one of the litigants to his house, nodding or beckoning or pointing to someone, whispering to one of the litigants or speaking to him in a language which the others inay not understand.
                                              DISCUSSIONS
 MOHSENI:  In the article, it is stated that a judge need not be a scholar but he
 should be just. How is it possible?
                                       ( ■ -SALJUKI:  A judge is authorized to issue a verdict based on the knowledge and
                                                                w*
 guidance of the ulema.
 MOHSENI:  .One who follows a certain school of thought can pronounce' judgement.
 But a judge must be a scholar, though he may not have attained the status of an ■ improvisator in religious jurisprudence.
 SALJUKI: The academic qualifications have not been clarified.
 MAWLAWI MANSOOR:   A judge  must be  knowledgeable of  the matter  in dispute. But
 some of the jurisconsults consider "ijtehad" (competence in improvisation of religious jurisprudence) a necessary condition whereas others do not.
 MUMTA7,: Mr. Saljuki said that the complainant has to provide a clear proof and the defendant or the one who rejects the claim, has to take an oath. Why the complainant has to take an oath with regard to a case of pre-emption (Shofeh) whereas anyone who has killed an adultress has also to take an oath. Mr. Saljuki said that the litigant should try to ensure justice within the declared time-limit, otherwise it will be a futile exercise. However the Islamic jurisprudence allows extra time for presenting a witness?
 FARHADI: If we indulge in hair-splitting minute discussion about the qualities of a judge and particularly that of a magistrate, I think we will make the confusion worse confounded.
 KUSHKAK1: I would like to know as to how can we solve the difficulties of training an efficient and honest cadre of judges in the future Afghanistan?
’ ASEMMUJADDEDI: The Afghan nation cannot ignore the qualifications, ordained by Islam, for a judge. Therefore,, people with firm belief and commitment should be trained and new principles be adopted for this purpose and a judge must be a scholar.
 SALJUKI: Mr. Kushkaki’s proposal is valuable.
                                       ARTICLE
 MOHAMMAD MOOSA ASHARI: His article was entitled "Development of Legislation in Afghanistann". The writer divided it into three parts: (1) the pre-Islamic era, (2) the post-Islamic era and (3) the era following the restoration of
       ♦ : .
                                          62
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990_______ AfGHANJIHAD                     VOL.3 NO.4
 wmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmrnmmmmmmm
 independence in Afghanistan. As some other articles were also quoted in this article, he deemed it essential to express his observations about the past judicial . processes in Afghanistan as well as the future of judiciary in the new Afghanistan. He/said:
      "We, should seriously try to find out the future shape of the judicial system in Afghanistan and see what sources would be suitable for our judiciary. Afghanistan, being a part of the, international society, should not. be in isolation and this is what Islam has ordained* Keeping in view the exigencies of the contemporary world, we ought to deliberate upon the future judicial system in Afghanistan. In this connection it Would be necessary to study other judicial systems and to refer to a number of schools .of thought, and to select one doctrine out of all these. According to the injunctions of the Islamic jurisprudence, a judge should not violate his own decree because it would set a
 bad precedence   and he would lose his credibility. The verdict of a judge is
 higher than the law. A law can be amended but the verdict of a judge can be amended only When strong arguments are presented. For instance a verdict might have been issued on the basis pf a forged document, and then after the forgery is exposed, the verdict may be revised but by the same judge. A judge should be a scholar but not a religious scholar. A commission ought to be formed to formulate the future judicial system of Afghanistan. The future judicial system in Afghanistan should be better than its past system. An example of the past, is as follows: One judge named Mohammad Ayub,studied such a case that the papers
 and documents concerned filled three sacks and he went through all of them. After this, he wrote down his verdict in more than one thousand pages. He felt .
 so much stress   and strain, going through  this file, that after completing the
 mission, he became insane.
                                       DISCUSSION
 KUSHKAKI: The subject of training a pious and God-fearing cadre of judges for
 the future Afghanistan should be considered.
 NOHSENI: We should train such a cadre of judges which may not accept any bribe And should not be merciless•
 ASHARI: I am compiling my views regarding the future modality of judiciary in
 Afghanistan. I think that a powerful judicial cadre ought to exist in our country which is customary in the world. A judge can perform his duty in a positive manner only when he is knowledgeable about the. subject. The judicial investigator'' should once a year go through the verdicts of the judges, either minutely or in a cursary manner.
 ASSEM MUJADDBD: Mr.' Ashari spoke.about the practical aspects of judiciary but in case the leadership is not on the right track, the judge too would be misled. What sort of a society we should bring into existence? What kind of a judicial system should be established in Afghanistan, with the fear of God instilled into the minds of the people?
 ASHARI: Piety means dignity, immunity and blessing. The present establishment
                                             63
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 HffiHflHJIHflB                                 VOL.3 WO.4
 ought /to be completed and training' should start to change the form of the system.
 GHALEB:  In all systems judiciary should be neutral. The main difficulty of
 Afghanistan in future would be the fact that ail the people are affiliated with different parties and under the circumstances how can we succeed in making the judiciary neutral?
 ASHARI:  These parties are functioning till now as Islamic and jehad
 organizations .and not as political bodies. They do not claim to run the government but anyhow the judges must be objective.
 ISHRATX: As usually observed, the National Assembly takes a stand against the judges whereas only the judges are not at fault, but the police and gendarmerie and other law-enforcing agencies, too, are to blame.,The ratio of responsibility on the judge is only 5% and the others are 95% responsible1for allthe default. We can issue a fair and just verdict only when the relevant files are maintained' fairly and honestly from the very early stages. We should reinforce our faith in Islam and this requires sound education and, capable and qualified teachers. Social affairs ar.e linked with each other like a long chain and so long as all the aspects are not improved, the performance of the judges cannot improve. When we establish an Islamic society, the judges should also be just and fair. .
 MUZAMMEL: This issue is actually linked with the environment. If the Quranic
 laws and commandments are enforced, nobody will suffer injustice. As regards the education and training of a judge, the important ■ factor is to provide a "model1'.
 ASEEL:  States  in  judicial  system have been recognized on the national and
 international.level. The three stages of law courts in the future Afghanistan is deemed essential.
 ISHARI:  On the one hand, there is positive judgement and on the other, is a
 positive judge. If. right persons are at the helm of affairs, they should always keep in mind the significance of security and must always investigate matters thoroughly. The police force and the gendarmerie' should be in good shape and efficient and the rules and regulations ought to be correct And precise.
                                               ARTICLE
 HABXBULLAH GHALEB: His article was titled "Crime and Punishment from the Islamic Point of View":  "Religious injunctions have been framed in such a manner as to
 regulate mutual bonds between the people, to protect public and private interests and to ensure justice and stop violation of others' rights. These can be called the principal commandments. Therefore, these orders are obligatory and all members of the society are obliged to obey them. However all the people usually do not act according to the religious commands and prohibitions unless an enforcing and deterrent agency exists in' order to make the people follow the path selected by the social /system and to guard against deviatiohs. Otherwise, the system loses its genuine essence and resembles a code of commands and prohibitions and guide-lines which is not followed by the majority except a few
                                            64
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flfGHflNJtHilD                                   VOU.3  NO.4
 persons. Consequently, the required results, as envisaged by the system, are not obtained. These measures, deterrants and enforcing forces are called 'Zavajer' and 'Moyyedah' in the terminology of the Islamic jurisprudence, which aim at supporting the original commands. Accordingly the "Zavajer" serve as gendermarie fdr enforcing the laws in the country and are generally divided into two categories viz. persuasive and,penalizing.                                   ,
      Later, the writer explained different kinds of the persuasive and penalizing laws, varieties of crime, terms and conditions for defense and application of rules and regulations in the field of crime, from the Islamic angle.
                                              DISCUSSION
 ASHARI:   In the-  Islamic penal code, guidance and warning are cpmplementary to
 each other. We should regard the contemporary legal sources indebted to Islam which influenced the Wes*t via Spain.
 i,                                                        ’         .....         ' .
 FARHADI:  In^the  USA, the 50 states have 50 penal codes. Some of the states do
 not have any execution law or death sentence, but in these states a criminal is sentenced upto 230 years of imprisonment. Some other states pass the sentence of death and implement it. 'The Zionists use the sentence of amputating the hands as' a propaganda material against Islam and the Western viewpoint is the same. Tn Saudi Arabia* the sentence of amputaition of hands has rarely been passed.
 MOHSENI:   The, Quranic ^erse relating to retaliation (Qassas) and its
 implementation does not apply to each and every misdeed. For example if a man commits adultery with another's wife;, the aggrieved has no right to commit adultery with the former's wife.
 MUMTAZ:  Negligence  on the part of a functionery is in itself a crime and has
 been prohibited. A functionary is appointed for the allowed and permissible deeds, too. As regards pardoning a crime, why it should be pardoned? In case a minor commits a crime, does the guardian have the right to request for pardon? When a lunatic kills someone, he has to pay the "Diat" (blood-money), hence a minor cannot escape penal action.
 ISHRATI: If Mr. Ghaleb had quoted the views of some of the ;sociologists, it would have been good. In certain cases the accused may be mentally ill. That is why imprisonment in a reformatory has come into existence, because it is quite possible that the crime might have been committed under moral and material pressures.
 KHERAD: Mr. Ghaleb. said that punishment is determined on the basis of the harms-inflicted. In case. an individual's dual act does not harm the society as a whole, then according to ,the above principle, he should not be punished. For instance, is eating pork a so’cial crime or an individual one?
 GHALEB:  In reply to Mr. Mohseni, I must say that detailed commandments and
          general rules have been laid down in the light of general text of the Holy
                                            65
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 Quran. The retaliatory punishment is limited to five sectors and is not applicable in every case. Different cases have different punishments and sentences.
      Responding <to the criticism of Mr. Mumtaz, I would like to point out £hat sometimes an order is issued for permission and sometimes for prohibition. The age of a minor is determined on the basis of rules and regulations. Here the term functionary is applied to an officer who ensures the implementation of the permissible. The right of retaliation basically rests with the aggrieved and if the aggrieved dies, this right belongs to his/her inheritors. But when the aggrieved is disabled, i.e. insane or minor without any possessions or assets, his/her guardian or attorney has the obligation to defend his/her rights, if he/she is insane, then there is no need for defense' as he/she gets the benefit of doubt. In the same way if such a person commits a crime, then because of his/her physical incapacity and disability, the law of retaliation lapses on the basis of doubt, but the financial compensation or payment of blood-money ("diat") remains in force. Similarly the insane person is sent to the reformatory but is not liable to penal action. All these conditions are kept in view in the penal laws.                                                           *
                                                                        9
      With reference to Mr. Kherad's question, an individual .is a part of the society and when he harms himself, it is just like committing a crime against others.
 IVSEEL: In Egypt, it was proposed that the term "penitentiary" should be replaced with "reformatory". Later this was also changed and the term "Reception Center" was introduced, instead.
 SHEIKH MOHAMMAD ASSEF MOHSENI:   In his extempore speech on judiciary, he said:
 "The difference between an Islamic and an un-Islamic government is that in an Islamic government, Islamic laws are enforced. But if Islamic laws are not enforced, then irrespective of the fact whether the leader or the head of that country be a .Muslim, that government cannot be called Islamic. The Holy Quran is the key to all the problems and contains rules and regulations for many problems. Whatever may not be traceable in the text of the Quran, can be determined on     the basis of consultation among    the jurisconsults. The future
 Consultative Assembly will not in any way have the competence of the  Legislative
 Assembly. We    must  have a Legislative Body. Parallel to the Consultative
 Assembly, we should have an assembly of the high ranking religious scholars. For the judiciary, such a high class cadre must be formed which should have been trained in an atmosphere of piety and scholarly learning. The texts of the old jurisprudence should be a standard and a model for the Legislative Assembly. In Afghanistan Fiqh-e-Ja'fari courts should also be established and the laws of Ja'fari jurisprudence ought to be included in the law of the land in order to ensure national unity. The followers of Fiqh-e-Ja’fari. should have the right'to be prosecuted according to the laws of their own sect.
                                             DISCUSSION
 SHAHAB:  I do    not agree with this’ remark of      Mr.- Mohsani that an Islamic
                                          66
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfjiHJINJtHflD                                VOL.3 NO.4
 government did not exist in Afghanistan. .The fact is that the source of laws in this /land were the books on Islamic jurisprudence. In my view, the judges' training should include religious teaching because merely rules and regulations cannot stop a judge from going astray who can argue, if they so desire, that .even their wrong decisions are based on law.
                                               ARTICLE
 FAZL-E-MENALLAH FAZLI:  His  article focused on "Penal Laws in Islam" and after
 describing righteousness vis-a-vis wordly predicaments, he said: "The structure of society rests on five principles or rules, which are called the "Pentagonal Generalities" in the terminology of contemporary jurisprudence. These are belief, reasoning, life, honor and property. Each one of these basic principles, if disrupted due to the commission of a crime, causes dilapidation and weakness of the society in proportion to the consequences of the crime ... All kinds of punishment, according to the Islamic Code of Law, aim at eliminating corruption and supporting the Pentagoned Generalities. All rules and regulations agree to the necessity of supporting these principles. The various types of punishments based on the above cited five-point principles are as follows:
 1.   Safeguarding the religion and belief, such as the punishment for apostasy, atheism and deviation.
 2.   Safeguarding life and self-respect, such as the law of retaliation and all its subsidiary regulations.
 3.   Protection of property, such as the punishment for theft and other crimes related to money.
 4.   Safeguarding honor and progeny, such as the punishment for adultery a.nd
      perjury.                                 '
 5.   Protecting mentalNfacuity, such as the punishment for drinking wine.
      The caliph or the Islamic ruler and/or his deputy is responsible for executing these punishments and observing the said rules and supporting them.
      He had thrown light on various kinds of punishments and has discussed their various types and degrees.
                                             DISCUSSION
 ISHRATI: Mr.  Fazli  has referred to some of the religions like the Jewish and
 Christian religions and called them non-Islamic religions, which is not a correct interpretation.
 FAZL-UR-RAHMAN: This article has not discussed the important problems in depth and the style of its writing is merely journalistic.
 FAZLI:  Mr.  Ishrati's  criticism is correct and hence I will make the necessary
 correction in my writing.
                                                                                   6^7
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990               AFGHANJEHAQ                           VOL.3 NO.4
                                              ARTICLE
GENERAL MOHAMMAD AYUB ASEEL:The title of his article was "Police and Security in the Islamic government". It discussed the history of police establishment and revealed that documents in Egypt prove the existence of police, three thousand' years ago, in that country.” in the primary stages of Islam, the police administration was known as "Al-Assass". They had provided a research on the history of contemporary police in Afghanistan. The police academy was established in 1936 in Kabul, but, after the Russian invasion, the previous police establishment was abolished and instead the spies of the KGB filled the vacuum.
     In the future Islamic government in Afghanistan, the police should perform the following duties to ensure security:
     protecting the administrative machinery and the rights of the citizens according to the rules of law.
  -  protecting the individual and the society against any threat to their lives, physical health and financial status.
     forestalling disruption of pubic law and order and taking effective legal steps against crime.                                              ,
  -  safeguarding the integrity of the Islamic government of Afghanistan.
  -  surveillance and protection of the territorial borders and maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the borders for strengthening the national sovereignty.
     discovering and investigating crimes according to the rules.
     adopting measures for performance of traffic control duties as well as extinguishing fires.
  -  implementation of the decrees of the courts to the rules of law.
     ensuring safe deposit of the goods discovered and returning them to their original owners.
  -  protecting unclaimed evacuee property till the issuance of final orders by a competent court.
                 ,                            I
  -  . protecting the- property and possessions of the persons, whose freedom has
     been violated according to the law of the land and who, have no means to jprotect their assets.
  -  safeguarding the government treasury and protecting them during transfer.
  -  arresting the culprits and keeping the prisoners in the lock-up and
                                                                 68
                                                                  /
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990            MCHWlJfHWI                          VOL.3 NO.4
      safeguarding them during transfer from one place to another.
      cooperating with all government departments in order to implement the legal
      orders.            .
      cooperating with the departments concerned in case of any accident.
           - stopping the import of smuggled goods and any illegal transaction,of goods
      under government monopoly.
      and last but not/ least, fighting against narcotics.in an effective manner
      •••
      The police should keep in mind that any step for ensuring maintenance of law and order would be considered legal only when it is subject to the following conditions:
      (a)  When it is legal,
      (b)  When it is fair,
      (c)  When it is necessary.
                                              ARTICLE
 MOHAMMAD OMAR BABRAKZAI:   In his article on "Criminology and Judiciary", he
 stated that a judge, while dealing with a legal case, comes across such criminals who firstly consider the law of defense as their legitimate right and secondly these criminals resort to various kinds of excuses and pretexts in order to get rid of the law enforcing agencies and to mislead the judge. Sometimes they deny the incident and sometimes produce witnesses and arguments proving their ignorance. On the other hand such criminals commit the crime in isolation and hence it is difficult to find witnesses of the crime. Besides, it is ordained that the court verdict should be precisely according to the text of the laws and based on strong legal arguments and moreover the accused should not be forced and compelled to admit his guilt. Fortunately the criminologists and the expert of the relevant sciences have achieved some successes in connection with the detection of .criminal facts, determining the identity of the accused and producing positive documents in the court of law, which have been the dream of the judges for centuries. The modern science of criminalistics removes the mask covering the faces of the criminals.                              (
      Later, he has thrown light on the formula and science of examining blood stains, finger prints and the experiments of medico-legal specialists and has explained their scientific, basic and undeniable role in tracing the accused.
                                              ARTICLE
 MOHAMMAD ZAMAN MOZAMMEL: His article was entitled "Islam and the Natural Human Rights" in which the writer compared it with the UN Declaration of Human Rights and discussed the relationship between Islam and the natural rights, Islam for the world, and man and human rights from the Islamic view point and later
                                                 69
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 HfGHflHJIHilll ________________________ VOL.3 N0.4
      safeguarding them during transfer from one place to another.
      cooperating with all government departments in order to implement the legal
      orders.
      cooperating with the departments concerned in case of any accident.
           - stopping the import of smuggled goods and any illegal transaction.of goods
      under government monopoly.
      and last but not least* fighting against narcotics in an effective manner
      • • •
      The police should keep in mind that any step for ensuring maintenance of law and order would be considered legal only when it is subject to the following conditions:
      (a)  When  it is legal,
      (b)  When  it is fair,
      (c)  When  it is necessary.
                                               ARTICLE
MOHAMMAD OMAR BABRAKZAI: In his article on "Criminology and Judiciary", he stated that a judge, while dealing with a legal case, comes across such criminals who firstly consider the law of defense as their legitimate right and secondly these criminals resort to various kinds of excuses and pretexts in order to get rid of the law enforcing agencies and to mislead the judge. Sometimes they deny the incident and sometimes produce witnesses and arguments proving their ignorance. On the other hand such criminals commit the crime in isolation and hence it is difficult to find witnesses of the crime. Besides, it is ordained that the court verdict should be precisely according to the text of the laws and based bn strong legal arguments and moreover the accused should not be forced and compelled to admit his guilt. Fortunately the criminologists and the expert of the relevant sciences have achieved some successes in connection with the detection of criminal facts, determining the identity of the accused and producing positive documents in the court of law, which have been the dream of the judges for centuries. The modern science of criminalistics removes the mask covering the faces of the criminals.
      Later, he has thrown light on the formula and science of examining blood stains, finger prints and the experiments of medico-legal specialists and has explained their scientific, basic and undeniable role in tracing the accused.
                                               ARTICLE
MOHAMMAD ZAMAM MOZAMMEL: His article was entitled "Islam and the Natural Human Rights" in which the writer compared it with the UN Declaration of Human Rights and discussed the relationship between Islam and the natural rights, Islam for the world, and man and human rights from the Islamic view point and later
                                                     69
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 wfiMMIJUMP .                             VOL.3 WO.4
 elaborated the right to live, human freedom, freedom of thought and speech, freedom of residence, political freedom, freedom of the right of ownership, human dignity, immunity and justice arid fairplay and equality, in a comparative style. Writing about the human freedoms through the historical perspective, . he concluded with these remarks:
      "Leaving aside the above-mentioned historical record, we see that in the contemporary history, the subject of human rights, even after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in this regard, has not been able to break the idol of the unilateral human judgement. They study man and human judgement, under the influence of their European unconscious thinking and for this reason they have a different angle of assessment regarding the existing and current problems in the world in relation to the prevailing conditions, individuals and nations. When the aggressor has signed political and military agreements with the victimised nations, then it has to face their allegations and blames. That is why the American and the Russian stand against the issues of Bangladesh and Israel, and the like, seem to be having double standards. They desire the one to be free and independant and the other to be silent and to suffer bondage. Even though these are historical events, yet from the angle of the human rights, such incidents of alignment and non-alignment between nations, can very well expose and reveal the advantages and disadvantages of the legal systems and their contradictions in the real life and in the framework of the legal system".
                                  REPORTAGE AND CONCLUSION
      At the end, Mr. Habibullah Rafi, the correspondent of the AFGHAN JEHAD magazine, compiling a reportage of the Seminar, drew a general conclusion, with the following remarks. (EDITOR'S NOTE:     The text of the official report was
 published in the previous issue of the AFGHAN JEHAD).
      This seminar provided relatively comprehensive and complete general knowledge about justice, judiciary and sources of judicial system and in the context of the subject under disc&sson, its performance was satisfactory. There were few digressions in its discussions. Lengthy and detailed articles were summarized and short articles were precise" and to the point. The prevailing academic atmosphere and the sentiments of sincerity during discussions and academic . argumentatiohs, enhanced the attraction and charm of the seminar. Generally speaking, the articles and the relevant discussions in the seminar, left behind such a vast wealth of knowledge that can help for the foundations of a strong, healthy, fair, practical and logical judicial system being laid for the future Islamic Afghanistan.
                                      May God grant: us success."
 NAMES OF MEMBERS: The following are the Names of the Participants of the Seminar:
•1. Abdul Ahad Ashrati, ex-Legislative Member, Ministry of Justice,
 2.   Shah MahmoodKherad,ex-Member of the Secretarial Section, Justic Ministry, now Director, Academy of Knowledge, Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan,
 3.   Abdul Ghafoor Rawan Farhadi, ex-Afghan Ambassador to Paris, now Professor at Berkley University, California, USA,
70
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 WIlllANJIHAD                                    VOL.3 NO.4
 4.   Mohammad Alam Faizzad, ex-Deputy in the National Assembly now residing in Islamabad,
 5.   Abdul Malek Johar Siddi,qi, ex-Chief Judge of the Kabul Courts now residing in Pakistan
 6.   Sayyed Hakeem Kamal Shinwari, ex-President of the • Relgious Endowment Authority, now President of the Administration, AIG Ministry of Haj and Endowment,
 7.   Mohammad Karim Mujahed, ex-Director, Secretarial and Judicial Affairs . Section, Justice Ministry, now, Director of Compilation and Translation of the AIG Ministry of Information,
 8.   Sabahuddin Kushkaki, ex-minister of Information and Culture, now Founding Member, the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance,
 9.   Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal, ex- Member of the Directorate of Religious Institutions, Education Ministry, at present, member of the Cultural Council of Afghan Resistance,
 10.  Dr.Fazl-ur-Rahman, ex-Instructor at the Najm-u'l-Madaress Religious Institution now Professor of Religious Laws, King Faisal University, Islamabad.,
 11.  Mawlawi Nazamuddin Nafey,. ex-Instructor, Religious Institution of Madressa Jam'e Herat,now member of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance,
 12.  Bahauddin Baha, ex-President of Commercial Tribunal affiliated to the Supreme Court, now Legal Counsellor, NLFA,
 13.  Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni, Leader of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan,
 14.  Mohammad Siddiq Rashed Saljuki, ex-director of the Islamic Department of the Office ,of Compilation and Translation, Education Ministry now Founding Member of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance,
 15.  Mohammad Moosa Ashari, ex-Supreme Court Justice and Chief Judge of the Commercial Tribunal now residing in the US,
 16.  Habibullah Ghaleb, ex-Legislative Member, Justice Ministry now Founder Member, the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance and President of Legislative Department, AIG Ministry of Justice.
 17.  Fazle Menallah-e-Fazli, ex-Editor, Payam-e-Haq Magazine, now Adviser to AIG
      Interior Ministry.                   *
 18.  General Mohammad Ayub Aseel, Specialist in Criminology now Chairman of Cultural Committee, NLFA.
 19.  Mohammad Omar Babrakzai, ex-President of the Personnel Department, Supreme Court, now Member of the Executive Council, NLFA.
 20.  Mohammad Zaman Mozammel, Member of Executive Committee and Head of the
                                              71
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AftlHANJEHAD                                            VOL.3 NO.4
  AFGHAN UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS ISSUE POLICY GUIDELINES ON
  HIGHER EDUCATION
 EDITOR'S NOTE:  The following is the text of the resolution
 ■'I adopted by the Seminar of the Association of Professors of the Universities of Afghanistan on the revival of higher education.

HtStt)


                    IH THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
      The Association of Professors of the Universities, held its second seminar oh the revival of the higher education in Afghanistan, 1-4 August, 1990, in the Saidu Sharif town of Swat of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan,           »
      Thirty four ex-professors of the Kabul and Nangarhar universities and the Peshawar based University of Dawat Wa Jehad and the Institute of Diplomacy, participated in the seminar.
      In the light of their past experiences and the requirements of an Islamic order in Afghanistan, the participants discussed the tragic conditions, which have prevailed in the field of education in Afghanistan, after the establishment of the communist regime and Soviet aggression.
      In the.general session of the seminar, attended by all participants, issues-of teachers, students, teaching material and facilities, academic curriculum,-educational planning and policy, were intensively discussed respectively in five meetings,   and the professors    in all   specific instances   offered necessary
 proposals  and  comments. Five   working  groups were also     formed to better
 coordinate views arid proposals of the seminar. Each group began to evoluate its respective issues and presented the result of their work to the general session on the third and fourth days of the seminar. They were approved unanimously. The following are the texts of these reports.
                                               72
  JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfGHflHJfHIlD ___________________ V0L,3 N0<4
  1.ISSUES RELATED TO TEACHERS: Like the other noble, Muslim and patriotic
  people of Afghanistan, teachers of the Afghan universities, were also martyred, imprisoned or forced to flee the country, after the disgraceful communist coup and consequently they were deprived of teaching the children of, the natipn and to raise their own educational standard. The following measures are proposed as first step in order to revive and improve the working conditions and restore the dignity of teachers at present and in the future.
       Contacts should be established with the Education Ministry of the AIG and other educational and training institutions „to employ teachers in their professional fields.
  -   Por refreshing the knowledge and raising professional standards of the teachers, assistance of foreign organizations should be sought, through the AIG.
  -   With the permission of the AIG Ministry of Education and cooperation of professors, with higher educational standards and experience teachers not absorbed yet .by the jehad universities, the Association should establish a committee to help these teachers prepare academic papers to qualify them for their academic promotion.
       A-New manual for the future universities of Afghanistan should be worked out with th6 joint cooperation of the jehad universities and the Association of Professors.
  -   For admitting new teachers to academic cadres, it is proposed that conditions for admitting new teachers should be based on former rules and regulations, taking in view a revision of these rules in accordance with the changes that have taken place.
     B- Fluency in ‘ a Foreign Language, ‘must be required for being admitted to academic cadres.
  -   Affiliation with the universities of friendly countries should be revived to strengthen and enhance academic expertize of the teachers.
  -   It is being proposed that specific measures should be adopted for raising the academic standards of the teachers in their leisure time.
  -   Measures for Compilation of text books for the future universities should be adopted immediately. Contribution of foreign professors should be sought in this regard as far as possible, because text books even in the fields of science have become obsolete in Kabul.
       It will be too late, if such measures are resorted to after the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     Obligatory teaching-hours should be eliminated so teachers may truely achieve specialization in their respective fields (stet).
       2 - ISSUE RELATED TO STUDENTS:
       In order to demolish the negative impacts of the communist domination on
                                                73
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MUHJtHilD _____________________________ VOL.3 NO.4 1
the cultural life of students# it is proposed that:     ^
-   Contingency plans should be implemented for students who# due to Joining this
    jehad# resorting to migration or any          other unavoidable reasons# have
    discontinued their studies in Afghanistan, so they may resume their studies either in migration or after the establishment of an Islamic government in the country.
-   To retain the academic standard of the universities all candidates to the universities have to undergo the entrance exams without exception#
    Specified courses and classes should be       set up for those youth who have
    completed their education in non-tslamic countries# after return to the country and applying to the universities# so they may acquire sufficient degree of knowledge about their Islamic and national culturei
    Students who graduated from schools in Afghanistan and later migrated# and want to continue their studies in the jehad universities# should be admitted to preparatory classes on history of            Islam and all other religious
    subjects and national culture.
-   All political activities of the -students should be prohibited on the campus# so as they may be able to continue their studies with peace of mind.
                                                                  b /
-   Text books# teaching material# equipment    and other facilities required for
    proper education of the students# must be provided.
-   In addition to providing education for       the handicap, an adequate salary
    should be provided to them.
-   Because during the Russian occupation and rule of their communist henchmen the economy of Afghan families# particularly of the rural people# was inflicted with great losses# hording facilities should be provided to as many students as possible.
          3 - TEACHING MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENTS:
      The university is an academic institution and provides to the society specialists in different fields. This institution# on the one hand# imparts the existing specialized sciences to the present generation and# on the other# adds to the reservoir of professional knowledge and know how. These two targets can be achieved by teaching and research. A major way f^r achieving these objectives is to have teachers# libraries# laboratories and research and publishing centers.
                        «
-   TEACHERS: Proposals have already been made in this connection.
-   LIBRARY: As it is already hinted# one of the duties of the.university is the imparting of specialized knowledge to the young generation. For the Success of teachers in accomplishing this task# all published works in different fields# such as books, journals and magazines should be provided by the Central Library of, the university# from abroad. For example# for this
                                           74
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990____________flfGHflNJtHflD                     VOL.3 NO.4
     purpose# the Central Library and specialized libraries of various colleges, used to provide the specialized books# based on their financial resources and assistance from their affiliated foreign universities# and made them available to the specialists. However, in recent years# after the establishment of the communist regime# due to budget restraints# the termination of affiliations and ‘other aid giving sources# supply of fresh books and magazines was disrupted and# due to a lack of care# a number of books particularly manuscripts were lost. Thus# the library failed to provide to the teachers new and fresh scientific works and consequently the level of the knowledge of teachers remained confined to old books and their own books. This resulted in monopoly of scientific works and a usurpation of the monopoly. The Russian aggression# particularly their cultural aggression# deteriorated the conditions of libraries of the university. Works# having Islamic and national themes and published in non-communist countries# at variance with the aims of the regime# were either burned out or dumped in storages. And instead# communist literature flooded libraries of the university. In order to remedy the situation# the following measures are being proposed:                              1
     Serious attention should be given to provide specialized journals for the Central Library and specialized libraries, of colleges.
     Photocopying machines and microfilm apparatus should be provided for teachers'and students for using limited and rare books.
      LABORATORIES AND FIELDS OF PRACTICAL WORKS:
     Up-to-date general and specialized encyclopaedias and dictionaries should be provided.                  '
     Books and journals for teachers in Peshawar should be collected by the Association of Professors.      „
      LABORATORIES AND PRACTICAL WORK:
      For raising the academic standard of teachers and for imparting knowledge to students# work in laboratory and in the field is necessary. Hence, for this purpose# in all colleges of natural sciences# with the help of institutions having affiliation agreements with Afghan institutions of higher learning well-equiped laboratories and necessary material for laboratories had been provided. In the colleges of social science, particularly in language departments, special laboratories were provided. In addition to laboratories, agricultural and animal farms and a zoo, were utilized for practical and field work by the colleges. Cooperation by a number of colleges with similar institutions had been established in the fields of practical work. During the communist rule over the university# assistance offered by institutions having affiliation, with the Afghan institutions of higher learning was generally terminated and laboratories ceased their activities# due to the breakage of spare parts and a dirth of necessary material. Laboratory work in this period was confined to only experiments for. exhibition purposes. Lack of teachers who would be able to operate properly has further halted the work of these labs, in
                                             75
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfGHAHJtHflfl                                 VOL.3  W0.4
 order to revive the activities of laboratories and field work; the following is proposed:      .  .
 a.  Repairing the old equipment how available in the laboratories or furnishing new equipment.
 b.  Providing more machinery and chemical material needed.
 c.  Training young technicians for using/ maintaining and repairing labgratory . equipment.
 d.  Reviving and extending student activities outside the university to receive
      the job training.             \
 e.  Creating affiliation and cooperation between university colleges and government departments to enable both sides to use each others' equipment and have access to each others 1,experiences.
          4  - THE CENTER FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH:
      As mentioned* before, the university in addition to imparting specialized knowledge, has an active role in increasing the amount of knowledge acquired by teachers as well. This participation by 'teachers can be realized by research activities. For example the university teachers were able to implement a number of research projects in agriculture, animal husbandry, medicine, pharmacy, engineering, geology, geography, anthropology and language.'
      However, with the! communist aggression on the academic domains of the university, scientific research lost its nature and value; Because conditions for research require security and peace of mind in the. library, laboratory, and the campus on the whole which during this period was completely violated. The establishment of the Academy of Sciences also damaged the independence and research activities of the university. Financial resources and observation of scientific activities mainly was given to the Academy of Sciences. Although on the surface a number of projects were approved and work began in this respect, this was only aimed at tricking the public opinion. For reviving the research activities, the following measures are being proposed:
 a. Establishment of research committees in the center as well as in the colleges of the university.
 b.  Taking measures for acquainting young teachers >with the principles and methods of scientific research and making use of computers.
 c.  Paving the ground for scientific research by the: university cadres inside and outside the country.
 d. , Attracting Afghan and foreign institutions to provide research services.
 e.  -Making the. government to realize the importance of scientific research in the reconstruction of the country and providing enough budget for the center of scientific research.
 f.  Providing computers for analysing the results.
       5 - PUBLICITY CENTER:
      The procurement of academic writings and execution of research activities could be realized only when the way is paved for publishing them and making them available to all those concerned. It was for the realization of this need that
                                             76
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MMIJtHflD                                   VOL.3 WO.4
 publicity and publication departments were established in the colleges as. well as in the center of university.
      In these departments lectures, notes, supplementary books, magazines and phamphlets were published. The unrest in the 60's on the one hand and the start of Russian cultural imperialism on the other hand not only prevented the development and extension of the activities of the publication departments, but the situation further deteriorated. During the communist domination; over academic a'ffairs of the universities the normal publication of academic writings was halted and all printing facilities were put at the disposal of party committees. The publications during this period consisted of propaganda material, communist text book, translation of Russian books or adoption of Tadjeck material. For non-communist teachers there were no incentive to provide academic books. Despite an upsurge in the publication of communist writings, neither new machinery nor more material was provided. As a result of this, printing machinery either became worn out as a result of too much pressure and material used for printing also was exhausted as store houses did not receive new material and equipment. The breakdown of printing facilities and lack of printing material on the one hand and the indifference of communist administration specially after the withdrawal of Soviet troops on the other confronted the publication works of the university with confusion. For the revival and extension of publication work the following measures are being proposed:
                     ;         7         .         *      '
 a.  The Printing machinery should be re-equipped.
 b.  A central well equipped printing house should be provided.
 c. The colleges should De provided with typing machines, duplicating and photocopy equipment as well as printing material.
 d.  Publication committees should be established in the colleges as well as in the center of the university.
 e.  Translation, compilation and authoring of new material should start so that the present needs of the colleges and country are eliminated as far as scientific and specialized material is concerned.
 f.  Unemployed teachers should be specially hired through the establishment of a magazine by the Association of the . Teachers of the Universities of Afghanistan.
      6  - CURRICULUM:
      Improvement and development of educational and studying systems which are to be in accordance with the wishes of our mujahed nation require a thorough revision of all related fields and there is a need of fair changes and amendments and its successful execution is dependent on specific and single policy and program throughout Afghanistan. As the curriculum of the universities qf Afghanistan is a Continuation of the curriculum of schools, for bringing about necessary changes in the curriculum of the former, first of all one should pay attention to a revision of school curriculum.                     '
 A. SCHOOL CURRICULUM
 a.  Teaching of Islamic culture - history of Islam, history of the Afghanistan
77
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AICHANJtHAO                                  VOL.3 NO.4
    jehad, history of Islamic movements, Islamic philosophy should be included in the school curriculum.
b.  As Arabic language is an integral part of Islamic culture and a complement of our national languages (Dari and Pashtu), it should be taught during school years. English should also be taught as an important international scientific language throughout schools of Afghanistan for meeting the present and future needs of scientific centers, (exception should be made in this respect in schools where, in accordance with the requirements of agreements with friendly governments, international languages are being taught). >
c.  The new school curriculum, contrary to previous times, should have practical and functional value and should be conducted with the aid of audio-visual facilities and laboratories.
d.  In the future curriculum, the number of subjects taught should be reduced and the teaching of subjects should be aimed at enabling the students to use their studies in their day-to-day work. Unlike the past we should see that despite years of school,. students do not remain practically illiterate, and specially language should be taught as a means for social life and not as a subject of ethics and culture.
e.  As it is being observed in the educational system of the refugee life and jehad, a great deal of pressure both from quantitative and qualitative point of view is being put on the students in schools. Therefore, for eliminating this problem it is necessary that the educational authorities revise the curriculum for the sake of better teaching of the students.
    B - UNIVERSITY CURRICULUM:
a.  The new curriculum of the universities of Afghanistan should answer and address the needs of our Islamic country.
b.  Teaching of Islamic culture and geography and history of modern Afghanistan should be a part of the curriculumof universities.
c.  The teaching of English language should be compulsory at the university but it should not be repetition of programs taught in schools as it were the case in the past. Rather, specialized languages in all disciplines of knowledge in the college should be taught.
d.  In regard to the construction and equipment of laboratories for conducting practical work by students and research by teachers/special programs are to be included in the curriculum.
e.  For improving the knowledge level of the university graduates, writing of monographs or conducting seminars should be required as a condition for receiving diploma.
f. The computer science should be included in the curriculum of the universities as a separate language.
g.  Subjects and disciplines void of scientific or theoratical aspects, should be specially enriched with scientific material and elements.
      7- POLICY AND PLANNING:
1. Policy: The revival of higher education of the country requires the laying down of a specific policy and planning. In issuing an educational policy for the future of the country the following principles are being proposed:
                                                 78
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfGHANJlHAD                                    VOL.3 NO.4
     a. The educational policy should be in accordance with the dictates of the religion of Islam and the values of the Islamic Afghan society so that the required cadres for the construction and development•of our country in the future are honest, patriotic and equipped with- modern and up-to-date knowledge.
     b.  In tjhe educational policy, attention should be paid to eliminating the past cultural gaps and insufficiencies, specially those due to communist administrative period. This policy rshould be specially aimed at eliminating the negative impacts of communizm and orienting higher education towards the defense of beliefs related to an Islamic society.
     c.  The educational policy should have coordination with reconstruction and development policies of the country and should pave the way for utilizing today's technology in all economic and social fields.
     d.  The educational policy in the country should convert the universities and ot^ier institutions of higher learning to healthy centers of knowledge and avoid the wasting of the time of the students in futile political unrest and guarantee for the teachers' academic freedom for the sake of development of knowledge.
     e.  Educational policy should prevent all kinds of trends resulting in not recognizing oneself, following alien ideology and ethical corruption of the youth and the path should be closed for the penetration of alien culture and ideology damaging td the healthy mental and intellectual maturity of the students and to national unity and interests. For this purpose the education and propagation of Islamic principles and Afghanistanology,, which ought to be a manifestation of our national price, are required.
     f.  Higher education policy should be aimed at repealing all the rules and
     regulations enforced during the domination of communists:           rules  and
     regulations which were only aimed at consolidating communist views and were part of the Sovietization of education. The voluntary entrance in educational institutions and cadres should be based on fair academic standards, academic ability and Islamic and national piety. Therefore, entrance examinations * for the students -and rules and regulations related to academic cadres for the teachers should be revived in-a better manner.
     g.  In the educational policy of the future of the country research should have a special place and decisions in this respect should be adopted on
     the basis of academic and practical standards.
 2. PLANNING: The future educational planning in the country should be based on educational policy requirements and needs of the country and overall policy of the future state. This plan would be, God willing, drafted and implemented in the future.


79
                   $
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL-3 NO.4
SUDANESE SCHOLAR ASSAILS AFGHAN LEADERS FOR FAILURE TO UNITE

<rCfl
EDITOR’S NOTE: The, following is the text of a speech by Dr. Abdul Rahman Mohammad Saeed 9 prominent Sudanese scholar and statesman» on the consequences of Afghan jehad delivered in Peshawar and reported by the correspondent of AFGHAN JEHAD.
xjl

 *
 x
iaa<^«fc«iCK3«aeii
                                         INAUGURAL SPEECH
    i                            .
      Dr. Mohibullah Wahdati, Director of the Islamic Center for Dawat and Culture, in his inaugural speech about the center said, "the Islamic Center for Dawat and Culture^ established by the Afghans, is not related to any specific group or office and does- not solicit funds from a specific domestic or foreign institution. It is financed by membership fees and unconditional contributions. It has at present a library and offer English and Arabic courses. The Center plans to offer Pashtu and Dari language courses for foreigners and engineering, tailoring and computer courses for the Afghans.
      He said that -the keynote speaker at this function was Prof.Dr.Abdul Rahman Mohammad Saeed,prominent political figure and scholar of Islamic movement from Sudan. He has spent a long time serving the Afghans and was formerly the President of the Islamic Academy of Knowledge in Peshawar and recently served as the Director General of Islamic Tanseeq and has been recently appointed as the Sudanese, Ambassador in Nigeria. He has studied Afghanistan in depth.
                                      DR. SAEED'S SPEECH
      The Afghan jehad was so powerful and fruitful that the entire world benefitted from it and the only people who have not benefitted from this jehad are the Afghans themselves .. . The Afghans achieved military victory but in the political field they have failed and, for disguising this failure, the mujaheddins' present leadership has been resorting to 1 disputes .... The Afghan jehad has not began recently but has been continuing for thousands and hundreds of years. The Afghans have.always.rendered sacrifices for the dissemination and defense of Islam. It were the Ghaznavis,the Ghoris and the Duranis under Ahmad Shah Durani who propagated Islam to the Sub-Continent ... The British, who for the first time tried to invade Afghanistan during the 19th century, were inflicted with such a defeat that from its army of 20,000 strong only one
 person was able to reach Jalalabad from Kabul ... The British then for the second and third time also met such defeats in the hands of the Afghans but they stopped entering Afghanistan any more, because they were afraid of the
                                                80
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 Afghans ... When, the Russians invaded Afghanistan in 1979, the entire people of the world thought that Afghanistan will 'become just another country under Soviet occupation. All thought that Afghanistan will become the seventh Muslim Republic under Soviet occupation. Even I was under such an impression. At that time a leader of an Arab country told a mujaheddin leader:     "do you really intend to
 fight the Russians?" The Afghan leader said, "Yes". The Arab leader said, "You must be crazy." The Russian too were of the opinion that the Afghan mujaheddin will not. be able to resist them even for one day. All this was due to -the fact that the Soviet Union had 20 times more population than Afghanistan and at the same time was equipped with heavy and modern arms ... However the British, who knew about the Afghan faith and determination, told the Russians in the beginning, of their aggression that they will meet- the same kind of defeat that the British had ' met as a result of their aggression ... And this was true because the Russians were inflicted with such a defeat in Afghanistan that the Soviet soldiers who fought the war in Afghanistan were having bad dreams at night after their return to their country and many of them either became insane or addicted to drugs. This war demoralized the Soviet soldiers to such an extents that during the war they were ready to bribe 2,000 - 3,000 rubles their officers asking them not to send them to the war fronts iri Afghanistan. When an officer wanted to threaten a soldier/'he would tell, him that he would be sent to a place from where he would not return and by this he meant Afghanistan ... The Afghan war awoke the Central Asian Republics of the Soviet Union; it shoke the East European countries' and .encouraged them ... When I was in Prague in 19 6 8 ,, I saw that the Russians landed about 200 tanks in the Prague Airport and with these tabks, they occupied Czechoslovakia ... However, while at about the same time when the Afghan jehad was beginning, in Poland the Solidarity was being formed arid the people of Poland were afraid of Soviet retaliation. But the Afghan resistance heartened the Poles and they too resisted and finally succeeded ... The Afghan victory and success surprized western scholars and writers because they said, that Afghanistan as a 'backward country had' been able to de-feat, a super power. They did nolb know the Afghanistan which existed before King Abdul Rahman Khan. But we know that Afghanistan was converted to Islam during the reign of the Third Caliph of Isl;am and a brave Islamic people are living in this country ... If the Russians were to continue their occupation
 of Afghanistan/they would have needed two million soldiers in. this country and since they were npt able to recruit such an army, they ran away and the Afghans succeeded ... I once again repeat that the benefit of the Afghan, jehad has reached the entire world but the Afghans themselves have been deprived of its benefit ... The Afghans are now facing a great trial. If they fail to unite they will face a difficult question from Almighty God and if they do not unite, everything will be ruined ... We hope that:Afghanistan will achieve its freedom and will for;m a great state in the Islamic world ..."
      One of the participants asked Dr. Saee,d how the Afghans should achieve unity? Dr. Saeed said/^if Eng. Hekmatyar and, Prof. Rabbani reconcile withv each other, all the problems will be solved. You should tell them and pressure them to unite. They should not only reconcile in Peshawar but their reconciliation should penetrate inside the country within thair ranks. The mujaheddin following Hekmatyar and those following Ahmad Shah Masood should not fight each other and this is the way for achieving unity.
| JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 fllullftN Jlllflll VOL-3NO-4
AFGH AN EXPERTS INTERVIEWED ON
 Large Decline in Production
         EDITOR'S NOTE:  Agriculture in Afghanistan has been specially
         inflicted with great lossesIn the past about 80% of our population was absorbed by this sector and agriculture formed the major part of our production. Therefore in the process of the reconstruction of the country, agriculture has to receive special priority. The following is the summary of interviews with a number of Afghan specialists on the subject. They are:
           (1) Dr. Azam Gill, former Professor of Agriculture at. Kabul University, presently Chief of the Survey Projects of Afghanistan Agriculture in Swedish Committeet (2) Shamsuddin Esmati, agricultural specialist currently Agricultural Chief of the Save Children of the United States, (3) Abdul Baqi Afzali agricultural specialist currently Chief of the Agricultural Projects of DACAR (Denish assistance program for the Afghan refugees), (4) Prof. Dr. Abdul Qahhar Sarnia former Professor of Kabul University currently Advisor with the Agricultural Committee of Austria, (5) Meer Mohammad Ayub agricultural specialist currently Monitoring Chief of VITA.
 QUESTION: What .was the status of agriculture# irrigation and animal husbandry in Afghanistan before the Soviet invasion? Had our production reached the level of self-sufficiency?
 ANSWERS:
 DR. AZAM GUL: Up to 1978 about 85% of the people lived in the countryside and were mainly involved in agriculture. About 7,6 million hectares or 12% of the
                                                         82
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MWJUMP                                         VOL.3 NO.4
country was cultivable of which 1.4 was rainfed and 5.2 million irrigated. Of the area developed for irrigation, only about half was annually cultivated and water sufficient for double cropping was available for about (a fourth) 1,4 million hectares. irrigated land provided the country with 77% of all wheat and 85% of all food and industrial crops. Wheat, maize, barley and rice were the most important staple crops. Industrial crops were mainly cotton, sugar-beets, oil seeds, fruits and vegetables.
      The livestock industry was also important. The flock of ordinary sheep, karakul sheep and goats was an estimated 25 million before the war. Cattle, estimated at 3.6 million, were mainly for draught, milk and meat. Camals, horses and donkeys, in all about 2 million, were the main means of transport in the difficult terrain.
      The development of agriculture in Afghanistan up to 1978 was impressive and was! evidenced by the decline and elimination of imports of its most important crop, wheat. For decades up to 1973, annual imports averaged over 115,000 tons. By 1974 it was self-sufficient. This was in parallel with exports of other commoditises which in 1978 were:    cotton 34,000 tons worth US $     55 million;
fruits, $106 million, hides and spins and other agricultural exports $61 million— a total of $222 million. This was more than twice as much as non-agricultural exports, estimated at $92 million in the same year. Meanwhile, the percentage share of agricultural imports compared to total imports was falling and had been 24% in 1975 and 15 in 1978.
                 ' '                     . • v   _
MBER MOHAMMAD AYUB: By the end of 1971 one could witness a great' deal of dynamism and progress in the agricultural sector in Afghanistan and the reason for this was the application of a number of short-term projects in this field through grants from the Asian Development Bank, the World Bank, the United
Nations and assistance offered by friendly countries.These projects included the production and extension of improved seeds, production and distribution of chemical fertilizers, improvement and multiplication of animals, veternary
services, vaccination, research and agricultural extension.
      The irrigation project which were' undertaken in northern and western Afghanistan included the Gawargan, Char Darah, Kunduz-Khanabad and Harirud.
      We had already embarked on the utilization of our investment in both agriculture and animal husbandry and large quantity of improved seeds and chemical fertilizers were being distributed among the farmers throughout the country. We were successfully combating animal and plant diseases and programs were being successfully implemented for increasing animal stocks such as the karakul sheep, and cows for milking as well as animal insemination and fighting animal diseases.
      Fruit production in the country was on the increase and our farmers were successfully extending their orchards and fighting with modern means and
medication the plant diseases.
      For instance, in 1977/78, wheat harvests estimated 2,813,000 tons which was an accepted level of self-sufficiency. Similarly, during these years, an
                                                       83
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flfGUANlIMMI                                  VOL.3 NO.4
 increase took place in the production of corn, rice, cotton, sugar beet and fruits and on the ground or the implementation of the development plans until 1971, expanded the drought of 1972-73, resulted in a shortage of fodfer and elimination of 4 large number of live-stock,
                   % „ '
      A 1971 statistics gave the number of sheep at 14,963,080 Karakul sheep at 4,691,890 and cows 3,599520.
      With the implementation of the development plans of livestock breeding and veterinary services, animal mortality was lowered and the number of livestock increased. However, reaching to the level of 1971, was not easy.
      Had this trend continued we could achieve spectacular developments,
 ESMATI: Afghanistan is a developing and landlocked country, in the heart of Asia which had before the 1978 communist coup achieved some developments in the agricultural sector, irrigation and animal husbendary through assistance by advanced nations, the World Bank and Asian Development Bank, a number of irrigational and agricultural projects were undertaken in some parts of the country. Some of these projects were completed and. some remained under construction.
      Before the Russian invasion, 6-7 million hectares of land or 12% of the total area of the country, was under cultivation, of which 104 million hectares of land was for dry cropping and 2-5 millions irrigable. From the 2-5 million hectares of irrigable land, approximately half was cultivated annually as water was insufficient for the entire area. Before the April, 1978 coup, remarkable achievements were made       in irrigation and agriqulture.        The following
 irrigational projects had been completed.                            ’
      1.       The Helmand and Arghandab project, 2. The Band-e-Sardeh project (first phase), 3. The Nangarhar Canal project, 4. The Parwan project and, 5. The Paktia project.
      Projects under construction until the April coup, included.
      1.       Kunduz-Khanabad project, 2. Gawargan and Chardarah project, 3. Kokcha project, 4. Kamal Khan Dam project in Nimroz, 5. Nahr-e-Lashkari project, in Nimroz, 6. Salma Dam project in Herat.
      The state of agriculture was quite well before the Russian invasion and data indicated that major agricultural projects could meet 85-90% of the need of the population of the country and we were reaching the self-sufficiency level, and were it not for the Russian aggression, Afghanistan would have begun to export wheat.
 AFZALI: The state of agriculture, animal husbandry and irrigation before the Soviet aggression vras good. Agricultural production was enhanced, due to' an access to improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Water resources were being utilized and the country had reached almost the level of self-sufficiency in food production. Similarly, animal husbandry was on the growth. Setting, up of
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfGHAttJ[HAD
 animal clinics, stations for animal insemination, protection and treatement of cattle against chronic diseases encouraged animal husbandry.
 SAMIR: At that time the status of agriculture and animal husbandry was relatively good in Afghanistan. The country had reached the level of self-sufficiency in wheat. This was due to the appropriate use of the improved seeds, fertilizers, improved irrigational systems and control of plant diseases. Yet, agricultural products were imported. Natural resource (land and water) had not been properly utilized. Research and basic systematic extension were essential for the growth and development of agriculture in Afghanistan.
 QUESTIOR: Can you give an assessment of the destruction which has taken place in the field of agriculture, irrigation and animal husbandry as a result of the establishment of the communist regime and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan?
 ANSWERS:
 DR. AZAM GfJL: The effect of war on agriculture is substantial. Yield figures given by the farmers show a large decline; 3 3% for irrigated wheat and 50% for rainfed wheat between 1978 and 1986; and the area cultivated by individual farmers has declined by 30%. On these two accounts alone the survey conducted by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan indicated that toal agricultural production in 1986 fell to about 45% of its 1978 level. There was an increase in yield levels in 1987 which increased production to about 53% of the 1978 level. This increase was probably attributed to good rainfall as well as reduced levels of attacks on agriculture.
              )
      The decline, apart from the direct effects of war,appeared to be due:(l) a reduction in family and hired labour availability so that the use of family labor by farmers still in Afghanistan fell by 19.5% and hired labor by 19%, while for farmers who left in 1987 the figures were 44% and 29%. (2) The number of' draught oxen owned by the farm families has fallen by 40%.    (3) The genetic
 potential of wheat seed has declined substantially. (4) The proportion of farmer using urea fertilizer has declined to 53% from 57%.
      There has also been a decline in livestock numbers. The decline in the number of sheep and goats was about 65%. The decline in the numbers of horses, donkeys and/or mules has been about 45% and 6% respectively
      The .direct effects of war on agriculture reached a peak in 1985. In 1985 about 60% of farmers had their villages bombed. The destruction of irrigation systems were about 30%. About 27% of the farmers reported their investock to
 have been shot. In addition to animals shot 6% of farmers who left in 1,987 were losing 5 heads a year due to mines. In 1987 22% of farmers still experienced bombing of villages, 12% had their irrigation system destroyed, 6% had their livestock shot. Three percent had their grain stores destroyed, down from 13% in 1985.
 MEER MOHAMMAD AYUB: With the establishment of the corrupt communist system and later, the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, all aspects of life faced
                                                                           VOL.3 no.4
                                             85
 UULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 WClflNJ[HAD                                   VOL.3 NO.4
 destruction. Experienced and skills human resources and experts fled to foreign countries. Non-professional and inexperienced people were appointed in high positions. The livestock project of Herat, the fishing project of Darunta, the dairy project of Baghlan and the Bagrami chicken raising project, collapsed completely or partially. A great deal had been achieved in some other projects, such as production and extension of improved seeds, agricultural extension, production and distribution of fertilizer, agricultural research, animal husbandry, veterinary services and building of irrigational networks. Under the pretext of land reform, the communists took away the land from their owners and gave it to the landless. Blit the result was that neither the original nor the new owner cultivated the land and this resulted in a drastic reduction in the level of production of agricultural commodities.
      The Russia army did nothing but destroyed wherever it went in Afghanistan. They destroyed bridges, canals, dams and roads. More than sixty per cent of small irrigational canals were destroyed. They burned the ready harvest of the farmers by firing special missiles.
      Chemical fertilizer .and improved seeds were not made available to the farmers on time, services for livestock were no longer available in any part of Afghanistan and therefore a large number of livestock were either inflicted with deseases or died and a large number also was killed due to lack of fodder, the
 existing of mines and air raids. The real objective was to force the people'to starvation so they may succumb to communist rule.
 AFZALX:  With the establishment of communist government in our country,
 agriculture was inflicted with great deal of losses, For instance the communist plan in regard to > land reform resulted in hostility among the farmers and owners of      the           land,   improved seeds gradually disappeared and chemical
 fertilizers and insecticides were no longer available for the farming community. A large number of livestock were destroyed also due to Russian indiscriminate bombardments. Trees and orchards were purposely eliminated. Also all the irrigational networks were severely damaged as a result of Soviet and Kabul communist government air raids and bombardments. Agricultural officials and farmers both fled the country and therefore large tracts of agricultural land were not cultivated,
 ESMATIt As a result               of Russian invasion, agriculture, animal husbandry and
 irrigation in Afghanistan received major setback. In the first place all major land owners migrated from Afghanistan and later smaller land.owners did the same. As a result the land could not be cultivated and whatever was cultivated was systematically destroyed by the Russians and their communist agents and large tracts of .land were also destroyed as Russian tanks and vehicles overran them.In Afghanistan irrigational projects consist of three parts: The first are diversion dams and ordinary dams. The second f are streams and canals and the third are the karez and springs. Generally speaking all the irrigational networksbut specially the first and second categories were destroyed as a result of bombings    and           being overrun by tanks and other vehicles as well as lack of
 maintenance   and we can say that   about 75%            of irrigational system has been
 destroyed. However it is to be noted that dams built for reserving water have not been damaged severally.
                                         86
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990____________AMlltHUD                          VOL.3 NO.4
 8AMIR:  The Russian savage invasion of Afghanistan has cut the agricultural
 production of the country into half. Our irrigational systems have been damaged by some 30% and more than 50% of our livestock has been eliminated. This has resulted in an economic crisis and lack of agricultural produces and the rocketing up of prices.
 QUESTION: Whet  measures do you suggest for the revival of the irrigational
 network and utilisation of water resources in the country?
 ANSWERS:
      \
 MEER MOHAMMAD AYUB:    As a first step it is important to repair the damages
 inflicted upon smaller irrigational networks or to build them from the scratch. With the revival of these networks, sufficient water, could be provided for the revival of agricultural.
      Digging of wells is another measure that should be undertaken as part of short term projects in areas where there is a lack or shortage of surface water. Similarly the karez and springs which once provided water for the farmers should be revived. Those irrigational projects which were left incomplete should also be completed. They include the Kunduz-Khanaabad, Gawergan, Char Dara, and Harirud projects.
      Serious attention should be given to the Helmand and Arghandab irrigational project so that the canals are revived and necessary repair work is done.
 BSMATI: In  order to revive the irrigational network, first of all peace should
 be restored in the country and then as a second step those networks that were destroyed as a result of war should be revived. As a second step, incomplete irriggational projects should be completed and then new projects should be inaugurated as well because about 2.6 million hectares of land in Afghanistan cannot be cultivated or not properly cultivated due to lack of sufficient water.
 AFZALI:  Under  present circumstances irrigational systems should be revived in
 liberated areas. If sufficient water cannot be provided, through the old system, in areas where it is possible water pumps should be introduced and, as a long term measure, new dams and canals should be constructed.                ,
 8AMIR: Many of the irrigational networks need repair and cleaning. Even in some areas mines have been planted along streams and canals and cleaning these areas from these dangers need big efforts.
 QUESTION:  How do you   foresee the task of reviving our forests, pastures and
 orchards?
 ANSWERS:
 MEER MOHAMMAD AYUB:     Forests and pasture are valuable natural resources of
                                             87
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flfGHflflJfHAD                                   VOL.3 NO.4
 Afghanistan. However, so far we have not been able to make a sound use of these resources and enough attenion has not been paid to their preservation and development. Forests have been cut indiscriminatly and pastures converted to agricultural land.
      With the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan we should be able to promulgate laws concerning the protection of forest and pasture.
      In regard to providing fuel for the pgblic, new measures have to be adopted so that forests and other wood are not used for this purpose. One of the alternatives would be to introduce natural gas inside the country.
                                                                                i
      New plans have to be implemented in regard to forest development and extension programs have to be undertaken and ways for proper exploitation of forests should be introduced by making use of the experience and assitance of friendly countries. In this connection once the Germans were helping Afghanistan in Paktia province.
      We should build up sapling reservoirs in areas where our forests have been eliminated and a systematic program for planting trees should be undertaken or we should revive our forests by planting seeds.
      We should study the diseases which mostly afflict our forests and try to eliminate these diseases'and at the same time it is necessary to extend forest areas.
      The building of orchards and their development was well underway. Unfortunately, during the 12 years of war most of the orchards have been neglected and destroyed. At present plans are underway by specialists for the revival of orchards in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and thousands of saplings are being purchased from abroad and sent inside the country.
      In order to further develop the orchards in Afghanistan and increase the production of more fresh and dried fruits for domestic consumption and export as well, the following measures can be undertaken:
 1.    .Building of reservoirs fpr saplings in all the provinces of Afghanistan.
 2.    Importing of improved varieties of trees from abroad.
 3.    Furnishing to the farmers and owners of the orchards implements and other facilities for developing their orchards.
 4.    Building up of small plants for producing fruit juices.
 5.    Constructing storages with cooling facilities for the preservation of foods.
 6.    Training of personnel.
 ESMATXs As a result of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, not only agricultural land and water resources and orchards have been destroyed, but forests and pastures have also been eliminated throughout the country and projects which were already completed or under completion have been eliminated, such as the projects which were underway in Paktia and. Kunar provinces. For the revival of forests and pastures as well as orchards, we should build sapling reservoirs
                                             88
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 JIGHM JUMP____________________________ VOL.3 NO.4
 especially in areas which have had forests in the past and in the villages and countryside we should encourage popularisation of fruit trees.
 AFZALX:   For the revival of forests the first move should be to stop further
 cutting down of forest trees. Sapling reservoirs should be built and we should also build new pasture areas. For the revival of the orchards,saplings should be distributed and present orchards should be preserved and developed. The owners of the orchards should be encouraged and persuaded in planting and raising new trees in accordance with the new instructions and the government should render them all the necessary cooperation.                             ?
 SAHIM:  Sapling reservoirs  are necessary for both fruit and non-fruit bearing
 trees. The activities of Dr. Abdul Wakil, the former Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation, is praiseworthy. He has now built many reservoirs for trees in Pakistan and has been sending large number of trees annually to the liberated areas of Afghanistan. We should stop further cutting down of trees in the forests and should tap new underground resources of coal and natural gas and make it accessible to the public so they may not need cut down trees for feul.
 QUESTION:  What measures  do yon suggest for reviving the animal husbandry?
 ANSWERS:
 MBSR MOHAMMAD AYUB: During the 12 years of war, this sector of agriculture has also been afflicted with many damages and, according to available statistics, more than half of Afghanistan's livestock has been destroyed. The losses due to the 1972-73 droughts had not been yet met that a new calamity - the 27 April 1978 coup - hit the Afghan agriculture and animal husbandry. For the revival of this sector it is necessary to prepare a wide ranging and all purposes plan
 and ways for solving the problems are proposed. Some of these could be:
 1.    Maintenance, feeding and curing the animals which are             fit   for
       preservation.
 2.    Selection of animals which, despit? unfavorable conditions, are still fit for preservation such as karakul sheep, marino sheep, milking cows, horses, etc.
 3.    Importing of improved stocks of animals from neighbouring and      friendly
       countries.
 4.    Surveying of animal diseases and fighting them as well as production of vaccines inside the country or importing them.
 5.    Building of animal clinics and hospitals throughout the country.
 6.    Training of veterinarions, vaccinators and technicians.
 7.    Banning the slaughtering of animals used for meet first for three  days and
       later for two days in a week.
 8.    Programs related to artificial insemination should be' popularized and
       extended.                 ,
                    in order to be able to limit animal slaughtering, laws should be enacted and strictly observed and we should make also maximum use of poultry and fish.
                                          89
   JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flICHflNJtHflll _________________________ VOL.3 NO.4
   In this connection the following measures could be undertaken:
      . Poultry projects should be established.
   -     Fish   production project should be revived and extended in as many
         provinces as possible.
   BSMATI: The 12 years of war has confronted the Afghan livesstock with virtually an annihilation. On the one hand, lack or scarcity of the pasture and forest and. on the other hand, lack of other food material for the public, who had therefore to rely on meat,have all contributed in this crisis and therefore, urgent and serious measures have to be undertaken in order to solve this acute problem. We should procure better stocks of animals for producing off-springs and should not allow people to resort to indiscriminate hunting and slaughtering. The government should try to encourage the cultivation of crops which could serve as a meat substitute and popularize it and in this way reduce meat consumption and add to the number of animals.
   AFZALI:  In  this connection the establishment of animal clinics and hospitals,
   center for producing animal off-spring and establishment of livestock companies are necessary. Livestock owners should be encouraged by providing them better facilities such as extension                    services and training of personnel.
   Multiplication of improved stocks of milk and meat producing animals should be encouraged.
   SAHIB:  Slaughtering  of  calf  should be discouraged as much as possible. Also
   centers for producing of off-springs and improving animal stocks, establishment of laboratories, production of vaccines and establishment and development of medicine plants as well as mobile clinics are necessary for the development of animal husbandry. Young and improved stocks of animals fit for the climatic and terrain conditions of our country should be raised • by the Ministry of' Agriculture and Livestock of the AIG in Pakistan and after the liberation of Afghanistaii should be taken into, the country. Fodders for the animals in Afghanistan should be improved and serious attention should' be devoted to the preservation and development of pastures.
   QUESTIONt What measures do you propose for raising the level of agricultural production?
   ANSWERS:
   DR* AZAM GUL:    One  of the  most important constraints in the development of
   the agriculture sector in Afghanistan has been the limited use. of improved seeds. Before the war only about 30% of the wheat area was planted with improved seeds. There was not any improved maize variety. A small acreage was planted with improved rice varieties mostly introduced by the farmers themselves from Pakistan. The average wheat yields for the country through the introduction of improved varieties grew only from 832 kgs. per hectare in 1963-64 to 1,131 Kg hectare in 1977-78. Historically these changes have been small averaging only about 2.5% annually. It is 40% lower than the average annual world growth level of 3.5%, 72% lower than the average annual growth level of the developing
                                             90
     JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 mGHflHJtHMI                                    VOL.3 WO.4
     countries of 4.3% and about 92% lower than the annual growth rate of Pakistan, jumping from 3*9 million tons in 1965-66 to 13.5 million tons in 1985-86.
          The small increase in yields in Afghanistan was mainly due to a change from traditional to high yielding improved varieties. The change, as mentioned earlier, was slow because improved wheat varieties did not reach most of the major wheat areas in the country.
          The country at present is in a deficit of food of about 400,000 to 500,000 tons of food material to feed the present population living inside the country. Their problem may become more severe if the refugees were to return to their home villages.
          In order to alleviate widespread food shortage in different parts of the country, the food has to be grown locally by individual farmers. This objective can be achieved in two ways:   (1)  expanding the acreage  of cultivated land and
     (2) by increasing production per unit area. The first option seems to be impossible because it requires a relatively long time as well7 as large sum of investment which the country may not be able to afford at these critical stages. The second option can be achieved through the use of some improved adapted technologies developed through research studies and extended to the farming communities through an effective extension program.
     MEBR MOHAMMAD AYUB: For raising the production level of agricultural commodities including grains and vegetables, I can propose the following measures:
     1* Procurement and distribution of improved seeds.
     2.    Providing sufficient amount of water.
     3.    Providing of chemical fertilizers and their proper use at appropriate times.
     4.    Utilizing better agricultural and cultivation techniques
     5.    Fighting plant diseases and pests and eliminating weeds.
     6.    Activating agriculture and animal husbandry extension centers and services . down to the level of villages.
          For increasing the production level of foods, I propose the following measures:
     1.    Better trees should be provided and popularized.
     2.    Orchards should be built in accordance with expert advice.
     3.    Prunning and cutting of tree branches should take place scientifically and timely and sufficient amount of water at appropriate times should be provided.
     4.    Both chemical and animal fertilizers should be used.
     5.    Plant diseases should be fought and resisted.
     6.    Technical personnel should be trained for different levels and purposes.
     ESMATItfFor raising the per unit production of the land which is one of the most important factor in the development and enhancement of production, we should resort to urgent and serious measures. The existing of agricultural experts, selection of good seeds, using of better cultivation techniques, popularizing
                                                   91
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfGHillfl|[HIID                                 VOL.3 NO.4
 chemical fertilizers, better ways of elimination of weeds and irrigation and protecting plants from diseases and pests are among the measures which will directly contribute towards increased production. Extension officers should go to the villages and should guide farmers in these fields so they may be able to increase their per unit production and save their agriculture from their traditional and antiquated practices.
 AFZALX: It is being proposed that improved seeds and chemical fertilizers should be provided to the farmers, as far as possible. New technology should be utilized and animal diseases and pests fought. We can increase the production of foods by using proper amount of chemical fertilizers, improving and cutting tree branches and fighting diseases.
 SAMIH: As a first measure, we should popularize improved seeds void of diseases and pests. We can spray the seeds before cultivation. They should be cultivated on     the basis of modern technique and the  amount of chemical   fertilizer should
 be   in accordance  with instructions issued to the farmers.  Improved seeds should
 not be introduced to the farmers before they have been tested as conditions prevailing in our country are not the same as other countries and research should be conducted on the seeds before they are popularized. The indigenous seeds,having good reputation in the country and developed by their own farmers on the basis of long standing experiments,should be popularized instead of foreign imported seeds which may not be suitable for cultivation in our country. In order to provide sufficient amount of water for plants,cleaning and repairing
 of    irrigational  systems are necessary.   Plant diseases   and   pests should be
 controlled in a proper manner.
 QUESTION:   Under  present circumstances,    do yon prefer    the  mechanization of
 agriculture or a resort to traditional ways of cultivation.
 ANSWERS :
 DR. AZAM GUL: The Swedish Committee survey report shows that more than 90% of Afghan farmers used their own oxen.for ploughing. The figure in 1987 was about 43%. The report estimates that about 500,000 oxen would be needed to make up the shortfall to reach pre-war levels. It further estimates that if the only way of achieving this were by natural increase, then it would take 17 years at 3% growth rate. Clearly, the target for self-sufficiency in farm power must be sooner than this. The logic of importing large numbers of oxen from neighbouring countries is prohibitively difficult, and the wisdom of doing so, were it feasible, is doubtful. The cost of the delivered animals, the need to use scarce resources to grow fodder crop as opposed to grain crops, and the risk of disease and further losses among the better adopted local animals which survived the war, are only a few of the consideration. No Pakistani~based organization has yet demonstrated that the delivery of large numbers of oxen is feasible, though some NGOs have delivered small quantities with considerable logistical and other problems.
      There are two main physical inputs, which are well tried and workable iii
                                              92
     JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990             H.UiiitNJlliflO     ____________ VOL.3 NO.4
     Afghanistan, which can rapidly make up the short-fall in farm power, or can release existing oxen from certain tasks for which they are not essential, for more productive use. These are tractors and stationary threshers. A third input- the use of crop protection chemicals, particularly herbicides- also shows promise.
          The use of tractors has increased dramatically during the war. For example, in the group of farmers who stayed in Afghanistan and did not become refugees, 6% hired tractors in 1978 and 15% did so in 1987. This national figure hides bigger changes in certain provinces. In the South-Western provinces for example, 14% of farmers hired tractors in 1978 compared to 61% iri 1987.. Support for tractor use by the international^ community would,therefore, encourage a trend,'rather than set a new course of direction.
     HIU MOHAMMAD AYOB:    Under   present circumstances as the number of animals used
     for ploughing has! become scarce and more than half of them have been eliminated due to bombings, explosion of mines, diseases and lack of fodders, sufficient time is needed to bring their number to pre-war level. On the other hand, in case the refugees return to the country and there is a greater need for food, we should resort tb mechanized agriculture as machine on the average can substitute 10 pairs of draught animals. Therefore, under present circumstances a combination of mechanized and traditional way of cultivation is recommended. In other words,in addition to available animals, we should also make use of machines. Making use of machines in the valleys, hills or smaller agricultural plots is difficult and in such a terrain it is better to use animals. It should go without saying that the machines should be purchased with all their soft-ware and implements. Because only a tractor or a plough or cultivator will not be sufficient and many other implements used for agriculture should also be included with the purchases made by the farmers.
          Along with the popularization and extension of agricultural implements, workshops, including the mobile ones, should be built in all parts of the country and it is also essential that these workshops carry all the needed spare parts. Those farmers and land owners who cannot afford purchasing the machines cash should be enable through loans extended to them by the agricultural development bank to acquire their equipment on the basis of long term. loans. It is better to popularize Ford and Ferguson tractors in Afghanistan. Because in the past these brands had been successfully tested in the country and they are easily maintained and their spare parts are also easily procured.
     E8MATI: There is an acute shortage of draught animals in our . country after 12 years of devastating war and it is better to resort to mechanized agriculture because,on the one hand, the land has been completely Converted into an uneven level and terrain and draught animals cannot possibly cope with the problem and,on the other hand,as I said, there is a dirth of these animals. Due to these reasons it is hoped that the future Afghan government popularize with easy terms agriculture mechanized equipment.
     APSALX: I also propose and prefer the popularization of mechanized agriculture since draught animals have almost become extinct and their revival will take a
 93
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990____________wCHflHJ1HH1I                          VOL.3 NO.4
   long period. As I stated in my answer to question No.6, the introduction of mechanized equipment can have a great impact on the increase of agricultural products, we must substitute draught animals with machinery as soon as possible. Even in rough and mountainous terrain smaller mechanized agricultural implements could be utilized and only in areas where such equipment cannot be used under present circumstances, we should make use of draught animals but we should be careful not to rely on traditional ways for a longer period of time.
   SAMIR: In smaller plots of land where we cannot use properly tractors, resorting to traditional ways of cultivation might be essential. But in larger tracts of land and state owned farms it is necessary to use'tractors. Threshers should be made available to farmers throughout Afghanistan. The AIG Ministry of Agricultur and Animal Husbandry should make available• to farmers and land owners mechanized agricultural equipment through cooperatives and agricultural banks whenever they need them and mechanized agriculture should be their main target and objective. The mechanization of agriculture should be coordinated and synchronized with the industrialization of the country.
   QUESTION:   After the establishment of an Islamic regime in Afghanistan, which
   sector of agriculture should receive priority?
   ANSWERS:
   DR. AZAM GUL:    All  the studies conducted show that the present agricultural
   production is insufficient to support the existing population let alone a large number of returning refugees. The steady impoverishment of farmers who remained in the country, and their farm resources are very limited. Therefore, returning refugees, as well as the existing farmers., will require food support during the* first season while crops are growing. Consequently food assistance will still be required, but at a decreasing level depending how quickly the returning refugees are able to rehabilitate their own agriculture. Returning refugees might ease the labor shortage, but it is clear that, if draught oxen are to be bred locally, it will take many . years to reach pre-war herd' sizes, and the problem of shortage of farm power will persist for some time. Similarly, it will take several years for sheep and goats to reach its 1978'level. Improved crop varieties will need time for testing and multiplication. Irrigation systems will need to be rehabilitated and farm inputs will need to be procured and distributed. Large amounts of aid will be required in the forms of immediate inputs of food and a^. comprehensive agricultural input program. This 'program should be designed to meet the individual requirements of provinces, districts, and possibly villages. ■
   MBBR MOHAMMAD AYUB:   Wheat, which is the main staple of our society, should be
   sufficiently produced. With providing the conditions which are effective in-increasing the production, we should raise the per unit production of the land. Similarly it is necessary to raise the level of production of corn and rice. After the grain, we should devote attention to the production of items used for industry such as cotton, sugar beet, sugar cane and plants used for oil. All the sectors of agriculture are important and vital for us. The production of fruits is an important sector of agriculture which can earn for us foreign
                                               94
    JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flfCHflWJUMP                         ________ V0L>3 NQ-4
    currency and due attention should be given to this sector as well*
        The development of animal husbandry specially karakul and marino sheep for the production of pelts and wool are necessary. The wool could be used for export as well as the production of carpets.
        For strengthening the agricultural sector, sufficient water is needed and at present there is water shortage in many provinces of. Afghanistan. If this problem is solved, Afghanistan, having good climate, is fit for raising all kinds of plants and I am sure that with the help of Almighty God and with the hard work by our patriotic experts and labor of our farmers and agricultural workers the level of production will reach its pre-war figures in a short period of time.
                                                                            \
        In order to reach this goal, all those institutions engaged in agricultural services and now are idle should be revived and strengthened and competent, experienced and pious individuals should head these institutions.
    ESMATI: After the establishment of an Islamic order in the country, priority
    should be given to the production of grain because the refugees, after their return to the country will have an acute need for .wheat, corn, etc. At a later stage we should devote attention to the production of produces used for industrial purposes.
    AFSALI: For the development of agriculture after the establishment of an Islamic regime in Afghanistan, we should first of all popularize improved seeds. To reach this goal, research stations throughout the country should be revived. Because scientific research in agriculture is of vital importance. Before the establishment of the communist regime in Afghanistan improved seeds were being produced in these research stations and furnished to the farmers. Parallel to this a company for popularizing and distributing improved seeds should! also be established. Agricultural extension is also of vital importance as our experienced farmers have left the country and educated people are not available in the field. As a first step, the cultivation of primary products such as whekt, corn and rice are necessary throughout the country.
    SAMIN: After the establishment of an Islamic regime in the country, we should resort to measures aimed at making us self-sufficient in wheat, corn and rice. Both the quantity and quality of our food should be improved, the production of cotton, sugar beet, sugarcane and. other industrial produces should be increased and their quality improved so we may be able to meet domestic demands and compete in foreign markets.
    QUESTION:  Oaring the 12 years of war many of our irrigational networks have
    been destroyed and our farmers have also been alienated from their profession and the new generation does not know much about cultivation and agriculture* Bow can we solve this problem?
    ANSWERS:
    BEER MOHAMMAD AYUB: After the April 1978 coup, a large number of farmers sought refuge abroad and for many years now these people have not practiced farming, they have lost their animals and implements but still they have not forgotton
                                            95
  JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flfGHAN JIHAD                               VOL.3 N0.4
  their profession because what has been learnt through practice and experience cannot be forgotton easily and I am sure as soon as implements are given to them, they will revive their agricultural activities with zeal and joy. It is the duty of the government to provide help- to the farmers in all fields. Strengthening the agricultural bank and. extending long term and short term loans to farmers and land owners is essential. Activating the department of agricultre extension with its pre-war strength and authority is essential so it may be able to revive its activities as before in all districts and villages and by holding training courses and special occasion for the farmers it may be able to show the farmers ways of utilizing chemical fertilizers and technical equipment and active agriculturists with the entrepreneur are encourage by receiving prizes,etc. The youth who desire to receive education in agricuture should be provided with the opportunity to do so and for others training courses should be held by specialist-. Those attending the courses should go on field trips to neighbouring provinces and exchange views with other farmers and workers and even they should be sent to friendly and neighbouring countries for becoming acquainted with their agriculture and animal husbandry.
  ESMATI:  During' the 12 years of                    war, the farmers of Afghanistan have either
  migerated to the cities or to other countries and they have been kept away from their profession. Also technical agricultural officials have mostly left the country  and during this period agricultural education has been down                     graded
  considerably. Therefore, it is essential that we should launch short term courses  and graduates from them                     should serve as technical officials in the
  provinces and villages to teach the farmers improved methods of cultivation and raising their plants.
  AFZALI: We can solWe the problems which have emerged as a result of the 12 years of war by training technical personnel at different levels so they may in turn train and guide the farmers. We should also extend financial assistance such as credits as well as agricultural equipment to the farmers.
  SAMXMi   A large majority of our farmers have       sufficient experience in
  agriculture. But despite this the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry ,can cooperate to teach the younger farmers who have not had enough experience in agriculture through radio, television, newspapers and other publicity. A considerable number of farmers have not gone away from their fields even under very harsh and dangerious conditions and a number of other farmers go to their land and cultivate it and later return to. harvest and they have not left their land idle even during the war. The new generation need also long, term and short term practical courses and educational institutions.
  QUESTION: What measures do you suggest for combating plant diseases and weeds?
  ANSWERS:
  MEBR MOHAMMAD ATUBs Pests including grass hopper have become a main problem and we should fight them. From the very beginning of the communist coup in Kabul, no program to fight plant diseases have been undertaken. The provinces of Herat, Badghes, Jauzjan and Faryab have been particularly hit by these diseases and
                                             96
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990_________________wfGHflflJ{HflB           __________ VOL.3 NO.4
   harmful pasts• At present a survey should be launched about these diseases and pests with the help of a number of aid giving sources and programs for fighting them should be undertaken* but first on a smaller scale* Furthermore desert rats and birds have created big problems for our agriculture and damage the crop considerably.
        In areas not under cultivation and in areas whether the water has changed ita course* marshes and weeds and other harmful plants have grown* In order to eliminate this problem we need labor* machines and insecticides.
        It is necessary to mention here that we should revive the project of plant preservation of the Ministry of Agriculture so that* first of all*- all these diseases and pests are surveyed throughout the country and a program for fighting and resisting them is launched.
                                                   I             '
  ESMATI:  As I. have said earlier,during the past 12 years of war agriculture,
  livestock and irrigation have been disrupted* and I should also add that diseases* pests and weeds have penetrated into the,agricultural land on a large scale and these are the factors which can annihilate agriculture or reduce its quantity and quality and therefore special attention is needed for eliminating them* Otherwise agricultural planning cannot have positive results*
  AFZALI: Pests* diseases and wheats should be fought by launching a quarantine program seriously* In other words seeds and trees that are being used for development of agriculture should not have these diseases and pests; parallel cropping should be observed* diffirent methods common for fightirig animal diseases such as mechanical and chemical ways should be used and reasons for diseases and emergence of pests should be. Studied. The existence of technical personnel in this field is as important as other fields.
  SANXN:   After the  formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan* experts
  dealing with plant diseases and pests should be invited inside the country to help distinguish and control these diseases and pests* At schools 'and colleges subjects dealing with these issues should be taught so that the gap created during the war is eliminated. Course's to teach agricultural workers ways for fighting these diseases should be held so they may in turn teach the farmers to fight the diseases* Medicine for fighting the diseases should be procured and ways to utilize them taught* In determining the kipd of chemical and ways of using them we should Conduct practical experiences so that by using them improperly our crops are not damaged unduly. The department of plant preservation in agricultural collges should be equipped with proper implements and experienced teachers should.be employed.
  QUESTION: It ia generally believe that after the return of refugees there will be an acute, shortage of food in the country* What measures do you suggest for eolving the problem?
  ANSWERS:
  MBER MOHAMMAD AYUB: With the return of refugees into the country we will surely face food shortages. Because the present production is not enough to feed even
                                          97
  JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfGHflNJEHAD                                    VOL.3 NO.4
  the people who already left in the country and the return of more than five millions refugees will certainly bring about an acute shortage of foodstuff and therefore basic andeffective measures ought to be adoptedtaken for solving this problem. Programs for importing grain to the country and purchasing grains front provinces with surplus and distributing them to the provinces facing shortage should be undertaken.
       The department of food procurement should be strengthen so it may be able to take effective steps and providing and distributing foodstuff.
       Storages should be built in various parts of the country specially in remote provinces where there are no good roads so they may have pelanty of food
  on hand before the roads are closed due to severe cold and snow in the winter.
                  \
       Chemical fertilizer and improved seeds should be made available to the farmers and in all parts of the country the department of agricultural extension which is the only effective means for propogating proper knowledge to the farmers and land owners should be strengthen and a pious and experienced individual should head it. This person should have sufficient authority and the
  department should be able to re-orient and re-educate the farmers most of whom have been kept away from agricultural for the last 12 years.
  ESMATI:  After the return of the refugee, there will be a shortage of foodstuff
  and,in order to meet this shortage, whatever is suggested by the specialist should be implemented so that farmers may be able to utilize their land in a better way and we should give priority to producing grains. Improved seeds and chemical fertilizers as well as agricultural equipment and implements should be provided to the farmers and land owners and irrigational networks should be repaired and activated.
  APZALI: Under present conditions, with the return of refugees, the country will face an acute food shortage of foodstuff. Foir.solving this problem, assistance and cooperation by friendly countries and international organizations is essential to provide urgent help to the refugees whereever they are being settled. Such assistance should cohtinue until the revival of agriculture inside the country.
                         1 • '
  SAMIll: At present the Soviet puppet government in Kabul is importing more than
  500,000  tons of wheat annually for meeting the shortages of about 12 million population. If at least six million of our refugees return to the country, we have to have at least twice that much import. However procuring this amount from abroad will not be possible and for making the country meet is own demand, we have two alternatives: The first one will be to increase areas under cultivation which will not be possible because,at the first instance, these areas are infisted by Russian mines. The other alternative is to increase the per acre production of present cultivable land and this could be achieved through introducing improved seeds with proper amount and variety of chemical fertilizers, sufficient water and by controlling diseases and pests.
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AFGHANJWAD                        VOL.3 NO.4
 INSTITUTIONS HELPING
AFGHANISTAN *AIG, NGO’s
      PESHAWAR



    EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are the second part of addresses of 1 Institutions engaged in Peshawar fin humanitarian assistance services for the Afghans as well as the agencies related with the AIG, The addresses and maps have been worked out by ACBAR.The numberings are also those of the ACBAR.                             _
 3    Afghan Aid Association (AAA), Opp. Gul Haji Plaza, First Floor Nationals
      Bank Building Peshawar. Tel. 45190
 32   AAA, Medical Center Hospital,' Warsak Road Opp. Telephone and Telegraph
      Colony, Kababian, Paeshawar.
 34   AIG, Department of Undergraduate Education, Mile Stone No.2 Warsak Road, Kababian' Peshawar. Tel. 73426
 35   AIG, Department of Reconstruction, Mile Stone. No..2 Warsak Road, Kababian
      Peshawar. Tel. 73426                   -
 6    Afghan Refugees Dental Services, Adventisit Development and Relief Agency H.No. T-1830 Behind Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar.             .
 13   Afghan Technical and Engineering Consultants             (ATEC), 2nd Floor Flat
      No.2,14-215, Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar. Tel. 44924
 23   Al Fawzan Hospital for Afghans, Jamrud Road, Peshawar.
 24   American Consulate, IT Hospital Road, Peshawar. /Tel. 79801-3
 11   Comite Afghan De Solidarity (CAS), Off Jamrud        Road, Tahkal Payan, Tanban
      Bus Stop, Peshawar. Tel. 44510                      _   '
 37   Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees, Education       Cell, Hassan Gliari, Shami
      Road, Peshawar. Tel. 74023                                             '
 19   Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), 4th Floor, Gul Haji plaza, Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. 45321-6
 40.  Inter Church Aid, Bungalow No.9, Mission Hospital, Dabgari Gardens,
      Peshawar. Tel. 213895
 16 International Organization for Migration (IOM), 3rd Floor Flat No.303, Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar. Tel. 44673/4284.2           1
 18   Islamic Association of Afghan Architects and          Engineers, 3rd Floor Flat
      No.310, Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar.
                "         ' ' .   I
                                            99
                                  . ■ . '    I ■
    JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990         AfGHANJIHAD                         VOL.3 NO.4
    ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
    17  Islamic Freedom Newspaper, 2nd Floor, Flat No.220 Gul HajiJ Plaza, Jamrud
         Road. Peshawar.                                         .
    4   Italian Cooperation for Development (ICD), T.B.' Control program, H.No. 3814, Behind Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar. Tel. 40761
    7   Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Olyapic Sport Committee, Behind Gul Haji Plaza H. No. T-1832, Peshawar. Tel. 45569
    12  Kuwait Red Crescent Society, Orphan Care Sponsor, Ground Floor Flat No. 25 Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar.
    8   Lajnatul Dawatul islami, Afghan Female and Children Hospital,Nimat House Tahkal Bala; Arbab Road, Peshawar. Tel. 41835
    5   MSF Holland Belgium, Malaria Control Program, H.No.T-3814 Behind ,Gul Haji Plaza, Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. 45334
    1   Malalai School, Opp. National Bank, Near ,Gul Haji Plaza, Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. 40160
    39 NWFP Secretary Home and Tribal Affairs, Police Lane, Cantt. Peshawar. Tel. 78299            •
    30  Office of the Secretary General in Afghanistan & Pak. (OSGAP), Street No.8, H.No.132 Defense Colony, Peshawar Tel. 43300
    28  Operation Salam, Street No.9, H.No.80 Defense Officers Colony, Peshawar. Tel. 76602/78879
    38 Pak-German Based, GTZ (Formal Education), 49 Shami Road, Peshawar. Tel.
        . 78949
    14  Radda Barnen, Save- the Children (Swedish, 2nd Floor Gul Haji Plaza, Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. 40454
    15  Reconstruction Committee Supervisory Council (Shura-i-Nezar), 3rd Floor Flat No. 315 Gul Haji Plaza,'Peshawar. Tel. 41641
    9   Salvation Army Vocational  Services, H.No. T-1914 Behind Bangash Motors,
         Tahkal Bala, Peshawar. Tel. 40910
    21  UNDP-OPS-Afghan Project Service, 4th Floor Gul Haji Plaza, Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. .45321-6
    20  UNIDATA Maping Service, 4th Floor Gul Haji Plaza, Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. 45321-6
    29  UNIDATA, Operation Salam,  Street No.9, H.No.80 Defense Officers Colony,
         Peshawar. Tel. 76602/78879
    25  United Nations Logistics   Operation (UNIL0G), 2 Hospital Road, Cantt.
         Peshawar. Tel. 73641/75853/73882  ,
    32 UNION AID for Afghan Refugees, Milk Distribution, Warsak Road Babo Garhi, Kababian. H.No. T-3300/ Peshawar. Tel. 75159                       .
    28 UNOCA, Street No,9, H.No.80, Defense Officers Colony, Peshawar. Tel. 76602/78879
    22  United #Nations Fund for Drug. Abuse Control (UNFDAC), Afghan Pro. Office, 4th Floor Gul Haji Plaza, Peshawar. Tel. 45321-6
    26  WFP/Afghan Reconstruction  and Rehabilitation Office (ARRO), 2 Hospital
         Road,. Cantt. Peshawar. Tel. 73854  „■ '    ,
    10  World Federation of School, Off Jamrud- Road, Tahkal Payan, Tanban Bus Stop,
   ■ ' Peshawar.                                                     ; ■
    27  World Food ‘Program- (WFP), 2 Hospital Road, .Cantt. Peshawar. Tel.
         75853/73882/73641/73952   '                     ^
    2 . World Health Organization  (WHO), Opp. National Bank near Gul. Haji Plaza,
         Jamrud Road, Peshawar. Tel. 41509
    31  Zarghoona Primary School, Kababian Warsak Road Peshawar.
                                                     100
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990    . HIUIIHHlltllHU           VOL.3 NO.4 I
    INSTITUTIONS HELPING AFGHANISTAN«AIG, NGO’s
                            HAYATABAD
  14 AIG, Ministry of Information and Islami.c Guidance, 13/D/-I Phase I, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 810790
  8   AIG, Ministry of Interior, Police and Gendaraerie General Headquarters, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 50769
  9 v AIG, Police Academy, Hayatabad, Peshawar.
  18  AIG, The Supreme Court of Islamic State of Afghanistan, 33/E-I Phase I, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 810676
  21  Afghan ‘ Children's Hospital, 190/E-I Phase I, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 810269                                                 '
  10  Afghan Construction and Logistics Unit, Transportation Branch, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 50788
  2   Apprenticeship Scheme for Young Afghan Refugees (ASYAR) IIC, Hat 34/A 3 Phase 5, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 50892
  13  Canada Fund, Afghanistan Projects Office Director, 10/D-I Phase I, Hayatabad, Peshawar. (Residence), Tel. 810486
  11  Chief Commissionerate Afghan Refugees, Government of Pakistan, Hayatabad,
      Peshawar. Tel. 45167                                      '
  1 Dutch Committee for Afghanistan (DCA), Veterinary Training and Support-Centre, Jamrud Road 819, Peshawar. Tel. 45362
  20 German Afghanistan Foundation, Veterinary Services, Veterinary Training Program Project, 126/E-1> Peshawar. Tel. 810316  '
  3   Integrated Training Center (ITC), 34/A-3. Phase .5, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel* 50891.
  17 Islamic Academy for Science and Technology (Main ^office), 10/E-I Phase 1,
       Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 810899 19 Islamic Academy for Science and Technology Faculty, 75/E-l 6 76/E-l Phase 1, Lalazar Road, Peshawar. Tel. 810258 16 Jehad University, Faculty of Medicine, 1030/D-4 phase 1, Lalazar Road, Hayatabad, Peshawar.
   4  Medical Refresher Course for Afghans (MRCA) ITC, Flat 34/A-3 Phase 5, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 50892
   5  Medical Training for Afghans (MIA) ITC, Flat 34/A-3 Phase 5, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 50891
   24 Operation Salam, Deaining Head Quarters, 103/H-l Phase 2, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 810604 ,
   23 Operation Salam, Mine Clearing Planning Agency, 2/J-2 Phase 2, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel.810559 12 Pakistan Red Crescent (PRC), Rehabilitation Center for Paraplegics,
    JULY - SEPTEMBER» 1990 flfGHflNlltHflB                              ,        V0L.3   N0.4
    < Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 50760 22 Research and Advisory Council, Al-Moaqif and Mujahideen Monthly (RAM), I/J2 Phase 2, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel. 810355.
    6    Sandy Gall Afghanistan Appeal (SGAA) TTC, Flat 34/A-3 Phase 5, Hayatabad, Peshawar.' Tel. 50892
    7    Teacher Training Center (TTC)Flat 34/A-3 Phase 5, Hayatabad, Peshawar. Tel.
         50891'                                t
    15 Usmaihat ul-Moaineen (Women's University), 179/D-"I Phase 1, Hayatabad, Peshawar.                          .     r
         SECTIONS ACCORDING TO PHASE D&E
         D, HSJ KSrL -P&N At. B&C
Phase
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5
2 Phase 1 Phase 4 Phase 5 Phase 3                   Jamrud  Road.
103
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990                         flfCHflHJtHflD              _______________VOL.3 N0.4
                  BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN
                          BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
           \-' * ' ■ • '
 (1)  IN THE SHADOWS OF THE QURAN (Dari)
     COPMMENTRY ON HOLY QURAN: By martyred Sayyed Qutb; translated by Mohmmad
 Siddiq Rashed Saljuki; published by the CCAR, 444 pages.
     CONTENTS,: The fifth volume of the translation Of the Holy Quran from
 Arabic by the CCAR from Arabic.as well as the comentaries written on the Quranic verrses by Dr. Sayyed Qutb. The commentary' has been written from an evalangical point of view.
 (2)  COMMENTARY ON THE ATTRIBUTES OF ALMIGHTY GOD (Pashtu)
     AUTHOR: Hakeem Sayyed Manzoor Gailani; translated by Nesar Ahmad Noori;
 published by Taj Mahal Company and Jazebee Book Store; 181 pages.
     CONTENTS: An explanation of the 99 atributes of Almight God both literally and from mystical point of view.
 (3)  LESSONS AND COUNSILS FROM THE HOLY PROPHET (Dari)
     AUTHOR: Dr. Mustafa Saee; translator F. Fazel;, ' published by the
 Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, the Societyof Writers and Preachrs, 209 pages (3rd print).                                                  ,
     CONTENTS: A detailed account of the life of the Prophet Mohmmad, peace be upon him, from his birth to death. The author has aimed at offering examples of a good life which Prohet Mohmmad, peace be upon him, exemplified.
 (4)  LESSONS IN RELIGION (Pashtu)
     AUTHOR: Mawlawi Dost Mohmmad Faizi; published by the AIG Ministry of
 Education; 436 pages.
     CONTENTS: Offers details on the fundamental, worsdhip and ethics in Islam.
 (5)  RELIGION AND HUMAN CIVILIZATION (Pashtu)
     AUTHOR: Dr. Mohammad Al-bahi; translated by Mohmmad Yuonus Khales;
 published by the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Khales); 313 pages (3rd edition).
                                  105
       JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHANiffifl                                VOL.3 NO.4
       (6)   THE FIVE FUNDAMENTALS OF ISLAM (Dari)
                                /> . , 1 , •
            AUTHOR: Judge Mohmmad Nazar Niazi; published by the AIG Ministry of Education; 219 pages.
            CONTENTS: The five filhdamen tals of Islamic faith ( 1. professing that there is onely one God and Mohmmad is his Prophet; (2) the five times prayer in a day; (3) fasting during the month of Ramadan; (4) paying of a tax on one's wealth (5) paying a pilgrimage to the Houose of Ka'aba for any Muslim having the financial resources) have been explained from the point of view of Hanafi school.
       (7)   IMMITATION FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF ISLAMIC SHARIAT (Pashtu)
            AUTHOR: Mawala Mohammad Taqi Usmani; translated by Mohmmad Saeed-ur-Rah-man; Published by Taj Mahal Company; 205 pages.                         ,      '
            CONTENTS: The need to immitate in religious principles; the position of four Islamic schools of thought on the question of immitation; immitation and new issues; the Hanafi Islamic school of thought and the following pf the saying and peractices of the* Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him.
       (8)   A PICTURE OF AN ISLAMIC CONSTITUTION (Dari)
            TRANSLATED AND COMPILED BY:    Mohammad Siddiq Rashed Saljuki; published by
       the CCAR; 64 pages.
            CONTENTS: Provisions  of a constitution for an Islamic statre have been
       presented in 69 articles. They include general provisions, the role of the head of the state, parliament, administration, local administration, judiciary, armed forces, social or^er, economic7 order, educational objectives and foreign policy. The books has many footnotes explaining the position of the Holy Quran and Hadith on these subjects.
       (9)   THE REACTION OF AFGHAN MUJAHEDDIN LEADERSHIP (Pashtu and Dari)
            PUBLISHED-AND DISTRIBUTEDBY Dar-ul-Jehad, 76 pages, (second print).
            CONTENTS:It is about the "evils that the enimies of Afghanistan have
       spread amomg the Afghan mujaheddin and their Pakistani brethren under the pretext of Wahhabi and Hanafi." In this connection excepts from speeches by. Sayyaf, Rabbasni, Hekmatyar, Khales and Mohmmadi have been published.
       (10)  AFGHANISTAN (Dari)
            AUTHOR: Dr.Abdul Hakim Tabibi, published by the author 1989, 36 pages.
           CONTENTS: "The  Afghans should themselves determine their fate." The subject
       of this topic has been offered in Pashtu, Dari and English.
                                              106
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MANJd
VOL.3 NO.4
 (11)  A GLANCE AT THE RECENT COUP ATTEMPT IN KABUL (Dari)
      PUBLISHED by The Coordinating Body of the Uprising of the Underprivileged of Afghanistan, 22 pages.
      CONTENTS:   A   critical view on the March abortive coup staged by the
 ex-Defense Minister of kabui regime Shah Nawaz Tani and of those who supported the coup.
 (12)  REMEMBERING,THE 'SUN" (Dari)
      PUBLISHED by the Kausar newspaper, 56 pages.
      CONTENTS:  On, the occasion of the first anniversary of the death of'Imam
 Khomaini. It contains the views of , shaikh Mohmmad Shoban, leader of the
 Islamic Unity of Lebanon, Talmasani, leader of the Islamic Brotherhood in Egypt, Hasanain Hykal renowned Egyptian journalist 'and Dr. Kaleem' Siddiqi, Chainramn of Islamic Institute of London about the late Iranian leader.
 (13)  LESSONS IN PASHTU (Pashtu)
      AUTHOR: E^rof. Dr. Gol Jan Woror Wardak? pub;lished by the author? 392 pages.
      CONTENTS: A teaching manual for foreign students.
 (14)  COLLECTION OF POEMS BY USTAD KHALILI (Dari)
      PUBLISHED by the Khawar Book Store (second print); 260 pages.
      CONTENTS:  The  collection of late Khalilullah, Khalili’s pre-jehad peoms
• which were published for the -first time in 1973 in Ijran.
 (15)  MY SORROWS (Pashtu)                           .    \
      POET: Sataryarj published by the peot; 177 pages.
      CONTENTS:    Peoms written in dramatic and critical style. ,
 (16)  DARI LANGUAGE GRAMMER (Dari)
      AUTHOR:   Ahmad Yaseen Farkhari? published by the author? 286 pages.
      CONTENTS: A Dari language manual with many forms of dictation guides.
 (17)  . VENUS (Pashtu)
      AUTHOR:  Mohmmad Siddiq Pesarlay; puyblished by the’ Cultural Socoety of
 Afghanistgan, 59 pages.
                                          107
        JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 fllGHflNJ[HM]                                 VOL.3   NO.4
         'V CONTENTS:   A  drama depicting the oppression and cruelty of feudal lords,
        written in an attractive style.
        (18)   BEAUTIFUL ANSWERS (Pashtu)
             AUTHOR: Noor Mohmmadj 62 pages.
             CONTRENTS: Provisions of belief  in Islam, the difference between faith and
        Islam, the reasons for the development of parties and denominations in Islam, a definition of the 12 Shia groups, an explanation of the position of "Khawarej" (a group of Muslims who opposed the fourth Islamic Caliph Ali), the position of Sunnis, the differences between four Islamic schools of thought, conditions for undertaking jehad, the present religious groups, the need for immitation and its various kinds, the arguement of accusations against the Wahabis and revisionism.
        (19)   TALAPATHIC REMARKS (Pashtu)
             AUTHOR:    Toryalay Zazi; published by the*Jehad Culture, 112 pages.
             CONTENTS: An  account of various stories arid events that have circulated
        during the course of jehad about jehad.
        (20)   PANJSHER IN THE COURSE OF JEHAD (Dari)
             AUTHOR: Abdul Hafeez Mansoor; 171 pages.
             CONTYENTS: A glance at the history of Panjsher, the uprising against Daoud, the 1980 Russian attack on Panjsher,^ihe biggest Russian attack on Panjsher, the policy of the Panjsher Front; the administrative strucutre of Panjsher, panjsher and the Afghan war, the trench holders of jehad-writers and orators.
        (21)   THE GUNS ARE SPEAKING (Pashtu)
                                               ■       '    •                   to t    %
                                    > . ' k' ,
             AUTHOR:   H. Wahdat Wardak; Published by Radio Free Afghanistan; 133 pages.
            CONTENTS: Text of the remarks by high raning Parchami and Khalki officials who have defected to the mujaheddin.
        (22)   MESSAGE (Dari)
            POET: Fazl-ur-Rahman; 191 pages.                    %
            CONTENTS: A literary account of the atrocities committed by Russian troops during their occupation of Afghanistan.                                      ,
        (23)   THOUGHT AND WORRIES (Pashtu),
            POET: Sayyed Mohmmad Shafee, "The Unknown Soldier"; 59 pages.'
                                               108
     JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990              HflitlllNJliflll                  VOL.3 N0.4
         CONTENTS: Pashtu and Dari peoms by the poet himself on jehadic subjects.
     (24)  THE HISTORICAL NATURE AND LEGAL OF THE LOYA JIRGAH (Pashtu)
        . AUTHOR:  Abdul  Jabbar  Sabet  (President of the Lawyers' Association of
     Afghanistan; published by the Lawyers' Association of Afghanistan; 30 pages.
         CONTENTS:  The   origin and historical  nature of  the loya jirgah, the legal
     nature of loya jirgah, the role of the loya jirgah in solving national issues in the past, the loya jirgah and the current Afghan crisis.
     (25)  A SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC GEOGRAPHY OF AFGHANISTAN (PASHTU)
          Translated by: I.S. Ershad; Published by Danish Book Store; S9 pages
     CONTENTS:   Contains useful   data  on the location,. area,population, languages,
     administration, economic order, productins, trade,, agriculture, animal .husbandry, forests and social order of Afghanistan.

JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO
J
    A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICALS
      .'.sJ,"''- •, o' '
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO
3
               Arman-e-Mujah ed
                       JUNE
          28
 REPORTAGE: Last week Mawlawi Rafiullah
 Moazzen, leader of the , Harakat-e-Inqilab-e-Islami Afghanistan, met fdr one. hour Ali Akbar Valayati, Foreign Minister of Iran, in Islamabad and discussed with him the Afghan problem, Mawlawi Moazzen, throwing light on the current jehad and the latest conditions in > Afghanistan, ' remarked: ."Unity among the mujaheddin is the demand of the time. Had it not been due to internal differences* the N^jib regime could not last sO long. The Afghan mujaheddin have'done their <^uty and their jehad is continuing". The Foreign Minister of Iran praised the, iron will and determination of the Afghan mujaheddin and assured that Iran' would continue its help and assistance so that the mujaheddin government replaces the Najib regime.
                  SEPTEMBER
          13
 REPORT: Last week in the Lor Valley of the Chack district of Wardak province a joint council of commanders and ulama was held. In addition to the commanders and ulama of the Wardak province commanders, ulama and mujaheddin of other provinces also attended the council bringing the total attendance to more than 400. The council continued from 8.00 in the morning until 2.00 in afternoon. The participants discussed issues related to the progress in Islamic education, law. and order situation in the region and ways' to unite against the enemy ..."
 EDITORIAL: On 13 June, on the occasion of re-inauguration of the New Shelter International, destroyed during a protest demonstration of the Nasser -Bagh refugees on the day of Eid-ul-Fitr, a large function was held in the premises of         that   refugee camp,
 attended by Aftab Ahmad Khan Sherpao, Robert Oakley, the US Ambassador, the Austrian      Ambassador     and    some
 officials of the AIG ... Sherpao, in his address, referred to attempts by the puppet regime to disrupt the good relations between the refugees and the local people. But another fact which was the destructive plots hatched ;by some sources opposed to the Afghan jehad and the Afghan refugees, escaped his notice and he did not utt^r a word as to why the refugees are not pleased with modus : operandi         of    such
 organization^. The daily "Azadi" ha'd pointed oift in an editorial in its last issue that the             only way  for
 coordinating the humanitarian and helpful measures            is that  the
 organizations concerned should operate in every camp under the supervision,of the people's representatives.        The
 reopening of the New Shelter International, subject to the condition that the refugees cannot interfere in the activities, of such institutions, shows that the NWFP administration does not take into consideration the demand and the views of the refugees regarding solution of the        problems. We once
 again appeal that the government of Pakistan should place the assistance
                         S     '
 work inside and outside the refugee camps under the supervision of the refugees and close the doors of subversion ’ on the face of both
111
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 fllnllllRJIHHII                                                                 VOL.3    NO.4
Western and Eastern elements.
                                                       AUGUST
             23
* In a special column, the newspaper has quoted from other mujaheddin newspapers and magazines and has made* sarcastic remarks by playing with, the words used -by these newspapers and magazines.
   •! ' ' .
EDITORIAL: "The Kabul Regime has Failed in its Paghman Operations." After the Shah Nawaz Tani coup, vAslam Watanjar... the new Minister of Defense of the K^bul puppet regime, in his first news conference with the Afghan and foreign journalist, promised that he will procure peace in and around Kabul and specially in Paghman by launching a military operation and will eliminate the danger of the firing of arms on Kabul.
      Following this announcement, the army of the puppet government, being somehow happy and satisfied with crushing the Tani coup, staged several attacks by air and ground with the advice of Russian experts on Paghman. But it failed to procure a foothold for itself in the area. The mujaheddin resistance has been a source of pride and hope and the world once again with this resistance observed the strength and power of the mujaheddin which, unfortunately, had been somewhat marred as a result of the mujaheddin siege of the cities of Jalalabad and Khost. The latest Paghman battle showed that the Kabul renegade and much hated communist regime cannot win for itself even a small foothold in mujaheddin controlled areas despite all its show of power.
     Daneshjo
                                JUNE
            22
 EDITORIAL: "Open Admission of Defeat
 by the Afghan Communist Party is not Motivated by Realism but by Unaccountability of their Successive Defeats." '
    ...Despite all these claims, Najib is still adopting a hostile posture and being loyal to communism and under the cover of such claims, he is indulging more than ever in terroristic and criminal activities, if he is honest in his claims and utterances, he should explicitly give up communist beliefs and bow before God and the. nation and beg pardon for'his dark and scandalous past, close the doors of the country to the face of foreign agents and elements, desist from crime and merciless and tragic massacres, consider the enemies of the Muslim, nation of Afghanistan as his enemies and extend the hand of friendship to their friends, hand over power-and the government and give the people their right of self-determination. Only then the people would believe that he really repents over ihiis past deeds and desires to enjoy the blessings of a sound and sterling belief and character in the days to; come. Anyhow, the Islamic Afghan nation is utterly sure that all sorts of plans and conspiracies by. the Afghan communist regime are doomed to failure and did not have and. do not have any effect or : impact on the intellect and credibility and support of the militant Afghan nation and the Afghan refugees because they are well acquainted with, the essence of this falsehood and treachery and ou.r nation believes that the days of this puppet regime, which is an agent of communism,.
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990              fKGHANJIHAD                         ' VOL.3 NO.4
are numbered and the mujaheddin will be definitely victorious, very soon.
EDITORIAL:   "Unity is an Important arid
Vital Principle for Us arid All the Muslims of the World" ... Keeping in view the delicate and important
conditions when the enemies of Islam have felt Islam as the biggest danger to their survival and existence and despite their serious differences they
have evolved a common and united front against Islam and the Muslims,        is
right and proper that Muslims should consider unity as the most important and most urgent principle of life and
sincerely and honestly inculcate this principle among all Muslims. They should seriously avoid airing or propounding problems and issues, causing differences# dissensions and
divisions and should no more add to the injury of the^ Muslims and should not intensify their griefs and heartaches. For this purpose, slogans are . not required but real and practical steps
are the need of the hour because we all know that the secret of success and the key to all the difficulties and the doors of independence and freedom, is only and only unity and nothing else.
Particularly for the mujahed -and Muslim nation of Afghanistan at this delicate historical juncture, the most important
and the most vital, principle is unity. Hence we all ought to endeavour wholeheartedly for unity and solidarity in order to get rid of this deprivation
and abject condition and attain, the goal of a bright future and good fortune".
 D’Jehad Hindara
   SEPTEMBER
             6
 EDITORIAL: "The New Phase of
 Soviet--American Plot". The editorial discusses the joint Soviet-American plan for what it calls keeping Najib in power. It says, "in regard to preventirig the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the Soviet and American interests are identical and this Very identity of their interests have brought them together against the mujaheddin arid the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The only way to save ourselves from the danger of this joint Soviet-American conspiracy is to adopt a united, active arid forcefull stand at the level of our resistance and the creation of such a powerful and dynamic organization so that it may be able to, on the one haand, resist this plot at national and \international levels and, on the other hand, keep the Afghan issue alive and the trenches warm, coordinated and united".
           16
 EDITORIAL: "Rumors, Remarks and
 Facts": According to published news
 it is being said that the leaders of the mujaheddin have worked out a new plan for unity among themselves. Although, the news have not yet been confirmed by responsible mujaheddin sources and no official communique has been issued in this respect, authoritative Pakistani newspapers have published some hot news about such a plan ... Any decision and change that must be taken should be adopted by the true representative of the people based on consultation with the ulama, commanders and other notables of the country. If they do so, success will
I
113
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 MAN JIHAD
 be sure. This is also a reality that the people are anxiously waiting for a change. However the change should no way be such to once again force us on revising it. $y now we should have learnt from previous experiences and should not repeat things that had led to failure •   We  are
 loosing opportunities at a great speed. Our nation should not be caught, in the game between political parties. While we support any move aimed towards unity, we want to stress that it should effectively be a step towards breaking-the present deadlock.
                      Inqelab-e-Islami
           AUGUST
     8
 REPORT:  The President of the Russian
 Federation* in an. interview with a Moscow daily, said recently:        "The
 Republic stopped sending arms produced in that Federation to Afghanistan and henceforth the rockets made in the Russian Federation must not be sent to Afghanistan". He added, "the heavy ordnance factories of the Russian Federation should be responsible to the new government in this Republic and all factories and ministries >in the Russian territory should obey the laws Of the Russian Federation".
      This statement is one of the latest attacks by the Russian Republic against the control^ of the * ^central Soviet government, and shows that the Russians were fed up with the existence of thdir puppet regime in Afghanistan and hdve fully realized that if they throw their entire economic and military resources at the feet of their puppet regime, it would not be able to survive at any cost.
VOL.3 no.4
                  Ittehad-e-Islami
                        JUNE
                           25
EDITORIAL:' "Another Ring in the Chain of Conspiracy". Commenting on the US-Soviet Foreign Ministers* talks on Afghanistan, the editorial concludes: Those who started the jehad for the sake of God and for spreading the message of Islam and pushed it to the climak of success and victory, relying on the Divine Will which supports and protects this Holy War, will never give any credence to the decisions of the enemies of Islam and do not feel obliged to abide by them because a nation which has shed its blood for Islam and sacrificed' more than 1.6 million martyrs for its holy cause and has earned among the Islamic Ummah and the history of homeland the honor of breaking the red chain of communism, would never agree to go under the black yoke of bondage. This is a free and Islamic nation and will continue our jehad till the Islamic system of polity, which is the heart-felt desire of each and every individual of our Muslim nation, is duly established in our country but one point muht. not be ignored that achieving this target demands sacrifice, self-lessness, unity, harmony and disregard for a post or position in the government. We are sure that when our nation has sacrificed more than 1,6 million of its young blood and old, just for , the sake of establishing an Islamic government, the leaders of the great jehad movement would surely be ready to give another sacrifice for this cause.
                           JULY
        16
EDITORIAL: Sometime back a group of
114
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
 .people associated with the corrupt regime of Zahir Shah, headed by Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, the ex-Prime Minister, arrived in Pakistan and stayed at Hotel Intercontinental, Peshawar, from 26 June to 30 June. The way, the media, particularly the Voice of America and the B. B. C. started a campaign of propaganda about them, most of the people thought that perhaps some important consultation and decision may take place in favor of jehad and the formation of the future Afghan Government, But due to the reactions of the mujahed nation and the refugees and the hatred nurtured against them, they could not make any progress and as from the beginning not much was expected from them, they
 returned without achieving anything. The Westerners, being the strongest opponents of the jehad and the Muslims, can never tolerate the establishment of an Islamic system in Afghanistan. Therefore, throughout the duration of the jehad and specially since the withdrawal of the Russians from Afghanistan, all their efforts are aimed at frustrating the momentum of jehad and the establishment of the Islamic system in Afghanistan, Thus the arrival of these gentlemen in Pakistan is a continuation of the same old conspiracies which have been hatched against the faithful Afghan nation. These were the people whpse nam.es were heard through the loudspeakers throughout the world including Afghanistan and who have classified themselves as neutrals and have remarked in their various interviews that the mujaheddin and the leaders of the jehad cannot deliver the goods, because they do not have the necessary competence to determine the future of Afghanistan and its future system of government. They also believe that the government formed by the mujaheddin '.is not fully representative. Hence in their opinion, such a government should be
                                                                                        vol.3 no.4
 established in Afghanistan which must be neutral i.e. without the participation of the mujaheddin or the Kabul regime ...
                 23
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf,the AIG Prime Minister, in a statement about the current situation, said:            -
      1.       As regards solution of the Afghan problem, we think that the mujahed Afghan nation has the legal right to decide about the future of its homeland and the nation and if foreign powers try tp make decisions for us, we riot only reject their decisions but also consider them as open and undue intervention in our internal affairs.
      2. So long as Afghanistan does
 not regain its independence and an Islamic system is not enforced and the basic cause of their migration of its people is not removed, we would consider any program chalked out by some of the UN circles for the return of the refugees to their homeland, as a conspiracy against the Muslim people of Afghanistan and a direct help to the Najib regime. If this program causes any set-back to the Afghan problem or to the sacrifices of the mujaheddin and/or produces any negative result or consequerice inside Afghanistan, the responsibility  will fall on        the
 shoulders of the planners of the program or on those who paved the ground for .the implementation of this program.
      3.   The current jehad in
 Afghanistan is being waged to establish an Islamic      system.      Hence any
 non-Islamic system, be it transitory or noh-transitpry  or under the title  of
 neutrality or  any other   title, would
• never be acceptable to us.
115
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHAN (JEHAD
__ ( . ___________________________■ ■
VOL.3 NO.4
                             AUGUST
              10
 EDITORIAL: Analysing the talks between
 the US-Soviet foreign ministers on Afghanistan, concludes:
    The Muslim Afghan nation ,will not allow the Russians, the Americans and other Western allies 'to find a solution, suiting their own interests for our problem and to shape our future system of government. The right of self-determination is the religious and legal right of our Muslim nation. The only solution to the Afghan problem is the elimination of the Kabul regime and replacing it with an Islamic government, according to the will of our nation. If the UN or freedom loving countries want to stop bloodshed in Afghanistan as well as to,normalize the regional and the global situation, they ought to exert pressure on the Russians to desist from supporting the puppet regime and let the Muslim people of Afghanistan determine their own destiny because this is the only solution of the complicated Afghan problem.
                   27
REPPRT: The AIG Cabinet met : 23 August
under the chairmanship of AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,, and decided to despatch, as a first step, 2,000 mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia for, the protection of Islamic Holy places in that country as a sign of Islamic brotherhood. Also the cabinet reviewed in detail the condition of the Afghan , nationals residing in Kuwait and those who have fled from Kuwait to neighbouring countries after the Iraqi occupation of that country.
                     SEPTEMBER
            3
EDITORIAL: While discussing the super
 power position in regard to Afghanistan it says, "Our nation has pot embarked on its jehad upon the permission of the Russians and Americans and therefore we cannot now act on the basis of their advice and accept their decisions in regard to our issues. Only those will be prone to accept Russian and American decisions who have resolved to serve as their agents. Our Muslim nation, which in the beginning of this century defeated the black British
 '  '     .                        ft
 imperialism and . at the end of this century the^ red imperialism, will never be ready to succumb to a mixture of another imperialism. This is a Muslim and free nation, in love with its beliefs and freedom, they will never allow the enemies of Islam, the untrue defenders of, humanity and fallacious' torch-bearers of peace and justice' to decide about their issues, and to offer alternatives and plans. This nation has the 'authority to decide its own fate and to achieve its objective •- the establishment of an Islamic order in the country -» by further consolidating its unity".
                  17
 REPORT:  Prof. ,Sayyaf, the AIG Prime
 Minister, in a speech in the 'International Islamic Conference held
 in Mekkah to discuss the Gulf situation said, "We, while condemn the Iraqi aggression against Kuwait and reject
 the annexation of Kuwait to Iraq and proclaim our resolute decision to
 actively participate for the freedom of Kuwait, will never submit to the fact
 that the duty of the defense of the Gulf and the House. of Kaa’ba and the
 Shrine of Prophet Mohammad, peace be
 upon him, should be entrusted to any
 one else than a Muslim army... /
116
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
                                                Ibn-e-
VOL.3 NO.4
  JULY-AUGUST
 INTERVIEW: Dr. Phillip Throse, Director of Avicbn Institute of Vaccine production in an interview with the reporter of the newspaper has said, the needs for the health of Afghan children are many. Every child has the right to be    protected against      the
 diseases related to children because these diseases have now been eradicated from many countries and we see no reason that the Afghan children have to die of these diseases? Some might think that the losses have to occur due to lack of funds. But this is no longer acceptable. , Vaccination is the  cheapest way and means for
 preventing 'Child mortality. Money is- ; spent only for producing the vaccine. We have a lot of jioney at our disposal'and the important thing is to spend it properly ... A large portion of the money is being spent on curative medicines and the money being spent on curative medicine and measures forms only 20% of the entire medical expenditure while preventive measures are more effective and economical than curative measures,. For example a child inflicted with measles has to be cured with the lot of money and at a great length of time. However# this child can be protected only by spending Rs. 10 on his vaccination. Health programs can be implemented under different plans. However# we are prefering nationalized programs.. The purpose is to bring all the health Institutes and programs under one program. The urgent Afghan needs should be solved under a coordinated program taking into consideration the Afghan  characteristics. Private
 institutions should not be allowed to have, their own programs and they have to abide by national standards.
                                       JUNE
                                         23
 REPORT:    "A Number of Afghan
 Religious Scholars consider Girls’ Schools repugnant * to the Islamic Shariat." Till now the subject of female education, womens’ right to vote and their participation in general' elections is a point in dispute hotly discussed by some of the , respected ulama... A number of Afghal ulama, in a verdict issued in Peshawar, have described   . female  educational
 institutions contrary to Shariat ... Inspite of these views, the religious scholars of Afghanistan# most of whom are connected with the Peshawar based jehad  organizations#   establish
 intermediary schools and colleges for girls and recently the Hezb-e-Islami has established special universities for women. When the representative of the Jamiat-e-Islami in Europe was asked to give his opinion in this regard, he answered that no one can deny womens' right bf education within the framework of Islam and the norms of the Shariat. Besides# he added, 400 eminent religious scholars in the country have declared female education consonent with the Islamic 'laws, A news agency, quoting one of the jehad leaders, based in Peshawar, added that if necessary, religious decrees from all the Afghan ulama and religious scholars of the Islamic world, including the ulama of Deoband (India), Al-Azhar University, Madina    University#     Islamic
 International University of Islamabad, Islamic International University of Tehran and the Religious” Academy of Qum, supporting female education can be obtained and published. When the opinion of a religious scholar# who supported the recent verdict issued by a section of the Afghan ulama#, was
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 IMNJM                               VOL.3 NO.4
 asked, he (without disclosing his name) stated that the text of the communique was not properly worded and edited .whereas the ulama were not opposed to female education but actually the present set-up of the girls schools which do not correspond with Islamic rules, has been condemned.
 REPORT:  "Issuiiig a Vague Resolution".
 A group of independent and non-aligned personalities who arrived in Peshawar "at thfe invitation of the respected Sebghatullah Mojaddedi, President of the Interim Islamic Government of the Mujaheddin, issued a resolution 30 Jun under the title of the "Proposals of the Consultative Body", which, ' according to some observers does not convey the explicit and clear stand of any of the groups or . parties ... This proposal has been signed by some of personalities too, who have called the AIG politically non-competent. Yet the same proposal states that the "existing political, entity", meaning the AIG, can prove useful in bringing about a new political condition. This proposal, while stressing the need for a comprehensive political program, has not elucidated the primary guide-lines of the program... It supports the idea of holding general elections but adds that elections ought to be held at a time when a safe and favorable atmosphere prevails in the country and elections are not used as a means for achieving. It says the holding of elections is necessary for the realization of the political and social objectives of the jehad.
 * Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor* said in an interview with Pakistani journalists that as regards the present crisis in Afghanistan, I propose that instead of
 the supervision by the international bodies, a joint council of internal commanders and religious scholars should supervise the process of elections ... Besides, in order to find a single solution for the Afghan crisis, a joint conference of jehad forces ought to be convened.
           \ . . /
 * Engineer Hekmatyar, in his address at Nusrat Maina Mosque, on the occasion of Eid-ul-Adha, said: the  super powers,
 have connived'* to instal a puppet regime instead of the Najib regime and the,AIG ... The super powers are due to initiate two loya jirgahs at Peshawar and Kabul to reach this goal.
                 14
 REPORT:     The communique issued by
 the AIG spokesman in Peshawar, stated that the AIG in its extraordinary. session7 held on Tuesday, with the participation of the majority of the AIG ministers under the chairmanship of respected Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the Interim Government, exchanged . ideas and discussed the proposal put forward by political and social Afghan personalities residing in Europe, the USA and other countries. The AIG cabinet with the majority of votes considered it an
 unrealistic proposal and dicl not find it beneficial for the Muslim Afghan nation. Similarly the Council of' Ministers in its Tuesday session, after listening to the report presented by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Chipf Justice of the AIG Supreme• Court and Election Commissioner, decided that negotiations between the AIG and the Iran-based •Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami       Afghanistan
 should continue so that a logical outcome may be ensured.
     Political observers in Peshawar opine that although indifference to thei plan proposed by the socio-political personalities invited by the AIG
118
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990,
VOL.3 NO.4
 President to Peshawar is apparently an indication of the failure of Mr. Mujaddedi's program, our . assessment of the situation prevailing is that Mr. Mujaddedi could not convince his guests to agree to the election plan of the AIG. Therefore, the rejection of the proposal presented by the Afghan personalities residing in Europe is considered quite natural.
                                              21
 REPORT:  On Mgnday some members of the
 Society for Preaching Quran and Sunnah under the leadership of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rehman, whose original name is Mohammad Hussain, held a meeting at a local hotel in Peshawar and also attended a press conference. Mawlawi Cihulam Allah (also known as Sheikh-ul-Hadiss) who is considered one .of the theorists of this group, answered the queries of the local and foreign journalists... He claimed that his group has been able to establish an Islamic State in the Kunar Province.      Mawlawi    Ghulamullah
 condemned all sorts of conspiracies, against jehad and warned that the super powers should not interfere in the internal 'affairs of Afghanistan. The Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rehman ■ Group was . formed after the 'dissolution of the Seven Parties Alliance led by Mr. Sayyaf and is not included in the interim government. This group, due to its beliefs, cannot have supporters all over Afghanistan because followers of this group are known as Wahabis.
                                             28
 REPORT:  In 1980, after the cruel
 occupation of Afghanistan by aggressive. Soviet forces,, the UN, slowly and gradually emerged on the scene for playing a "peace-maker's" role in the Afghan problem. Though no one could believe that the UN would step up its' political contribution to this extent, recent     activities     and    the;
 commissioning of the senior officials of this organization to find a political solution for this issue, has added to the stature of this world body in the world soc'iety ... Mr. Cordovezy the special envoy of the UN Secretary General on the Afghan issue, through his very tiresome shuttle diplomacy between Kabul, Islamabad and Tehran, managed to get the shameful Geneva Accord signed between Pakistan and the Kabul regime. This was the first spark of treason against the Muslim nation of Afghanistan ... Lately, subsequent to the meeting of the heads of state of the two super powers and their consent, the UN announced its plan for the repatriation of the refugees. However, the refugees rejected all proposals to return to their homeland still ruled by the Najib regime. Political observers consider this UN action a pre-planned program by the super-powers.
                                 AUGUST
              11
 REPORT: The first jehad commanders'
 Congress of the Western Provinces of Afghanistan was inaugurated 8 August in Tehran, Iran, with  messages from
 the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan and Captain Ismail Khan, . mujaheddin commander for southwestern Afghanistan'. More than. 80 famous jehad commanders of the western provinces .of Afghanistan took part in this Congress which was held with the cooperation of the Special Afghan Cell in: the Foreign
 Ministry of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
                                        25
 REPORT:"A spokesman of the- Wahdat-e-' Islami Afghanistan has" condemned the transfer of the office of the party, from Iran to Peshawar, Mr,. Mortazawi in
119
 JULY - SEPTEMBER., 1990 flfGHUHJIHAD                                           VOL.3 NO.4
 a press conference concerning the position of the party in regard „ to regional issues said that the so-called declaration concerning the transfer of the office of the party to Peshawar is indeed surprizing. He said that the so-called Coalition' Council Was already been dissolved and the person who in an interview* witn the BBC has called himself the spokesman of the Council, has   no     authority   with’  the
 Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami. Afghanistan."
                               SEPTEMBER
                                            8
 REPORT:'    ''Meeting Between Five
 Mujaheddin Leaders at the Residence of
 Prof; Sayyaf":   * "Five mujaheddin
 leaders, including Mr. Hekmatyar who
 had boycotted the AIG government led by esteemed Mujaddedi, held a meeting at
 the residence of Prof. Sayyaf in Peshawar and discussed vital jehad
 issues. According to informed sources, the meeting, held Monday, was convened
 one day after talks between Mr. Hekmatyar and Rrof. Sayyaf. A source-
 close to Prof. Sayyaf said that Hazrat Mujaddedi was to meet Mr. Sayyaf, Monday. However, he turned back from the way after being informed that Hekmatyar
 will also be in the meeting and refused to join any of their meetings.. According to reports, the leaders who
 met discussed the fate of' the AIG and the establishment of a joint council to direct the. interim government.
 According to the same report, a leader of the jehad proposed that a joint council, led by Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi
 Mohammadi, should be established to replace the President of the AIG.
                                                                                                                                   I
 Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, in an interview with the Afghan News paper 10 June, regarding the recent murders in Peshawar, remarked:   I think these
 murders were basically pre-planned and perhaps the Kabul regime or the Moaists were behind it. Similarly the role of some ambitious groups in some of these cases cannot be brushed aside. It is pointed out that these terrorist activities have intensified under the circumstances when on the one hand the mujaheddin are busy arranging /■ for elections and on the other the jehad commanders are holding sessions for intensifying military operations ... *
                                                  14
 REPORT:   Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 the Jamiat-e-Islami, speaking i-n the Police Academy convocation ceremony declared: Our nation"'.will not be duped
 by the false promises of those who say that if we are given an opportunity, we wil.l make milk and honey flow in the country,     because despite the
 opportunity given to them, their actions yielded nothing but tragedy and scandal ... They ought to understand that the days are over when the Islamic Revolution could be derailed and the Muslims could be taken by surprise at the last stages of tbeir victory and consternated ... We should have attended to this fact during the revolution and should now pay attention to it that revolution does not mean merely klashenkov and machine-gun firing but actually it is the name of a continuous thinking process,/ firm conviction and ap indefeatable will, to bring about fundamental changes in
120
. JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 MGHIW JIHAD
 our Islamic society and to establish' a system well-founded on the noble teachings of Islam. . By such an appreciation and comprehension, we are a witness to the fact today that an important step has been taken towards the victory of Our Islamic Revolution.
                                                25
 REPORT:  In response to a question by
 the reporter of the daily Mujahed regarding the present situation. Prof. Rabbani,leader of Jamiat-e-Islami said, "I hope this is a lull before the storm. I am sure that with the intensification of our operations, God willing, the Kabul regime will collapse".
      Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG said, "Side by side with the military solution, a political solution should also be sought which may keep in view the honor and dignity of the Muslims”.
      Qazi weqad,, leader of Dawat-e-Islami said, "The jehad leaders should unitedly approve a reasonable- plan for defusing the Afghan crisis and ought to avoid taking individual- stands and adopting impractical plans".
      Mawlawi Mansoor, leader of the Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami said, "The mujahed and believing Afghan natio.n has nearer been succumbed to Colonial powers, during the course of history.
      Sayyed Noorullah Emad, secretary General of the Jamiat-e-Islami remarked, "Those who say that the mujaheddin are ' tired of war, are unaware of the meaning of jehad as well as the ideals of our Islamic nation".
      Mawlawi Mir Hamza, a high ranking member of JamAit-e-Islami said, "Acceptance of aid without mental subordination does not mean dependence.
                                                                                 <>ol.3 no.4
 because in social and economic relationship nations are dependent on each other".
     Dr. Lafrai, the AlG Minister of Information remarked, "I am sure that, God willing, conspiracies will not undermine the     jehad because    the
 organized jehad forces have an active presence inside the country".
     Dr. Haqshenass, a writer, expressed the opinion that one of jthe solutions of the Afghan problem' was non-interference of vested interests in jehad affairs    and delegating   t.he
 executive and decision making powers to the competent    commanders and  • the
 mujaheddin on the war front".
       AUGUST
               4
 INTERVIEW: The gist of translations Of the interviews of three leaders   with
 the Arabic magazine "Al-Jehad" by the journal Mujahed, dealing with the burning topics of the day:
     -Prof. Rabbani:  "The. problem of
 our country will be solved only whien the Russians totally abstain from interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan".
     - Prof.- Sayyaf: "For the sake of
 unity, 1 am prepared to resign my post and work for the mujaheddin and the mujahed leaders as a janitor".
     .- Engineer Hekmatyar about Hezb-e-Islami: "This party is not led by one
 family or one person but it is being led by a national assembly".
               10
 REPORT: The jehad commanders in the
 first roundtable held by the Association of the Writers and Preachers of Jamiat-e-Islami 28 August
 121
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 MAN JIHAD                     VOL .3 NO.4
 spoke about present' stalemate in the jehad:
 *  Now we are. at a phase to reap the benefits of the revolution. The enemy is using many tricks to steel our Islamic revolution (Ustad Shadab)
 *  At present we are facing a deadlock and one of the main reasons .for1 this is our own deeds (commander Mohammad Anwar)
 *  In my view the present phase is
 not a stalemate but we are getting, ready for the      final success for
 eliminating the remnants of occupation (Commander M'ansoor),
 *  For breaking the present deadlock, all the mujaheddih ranks should' unite, the jehad fronts, should be organized in the form of a regular army' and we should counter the enemy . propaganda (Col. Mehrab).
 *  One of the, reasons for present deadlock is the lack of care and attention by jehad leaders to military affairs (Qari’Rahmatullah).
 *  The AIG, other* than providing
 vehicles and salaries for a number of
      ' <
 people , has failed to achieve anything else CJagran Shukrullah).
 *  We have failed to achieve our
 targets in . two fields.:        Staging
 strategic offensive which has negatively affected the political affairs of the jehad and in political arena we have always been defensive (Andeshmand).                    S
 *  ■ The present deadlock in my view stems from lack of piety, sincerity, devotion and the existence of deep rooted disputes , among the mujaheddin (Comnrandor Muslim).
 *■ In order to break the .present deadlock, it is essential to clear the
 jehad ranks from dubious elements and formation of an Islamic army (Khalilullah Hotak).-
 * For the education of the mujaheddin, educational programes, like the one organized by the Supervisory Council, should be, launched throughout the country (Ahmad Nasir Frotan).
 *   The most important reason for present deadlock is. the la.ck of unity among the mujaheddin and lack of awareness on the part of those, who are in the position, of responsibility in •the center of leadership about , the prevailing situation inside the country (Dr. Abdul Zaher).
 * The scarcity of arms in the jehad, and the Russian and American plots against our jehad have caused the present deadlock (Mullah Shamsuddin).
            (
                      I
 *- The commanders' distance from their fronts and their.living in Peshawar for a long time can be - considered a reason for the present stalemate (Enayatullah Khalil).
                 15
 INTERVIEW: The leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Burhanuddin, Rabbani, in meeting with the Association of the Writers and Preachers of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait has been tantamount to a big blow to many other issues including the Afghanistan issue. He said,latest events in the Gulf are a signal for more dangerous events to come and it might involve other countries of the region in a war. But it will not result in a world war’. However, we hope that the Gulf problem will be solved in the near future by the Islamic and Arab countries themselves and foreigh powers will not have further chance to remain for a longer period of time in the region. In regard to the Afghanistan issue, he
122
JULY - SEPTEMBER* 1990 WM JIHAD                             VOL.3 NO
 said, aggression       still continues in
 Afghanistan,  only    Russian   tactics have
 changed and    the changes that         have
 occured in Russia itself are not observed in its ^ policies in Afghanistan.     He     said      that    the
 Afghanistan war was not an internal or national war to make us resort to a national reconciliation.
                                               30
      The mujaheddin of the Supervisory Council have demolished 22 enemy tanks and 131 vehicles. The mujaheddin operations were launched simultaneously in Jab-ul-Seraj and Salang Valley. They have shot down. a Kabul regime helicopter and, as a resuit of /the bombing of the area by Kabul regime airforce,    several houses were
 demolished in Salang. In, a fire in the logistic convoy of the enemy, 28 officers and 26 soldiers were killed.
                       JULY-AUGUST
 INTERVIEWS: (1) With Dr. Abdul Rahman
 Ulfat.
 QUESTION: Dr. Ulfat, you were a member
 of a delegation of intellectuals and statesmen who had gone to Peshawar at the invitation of AIG. In the proposals forwarded by the delegation for the solution of the Afghan problem you gave a negative vote. This ha? raised -questions among many Afghans. What were your reasons for this?
 ANSWER: Of course there are many
 reasons. But my main reason has been
              • /
 that the main point of the proposal was the question of elections as many circles have urged elections in Afghanistan. For instance,, the Russian, Najib, Iran, Pakistan, the US and
 an Afghan party,' they all          want’
 elections and they have with them the material means and want to impose their own selfish aims through elections. Afghanistan is faced with poverty and destitution and       these parties and
 nation's want to exploit the elections for their own aims ... As1 we are unable to prevent them from their aims, • therefore^ opposing      elections   will
 at least stop, them not to exploite the situation completely ... The second reason for my negative vote has been that under no circumstances elections have taken place in emergency conditions, therefore,elections at this juncture will, pose many problems to the country, as a result of which no one will be able to save Afghanistan. The third reason has been that even in other countries, such as Iran and Pakistan,:    our two neighbouring
 countries, when elections have taken place under emergency conditions, the result has been the emergence of weak governments. Elections in Pakistan and; Iran have only resulted in lack of., securityi For these reasons we can say that holding elections is not conducive to a solution of the Afghanistan issue.
 (2) DR. ABDUL SAMAD HAMED:
                         ✓ ^
 QUESTION: On  11 July this year the AIG
 cabinet, led by Sebghatullah Mgjaddadi in Peshawar* in its session discussed the proposals offered to the AIG by a group of. advisors. the AIG cabinet later said that the. proposals did not halve any new ideas leading to a solution of the Afghan crisis. What is your view in regard to this verdict?
 ANSWER: "Facts are Facts". They are not worn out like a car or clothes. Therefore, one cannot say that we know set of fa'cts, go ahd find for me a new model of facts. Today we should ask whether it is true we are faced with a stalemate at the jehad level? And, as there is a common enemy for us in
123
  JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flFGHASifEHJID                                                       VOL.3 .X6.4
 Kabul, we are obliged to reach an understanding with all those who oppose us for working out an alternative and joint strategy ... Is there any other way to reaching such an understanding aimed at driving out our enemy from the country and power? In my view, the several Peshawar based organizations have reached a stage where they should decide in the presence of Almighty God, the people of Afghanistan and the tribunal of history about these two alternatives:  (1) Either they should
 prove that they have learned from their past mistakes and are basically after the pleasure of God Almighty, and the interests and survival of the oppressed people • of Afghanistan, and’ they are seeking political booties, or (2) God forbid, they are only aiming at capturing political power and they continue to do so no matter what it may cost. The final result will be that they will reach an understanding with any side which will assure them a share in power. But the mujahed people of Afghanistan will be fearful of and concerned about it. I think these leaders do not have much time. Either they have to move . tqward a right direction or history will blame them heavily.
 '(3) DR. ABDUL HAKIM TABIBI:
 QUESTION: As you may know, the AIG has turned down the proposals of an advisory delegation and not consider them effective. What is your view?
 ANSWER:  I believe that the esteemed
 readers of the Mujahed Wolus and the people of Afghanistan are very well aware of the mode of thinking and objectives of the Peshawar based mujaheddin organizations and the advisory commission also knew very well in advance about the possible reaction of a number of the AIG members.However, you and your readers ought to known that the advisory delegation had neither an executive organization nor
  it was in possession of arms and money to implement its proposals. They offered what is best for the interest of Afghanistan ... If the AIG considers the proposal offered by the advisory delegation at this sensitive moment of our jehad as insufficient, it should offer its own , alternatives in'' conformity with the aspirations of our oppressed people. They should do this without arrogance and selfishness as responsible individuals in the* eyes of Almighty God and people.
  EDITORIAL:   ... While the political
  condition of our country is faced with acute problems,         the situation
  previaling in the AIG too is not satisfactory and many experts compare the AIG to a sick man neither dead nor living. Ironically in the meetings of the consultative body all the- friends, whether guests or hosts, could not reach any Agreement on ways to end the crisis. This puts Our entire jehad and political forces to ridicule. The right thing to have, done was that under the complicated political circumstances. We should have raised the level of our capacity for accommodation, and should have sought an equitable Islamic solution for our problem to be able to frustrate all sorts of plots and conspiracies.
                                                                     -e-i
   SEPTEMBER
          17
 EDITORIAL: (by Khalilullah Mobeen)
 The Afghan inujaheddin, on, the basis of the Article,; 14 of the Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations,
 124
 t
 \
JULY - SEPTEMBER.
VOL.3 NO.4
 have migrated to Pakistan. Furthermore, the Afghans have a right to seek refuge in Pakistan owing to Islamic brotherly rights and national affinities* It will never be possible to create divisions in the deeply rooted brotherly ties between the Afghan refugees and mujaheddin and the people of Pakistan on the basisV of international collusions hatched by some elements in the form of an insulting declaration. Because the Afghan refugees have tendered more than one million martyrs for achieving a special him and the enemy^ has been inflicted with $    83,363,340,000 loss
 for this very reason. These refugees have not come here to receive Rs 3,300 arid 300 kilograms of wheat and simply return to their homes by dumping these and their households goods in a truck. The declaration made by the United.. Nations in regard to the. refugee repatriation is indeed tantamount to a riducle of the Afghan nation. The Afghan people is not a dishonorable nation to foresake their principles in return for ’300 kilos of weight and simply return from Pakistan to Afghanistan*' The UN declaration has indeed insulted the causes of our migeratipn because the Russian puppet government in Kabul is still in power, t^e mujaheddin are continuing their jjbhad against that government and no international agreement has been achieved in regard to the Afghanistan issue and, therefore, there is no reason for the Afghans to return home. Which country can guarantee peace and security in Afghanistan and can say that bloodshed has stopped? Those who ‘ have taken the decision on the return of Afghan refugees, have no other purpose . than to deliver them to the butchers of the Najib regime and massacre them, their children and families, to create furher divisions, and disunity among the Afghans and to cause tension among the refugees and mujaheddin as well* as to create
disillusionment among the refugees in regard to international assistance. It is also aimed at disillusioning the Afghans from the sympathy which Has prevailed among the Pakistani brothers for them. The other, major aim of this UN declaration is to collect the ration cards in return for this amount of money and pretend that so many refugees have accepted voluntarily the Najib rule by returning to Afghanistan and thus to find another pretext for legitimizing the puppet regime.;."
Payam-e-Islam
     EDITORIAL:  Insisting on the military
     solution of the Afghan problem, it expresses the following opinion regarding elections:
         At this juncture, every Afghan, whether inside or outside the country, asks the question that: why the'capital city and the main cities of our motherland are under the control of our enemy i.e. the Russian-installed regime, end why. this government, born out pf foreign occupation, has-Hseen''able to continue in office? Is it possible to topple the Kabul regime through elections? Will the various parties accept the result of elections, whatever it may be? If they do not accept, how could its consequences be assessed? should the electipns be held before the fall of the regime or after . its downfall? Under the present political and military circumstances in which a crisis of non-confidence and dissatisfaction prevails and the bi-polar , politic-military atmosphere casts dark shadows on the horizon of: peace and tranquility and the red and black international imperialism have conspired to strike at the roots of
 125
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 Islam and the ideology of Afghan jehad in order to delete the name of Islam • from the future policy of this country, they are more than .ever Reeling it necessary to create an aura ' of deceptive activity, futile exercizes and making the refugees and the mujaheddin busy in disputable and confusing programs of elections by fanning fresh frictions. Hence at this point an all-out political and military coordination in the battlefield as well as the politicaT scene       seems      essential.      A
 comprehensive and honest unity among the forces of jehsd, which compelled the invincible Red Afmy to an ignominous retreat, can surely topple its offspring and throw it out of “the political scene of bur homeland. During the course of any struggle and revolution,v when the counter-revolutionary regime has not fallen apart and the: society has not been cleared of ■its debris, elections, have not been held ‘and cannot be held. But if it is held, it will have no other, result than in-fighting, political disputes \ and inter-party skirmishes.
 Payam-Q- Shohada
 ROUNDTABLE: Last week the Editor of the newspaper had arranged a gathering for several mujaheddin commanders who had come to Peshawar - from Afghanistan and, on this occasion, he interviewed them in a roundtable. "Ustad Khrosh, responsible for mujaheddin cultural affairs in Kabul, said, during the past 11 years, the Kabul puppet regime has not only subjected the Afghan countryside, to shamefull and cruel attacks, but Kabul city, too, has been scene of destructive activities by the Kabul regime and- one can say without hesitation that the Muslim people' of this city have been subjected "to moire psycological an4T physical torture
 than the rest of the country. Because the Pul-e-Charki inmates., who have been interrogated under great deal of pressure and tortured With most advanced gadgets, have been mostly'the Kabul city Muslims. Outside Kabul there has been only face-to-face battles but inside the city there has been both face-to-face battles staged by the mujaheddin and ever-increasing suppres-^ sion. The Muslim and God-worshiping people of Kabul city have developed an extreme sense of hatred and pessimism against the khalqis, Parchamis and all other anti-Isiamic groups and they will never allow them to have a say in their future.;
     Sakhi Mohammad MeSbah, a.
 Harakat-e-Enqelab-erlslami< commander from : Parwan was asked why is it that the Russian were’forced to retreat from Afghanistan but their puppets still dinged to power? He said, during the Russian presence in Afghanistan the mujaheddin were somewhat coordinated and were able to defeat the Russians with unified attacks and operations. However, after the Russian retreat• there have been lack of cohesion and unity among the mujaheddin forces and this has been the main cause for the continuety of the puppet regime. But God willing, the mujaheddin will finally coordinate themselves in order to topple the atheist regime. ^
                          Payam-e-Jehad
                               AUGUST
 INTERVIEW: His Eminence Ayatullah
 Sajedi, member -of the Central Council of Harakat-e-Islami, who had sometimes back .=• visited the _ interior of Afghanistan, after his return from his journey, said in an interview: "The
 object of our visit to the interior was primarily connected with the martyrdom of the —• Commander Al-Haaj. Sayyed Ibrahim Husaini and h-is six
126
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 DIGHflNJHIAO
 companions. The matter whs thoroughly' discussed and, thank God, the case was decided and five of his assasins were sentenced to death and executed. They were: (1) Raza Khedri,   (2) Abdul
 Ghaffar, (3) Abdul Qadeer Azimi, (4) Khodadad Sarsafaid and . (5) Mohammad Murad. Four persons -- Haji Tahwildar Azimi, - Mohammad Naeem Mohammadi,
 Karbalai „Mursd Ali and Raees Imam Ali --were sentenced to> life imprisonment. Some others were sentenced to 1-5 years of jail. The verdicts were issued by 11 distinguished judges and religious scholars of Bamian and some other provinces.
                           Shah i <1 SEPTEMBER 1
 REPORT: A grand function was held
 recently with the initiative of the Institute of Diplomacy of the Hezb-e-Islami for the distribution of the certificates of- the first group of graduates - of that Institute in the premises of the Institute at Hayatabad., Abdul Karim Mphajerzad, the deputy, of the Political Affairs Department pf the Hezb said, /"the formation > of the Institute of Diplomacy in ' the framework of thie AIG Foreign Ministry was a good manifestation of the sincerity of the Hezb-e-islami towards that government. Unfortunately the leaders of the, AIG did not. carry their
               i *
 promises and the Hezb had to leave the AIG an^l go ahead with the affairs of the Institute by itself".
 * Labib, a Teacher of the institute,in answer to a question by the reporter of Shahid, said, "the Institute of Diplomacy was established as a training center in legal and political affairs in the framework of the AIG because the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, to which the affairs of that Ministry was assigned,
                                                                                     vol.3 no.4
 wanted to establish a scholarly center for the training of our youth interested in political and legal affairs in the light of -Islamic law. and politics. I can say with pride now that, the majority of the students have finished their four year course in one year in the fields of international relations and public law and the best proof of our claim is the good results obtained from the examinations given to
 REPORT; : The historical 'seminar of the military commanders of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan held 12 July, concluded successfully» It was inaugurated with the recitation of verses from the .Holy Quran. Then Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, spoke on the seminar's agenda and threw light on the present conditions of jehad. Later all of the participants Expressed their opinion on the subjects under discussion with complete freedom. All the commanders stressed the importance of continuing the jehad till the downfall of the puppet Najib regime and the establishment of an elected Islamic government and rejected all kinds of political deals or compromise with the satanic powers.
 ♦Five hundred members, of the Supervisory /Council, ' after some ; internal differences, (with the Council) joined 20 July the ranks of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan. According to .a report received from the Baharak district, Badakhshan, as a result of the skirmishes,one of the commanders of the group — Aref — was killed and two of his colleagues joined the government militia. Subsequently, 500 armed men joined the ranks of Hezb-e-Islami. They were led by Commander Sayyed
127
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfGHAN JIHAD
All Khan, controller of the Omar bln Abdul Aziz Front and the center of the district, Baharak, was conquered*
                       Shoora
                    SEPTEMBER
                            23
EDITORIAL: "The Afghans and the Talks
Between the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister" "...The talks held between the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister on Afghanistan can be supported only if they confirm with the principles of the self-determination of the Afghan nation and allow the mugaheddin to play the major role in the future society of Afghan nation, because it is the mujaheddin who are the true representatives of the Afghan nation and, therefQre, their role should be taken into account in determining the fate of the Afghan nation. Our people and the mujaheddin have , always condemned those circles and countries, which have not taken into account this basic principle. The Geneva talks and also the dialogues held so far between the US and Soviet Union on the Afghan issue have been condemned for this very reason by the people of Afghanistan. The Supervisory Council of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan,.which is acting as a gigantic obstacle against world oppression and imperialism, resolutely rejects any unrealistic and treacherous measure adopted by others in relation to the restoration of the right of thS self-determination of the Afghan people. The Supervisory Council considers this as its responsibility and historical role vis-a-vis the Afghan Islamic jehad and for the support of the aspirations of the Muslim people of Afghanistan. Any act contrary to these wishes will be condemned as a treason against the people of Afghanistan.
                                                                       VOL.3 no.4
                                 Shahadat
                                      JUNE
                                        27
 REPORTAGE; Mr. Abdul Ali Mazari, spokesman of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami Afghanistan said in a press conference at the’ Intercontinental Hotel in Peshawar that his organization is composed of the alliance of Iran-based Afghan mujaheddin's nine parties. Explaining his' proposed plan, he remarked that independent parties and individuals are eligible to enlist themselves, as candidates for the future elections and later the parties can send their representatives to the a (national) assembly on the basis of the proportion of their votes ... We are in favor of such elections in which all the people, including men and women should participate . . * He stressed the need for the< formation of a Council, of Leaders of tne big and-small parties of Afghanistan and added that efforts are on foot for persuading all the party leaders to sit together and to discuss the plans presented to them so that they may be able to propose a united plan for elections as well as suggest a solution to our problems.
           f      _            . *
           \ ■
   The Hezb-e-Wahdat plan has the following main points:
 (i)  Stress    on proportionate
 representation;
 (ii) emphasis on general elections and rejection of plans opposed to the holding of elections;
 (iii) underscoring the importance of population proportion as the basis of elections as well as the plans insisting oh the earlier regional constituencies (stet);
 (iv) the need for a just and reliable observer.
128
JULY - SEPTEMBER» 1990 wMIJHWB ________________________ VOL.3 NO.4
     The Wahdat Party is opposed to the aspects of jehad and threw light on the
candidature of Najib and members of the   importance of imparting education to
 Khalq Party (as mentioned in the original text of the organ of Wahdat Party) in the coming elections.
 REPORTAGE:    Brother Hekmatyar during a
 speech 2 July, 1990, in the Imam Shabani Mosque at Nasrat Maina prior to tfie offering of Eid prayers said:   We
 should cut off the hands . extended to violate the sovereignty of our country and to interfere in our internal affairs ... When the Americans understood that the Russians are going to be defeated and they cannot Ifulfill this promise that during the retreat they would save the Russian convoys from      hostile      attacks,     the
 signing of the Geneva accords was postponed and ten days before that the Ojhri Camp ammunition depot exploded and for eight months after that all aid to the mujaheddin was stopped ... At this moment the plane carrying Martyr £iaul . flaq and his colleagues exploded in the air because he was not prepared to accept. American conditions ... This revolution now has such faithful and self-less sons who would defend it with their blood and their lives. Therefore it is not a joke to play with the destiny of this revolution. Those who dare to do so will, God willing, be doomed to failure ... The government will be formed by those 'who actively participated in our jehad ...
                 11
 REPORT^:   A . three day . Seminar of
 Teachers and Students of the Nangarhar Province was held          22    June at
 Ghond-e-Zafat Camp of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan ... Fazl-e-Haq, Commander of the Ghond-e-Zaf^r (Victory Brigade) recounted the academic and practical
   the younger generation and the role of the teachers in this regard under the present conditions of jehad, and referred to the significance and value of such seminars .., The participants discussed extensively the direction of the jehad* regional situation, conspiracies of the East and the West against the jehad, problems of the future Islamic Afghanistan and the value of education for the cause of the jehad ^ and the holding of useful saminars. The participants included members of the Executive Council of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, a number of other officials, elders and representatives of teachers and professors of Nangarhar.
                                            25
   MESSAGE: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami in a message,addressed to the leaders of jehad^has said, "It is necessary that, keeping in view the delicacy of the situation and the dangerous conspiracies of the enemies of Islam as . well as bur great moral responsibilities towards the oppressed and struggling Afghan nation, we ought to set aside personal and partisan interests based on narrow-mindedness and unitedly try to find ways and means of solving the crisis^ putting an end to the war and restore peace and establish an Islamic government. We should forget the past and open a new chapter of * friendship, understanding and cooperation among ourselves. We should shun mud-slinging against each Other and, for the sake of finding ways and means of unity and methods of solving our problems emerging from mutual differences and alien interventions, with a cool and calculating mind in an atmosphere of brotherhood and without any preconditions or mental reservatiorisf sit together as independent and
129
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfGHUHJtHllD                                                  VOL.3 NO.4
  brotherly parties and discuss our problems. We ought to mobilize all our energies for J the defeat of the puppet Kabul regime. We should avoid involving ourselves in unwarranted activities such as the formation . of a . government-in-exile and* instead* for the s»ke of ensuring the security of the liberated regions* we should establish joint local offices and competent courts and postpone the issue of the formation of a central government till the downfall of the Najib regime. At present* we should be: ^contented with the formation of a leadership council composed of the leaders of dynamic parties. This council would take a final decision about the establishment of a council representing the entire nation and in connection with the formation of a government with the participation of all the jehad forces in proportion with their power*.- effectiveness and influence ... All of us should agree to a joint strategy for the downfall of the Najib regime and all the party leaders ought to go to the interior in order to control and supervise their fronts in the joint operations.
                              AUGUST
                                      8
  REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
  the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in an inaugural speach in a 3-day Teachers' seminar at Sa'd-bin-Qaiss School in .Nasrat Maina stated: "We need teachers
  who are not only aware of the conditions of the present time but to be able to know their enemies and their jplots and* should . also be intelligent and wise* with full faith and devotion to religion, with expertize in and a capability to fight' against the enemy and educate and discipline students in the same manner. Great revolutionary leaders were at one time or another Serving as teachersr in small schools.
 L A- successful teacher would be a successful leader of nation too. An unsuccessful teacher cannot be a successful leader of a nation".
                 10
 REPORT;     Hekmatyar,    leader of
 Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, ih his inaugural , address to the opening session of the Central council of^ Hezb-e-Islami 2 July* stated:   "The super-
 powers have connived to form a temporary    government     comprising
 personalities acceptable to both the parties in the dispute, in place of the Najib regime ‘.and then hold general elections under the supervision of this government and' the UN and in this elections the PDPA, which has now changed its name* charter and program and will be henceforth known as Watan Party and not as Communist party* would also participate .y. They face some big problems in the implementation of this plan. The first problem is that if aid is stopped to the parties concerned, the Najib regime may not survive even for a couple of days ... But if aid is given only to Najib, the credibility of the parties concerned would be damaged on the international level ... And in case they change the Najib government into a neutral government, the situation may get out of their control and the mujaheddin would have an upper hand, because ' the other side has no strong personality nor any effective party with its roots deep down among the,/nation enjoying public support ... On ... the other hand* it would be impracticable to form a coalition government between Najib and the groups dependent on the USA because such a government* including the communist elements, would not be acceptable to the people of Afghanistan . .... It appears that the only personality at their disposal fpr such a purpose is no one else than Zaher Shah. However* Zaher Shah has not only grown old but
                                                130
                                                          /
JULY * SEPTEMBER* 1990 BfGIIAfl JIHAD
 doe8 not have the courage also to return to Afghanistan and he has repeatedly said that he would come only in ease there is no opposition ... The circles favoring Zaher shah ,are weak and ineffective an$ hence cannot form a strong and viable government for him. It appears that actually Moscow and Washington had colluded on this point even before the signing of the Geneva Accord and they, had tfLanned that the <Najib regime should not be overthrown immediately on the heals of the withdrawing Soviet troops .from Afghanistan and therefore the war should continue for some time and for this purpose Moscow had supplied the SCUD misileS' and other advanced weapons to Najib ... On the other hand,
 supplies to the mujaheddin were stopped ... When the supplies were resumed, they were very limited and subject to the condition that it        should   be
 delivered directly to the commanders. The purpose was to end the role of the jehad organizations so* they lose their credibility among the people, and should not survive as organized and effective forces and a state of feudalism prevail in Afghanistan so! the vested interests may be able to select and arm their favorite commanders and personalities ... In the meantime, the vested interests wanted that ethnic jirgahs’should be formed arid thus the powers of popular leadership be transformed from the parties to these’ jirgas. Similarly the commanders, being directly and generously assisted by the West, ought to be organized and prompted to hold meetings and'-jirgahs and these assemblies and jirgas may be used against the parties and it should be propagated that they are faced with deadlock and the parties are unable to break the deadlock, the nation is tired of war, the parties cannot overthrow Najib and hence the commanders have to take the initiative. and break the deadlock. These ethnic jirgas and the meetings and organization of commanders
                                                                                       VOL.3 NO.4
 too were parts of the same plan ... The formation of loya jirgah at Kabul and at the same time at Peshawar was for the purpose of forming broad-based governments at Kabul and Peshawar £nd later on with the unity and integration of both the governments, a broderbaged government would come into being in which the role of the mujaheddin would be minimum and this government would then' replace the Najib regime and finally would be .. changed into a permanent government < to         hold
 elections at an appropriate time. The plan was not secret, in the first instance, and the Americans had stated it explicitly but now it needs more explanation.
                                                15
 EDITORIAL: ... The Russians, who after
 committing all sorts of crimes and playing all kinds of tricks could not defeat the mujaheddin, have now sent their so-called goodwill mission, under the pretext* of ensuring the release of the POWs. But at the same time they want     to             prepare. the
 ground for negotiations so that a so-called honorable way might be found to stop their interference in Afghanistan and in the meantime the other .Russian satellites may not feel indignation regarding, the compromisory attitude of Kremlin. For this reason, two days ago a five-member Russian delegation led by Andronov, member of Parliament and Chairman of the International Relations Commission of the Supreme Soviet, arrived in Peshawar to discuss the release of the Russian POWs with the leaders of the jehad groups.     This     delegation    had
 meetings with some of the leaders end groups. While meeting with Eng. Hekmatyar, the Hezb-e-Islami leader, they handed over the message of Boris 'Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation, to 'him, inviting him to visit Russia for face to face and direct talks. ( Yeltsin has assured that
131
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 he would continue his efforts for opening the door to direct talks with the mujaheddin. The Russian delegation regretted that the Kremlin, authorities are still sending arms to the Kabul regime. They assured the mujaheddin that, in case the Russian POWs are released, they would pressure-Gorbachev to stop supporting the Kabul regime and . supplying arms to it. Although the leadership of the Hezb-e-Islami has not yet‘ shown any reaction to the invitation of the President of the Russian Federation, however, it has to be mentioned that the mujaheddin should not become a victim of super power rivalries and horse-trading and should pursue the noble ideals of the revolution with • vigilance and intelligence, because the super powers have rarely given a positive response to the demands and noble ideals of the Muslims on the negotiating table.
                                              22
 ARTICLES: "The Gulf crisis Overshadows
 the Middle East Crisis" (By Izami)
     "...It is quite obvious that, as the military occupation of Kuwait by Iraq is not justifiable, the 40 years' aggression of Israel against Arab territories, the occupation of the regions of neighbouring states of Israel, the military aggression of Iraq against Iran, the military aggression of Israel "against Lebanon, the military aggression of Syria against Lebanon, the US military intervention against Lybia and the US military support of Israel and, finally, the military US intervention in Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates are also to be condemned. International imperialism, spearheaded by the United States and Russia, has unified its policies against the Muslims and they intend to put one Islamic state against the other and, under the. pretext of maintaining peace, land their forces in Muslim territories so
in this way they may be able to quel the rising power of the Muslims and frustrate their aspirations and occupy their lands".
   SEPTEMBER
            12
REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a speech  8 September   in  the
imam-e-Mohammad Shaibani in the Nasrat Maina about the responsibilities of the officials of the party and current jehad events said, "God willing, in the forthcoming Hezb elections, from
800,000 to one million people will take part. Those brethren who want to prove that they have votes, fear they have freedom and courage to dispute the Hezb decisions and resort to propoganda in the outside and do not care that they might be asked for their behaviour. This is recklessness, it is an irrelevant courage, this not a sign of sincerity and nor it is befitting of a wise person. If anyone wants the Hezb to remain intact and wants to remain in the party, he should refrain from such moves, remarks and analysis aimed at fanning dispute in the party ... "We are 'trying to forge unity in the party. Any one who infuses hatred, pessimism and animosity in the party, he is a friend of the Satan and is a big enemy of the Hezb. A party can. exist only when it has a leader and then that leader is obeyed. Some arrogant people, who’ claim to be senior member of the party and have joined it in 1969 or before that, have always been factors for lack of discipline. Such arrogant veterans are of no use for the movement and for the party .'. ." To separate two persons from each other is very easy. It is also easy to spread the seeds of animosity and greed among two persons and such things are the deeds of those people who follow the character of
132
VOL.3 NO.4
JULY r SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHANlIMMI
 animals. Let us bring the hearts of the people together and forge unity, brotherhood and love among ,us. We will fight with might divisions, in the party.
                       Subh-e-Pairuzee
                              JUNE
            24
 ARTICLES: "The Idea of the Formation of a Loya Jirgah composed of elected Men of Wisdom; Its Preliminaries and Consequences." (By Dr.' Abdul Hai).
 "... Unfortunately nowadays some of the people and certain societies have forgotten or ignored the Islamic polity. They think that political activity means expansion of party influence, promotion of personality cult, undermining the strength of rival parties, initiating a publicity hoak and indulging in demagogy ... It’goes without saying that the success of political activity ultimately leads to the formation of a single administrative political and military, unit, either in the shape of a government or an organization, because, in the absence of such an arrangem'ent, the management of affairs cannot take place in the best manner we can think of... Existence of a single and harmonious leadership cadre, protects the jehad against foreign interventions and forestalls any deviation from it
   ft
 tt*
                                 27
 EDITORIAL: "The AIG on the threshold of Total Victory." "... As proposed by the , AIG President and with the consent 6f the entire AIG cabinent members, Afghan dignitaries who served as highly placed officials in the previous governments in Afghanistan and have been supporting the mujaheddin cause since the
 beginning of the Islamic jehad of Afghanistan, have been invited from different countries of the world so that, as Afghan Muslim scholars, they may put forward reasonable suggestions, at this critical juncture of the Islam jehad of their Islamic nation, which .may yield positive results and in,the meantime , be acceptable to the jehad forces. Seeking advice from the brothers invited to this get-together does not mean that the forces of jehad are incapable of taking decisions but is a' proof of the broad-mindedness of the jehad leadership and ' the authorities of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan ..."
                                               28
 EDITORIAL:  • "The Khalq   and  Parcham
 Congress     Endorse the Kremlin
 Decisions." The Khalq      and  Parcham
 Congress, which earlier met in 1964, during Zaher Shah's reign, at the residence of Taraki, the leaders of this heretic group, has     now after 26
 years once more lield’ a meeting in Kabul 27 June, v 1990. Seven hundred to 850 delegates representing       173,000
 members of the Khalq and Parcham group participated in this congress ... The delegates in the Congress moved the following so-called resolutions which included       the         comprehensive
 reconstruction of Khalq and Parcham, performance of duties according to the new political charter, acquainting the Khalq and Parcham members with the contents' of the new charter and persuading the people to support their deceptive national reconciliation plan. But the inujahed Afghan nation has been a witness to the fact during the last 25 years, and particularly the past 12 years,,      the servants of Kremlin
 could not change the real essence of this intrigue by deceptive propaganda and other tactics. Similarly its heretic and infidel nature could not be altered. Therefore all these plots and efforts by the infidels have been
133
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfGHAN JfHAD
 rejected by the religiously faithful
 Afghan nation and is not acceptable to
 them. This incompetent Congress has
 approved a deceptive Kremline plan
 saying that in solvoing political
 problems of today and tomorrow in
 Afghanistan, national interests are
 to be put above party or class
 interests and it advocates a
 democratic system for the society
 under which social groups and forces-
 will enjoy equal rights. But each and
 every Afghan has personally witnessed
 and is witnessing that the heretic
 Khalq and Parcham groups have not only
 sacrificed national and social
 interests of Afghanistan for the
 appeasement of Kremlin and for
 protecting its interests but have 0 ' destroyed the society and the people of
 Afghanistan too. They have martyred
 hundreds of 1 thousands of innocent
 Muslims and thousands of other
 simple-minded and misled persons have
 lost their lives for being entangled in
 the deadly snare of communism and this
 drama is still continuing in full force*
 Therefore the baseless .claims of this
 .infidel group in front of a vigilant
 and intelligent nation is nothing but a
 confession of their idiocy.
                                           JULY
                    1
 REPORT:    Mohammad Aref Gharwal,
 Chairman of the Historic Society of the Ministry of Information, speaking about the activities of this society in ah interview, said:   The Historic Society
 is of the view that,.side by side with recording the various aspects of the Afghan people's life, an account of the recent jehad activities of the crusading Afghan nation should also be specially transcribed ... The Publication Division of the Historic Society publishes a quarterly journal "Afghanistan"      regularly.       Its
 publication has started since the 21st
VOL.3 NO.4
 March this year ( the first day of the Afghan New Year) ... Lately we have commissioned .some groups inside Afghanistan and also inside the refugee camps in Pakistan to transcribe the events of 12 years of jehad and another team has been assigned to collect all the material recorded in magazines and books regarding Afghanistan ... Our activities are objective and the name of any organization will not be mentioned. We will never ignore the forces engaged in the sectors of the Afghan jehad and have decided- that the struggles of all those engaged in jehad against the Russians will be duly appreciated and acknowledged.
                11
 REPORT:    Ayaz     Ahmad    Masood,
 Commander of Offensive Group, Khost Divis'ion, said to a MIDIA correspondent at Miranshah that in the Khost division all the jehad commanders were united and enjoyed brotherly relations. They had formed two councils to organize and conduct military operations, one of which is.a military council. This Council is convened during military operations with the participation of all the commanders. The other council of the Khost Division of mujaheddin holds its session once a week in order to deal with the problems of the refugees and the mujaheddin. Both the councils function under the supervision of Mawlawi Haqqani .... Whatever the mujaheddin take from the enemy as war booty, is handed over to the head-quarters of jehad council so that it may be distributed among the deserving people, in the light of the council's decision.
                15
 REPORT:  The • Primary and Secondary
 Teachers' Training Seminar was inaugurated by Dr.Parooq Azam, the AIG Education Minister in the prjemises of
134
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfGHAN JEHAD
 Omar Sani College (date not mentioned). While addressing the teachers, he said: The country has been ruined. The conditions of teachers and the people are very bad. People have ^ bcome shelterless and . destitute. My colleagues and I; are in charge of a devastated department, . Some students approach us for arranging higher studies for them. But we do not have any kind of standard to evaluate the academic claims of such persons. No previous governments were faced with such difficulties but we have resolved to rehabilitate this ruined institution despite the difficulties facing us in this field. We will keep in mind the priorities in this respect and that is, first of all restore the dignity of the teachers ... He' added: You are the masters of the future and the sons of the nation. You should train and bring up the children in the Islamic way of life and should have a sense of responsibility for the destiny of the nation ... We have decided to root out the corrupt elements and remove the sense of indifference. He described the teachers as candles who, by burning themselves, provide light to their surroundings.                '     ,
              \ . -He further said that because this is the first ever seminar, it has many defects. In the future we will provide, all the required facilities to the teachers to enable them to carry on their educational mission. We have shortage of experienced teachers. Some of the seasoned teachers have been martyred or separated from us due to the difficult circumstances • At present most of the teachers are not acquainted with the academic principles of • teaching. By holding such seminars, we desire to raise the educational standard and to point out the academic guidelines for: teaching. Now it is up to the teachers to devote their entire energies to raise the level of education in the country. '
                                                                                 VOL.3 no.4
                18
 REPORTAGE: Prof. Sayyaf,.the AIG Prime
 Minister,, addressing the participants of a Training and Organization Commission for the Afghan Provincial Centers 10 July, said:    Conducting
 teaching programs for this commission is tantamount to worship and is a service to Islam and equivalent to a valuable capital in the lives of those who take part in them. Recently the topic which had attracted the attention of the people, was the arrival of a number of personalities from the West to Pakistan. These are the personalities whose list of names is always found in the pockets of the Americans and were considered as neutrals and were consulted with regard to the political solution of our problem. They, on their turn, had warned the world that the- mujaheddin and the leaders of the jehad could not deliver the goods. Fortunately these people have been disillusioned and. returned disappointed. They could discern from our reactions that the people of Afghanistan no longer liked them.
               25
 REPORT: The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, received a number of the commanders, elders and. senior citizens of the Chahardehi district in Kabul province at the headquarters of the Islamic State Presidency 10.00 a.m. 22 July. The people of Chahardehi brought their ;jehad difficulties and their social problems to his notice and thanked the AIG for paying attention to these issues. On the other hand. Prof. Mujaddedi urged them to establish mutual unity and consent and form local councils and other unions and take advantage of the assistance provided by various organs of the AIG. He added, "The AIG has been established as a result of the elections held by your
135
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
Consultative Assembly. You should set aside all your differences, whether individual or political, which create obstacles in the path of the jehad undertaken by the Afghan people. All of us ought to work honestly in the direction of our country*s independence and the overthrow of the wretched communist system ...
                  29
REPORT:  The AIG President Sebghatullah
Mujaddedi received a delegation of the Central Asian Muslims led by Mufti Mohammad Sadeq. The group had arrived
in Pakistan 25 July. While speaking to them, Mujaddedi' said, "The future government and leadership of Afghanistan would establish good
relations with all the neighbouring countries in the light of our Islamic principles and it is not possible that the future mujaheddin government of
Afghanistan may have any intention of transgressing the rights of our neighbours or making any aggressive move against their territories".
     During the meeting, leader of the Russian Muslims delegation recounted the tyrannies and hardships suffered by the Muslims in Afghanistan during the last 10 years with grief and regret. He praised the jehad efforts of the Afghans and eulogized the blessings and glory o’f Islam ... The delegation prayed for the souls of the martyrs of Afghanistan who laid down their lives
for defending their religion and their homeland. The Russian Muslim delegation described the difficulties of the Afghan problem as a calamity for the entire world by Islam and promised that they would leave no stone unturned for solving this problem and would recount the tyrannies suffered by the Afghan nation to the Russian leaders.
                                AUGUST
               1
 INTERVIEW: Engineer Ahmad shah, the AIG Minister of Communication,, has said in an interview with the newspaper that if all the jehad forces do not get together for countering the current state of affairs, the consequences would be very tragic and painful.
     In response to a question that Hekmatyar has proposed .the jehad forces should establish a new leadership council without any pre-conditions, some committees may amalgamate and form a competent judicial commission to solve the mutual difficulties of the mujaheddin, he said: "We welcome the
 proposal of Mr. Hekmatyar for creating a joint and effective leadership within the framework of the government because, from our point of view, government is a •whole' and the parties constitute 'parts' of it. But to say that,instead of the government, some sort of new alliance or coalition should come into being, I think the chances of success of this kind of process would be very slim".
               5
 EDITORIAL: "Refugee Repatriation: An
 anti-Afghan Jehad Conspiracy has been Completely . Frustrated" ... The entire world is a witness to the fact that the UN, in order to appease the enemies of the Afghan jehad, brazenfacedly and very shamelessly ignoring the 12 year old jehad and the unprecedented sacrifices of the. Muslim people of Afghanistan,, conspirated to chalk out the repatriation of the refugees contrary to the interests of our jehad and put it into practice. Although, in pursuence of their sinister design, they promised to give some worthless-aid and started a misleading propaganda about a flimsy peace and tried to woo
136
 VOL.3 NO.4
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
 Pakistan government too, in order to achieve a concrete result, by the grace of God, as the world has seen, this anti-Islamic jehad plot dashed to the ground in such a scandalous manner that out of more than six million refugees even one per one thousand was not ready to return under unfavorable circumstances and to push their wives and children into the flaming fire of war. The reason is that the Muslim Afghan people can easily distnguish between the conspiracies of the enemies and the objects of Islamic jehad, in the light of their religious and ideological vision. In the meantime, they are proudly ready to shed their own' blood and to suffer all sorts of hardships to reach their Islamic goal • • •
                                                8
 REPORT: A) Conference on Intellectual
 Growth and Education was held 9 August by the Department of Publicity and Enlightenment. Religious scholars and •intellectuals spoke in the gathering. Prof. Naimatullah Shehrani in a speech said, "the aim of laying the foundation of education and training for the sake of intellectual development under the present circumtances is to speed up the training process of our youth and children in the environment of migration as well as inside Afghanistan. A child is a divine trust whose upbringing and education 'is, in the first place, the responsibility of the parents and the Islamic government. Therefore our Educational Foundation firmly believes that henceforth Muslim children of our country, with pure, good and Islamic '' spirit, should be rescued from the onslaughts of enemies of Islam and educated under the guidance of Islamic thought and spirit".
      Prof. Shehrani spoke at length about the valuable importance of the education of the youth and the children
 and expressed his sorrow about the displacement and education of the Afghan Muslim children in Russia.
                12
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, leader of the
 Jamiat-e-Islami, speaking in the OIC meeting, said:   "It was due to the
 patience and perseverance of the heroic Afghan nation and the generous aid of the Islamic countries        that   the
 occupying Russian forces were defeated and positive and unbelievable changes occurred throughout the world ... We have strongly supported       the jehad
 movements of 'the heroic Palestinian nation, Eritoria and the Kashmiris and all the constructive and honest activities ’for the freedom of the occupied Muslim lands         ...  Your
 conference coincides with.a sensitive period of history and even now our world is witness to significant historical changes and unbelievable events which were beyond imaginaton. For instance, the disruption of communism, fall of the communist regimes in Eastern Europe, fall of the Berlin Wall, re-unification of the two parts of Germany and Other recent events and developments ...Our nation has collectively decided that it would never allow the puppet regime ’ of the professional hangmen — the Communist Khalq Party to rule our destiny and hence we will continue our jehad till
the establishment of an Islamic 
government,                     
               15               
 REPORT: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, met with the delegation of the Russian POWs’ mothers 11 August. The delegation was led by Andronov, member of the Russian’ Parliament and Secretary of the World Peace Mission. The delegation vehemently condemned the Russian intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and called it an inhuman act. They added that the
137
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 Russian rulers , should stop helping Najib and the puppet regime. The AIG President, addressing the delegation, said: "The  people pf Afghanistan have
 given more than one million martyrs during their jehad against the Russians. A large number have been disabled and a prosperous Afghanistan has been turned into shambles". As regards the Russian POWs, he said: "All those mujaheddin POWs who have been imprisoned by the Russians and their puppet regime for the crime of freedom loving .ought to be exchanged with the Russian POWs so that the problem of the POWs may be solved".
                                               22
 INTERVIEW:   Noor Mohammad Taqaddusi,
 spokesman of . the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan, who has shifted the center of the council to Peshawar, has made the following remakrs in a press interview, for removing the existing deadlock regarding the Afghan problem:
      (a)       Giving a practical shape to an agreement signed between Mr. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, and the representatives of the Islamic Coalition Council in Teheran;
      (b)       Forming a Supreme Military Council inside the country and intensifying armed struggles and paying serious attention to the difficulties and demands of the mujaheddin;
      (c)       Desisting from- party, group and, personal hegemony and making efforts for ensuring the just and fair targets of the Islamic revolution;
      (d)  In connection with the Islamic
 countries:   Preserving the original
 stand of Muslim countries regarding the righteous jehad of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and declaring loyalty and support to the fundamental aims of the
 jehad ...
      He added, the motivation of bringing about a comprehensive understanding with the parties based in Peshawar, is one of the reasons for the shifting of the central office of the Coalition Council to Peshawar.
                26
 REPORT:  An  international conference,
 under the title of "the Afghan Jehad, the difficulties, finding a solution and the role of Islamic nations", was held in the Islamabad Hotel (no date given). Khaled Khawaja, the Secretary General of the Islamic Asian Conference said "communism has been eliminated and imperialism is also nearing its end. As a result of the Afghan jehad the wind of freedom is blowing ..."
      Kamal Al-Halbawi the Counsellor of the Political Studies Institute said, "Jehad is not concerned with the freedom of only one land and territory but, before the freedbm* of any territory, Islam has emphasized freedom of mankind ..."
      Waseem Sajjad the President of Pakistan Senate said, "the Afghan jehad demonstrated to us that when a nation resolves to fight for its religious sanctities, it can surely defeat the biggest world military power ..."
      Abdul Rahman Saeed, President of the Coordination Committee of the Islamic Institutions said, "the situatin presently prevailing in the leadership ranks of the Afghan mujaheddin is tantamount to an unf orgiveable sin in the eyes of Almighty God and the Islamic Ummah . .. I urge the Afghan leadership not to loose the opportunity, the eye of the Islamic Ummah is focused upon them and they should give up animosity and dp not make lame excuses..."
138
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
 VOL.3 NO.4
    SEPTEMBER
             2
 REPORT: The- mujaheddin have captured
 the airport and the shopping center of Qala-e-Nau, the center of Badghis province. Ismaeel Khan, the Commander of mujaheddin forces in western Afghanistan, has reported that the mujaheddin, in a lightening attack on the provincial airport, have shot down two Mig aircraft which were being flown to escape the mujaheddin attacks. The pilots of both aircrafthas were killed. In this operation, 4,000 mujaheddin had participated arid now they are strengthening their positions in places they have captured. During these operations, 12 enemy personnel have defected alongwith their arms to the mujaheddin and a large number of other enemy soldier have been killed or injured. The Qala-e-Nau has been the fifth provincial center so far captured by the brave mujaheddin.
                                  5
 EDITORIAL: "Communist Traitors Cannot
 Participate in the Future Government of Afghanistan". "...If the Khalqi and Parchami rule was not acceptable to the people of Afghanistan 12 years ago because they were not Muslims and were atheist, now even their nominal participation in the future government will be unacceptable because of their treason and crimes. The Khalqis and Parchamis, in addition to being communists, atheists, apostates, sadducees, are also traitors, criminals, murderers and blood-thirsty. The Khalqi and Parchami are not acceptable to our people because they are communists, but they are considered also as the murderers of 1.5 million people of Afghanistan and destroyers of our country. They are responsible for the destruction that has taken place in
 our country during the past 12 years and they cannot have a role in the future destiny of the country. In whatever plan worked for the future of Afghanistan, providing a role for these elements will not be acceptable to the Afghan nation and will never be implemented.
                12
 REPORT: An International conference on
 the evaluation of the present situation prevailing in the Gulf was opened by Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the Prime Minister Of the AIG, in Makkah Mokarrama 10 September. The three day conference has     been    attended     by     400
 Islamic scholars and intellectual from 86 countries.
    Prof. Sayyaf in his speech said, "I wish this conference would have been opened for the sake of celebrating the freedom and independence of Quds and I wish this gathering of ours would have celebrated the freedom of Islamic territories. However, unfortunately,, the purpose for this conference is to evaluate the dire consequences of the Iraqi aggression against fraternal Kuwait. Any consequences resulting from this aggression is borne on Iraq. We are seriously urging the Islamic nation of Iraq to save the region and the Islamic world from the dangerous consequences of the action taken by the government of Iraq. The Afghan mujaheddin are ready to render any kind of sacrifices for the protection of holy places".
                19
 REPORT: The AIG President Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, after his arrival iri the Badakhs'han province, in a large meeting of ulama, spirituals, jehad commanders, mujaheddin and the people said, "My purpose for travelling inside the country is not to engage in political activities but to meet the pe’ople and
139
01689116
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 flJGH/INlllllflO
 to acquaint myself with the jehad and social conditions ... Prom the very beginning of the jehad I have been supporting my mujahed brother Ahmad Shah Masood and we have put at his disposal whatever means we bad at hand ... In my speeches I have referred to Panjsher as Hazarsher because in this valley now thousands of brave people exist. They have all been trained and brought up by Ahmad Shah Masood ... Our jehad will succeed only when the Kabul regime is toppled and in its place an Islamic government established."
  Urdu {Army)
 RKPORTi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the AIGj Minister of Defense, has s^id that
 the Kabul regime has npw hatched new conspiracies and wants to deceive the
 people. Sometimes it speaks of quitting the power and sometimes it proposes a
 coalition government. But the 'heroic nation . of Afghanistan considers the
 formation of coalition government with the communists a treason to the blood
 of the martyrs.       He    said, "world
 atheism has now decided that the
 chapter of the Afghan problem be closed and the traces of the Islamic
 government too should be eliminated. For this reason, the UN, under the pretext of repatriation of the refugees, wants to throw our honest and pious refugees at the feet of the enemy' and surrender them to the hostile
 elements but we strongly reject this UN plot and the plans of all the world of infidels and we warn them to avoid interfering in our internal problems.
                                                     vol.3 no.4
 Wahdat-e-Islami
   SEPTEMBER
            6
 PLAN: "The Way.to Salvation". After an
 introduction it says, (1) The educated and enlightened strata of the nation should be asked about the future destiny of a country so that, parallel to military efforts, a political alternative based on Islamic principles is also worked out, (2) The political significance of the illegal Kabul regime can be diminished in two ways: (a) creation of a revolutionary council in which, in addition to mujaheddin organization, other political figures also, take part, (b) establishing a broadly, based government in which, ir addition to jehad organizations, other informed Afghans are also included so that it may be' able to end the war at "a fixed period , and pave the way for elections,'(3 ) Forming such a broadly bas6d government is ah important factor at present. This government must have friendly relations with neighbouring countries in accordance , with
 international laws and protect national sovereignty of Afghanistan and serve a useful role for regional peace and security, (4) For the establishment of the new interim government, leaders of the mujaheddin, organizations should call a summit cphference so that it may evolve a comprehensive plan based on the alternative presented here and form •'the future government on the bases of that plani ' In this summit conference the mujaheddin leaders should agree to include/ well-known scholars, political figures and those having wide ranging administrative experiences so that they may /offer their advice, (5) The plan should be comprehensive enough so that neighbouring and other countries, which, are involved in the Afghanistan issue, may recognize the government
140
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 which is to be established on the basis of this plan...,(6) After the approval of this plan by the leaders of jehad, a commission should be established to carryout a number of important assignments, (7) Rules and principles should be worked out for the establishment of the future elected Islamic government of Afghanistan, (8) Our preferred view is that if the interim government is formed on the basis of standards spelled out here, it will coordinate the scattered mujaheddin military forces 7 into a
 united front and this will result in the total collapse of the Kabul regime and that regime will be replaced by an Islamic government on the basis of the choice of the Afghan Muslim and mujahed nation."
                                              22
 EDITORIAL:  "Last Efforts for the
 Toppling or Survival of the AIG are more Dangerous than the First Ones": "...The AIG has by now lasted for about two years though in a very weak
condition. However, one may ask that in the presence of such a tense political and military . situation, the Kabul communist regime,yif toppled, to what extent is it possible to replace it by an Islamic government? And whether such a government will really be able to cope with the difficulties of the transitional period while the agreements reached earlier are all very loose in nature. And whether the way to fulfill the resonsibilities is to create further dissentions?..„The obvious fact is that the only solution for all the difficulties and lack of trust, for the sake of our love to God, the Holy Prophet and the oppressed nation^ will be to render sacrifice and exhibit selflessness. However, if today this is not considered as a religious, political, historical     and
national obligation, our repentence in the future will be of no value and responsibility     for          the dire
consequences,as a punishment of God, will be on the shoulder of those who are responsible for^      the affairs of
our nation at present.
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
         :'■ AFGHAN EVENTS
JULY-SEPTEMBER 1990
142
14412776
                                                                                                                                                                               (
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flfRHflNJfHflfl VOL.3 NO.4
 ________ . _ ‘ AFGHAN
                   EVENTS
          JULY-SEPTEMBER 1990
                                        JULY
                                            1
 * In order to solve the Afghan problem a consensus among various Afghan parties is being reached and in this connection a nine-member committee has been cpnstituted by Da'aye Ittehad-e-Islami to work over the proposed formula reportedly forwarded by it. (NTN)
 * Afghan mujaheddin attacked a convoy of the Kabul regime near Charikar 29 June in Parwan province killing or wounding 140 regime soldiers and destroying 10 tanks and armored vehicles. They also set ablaze another fleet of 18 trucks loaded with wheat and put it into ashes. In retaliation the regime forces attacked civilians of Cheengi, Gulbahar, Said Khe-1 and Kaka Khei areas killing eight civilians and injuring seriously 13 others and damaging a number of houses.The mujaheddin attacked another regime convoy between Charikar and Jabul Siraj on the Salang Highway 27 June destroying five tanks and eight armored vehicles and killing all of its occupants. Six civilians were also martyred in rebuttal of the attack by the regime forces. Two mujaheddin lost their lives while four others received
 injuries in the operation. (PT)
         • , /
 * Addressing the Juma congregation in
 Shamshatu in the outskirts of Peshawar 29 June Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, urged the need for the formation of a joint Shoora and joint jehad fronts to topple Najibullah regime, reports ANA. After achieving the* primary goal of removing the regime, the Shoora will organize elections within six months, he proposed. He-observed that elections were the only way to stop groupings in mujaheddin ranks and organize them in a united body to form a powerful government according to the aspirations of the Afghan nation.
 *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said that the
 recent statement by the government of Iran for the four parties negotiations between Iran, Pakistan, mujaheddin and Najib was aimed at an indirect acceptance of the Kabul regime. He said that both Najib and Zaher Shah were national traitors and no one in Afghanistan was ready to accept a future role for them in Afghanistan. (PT)            .
 *  Ayatullah Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni in an interview with BBC. has said that election is not the solution to the Afghan problem because it is not practical. It would end in more bloodshed and it is possible that force and pressure may be exerted in the process. The only solution is that at present an interim government is established. (BBCPS).
 *  The security, forces uncovered and
14412776
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990___________________________flfOHflWJtHflfl
 took possession of 50 kgs. explosive material hidden in Kabul city. (RA)
                    2
 *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said in an Eid message that jehad will remain the paramount force all along and bring its lovers out of the dark clouds and lead to the establishment of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan. He said those who have not shared the sacrifices of the mujaheddin and left the counfry at the mercy of its enemies and took refugee in other countries instead of participating in the jehad, have no right to interfere in deciding about the future of the country. (MLM)
 *  The negotiations committee led by Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad and comprising certain Afghan leaders, former Afghan diplomats and representatives of Iran-based Afghan leaders has started its meetings with other Afghan leaders. The Committee,set up to find a solution to the Afghan problem, has so far met two important leaders of the AIG. Details of the meetings are being kept secret at the moment. The committee is also scheduled to meet Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Amir of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan. (JG)
 *  The Afghan resistance sources have reported that the first contingent of 400 mujaheddin of the AIG military, academy has completed its war training.
 («1G)
 * The mujaheddin, during an assault in
 the Zabul:  Province, inflicted heavy
 casualties ' on the forces of Kabul regime and killed Col. Mohammad Qasem Khayyat Director of KHAD, Zabul
 ■ Province alongwith 12 KHAD officers. (VOAPS)
 *  The Kandahar Province mujaheddin attacked the Daud school position and,
 yoL.3 wo.4
 after a severe fight, occupied the military post. Three militiamen were arrested and one mujahed lost his life. Similarly themujaheddin attacked Godikhana Post in the eastern part of Kandahar city 29 June, killing six soldiers and two officers and occupying the post. Onp mujahed suffered severe injuries ift' this skirmish. The *mujaheddin attacked Band-e- Zargar post in Kandahar 25 June killing four officer is and militiamen. (VOAPS)
 *  The Afghan Islamic . Revolutionaries attacked a*military headquarters Parwan Province, killing 140 personnel of the regime forces and destroying one tank and a vehicle. (RT)
 *  In the Salang Highway pitched battles took place between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces at various points under the control of Ahmad Shah Masood, in the course of which extensive damages were inflicted to the highway and many casualties occured.- Meanwhile the mujaheddin, under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood,i shot-down a MIG-21 fighter at Bagram. (BBCPS)
                  3
 * Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former Prime
 Minister, in an interview regarding the proposal of the Consultative Body to~ the AIG, remarked: In the opinion Of the consultative body all the different factions of the Afghan nation should reach a consensus ov^r the solution of the Afghan problem. He added that in the preliminary exchange of views and' understanding, the Kabul regime has been explicitly excluded and from the viewpoint of advisory Body, these factions are the ‘jehad organizations, the AIG, the Iran-based parties, jehad commanders,     elders,    Iran^based
 refugees, Pakistan-based refugees, refugees staying in Europe and the USA and the ex-King. He mentioned the name
144
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 of a group called Najat-e-Milli headed by Prof. Mohammad Asghar, too. (VOADS)
 * Nasrullah   Arsalai  a member       of the
 jehad commanders' council, in an interview with Free Afghanistan Radio said:  On 24    May in the       light of the
 decision of the jehad commanders'' council, a Well-coordinated operation was undetaken in many parts of the country. No    mention was        made of the
 result and the location of these attacks. (RFA)
 *  Addressing an Eid congregation at Shamshatu Refugee Camp in the outskirts of Peshawar 2 July, Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami
 Afghanistan said that Washington and Moscow have reached an agreement over accepting Najib's government until it is replaced by a government of their choice. The two super powers have agreed to form two parallel loya^ jirgahs in Peshawar    and Kabul which
 later will be replaced by two Such governments consisting of so-called impartial elements to be united into a single government. A list of such people who will participate in these governments has already been prepared and supplied to the Najib government by the Soviet Union and the Peshawar based AIG by the USA. He said Najib will transfer power to this new set-up and / the name of PDPA would be changed to some other name enabling it to take part in elections. The new government will resemble the one before April 27, 1978 and guarantee the interests of the super .powers in Afghanistan. The aim of these plots is to stop the establishment of' Islamic rule in Afghanistan, he added. (MUM) *
 * Talking to The Nation in Peshawar 01 July Amir or Da'aya-e-Ittehad Island Afghanistan, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, has said that no single mujaheddin party could defeat the communist regime in Afghanistan. He said disunity among
 their ranks was one of the causes for their failure. (NTN)
 *   Afghan mujaheddin attacked several Kabul regime convoys at Salang highway last week. They also shot down a MIG-21 near Bagram and hit several planes north of 'Kabul. In Herat they killed a commander of the government troops and a group of 40 Afghah . ttoops defected to mujaheddin with arms and ammunition. Another army commander has been killed in Shakhan and in another attack the mujaheddin have destroyed 14 trucks and captured six security posts. (JG)
                                                    I
                   4
 *   The' mujaheddin during ah attack in the Sarobi region destroyed 14 tanks and 2 military vehicles of the Kabul regime and arrested a number of officers. In another action, the
                                                              I mujaheddin killed 18 . soldiers and officers of the Kabul regime at Ghazni.
 (RPDS)
 *   According to informed sources in Kabul, Kabul regime forces, in the' course of their 14 weeks continuous assaults on Paghman, could not capture the mujaheddin posts but lost seven planes. (VOADS)
 *   Five surface-to-surface rockets
 were fired 4 July on Kabul resulting in injury to .one person. The rockets hit .districts 4,     5 and 7 of the
 capital. (RA)
 *   The Central Committee of the USSR
 Communist Party sent a telegram to the second Congress of the Peoples' Democratic Party of Afghanistan stating:  "While conveying Our sincere
                                                                greetings to the representatives of the Second Congress of the PDPA, we firmly
Relieve that the decisions of ' the Congress would serve the purpose of your party's •. reconstruction and
145
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AfCHANJIHAD                                        VOL.3 NO
 rainforce your struggle for the materialization of the policy of
 national reconciliation."(RM)
               : ' »
                    5
 *     Three     aircraft       containing
 sacrificial mutton for Afghan refugees from Saudi Arabia arrived in Pakistan. (RP)
                    6
 * Najibullah, head of the Kabul regime
 has sent goodwill messages on the occasion of Eid-ul-Azha to 30 Islamic countries. BBC correspondent at Kabul says that the main aim of Najibullah, by sending these messages, is to put an end to his political isolation particularly      among       the  Islamic
 countries. (BBCFS)
                    7
 *  in a written statement distributed at Minna in Saudi Arabia on the
 occasion of       Shah Fahad's    address
 to the members of Ha j delegations of Islamic countries. Shah Fahad Bin Abdul Aziz and Prince Abdullah Bin Abdul Aziz-said that the AIG was capable of running the affairs of the country and Saudi Arabia believed that it would definitely      achieve       its ultimate
 objective of rejoining of Afghanistan
 to the Muslim and world community. Saudi Arabia appeals to different groups of mujaheddin to close their ranks to foil heinous attempts fof the elements conspiring against the Afghan Jehad, the statement added. (JG) *
 *  In an attack on a Kabul regime convoy near Charikar center of Parwan province at Salang Highway 20 June, the mujaheddin captured 20 and destroyed 25 trucks carrying arms and amunition and killed or wounded 50 troops. They also destroyed three tank6. Two
 mujahids were also martyred in the
 operation, (nwt)
 *  The anti-Kabul regime forces have acquired 600,000 Rektif missile, 750 missile launchers, 700 anti-tank guided rockets, 1,200 mortar guns and various types of other weapons since March, last year. (RM)
 * Behroz Yousufzad, the BBC corres-
                                                                                                       •
 pondent who has visited Afghanistan and Pakistan many a time, reports that the gist- of all conversations in Peshawar was that if the mujaheddin could form a united front, in thought and practice, they will be able to defeat the Kabul regime very soon, but on the other hand, people in Kabul were of the view that none should talk about victory or defeat, because the main thing is that the war should stop. (BBCFS)
 *  Sabahuddin Kushkaki, Founder-member of the Cultural Council of Afghan Resistance in Islamabad, in response to this question of the BBC correspondent that with the passage of time, the Kabul regime will become strong,
 remarked, the question of the strength
                 ✓
 of the Kabul regime does not arise at all, andv I think that the people of Afghanistan will never accept the Kabul regime in any form . and the regime also cannot force the people of Afghanistan to accept it. The Afghans have developed such an intense- hatred against the communist system that even after many many years, too, there is no possibility for the strength .of this regime. However, the way the mujaheddin leaders are losing their time, wou,ld not be helpful to their cause. (BBCFS)
                   8
 *  Afghan mujaheddin of Ghazni province set up 28 June a joint shoora for bringing cohesion and unity in the ranks of different groups of mujaheddin and their combat activities against the
146
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990                  AIGHAIVJEHAD
 communist bases and installations in the. province. The newly established Shoora has also endorsed plans for cohesive attacks on the positions of the communist regime in Ghazni. (PT)
 *  The six-member committee comprising former Afghan parliamentarians invited from Europe, America, Saudi Arabia and Iran finalized their report over the current political stalemate of Afghanistan and submitted it to the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujadded before Bid. ANA learnt on good authority that the report submitted .by this committee neither coincides with the stance of the Afghan mujaheddin nor the Peshawar based six parties AlG. (MLM)
 *    The committee led by Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad has embarked on paving the way for a conference of all parties. He has been meeting various Afghan leaders to find a solution of the Afghanistan problem. (JG)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin, in an attack on a military convoy in the Salang Tunnel killed about 50 soldiers of the Kabul regime, destroyed 25 lorries carrying ammunition and also three tanks and captured 20 lorries of ammunitions. (RT)
 *  Saddam Hussain, the Iraqi President, has sent a message of thanks in reply to the Eid greetings message sent by Najibullah, the Head of the Kabul regime, expressing his gratitude to Najib. (RA)
 *  Independent sources say that during the months of May and June more than 200 rockets were fired towards the city of Kabul resulting in the death of
 approximately 200 persons. The Kabul regime, after its three month operations against the mujaheddin recently claimed success and declared that during the past one week, no rocket was fired on Kabul. But
 vol.3 no.4
 political observers wonder whether the pause was due to the military success of the regime or the Eid holidays (BBCPS)
                  9
 *  General Mohammad Nabi Azimi, First Secretary in the Defense Ministry of the Kabul regime, has said ' in an interview with news correspondents that the forces of the regime had martyred 400 mujaheddin in the Paghman skirmishes. He said, in this operation 3000 soldiers, 70 heavy artillery guns and many jet fighters took part and ground-to-ground rockets were used. He added that in this region about 3,500 mujaheddin were stationed and during the first six months of the current year, more than 1,000 rockets were fired from this region. According to him, 56 soldiers of the Kabul regime were killed and two MIG-21 fighters were downed by the mujaheddin. (BBCFS)
 *  As reported by the military section of Bakhtar News Agency, the security agencies of the Kabul regime today uncovered 100 kgs. explosive material hidden in Kabul and destroyed it. (RA)
 *  In an interview with ANA in Peshawar 8 -June the AIG Minister for Education, Farooq Azam, has said that efforts are under way to practically implement the election formula of the interim government. He disclosed that as soon as the election commission convinces the Iran-based mujaheddin delegation over the. election proposal it will give a practical shape to its formula. He contended that under the present circumstances it is not possible to give the right of vote to women. He said that inviting ex-Afghan high ranking officials from Europe and America is in consonance with the’ AIG program as the AIG, too wanted the establishment of a broad based government. (PT)
147
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have killed about 600 militia apd soldiers of the Kabul regime, downed three MIG jet fighters and destroyed 50 tanks and army lorries since the eruption of war in the Paghman valley three months ago, reports a MIDIA correspondent after recently arriving in Peshawar from the valley* One hundred and fifty mujahids were martyred or sustained injuries during the period, he added. (PT)
 *  The • AIG Cabinet met in Peshawar 8 July under the chairmanship of its Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, to discuss at length various aspects of the report submitted by the.former high ranking Afghan officials to the AIG President recently and the political scenario of Afghanistan. (PT)
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin have recaptured the posts of Qala-e-Hakim in the Paghman valley. (JG)
 *   The US envoy for the Afghan mujaheddin,Peter Tomsen, has said in an
 interview that the US will continue its arms assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin. He said in the coming US-Soviet foreign ministers' dialogue in Paris the US will insist that Najibullah transfers all powers to an interim government which will conduct elections in Afghanistan. He said that the US will have no objection on Najib-uilah's contesting elections under the proposed interim government. (NWT)
 *  A spokesman of Dr. Abdul Samad, a former Vice Premier of Afghanistan,has , clarified in a press release that Dr. Abdul Samad and other members of the delegation of Afghan advisers visiting Peshawar on the invitation of AIG President,. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,* did meet the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf,» and discussed with him various aspjects of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan and the ways and means to tackle it. The press reports
                                                                                       VOL.3 no.4
 regarding refusal of AIG Premier to meet the delegation are unfounded, th§ press release added. (PT)
 *   The Afghan advisers recently
 gathering in Peshawar on an invitation by the AIG President have said in a press release that the jehad organizations,despite their significant role, have not been able to form an effective political entity acceptable to thee .majority of the Afghan mujaheddin, refugees and other segments of the Muslim Afghan nation. The interim government too has not achieved its declared . objectives since its formation 18 months ago nor the AIG represent all acceptable the elements of Afghan society. They said that if a new political condition based on a joint strategy by the Afghan people is worked out, the necessary conditions could be speedily brought about for the transfer of power to the Afghan nation through an acceptable mechanism in conformity with the interests of the mujaheddin.(MLM)          *
                  10
 * Prominent tribal elder and head of the tribal lashkar, Malik Nadir Khan Zaka Khel, has said in a press interview, in Peshawar that a delegation of Tribal Peace Mission (TPM) will shortly visit Afghanistan to hold talks to end the hostilities there. He proposed that the Afghan crisis should be resolved through elections held under the supervision of an interim government headed by either the former King Zaher Shah’ or* any other undisputed national leader. (MLM)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin, have liberated sub district of Chamtal in Balkh Province of Afghanistan and arrested the local military commander and six soldiers* According to reports, the mujaheddin of Jamiat-e-Islami in a two hour clash on 25 June forced the Kabul regime troops
148
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 to vacate the areas. More than one• hundred kalashenkovs, arms and ammunition and a truck was also captured by the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were killed and seven were injured in the operation. (NWT)
 *  According to a Washington'' Tines report, the US is ready to gracefully back out of the Afghan misbroglio and for this purpose will consent to allow Najibullah, leader of the Soviet sponsored regime to have a say in the futurd- destiny of Afghanistan. (VOAPS)
 *  Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed in an interivew with VOA, has said that for the solution of the present political deadlock all the acceptable elements, excluding the Kabul regime, should
 jointly and with complete understanding
               /
 take a decision so that a joint strategy may be adopted and finally a desired and popularly acceptable government may be established to replace , the present Kabul regime. (VOADS)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin 10 July refuted Kabul regime charges regarding success "against the mujaheddin at Paghman. The mujaheddin sources stated that the Kabul regime forces could advance 20 kilometers towards Paghmari but the mujaheddin frustrated their efforts to establish security posts in Paghman valley. The mujaheddin said that in the course of running battles in Paghman# they, killed 600 soldiers of the regime and shot down three planes. On the other hand, ; as a result of the bombings by the Kabul regime airforce many houses in the residential areas were destroyed. (RT)
 *  Nine ground-to-ground rockets hit Kabul today, killing two persons and injuring two more. The military Section of the Bakhtar News Agency reports that these rockets were fired from the west and northwesterly directions*;(fck) ''
 *   According to MIDIA, the Kabul regime took maximum advantage of the Ismat and the Gilam Jam militia besides regular soldiers during the three-month Paghman battles. In these battles, 600 military men were killed, 50 tanks and military trucks were' destroyed and three planes of the regime were shot down. One hundred and fity mujaheddin were also martyred and injured. (VOAPS)
 *  Kabul city was hit 11 July by seven ground-to-ground rockets killing six persons and injuring 14. The rockets were fired from the western and north-eastern directions and inflicted material damages as well. (RA)
 *   Western diplomats in Islamabad have confirmed reports that the Kabul regime gained some' success in its operation against the mujaheddin positions in Paghman region and succeeded in forcing the mujaheddin to retreat from the Qargha region in the suburbs of Kabul. But the actual . Paghman valley is under the mujaheddin control. (BBCPS)
 *  Kabul government authorities have
 claimed that due to their successful military operations the Afghan mujaheddin have not carried out rocket attacks on Kabul city for the last one week. However BBC's Deepak Tripathi reports from the Afghan capital that government offensives were not so far successful to prevent guerrilla rocket attacks. (PT)       .
 *  Soviet and America^ experts are to meet this week to discuss Afghanistan after which American Secretary pf State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze will hold ,talks in Paris. The western diplomatic sources, who requested not to be identified, Jtave said that a framework for a
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
                                                                          VOL.3 NO.4
 settlemnt already existed between the USSR and the United States. Under it a provisional government would be established in Kabul. Afterwards elections would • be held ,under international       supervision.      The
 superpowers also agreed that if mujaheddin agree* President Najibullah and his party should be allowed to participate in the elections. The Soviets insist that he should remain in power till the elections like President Ortega of Nicaragua. But the US thinks that he should hand over power to the provisional government. (MLM)
 * US and Soviet Union have agreed that
 Afghan President Najibullah should play a . role to end the continued disturbances in the country, reports AIR. US Secretary of State, James Baker and     Soviet Foreign Minister,
 Shevardnadze; have chalked out a formula in this connection. (NTN)
 *  The Chief Justice of Afghanistan, Niazmuddin Tahzeeb, has been dismissed, reports BBC quoting a government statement issued in Kabul. The statement says that the step has been taken under the new Constitution which forbids a worker of any political party from . holding the post of judge or attorney. (JG)
 -* The Afghan Qoumi Islami Mahaz has described as positive and satisfactory the recent proposals of the Afghan advisors for holding free elections and establishing a provisional government in Afghanistan. In a communique the Mahaz has demanded that instead of a lo^a :jirgah a provisional broad-based government should be formed in the country. (JG)
 *  The. six-.party AIG Cabinet meeting chaired by AIG Premier, Abd Rab RetoolN Sayyaf, reviewed the efforts of the committee set up for holding an all parties' conference for a settlement:-of.!
 the Afghan issue. The meeting decided ' that the report submitted to the AIG j President by the former                 Afghan j
 diplomats will also be discussed on the return from Haj of Prof," Burhanuddin Rabbani         and other members of the
 Cabinet. (JG)
 * Two persons were killed in rocket
 attack          on    Kabul . by  the  Afghan
 mujaheddin. It was rtheir third rocket attack in the past two days with nine rockets landing in Kabul. (NWT)
                                                    12
 *   The mujaheddin           attacked the
 headquarters              of the Kabul regime
 forces in Kandahar city, killing 16 and injuring 20 soldiers. Meanwhile, they took- possession of five security posts of the Kabul regime on the Kabul-Parwan highway. (RP)
 *  The BBC correspondent reports from Kabul, only a couple of hours after General Nabi Azimi, First Secretary in the Defense Ministry of the Kabul regime announced that the operations of the government forces were carried out with spectacular success and the mujaheddin were forged to retreat completely from the suburbs of Kabul and Kabul was now immune to their attacks and. away from their firing range* the' city was hit repeatedly with rockets fired from the west and many
                                   ' N.
 rockets fell in the campus of the Kabul University, inflicting considerable damage to the students* hostel. (BBCFS)
 *  The mujaheddin occupied an important 'military station of .the Kabul regime within five kilometers of Jalalabad city, after a forceful attack, killing 60 soldiers of the Kabul regime forces and taking a number of them as prisoners. In this fighting, two armored tanks were destroyed land some arms and two military trucks were.
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
     Seven ground-to-ground rockets, fired from the west, hit 12 July districts two, three and 11 of Kabul city, killing one and injuring four person's. (RA)
 * A report from Paktia says that
 severe fighting is continuing between the mujaheddin of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan and other parties in the Jaji region and Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, has arrived in Jaji to put an.end to the in-fighting. In Jaji, the biggest center of jehad and Military Academy of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan led by Prof. Sayyaf, is situated. (VOADS)
 *  A UN spokesman, Francois Guailani, has said in NY that Soviet experts are arriving in Washington later this week for talks with . US officials on Afghanistan in preparation for July 18 meeting in . Paris between the US Secretary of State, James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze. (PT)
                                                    )
 *  A . government spokesman said in Kabul 10 July that President Najibullah will leave for New Delhi "within a few weeks" for talks with Indian Prime Minister, Vishwanath Partap Singh. The spokesman said he could not confirm reports that a representative of former Afghan King Zaher Shah might meet with
 Najibullah in New Delhi. ,(PT) *
 armored vehicles and three combat aircraft. (PT)          ,
 *  A report published by American Time magazine says that despite his all out strategy, the position of Najibullah is weaker in facing the mujaheddin. Nevertheless, the mujaheddin have also turned weaker due to their internal fightings and differences §nd more than a dozen mujaheddin leaders have been killed in Peshawar this year by their opponents. (JG)
 *  The AIG Cabinet meeting in Peshawar has rejected the proposals put forward by the former Afghan diplomats invited from Europe and America by the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujadded'i, says a MIDIA press release. The Cabinet decided to continue dialogues for a solution of Afghan issue with the representative delegation of Iran-based nine-party Shia-Afghan Ittehad of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami. The meeting also decided to intensify relief measures inside Afghanistan and took certain decisions about the health problems of Afghan refugees. (JG)
 *  According to Radio Kabul, the Afghan mujaheddin continued their rocket attacks on several areas of the Afghan capital 11 July. (JG)
       13
 * MIDIA has quoted its correspondent who has recently returned to Peshawar after Witnessing recent six major clashes in the Paghman Valley as reporting that despite shortage of arms and ammunition, the1 mujaheddin are facing the Kabul forces a'ttacks with great courage. Six hundred Kabul troops or militia have been killed in the fighting so far. One hundred and fifty mujaheddin were also killed or wounded. The Kabul government, losses also include destruction of 50 tanks or
 *  A source of Jamiat-e-Islam Afghanistan told MIDIA that Commander Sayyed Jaafar and one of his fellow-in-arm, Muslim Abdul Qahar were ambushed and killed and seven other mujaheddin seriously injured, in Peshawar 11 July at 11 PM. (PT)
 *  According to the BBC the Indian government has confirmed the arrest of former Afghan Deputy Prime Minister, Asadullah Sarwari, who was wanted by the Kabul government for his involvement in an abortive coup attempt
151
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990        NUUK J[
                                                                                    VOL. 3
NO.4
 last    March.     Afghan     President
 Najibullah had announced a one million dollar reward fpr his arrest. (NTN)
 * Reports from NWFP, Pakistan, say that the, Governor of the province has decided to ban the ownership of Soviet made automatic weapons by the Afghan refugees. This is the first time that the Pakistani authorities are limiting the possession of weapons among the Afghan refugees. (BBCFS)
 * Najibullah, the leader of the Kabul regime, has said in an interview that His regime is interested in the extradition of Assadullah Sarwari from India to Afghanistan and is in contact with the Indian authorities in this regard. Najibullah did hot respond to this question as to whether the Indian authorities have made preliminary arrangements for the repatriation of Sarwari, but remarked that he was waiting for a reply from that end. (BBCFS)
 *   Office of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in Quetta reported that the Idrasken district mujaheddin in Herat Province attacked the Kabul regime military posts 2 July in this district, killing two famous militia commanders, arresting 200 militiamen and capturing a considerable quantity of weapons. Similarly the Ghor province mujaheddin destroyed a big arsenal of the Kabul regime forces in that province • Six of the guards were also killed and besides four military posts ^ of the regime. were eliminated.
 (VOAPS) *
*  Hekmatyar's Hezb-e-lslami office in Quetta reported that the Kandahar
Province mujaheddin attacked the Kandahar army division as well as other centers of Kabul regime 5 July, killing 11 soldiers and wounding 8. (VOAPS)
*  Sheikh Jaber A1-Ahmad Al-Salah, Amir
  of Kuwait has sent a message to Najibullah, the leader of the Kabul regime, expressing his deep sense of gratitude. (RA)
                  14
  *    Testifying before the House Foreign 1 Affairs Committee on International
  Operations, Princeton Lyman, Director of the US State Department Bureau for Refugee Program, has said that the US humanitarian assistance for the people of Afghanistan has totalled about one thousand million dollars since 1980. (PT)
  *  IUA has in a communique rejected the establishment of an un-Islamic coalition government in Afghanistan and said that peace can only be restored there through the establishment of an Islamic government. (NTN)
  *  The traditional festival of pid-ul-Azha, which has not been observed since 12 years, subsequent to the communist coup de1 tat, was observed this year in Kandahar in the liberated Shahre Safa district. Haji Ata Mohammad, Deputy Commissioner of Shahre Safa said in an interview with VOA that nearly 30,000 people had gathered in this festival and all the commanders and mujaheddin belonging to various parties participated in the festivities. He added that the festival continued for one week and had a positive effect in promoting unity among the mujaheddin.
  (VOADS)
  *  Peter Toirisen, special US envoy for the mu jaheddin, met Mohammad Zaher Shah, the ex-King of Afghanistan, 9 and 10 June in Rome. General Abdul Wall, an adviser of Zaher Shah said tha Tomsen had come to visit Zaher Shah on behalf of President Bush. He declined to give any detail of the agenda but added that the meeting took place in an amicable atmosphere. (BBCFS)
152
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 RfGHAN J[HAD
VOL.3 NO.4
 * Deputy Commander of the Central
 Asian Frontier Regions in the USSR has said that 200 of the illegal entrants from     Afghanistan    arriving    in
 Tadjekistan carrying weapons and anti-Soviet propaganda material, have been detained. In the meantime, reports reaching here indicate that a number of the Interior Ministry Officers of the Tadjekistan Republic have been arrested on the charges of being in contact with some mujaheddin groups.. (BBCFS)
                   15
 *  According to BBC a group of independent Afghan politicians in Kabuli calling itself the National Salvation Society, has in an open letter to the Soviet Foreign Minister and American Secretary of State,7 urged the super-, powers to take advantage of their improved relations to find a way to end the war in Afghanistan. When there are great changes in Eastern Europe and elsewhere why does the war in Afghanistan continue, the letter asked. (PT)
 *  The spokesman of Hezb-e-Wahdat (a union of nine Iran-based Shia mujaheddin parties) Abdul Ali Mazari, in an exclusive interview with ANA has disclosed that they met the leaders of the seven Peshawar-based mujaheddin parties and discussed with them a joint plan for the solution of .the Afghan crisis but could not reach any conclusion. He said that some of the mujaheddin leaders were reluctant to free and impartial polls in Afghanistan, some opposed the participation of women in elections and. some disagreed with the formation of a proposed revolutionary council. (PT) *
 * The Herat province mujaheddin have reported that they attacked 10 July *
  a vehicle carrying * 15 regime militiamen in the Shindand district, and^ wiped them out completely alongwith the vehicle. On July .1, one tank carrying
 nine soldiers including one notorious militia commander, was destroyed completely by a mine in the suburb of the Shindand airport. Meanwhile, more skirmishes have been reported from Herat culminating in the death of at least 4 militiamen and one commander of the military post. (VOADS)
 *   Prof. Asghar, leader of the
 Rostagari Melli Party, said in an interview with the BBC:    In a letter
 sent by the party to both the super-powers, it is stated that mere condemnation of the occupation of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union, would not adequately compensate the losses and destructions suffered by this country. The letter adds that the US moral and military support of the mujaheddin were justified so long as they fought against the Soviet forces. (BBCFS)
 *  Abdul Ali Mazari, spokesman of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami delegation said in Peshawar, if seven ministries v.-ere offered to them in the -AIG, they 'would be prepared to join the AIG. He added that their ■ six representatives be admitted in the mujaheddin leadership council. (VOAPS)
                 16
 *  The Soviet Union has floated the outlines Of a proposal that could form the basis of- a settlement "of the 12-year old* conflict in Afghanistan, The Hew York Times reported July 15. Quoting Bush administration•officials, the newspaper says that Secretary of State,James Baker, plans to discuss the Soviet proposal which is a modification of an earlier American plan. (PT)
                         ' i
 *  In . an interview with the BBC i correspondent in Kabul President Najibullah said 15 June that- he was willing to transfer some of his powers to a council of Afghan leaders
153
JULY > SEPTEMBER. 1990    AI6HAN JIHAD
 representing all Afghan forces so as to end the 11-year old Afghan civil war. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan refugees' repatriation plan is being finalized and in the first instance the refugees will be repatriated from the NWFP. (NWT)
 *  In an interview with an Algerian magazine* the Prime Minister of Pakistan* Benazir Bhutto, has said that Pakistan wants to see a normal situation iri Afghanistan and voluntary and honourable repatriation of Afghan refugees to their homes. But this will be possible only when the people of Afghanistan have their own elected government in their country, she added. (NWT)
 * The New York Times has said, James
 Baker, the US Secretary of state, while on a visit to Moscow in February last, proposed a three phased interim period for Afghanistan. In the first phase, Najib should stay and the AIG should be broadened to inlude all the mujaheddin and for this purpose a Consultative Council would be convened; in the second phase, not Najibullah but his deputies would negotiate with the mujaheddin the process of arranging elections under the supervision of the UN which would then agree upon a neutral person for controlling the election campaign; and in the third phase, Najibullah would resign and would be entitled to contest the elections . ,                          '
 *  USSR agrees to this plan on the condition that so long as the result of elections is not known, Najibullah may continue to be the President, even
"though an a symbolic form. (VOADS)
 *   The World Food and Agriculture Organisation has asked for urgent food supply to Afghanistan, warning against the foodgrain famine in this country during the next year. It has added
VOL.3 no.4
 that the food supplies should be distributed among, all the people whether in the mujaheddin controlled regions or the Kabul regime controlled regions. (RP)
 *  Fighting continues between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Pashtoon Zarghoon and Ghoryan, Herat, with the former capturing 200 klashinkovs and 40 military vehicles, destroying two military posts in the Ghoryan district and killing 25 militiamen.
     Similarly in the Kandahar Province, the mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime posts, killing eight militiamen and wounding 40 and destroying their two posts. In the Logar Province, too, the mujaheddin destroyed one Kabul regime post. (RA)
 *  Eight ground-to-ground rockets hit Kabul city 16 Jvfly, killing five persons, wounding 11 and inflicting material damages, too. (RA)
                 17
 * In accordance with an agreement
 between the governments of Pakistan and China during Chinese Premier Li Peng's visit to Pakistan, the Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan'Tiang Ding' has handed over relief goods •for 1990 worth Rs. 15.97 million to Pakistan Secretary of State and , Frontier Regions Division (SAFRON), S.K. Mahmoodi in Islamabad 16 July for Afghan refugees. The relief goods includes blankets, food-wear and canned food. China has so far donated vehicles,     medicines, • foodstuff,
 clothings, shoes and other commodities worth Rs. .80,089,988.00 million for Afghan refugees. (PT)
 *  A mujaheddin source has reported to the MIDXA that 59 Kabul regime troops were killed in a three-day operation by the mujaheddin in Adreskan, Ghoreian
154
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flf&HANJIHAD
 and Pashtoon Zarghoon district of Herat last week. Two hundred soldiers and militiamen defected to them with 200 klashinkovs, four military vehicles and a huge quantity of ammunition 4 July. The mujaheddin also attacked communist regime posts in Ghorian destroying two posts, killing 25 militiamen and soldiers and injuring one other July 5. (NTN)
 *  China has donated blankets and footwear worth 16 million rupees for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. (RP)
 ♦•Abdul Majeed Sarbaland and General Juma Asak have been appointed as Governor and military commander of the Kandahar province, respectively. The two are considered prominent and staunch communists of the PD.PA party. (VOADS)
 *  The mujaheddin have rocketed down one plane of the Kabul regime near the Khost airport. (RT)
 *  Thirty ground-to-ground rockets hit Kabul city 17 July, killing five and injuring more than 10 persons. (RM)
 *  The body of General Abdul Rahman, Airfdrce pilot, who died as a result of plane crash, was buried in Kabul 17 July and by order of Najibullah, was promoted posthumously to a higher rank, in view of his meritorious service. (RA) *
 *  Prof. Ghani of the George Town University, Washington, has thrown some light on the unofficial plan presented by a Soviet official to the UN. He says that on the basis, of this plan, in the preliminary stage, Najib would remain in his seat as a symbolic President but will have no connection with the main pivots of power i.e. the armed forces, KHAD, police force and the press, etc.
                                                                   In the second stage, a commission.
                                                                                        VOL.3 NO.4
 composed of all the existing political groups in Afghanistan, including the Najibullah group but with the exception of his own self, would be formed. They would consider the various stages of power transfer and holding of elections.
 * The third stage is the formation of government which will be headed by a neutral personality. The fourth stage would be the holding of elections with the participation of all the political forces and Najibullah can contest the elections as the leader of his party.
 (BBCFS)
                 18
 *   According to reports received from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin attacked two posts of Kabul regime in Paghman, killing 33 soldiers and officials of the regime. (RP)
 * Abdul Wakil, the Foreign Minister of the Kabul regime, in an interview with the BBC correspondent in Kabul said: From the Kabul regime's point of view, Najibullah should stay as the President in any kind of interim government. Hence the subject of relinquishing power by Najibullah is out of question. (BBCFS)
 * According to well informed sources,
        %
 the UN agencies are busy giving final shape to arrangements for Afghan refugees' repatriation and a formal-announcement to this effect is going to be made shortly. Under the program, every refugee family holding a valid -ration card, on return in Afghanistan would be given Rs 3,500 in cash and four sacks of wheat. Branches of National Bank of Pakistan at 10 different places situated on the border are being authorized to start payment to all refugees who intend to return to their homes voluntarily. There are about half a.million registered refugee
155
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 ftlGUAH JEHAD
 families living in Pakistan, the average strength of the family being seven. Meanwhile rehabilitation work in liberated areas has been started by UNHCR and other voluntary agencies.
 (MLM)
 * Replying to questions at a news conference in Islamabad .17 June, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto, said that the presence of Afghan refugees was a big challenge for Pakistan, both in short and long terms, and it wanted their return as soon as possible. In short term, she said the presence of the refugees was a burden on the country's resources but in long term,- it would affect the local politics. (PT)
 * During an interview on the occasion of 17 July meeting between the Soviet and US Foreign Ministers, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil, has said that there would be a strong reaction in Afghanistan if the big powers tried to force a settlement on Kabul and insisted that Najibullah should not lead a transition government to stage internationally supervised elections. (PT)
 * Talking to The Nation on telephone, the leader of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, has said the Afghans will never agree on the formation of a government ruled by Najibullah. Najib and his companions, he saiid, would never be permitted to take part in the election commission and only the people who had given sacrifices for Afghan cause would be included in the commission. (NTN) *
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have killed 16 militiamen and injured 21 and destroyed four tanks in their attack this week in Dahan-e-Ghoori Of Pul-e- Khumri. Baghlan,. Four mujaheddin, including two commanders., Abdul Jabbar and Sakhi, were
                                                                                          voL.3 no.4
 also killed' in the operation. The mujaheddin:
  *- captured   four  security posts and
 destroyed two military vehicles;
  -   captured an ammunition depot and 25 different types of weapons;
     captured    one military   post and
 arrested five troops with their commander during two-pronged attack on military targets    at Khanabad-Kunduz
 highway in Kunduz province;
  -   killed a large number of civil and military officers in their shelling on Kunduz. Two mujaheddin were also killed in the operation. (NWT)
 *  Chief of Dayea Ittehad-e-Islami
 Afghanistan, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, has rejected US-Soviet Foreign Ministers’ talks on Afghanistan saying that both were projecting their own interests. He said that the mujaheddin would under no circumstances accept any imposed solution and would defend at all costs the sovereignty of Afghanistan. (NWT)
 *  In its editorial The Nation writes
 18 July that Kabul regime ruler Ndjibullah's offer to transfer some of his powers to a council- of representatives of all the recognized Afghan political parties amounted that instead of his present position of being the ruler of a few cities, he becomes the president          of all of
                                                              Afghanistan with his PDPA having a
ivoice in the "council" and hd himself retaining the command of the armed forces. These kinds of offers have always been rejected by the mujaheddin and the US. (NTN)
 * The daily Jang has said in its editorial 18' July that Soviet Union's new proposal that Najibullah should be allowed to remain the symbolic head of government and all powers, including the control of the army, intelligence agencies and the government press be
156
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
 transferred to a broad-based election commission that should Also hold elections, was not basically a new one but a copy of the proposal already submitted to US authorities last month by.Yuli Vorontsov, Soviet Ambassador to the UN. But the question is that will any such solution, wherein the will of the Afghan resistance forces has not.
                      /                i
 been ascertained, ''bring peace in' Afghanistan? Apparently the reply is that is will not. (JG)
                   19
 *  The AIG has rejected the reported Russian-American agreement on Afghanistan according to which the head of the Kabul regime would remain symbolic leader 'relinquishing control of the ground forces and mass media to a transitional organization which will hold general ,and . free elections in which the former PDPA would also participate. An AIG spokesman said that the Afghans and the liberty and justice loving people of the world could not agree to the participation of such a party and such individuals in the future political life of the Afghan nation as they were responsible for war crimes and must be put on trial. (MLM)
 *  According to ANA, severe fighting has erupted between the Afghan and the Kabul security forces around the besieged city and military garrison of Khost. The mujaheddin have claimed . a number of successes. They said they
 ^have also come under heavy bombardment. (MLM)
 . Another leader of Prof. Rabbani's Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Fazle Rab, was killed by unidentified persons 17 July at his residence in Peshawar. He was put to death by tying a live electric wire around his neck while he was asleep. (MLM) *
 *  Bush administration officials say
                                                                                        vol.3 no.4
 the Soviet Union has floated the outlines of a proposal that could lead to a settlement of the 12-year war in Afghanistan. Secretary of State, James Baker, plans to give substance to the Soviet proposal for elections in Afghanistan when he meets the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze in Paris. The Soviet proposal, a modification of an earlier US plan for Afghan elections,' was first advanced last month to US , officials by the Soviet Ambassador to the UN, Yuli Vorontsov, Since then Washington has been trying to determine whether Vorontsov's ideas how represent Moscow's formal negotiating positions. (MLM)
 .* The government Of Pakistan and the UN have agreed on a joint pilot project to facilitate the spontaneous and voluntary repatriation of Afghans to their homes. It ' was proposed to provide each registered returning family with a cash grant of Rs. 3,300 as a one time contribution towards the family's transportation and initial resettlement costs. In addition each returning family will receive the equivalent of ' three months of wheat rations i.e. some 300 kgs. Within Afghanistan the UN system is following dn integrated approach towards the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the country. (PT)•
 * A jumbo transport plane of the Kabul regimk was shot down 16 July by the Afghan mujaheddin in the besieged city of Khost. Thirty one servicemen of the regime including seven high ranking officers were killed in the incident. (PT)
 * The Baghlan province mujaheddin beat back an offensive of the Kabul regime at the entrance of Ghori gorge. In the battle 16 militiamen were killed, 200 injured, 4 tanks destroyed and on the other hand two commanders and 4 mujaheddin lost their lives. In the
 Balkh province the mujaheddin attacked Temurak and Shorteepa regions, destroying three posts# killing eight soldiers, wounding 6 more and capturing 18 klashinkovs* (VOADS)
 *  , The Afghan mujaheddin occupied two posts in the Khurd Kabul region of Kabul Province killing 19 soldiers of the Kabul regime forces. (RP)
 * According to an ordinance issued by
 Najibullah,     members      of     the
 Constitutent Assembly of the Kabul regime are appointed in the following order:
     Abdul Wahab Safi as Speaker, Mohammad Akram " Asghari as Deputy Speaker, Abdul Fattah Sekandari as Secretary, Abdul Karim Shadan, Mir Azizul Haq Hafizi, Dr. Mohammad Tahar Baraki, Mohammad Ismail Qasem Yar, Prof. Wali Safi, Prof. Abdullah Haqaaq and Najibullah Qaderi as members. (RA)
 *  Two ground-to-ground rockets were fired on Kabul 19 July killing one .person and injuring 14. (RA)
                  20
 *  Sayyed Hamed Gailani, son. of Sayyed Ahmed Gailani, leader of NFLA , speaking in a meeting of 600 people including elders and commanders of the Khakreez and Arghandab districts, in Khwaja Malek Of Kandahar, has said that . the right of self-determination belongs to the people of Afghanistan and the Afghans themselves should take their own decisions. In the meantime, he urged the people to forge national unity. (VOADS)
 *  In a message from inside Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami. .Afghanistan,» has suggested that an unconditional dialogue between the mujaheddin parties and other jehad groups should be initiated to bring about unity in their ranks and pave the
 way for achieving their paramount goal. He proposed a Shoora, comprising leaders of the jehad parties without any exception, should be formed. This Shoora will work for the establishment of a Central Shoora and a government of mujaheddin's choice. He also suggested the establishment of a "leadership council" (Qiyadi Shoora) which, in turn will form an authoritative commission that will work on drafting of a constitution and the shape of the Central Shoora. He proposed that Afghan leaders shift their offices inside Afghanistan and advise their concerned mujaheddin to carry out joint operations     against     the    Najib
 government. (MLM)
 *  Italy has* reopened its embassy in the Afghan capital Kabul, the Foreign Ministry said 18 July.The embassy was closed last year after the Soviet Union withdrew its troops from Afghanistan. (NTN)
                21
 *  Peter Tomsen, the special US envoy for. the Mujaheddin, has remarked in an interview that the US stand on Afghanistan is unchanged. The US stand has been that so long as Najib and his party stay in power in Kabul, the Afghan problem will hot be solved. They should transfer power absolutely to the interim Afghan establishment and give the right of self-determination to the people of Afghanistan. (VOADS)
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, said in an interview that coming into existence of a government composed of neutral powers or the third force in Afghanistan will serve no purpose .so long as the majority of the people remain afmed. (BBCFS)
 *  (Retired) General Katawazi, member of the Rostagari Melli Party, in ar,
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990                  AfCHANJtHAfi
 interview from Kabul with the VOA said that recent changes in the PDPA is not sufficient because merely by the alteration of words or by changing names, nothing can be achieved. As regards change in names and titles, we have seen that those people who' were till yesterday faceless members of the PDPA, have today become members of the Executive Council, just by changing the title or those who were previously members of the Central Committee, are now members of the Central Council and members of the PDPA are at present members of Watan Party. (VOADS)
 * In ail interview in Peshawar Chief of
 the     Hezb-e-Islami      Afghanistan,
 G.ulbuddin Hekmatyar, has rejected the talks between the.two super powers over the Afghan^issue. He said, none of the superpowers represents the Afghans and, therefore, thqir proposed solution for the issue will not be binding on the Afghan people. It is the right of the Afghans alone to decide their problems as an independent nation and no one else will be allowed to bargain over their heads, he said. (MLM)
 * The Afghan refugees residing in
 tentage villages in Baluchistan along the Afghan border, will start returning to their homeland from 25 July, Afghan refugees     organization      officials
 announced in Quetta 19 July. According to an official notification, the government of Pakistan . together with UNHCR, the Coordinator for UN Tjelp for Afghanistan and the Executive Director of the WFP have jointly agreed to' provide a package of assistance .to refugees voluntarily returning home. (MLM) *
 *   Radio Teheran says that two transport planes of Kabui regime carrying 113 paratroopers were shot down by the Afghan mujaheddin near Khost airport in Paktia province killing all the persons aboard. .(PT)
                                                                                       VOL.3 NO.4
 *  Addressing a six-day conference of Hezb-e-Islami commanders in a liberated area of Afghanistan, the Hezb-e-JIslami Chief, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, urged the Afghans to intensify their struggle against the Najibullah regime and also keep in view the activities concerning Afghanistan at the international level. The conference reviewed the situation of jehad and tOok important decisions for adopting a united strategy. (JGj
                22
 *  Qazi Mohammad Gul Fayeq,. an
 ex-commander of mujaheddin was shot dead 19 July by anti-Islamic revolution terrorists in Muhajir Bazar of Munda Camp of the Afghan refugees in Peshawar. He was presently working as an employee in the Refugee Department of the ittehad-e-Islami. (MLM)
 *  A Kabul regime security post was captured and large quantity of arms were recovered when the mujaheddin attacked a regime military post near Khero Khel village, Laghman, on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway. Fifteen soldiers were also captured and five others killed during the ambush. (PT)
 *  In its editorial the daily Muslim wrote 22 July that nobody should have any reason to believe that the brave prople of Afghanistan,. after a sustained fight against the Soviet occupation forces, would now accept a "solution" which falls short of securing the raison d'etre of their struggle: the establishment of a turely independent, representative and Islamic policy. The unstated bottom line of the super power understanding is to somehow cheat the Afghan nation of the fruits of its heroic struggle against the decade-long occupation is not likely to be achieved. (MLM)
 * On July 20, in Mohallajat Kandahar,
159
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
 Sixth Sector of Kandahar, a large, meeting was held in which Sayyed Hamed Gailani and a number of commanders and elders of Kandahar participated. They all demanded in their speeches that Mohammad Zaher Shah the ex-King of Afghanistan should come to Afghanistan so that a united leadership may emerge under his guidance. (VOAPS)
 * Five surface-to-surface rockets were fired on Kabul 21 which hit the area of the Silo, killing two laborers and injuring four others.
 *  Clearance of mines is in full swing in five provinces of Afghanistan under the UN Operation SALAM to accelerate the spontaneous return of Afghan refugees to their homes which has been apace for quite some time. Ten thousand five hundred, and sixty one Afghan volunteers have been trained in the first phase in demining and first-aid by experts from ten countries.
 *   Talking to journalists on the occasion of a demonstration of a versatile new demining machine called the "Flails", the Deputy UNICO, Zia Rij?vi, said that an agreement had also been signed with the government of Iran to initiate Mine Awareness and Clearance Training Programs (MACTP) in Iran and eventually its neighbouring provinces in Afghanistan. (PT) *
*  Zia Rizvi, Deputy UNICO told a press conference 22 July on the occasion of a -demonstration of demining machine called the "Flails" that the Kabul regime was fully cooperating in the UN program of relief and rehabilitation of the people, in Afghanistan. He said that the spontaneous repatriation of the Afghans had started last June and the trend had been showing improvement.
(MLM)
 VOL.3 NO.4
 *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf-, said in a press statement in Peshawar 22 July that any solution of the Afghan issue imposed by any foreign power would not only be rejected but considered as cruel and illegal intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  AAP has reported that the Afghan mujaheedin have destroyed two tanks and two army vehicles and killed or ^injured 15 Kabul troops 18 July in their attack on a security- post in Mohammad Agha, Logari In Azr,< Logar, they attacked an army camp killing four troops and capturing a large quantity of arms and ammunition. Meanwhile, in Gardez, the mujaheddin attacked with rockets an army workshop destroying 12 vehicles.
 *  A spokesman of the mujaheddin military corps, Mawlana Mohammad Yaqub Shariatyar,. has said that the mujaheddin have continued their advance at the KhoSt front. Air traffic at the .Khost airport has been suspended•after two transport planes were shot down by the mujaheddin. Thirty-four government troops and two officers have been killed in Khost garrison, the spokesman added. (NWT)
 *  Abdul Ahad Karzi, a former deputy speaker of the House of People and a prominent Kandahari says in Afghanistan right now power should be delegated to a "third force" because the third force means the absolute majority of Afghanistan". (VOADS)
 *  Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime, has rejected the idea of his relinquishing power and has proposed that a commission, consisting of the representatives of the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime, should draft the rules and , regulations concerning elections. The elections should be held under the supervision of a neutral body like the UN. He added, ultimately the power will rest with the government. In
nanD
160
JULY SEPTEMBER. 1990 HfGHIIKJ[l
                                                                           VOL.3 NO.4
 his view such a commission may include some of the mujaheddin leaders like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Abdul Rab Rasool Sayyaf and those commanders who have taken prominent part in the Afghan War. (BBCPS)
                  24
 *  A spokesman of the States . and Frontier Regions Division has contradicted in Islamabad press reports regarding the compulsory repatriation of Afghan refugees. The spokesman said the decision to go back to.Afghanistan and to. avail the assistance to be provided under the pilot project initiated by the UN system, rests purely with the Afghan refugees themselves and there is no question of any compulsion. Neither the UN system nor the Government of Pakistan has any intention ' to force the exist of refugees. It is, however, felt that refugees who are going back to Afghanistan at their own choice 1 need
 some succour and relief to facilitate their return and the pilot project only aims at supporting and facilitating this spontaneous and voluntary repatriation of the Afghan refugees which is already taking place. (PT)
 *   The Kabul regime president Najibullah told reporters 22 June in Kabul that he was willing to transfer conditionally "certain powers" of the defense and interior ministries to a joint commission that would conduct national elections to end the Afghan war. Any other formula, he said, would result in a "bloodbath and anarchy". He further said that ’ neither he nor his ruling PDPA would step down before nationwide elections. (PT) *
 * The AIG Interior Minister, Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales, has said in an interview in Peshawar the repatriation of refugees is a conspiracy of the imperialist powers who do not want the
  Afghans to live pn the surface of the earth because this is the nation which defeated a super power in Afghanistan and is posing danger to the atheist powers of the world. (MLM)
  . * ANP Chief, Khan Abdul Wall Khan, has said if impediments were created in Afghan refugees’ repatriation then it was the responsibility of the leaders of the tribal peace mission to ensure their return by making arrangements from Turkham to ' Jalalabad. He said that all Afghan refugee camps in
                                          I
  Baluchistan were empty and refugees wanted to-go back from NWFP as well. He said the refugees should now go back to Afghanistan to play their role in the reconstruction and prosperity of theij: country. (JG) %
  * A press release by the office of the NWFP Commissioner for Afghan refugees says that the UN and the Government of Pakistan have launched a joint program for solving certain problems of Afghan refugees in their voluntary repatriation to Afghanistan and they will start getting assistance from 28 July at six points on Pak-Afghan border. Those not willing to go back will continue to receive assistance in the refugee camps as before. (NWT)
  *  According to TASS, one Soviet architect was killed and two injured in a rocket attack on Kabul by the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
  *  Nabi Dehestani, Press Secretary of the Kabul regime, expressing his opinion about the competence of a proposal of the Kabul regime for the establishment of a joint elections commission to also hold power during an interim period, said: only some of the powers of the ministries would be transferred to the commission and the pror*regime and anti-regime press would
161
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 fllGHANJflAB                                            VOL.3 NO.4
 be controlled by the joint commission.
 (BBCPS)
 * The USSR Foreign Ministry condemned 23 July the firing of rockets on Kabul resulting in the death of one and injuries to two persons. The ministry called on the powers having influence over the mujaheddin, to exert pressure on them to desist from firing rockets on pities. ( BDCPS )
 * Eleven ground-to-ground rockets were fired 24 July on Kabul, hitting districts 3,5,6 and io, killing three persons and injuring 11. These rockets were fired from the west and the north-east. (RA)
 * The mujaheddin, attacking Pashaey Pass, Zargar Pass and Hakeem Fort in Paghman distict, killed 17 military officers and arrested eight soldiers. Similarly, during another attack on Sarpooza, Kandahar, they killed ■ 13 soldiers of the Kabul regime. (RPDS)
                  25
 * The Kabul regime militiamen have attacked several vehicles carrying refugees from Gardi Jungle Camp, Baluchistan to the liberated areas in Helmand province in the . Braville region, killing two and injuring five others and arresting the rest of them. They have been sent to Lashkargah. An eyewitness said the militia, looted the luggage and the costly goods, of the refugees. (VOAPS)
 * The mujaheddin have intensified their attacks on the besieged city of Khost and occupied the Sheika post in an important strategic location. At present they are fighting at a distance of five kms. from the Khost garrison. (VOAPS) *
 * Three officers of the Kabul regime
 army arrived in Pakistan via Chaman and sought political refuge. (RTj
 *  Thirteen ground-to-ground rockets
 were fired on Kabul from west and north easterly directions 25 July hitting districts 3,5 and 10 of the city and killing 10 persons and injuring 5 others. (RA)
 *  The voluntary return of Afghan refugees begins from 28 July. The pilot repatriation package will operate in Baluchistan and NWFP in the initial stage. The project will continue for three months and at the end of this period results will be evaluated. The refugees arriving at their exit points would be given Rs. 3,300 as family cash grant and one time contribution towards family transportation and an initial resettlement cost. In addition, they would receive food assistance of 300. •kgs. for three months. The government
 of Pakistan has agreed to permit refugees leaving Pakistan to carry with them , all their household goods, personal belongings and food ration.
 (FT)
 *  A Soviet foreign office spokesman has said in Moscow that a Soviet expert, L,I. Arkharov, was killed and two Other experts were wounded 22 July when a projectile hit the Soviet Scientific and Cultural. Center in precision shelling of Kabul. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Kabul the President of the regime., Najibullah, has said that he would invite others as well to share in power in the 'interim period before general elections in the country. (JG)
 *  The Afghan Consular in .Peshawar,. Ziaul Haq Zalmay, has welcomed the UNHCR pilot project for voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees. He told the daily Jang that the Afghan government would give full protection
 162
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 MMfJfHIlD                           VOL.3 NO.A
 to the repatriats and it had announced a complete ceasefire in areas * of refugees' rehabilitation. (JG)
 *  Afghan mujaheddin leaders, Mawlawi Yunus Khales and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, have rejected the UN plan for Afghan refugees’ repatriation and said that the refugees would not go back unless the Afghanistan's communist regime was eliminated. (NWT)
                  26
 *  The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and Itthad-e-Islami Afghanistan have demanded the trial of Asadullah Sarwari the former Chief of KHAD of the Kabul regime, and have urged the Indian government to hand him over to the
 mujaheddin. The two organizations have said that Sarwari was responsible for the killing and massacre of many Afghans before and after the invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union in 1979. (RFA)
 *   ABC television has said in
 Washington that the US and the Soviet Union are ready to sign an agreement ending their involvement in the war in Afghanistan. The agreement envisages an immediate ceasefire, a stop to all outside arms shipments and the holding of national elections under UN supervision within six months. Moreover, Washington has given up the demand that Najibullah step down before elections are held. Instead, ABC said, he will give up areas of' control to a committee composed partly of the mujaheddin     representatives.     The
 agreement will be announced next week by the Foreign Ministers of the two countries when they meet in the Siberian city of Irkutsk. (PT) *
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have killed 19 Kabul regime troops and destroyed their two tanks and two military vehicles in Logar recently. In another operation
 the v mujaheddin have killed four Kabul regime troops in the same province. The mujaheddin have also attacked the Gardez city, capital of Paktia province, and destroyed 12 vehicles. They fired rockets on Bagram airport killing seven Kabul regime troops. (PT)
 *  Talking to a panel of journalists in Peshawar The Chief of Tribal Lashkar,, Malik Nader Khan Zaka Khail, has said tha*- the tribal peace mission will extend . full cooperation in Afghan refugees' repatriation and arrangements will be made for their safe journey from Torkham to Jalalabad. (JG)
 *  The release of 35 thousand Afghan^
 POW-s has been made a condition for releasing      Soviet POWs by the AIG
 President when the visiting Chairman of the Soviet Muslim Religious Board and Mufti-e-Azam, Mohammad Sadiq Mama Yousufpov, had a dialogue with him lasting three hours in AIG headquarter in Peshawar.
    Later in an interview with the Nawa-e-Waqt the Chairman of the Board said that the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, had expressed his willingness to solve the problem of POWs. (NWT)
 *  Fighting has intensified in the suburbs of Khost city and the mujaheddin have captured a key post five kilometers from the besieged city,’ foreign diplomats said in Kabul. The mujaheddin positions also came under air attack and artillery shelling. (NWT)
 *  The visiting Indian Minister St State for Foreign Affairs,Kishore Singh has told newsmen in Kabul that India wished to have close relations including military cooperation with the Kabul regime and president Najibullah has accepted an invitation to visit India within a month. (NWT)
163
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 HIUlUlllllllillll                                                                        VOL.3 NO.4
                   27
 * - According to a survey by the Newa-i-Waqt newspaper, the Afghan refugees in the 1 refugee camps in Kurram Agency have rejected the UN plan for the return of refugees to Afghanistan. The refugees have been saying that the conditions which had forced them to resort to jehad and render sacrifices still persist in Afghanistan. (NWT)
 * A number of Kabul regime soldiers have evaded the military service in Khost and have defected to mujaheddin^ They have also handed over a number of military tanks to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
 * Eight ground-to-ground rockets were fired 27 July on Kabul killing four persons and incurring 10. (RA)
 * Before leaving Washington on the first leg of his trip to East Asia, the US Secretary of State,James Baker,told reporters chat there is no agreement on Afghanistan with the Soviet Union to be announced in Irkutsk, Siberia, 1 August. (PT)
 * Some 35-40 Indian field expert are being sent back to Afghanistan, to help rehabilitate the NajibullafT government. Befpre the start / of insurgency in Afghanistan the number of Indian experts stood at 100. (pt)
 * The Intelligence Committee of the US Senate has Suggested that the US assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin should be reduced by one third. The US Congress is of the view that when the question of communism has been sorted out in the world, there was no need of expenditure against communism, says a report from the US capital by a BBC correspondent. (PT)
*  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani. leader of
 the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and the AIG Minister for Reconstruction, has said in a brief conversation with a MIDIA special correspondent that repatriation of Afghan refugees to their* home country, where war and insecurity prevails, was a flagrant violation of the international conventions and gross abuse of human rights. (PT)
 *  Some 40 families of Afghan refugees from Pishin, Jarigal Piralizai and some other points in Pishin distict left for Afghanistan 25/ July under the pilot project of the UNHCR. With the exception of 6ne, all the families are said to have left for their country without getting any help from the UNHCR, (MLM)
 *    Leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has severely condemned the UN program for the return of Afghan refugees and described ,it an organized conspiracy against the struggle of the Afghan masses and an attempt to create rifts between Pakistan, the host government, ' and the Afghan mujaheddin. (NTN)
 *  A senior US diplomat has denied reports that the US and the Soviet Union are close ,to a ceasefire agreement ‘in Afghanistan. Peter Tomsen, President Bush's special envoy to the AIG, has in an interview with the VGA reiterated the. US stand that unless Najibullah. relinquished' power before elections,war by the mujaheddin would be continued. (JG)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have fired at leash 42 rockets on Kabul in the wake Cf three-day tour of Afghanistan.by the Indian Minister of State for Foreign /Affairs, Hari Kishore Singh. six persons were killed and dozens of. others injured in the attack. (JG)
 ♦.According to a USIS press release 26
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHANiltHftQ                                                  VOL.3 N0.4
July, thousands of- Afghan refugees have le~ft for Afghanistan and shifted to Nangarhar^. province. They are getting relief supplies there both from the Afghan government and the UN agencies. They are, however, feeling uncertain about the continuation of a communist regime in Afghanistan. (JG)
*  A survey carried by a correspondent of the daily Nawa-i-Waqt says that Afghan refugees in Kurram Agency refugee camps have rejected the UNHCR plan for refugees repatriation from Punjab and NWFP and said that the circumstances which led them to wage a Jehad and offer immense sacrifices still existed in Afghanistan. (NWT)
                  28
*  A vehicle carrying a number of Arab nationals hit a mine 22 July in the Mahallajat of Kandahar, as a result of which two of them were killed and five injured. (VOADS)
*  The Herat mujaheddin have reported that in an attack 21 July in Karrukh they destroyed six tanks and five military vehicles alongwith the peple riding them. They have also killed 17 soldiers and three officers and have captured 31 pieces of heavy and light arms. The report says that in these operations several villages were also occupied by the mujaheddin. Three mujaheddin have been killed and six injured in the operations. (VOADS)
*   Sixteen ground-to-ground rockets were fired on Kabul 28 July killing four and • injuring a number of people'. (RA) *
 * The voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees from different . tentage villages and canips in the NWPP will start today, July 28. Afghan refugees ip camps feel there is no pressure on them from the government of Pakistan.
' The Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Zia-ul-Haq Zalmay, has assured that Kabul regime would provide full protection and safety to the returness to pave the way for the restoration of
 peaceful atmosphere in Afghanistan.
 ( pt )
                       J               v -
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin shot down > an aircraft at the Khost front in Paktia province 25 July and the fire caused by the rocket attack continued biasing for several hours with intermittent explosions. They also attacked an army force near the provincial headquarter of Gardez which fled awa'y carrying many dead and injured. Three mujaheddin were also seriously injured in the operation. Seven officials of the Kabul regime were killed and four army officers seriously injured 24 July in Spin Ghar Hotel of Jalalabad in a missile.attack by the mujaheddin..(PT)
 * Ten more Afghan refugee families
 from various camps in Pishin district left     fbr Afghanistan,         Deputy
 Commissioner, Munir Badein said 26 July adding that during the past seven days 70 families had voluntarily left refugee camps for Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Quetta 26 July, the Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami and Senator Qazi ftussain Ahmed,, said that a caretaker government comprising technocrats should be formed in Afghanistan to ensure fair and free elections which would be acceptable to Afghan mujaheddin and other section of people. Elections under the Najib government in Afghanistan, he said, would neither ensure peace nor it would be acceptable to the mujaheddin. He said that both US and Soviet Union’were in league now to debar the Afghan mujaheddin to come in power as they apprehend them as fundamentalists and counter productive to their policies in the region. (PT)
 * In an interview with the Muslim,
165
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
                                                                            voL.3 no.4
the AIG Minister for Information, Dr. Najib Lafray, has indicated the possibility #of the AIG shifting its operational network inside Afghanistan.' He agreed that it would be dangerous to operate the government from within but hwe' can overcome the difficulties because after all our real base is in Afghanistan where we already have large areas under our control. On refugees* repartiation he said, we too want the refugees residing in Pakistan and elsewhere to return but believe it that it’s not proper time as besides the presence of mines, the UN had not created conditions conducive for their repatriation. (MLM)
*  The Afghan mujaheddin fired eight rockets on Kabul city killing six persons and injuring 10. In similar attacks two persons were killed and five others injured 24 July. (NWT)
*  A six-member AIG delegation led by the Minister for Reconstruction, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, has left for Cairo to represent the AIG in the OIC foreign ministers' conference. .(NWT)
                                                29
*   Sabahuddin Kushkaki, a former
minister of Information and Culture of Afghanistan, in response to a question of VOA, about the UN program for the return of refugees said:   "This is an
acknowledged fact that without a ' solution of the Afghanistan problem, without a solution of the problem of leadership in Afghanistan and under the prevalent conditions that the Kabul government regime still exists, the UN and Pakistan plan for the return cif refugees and pressurizing refugees, in any way, will be considered negation of UN agreement and also open interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. • The majority of refugees who, for the attainment of a cherished goal, have preferred immigration will never return
  ‘voluntarily to theix homeland unless their aim is attained. (VODS)
  *  During an attack on a hotel in Jalalabad, the mujaheddin killed seven soldiers of the Kabul regime and wounded another four. In another mujaheddin attack in Paktia, 25 soldiers of the. Kabul regime have been killed. They also shot down a transport plane of the Kabul regime. (RT)
  *    The UN , sponsored voluntary repatriation program of Afghan refugees began in NWFP 28 July. Though Afghan refugees' commissioner said he has received no report of repatriation from refugee camps at any one of the six points of departure of" refugees, for Afghanistan, eye witnesses said seven families comprising 40 members received cash money and ration and crossed over the Pak Afghan border at Bajaur Agency bordering Kunar province and more caravans were seen coming for repatriation at Bajaur point till noon. Seventy-six refugees including women and children also crossed over the border at Torkhom without any cash payment or ration for > 'being unregistered. Meanwhile, AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said in a statement in Peshawar that his government will not back repatriation of the Afghan refugees at this stage. (PT)
  *  A survey conducted by the ANA has claimed the Afghan refugees registered in NWFP have not responded positively to a Un call for voluntary return . to their homeland. ANA- correspondent interviewed a number' of mujaheddin commanders inside Afghanistan said that they welcomed the return of refugees but were not optimistic over the success of the plan because of the continuous fighting in Afghanistan. (PT)
  *  Talking to a special correspondent
166
   JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flIGHAHJtHflB                                                    VOL.3   NO.4
  of MIDIA in his office in Peshawar 28 July the         AIG Minister for
  Communications. Ahmed Shah Ahmadzai, slated the" UN-sponsored repatriation program of Afghan refugees as "a premature action and a conspiracy against the Afghan people". He termed it a new trick of Kabul regime, aimed at diverting the world's public opinion from the real issue i.e. the continued presence of the puppet regime in Kabul.
  (PT) .                  ...... -
                                        /
  *  Some four thousand refugees have migrated to Miranshah from Ghazni due to indiscriminate bombing of their villages by ijhe Najibullah regime.
  (NWT)
                    30
  *   Afghan charge d' Affairs in Pakistan, Qudratullah ' Ahmadi, in an interview with the Pakistan Times 29 July in Islamabad said "the OIC, other friendly countries, and particularly Pakistaii, should persuade the mujaheddin commanders not tb cause threat to the lives of the returning Afghan refugees". He denied reports that there were 20 to 40 million mines left in Afghanistan by the Soviets. "The actual number, of mines is much less than that", he sa,id. "Also we are ready to cooperate with USAID and Operation SALAM as well as the mujaheddin commanders in demining efforts". (PT) *
  * Talking to APP in Islamabad 29 July, Pakistan Minister of State for States and Frontier Regions, Malik Waris Khan Afridi, said that the government of Pakistan was against forcible repatriation of Afghan refugees and the present repatriation was purely voluntary. He said it was observed over the last few months that a large number of families, mainly from Balilchistan, had been returning to
 Afghanistan and the UN agreed on a pilot project for three months. (PT)
 *
 *  Reports from exit points said that 43 Afghan families and 11 vehicles had crossed into Afghanistan via Torkham, Bajaur, Chitral and Parachinar since the UN repatriation program for the Afghans began this month.,(MLM).
 *  During demonstration by supporters of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan,Hekmatyar group, in Peshawar it was declared that the returning refugees to Afghanistan were the spies and agents of the Kabul regime. Some religious leaders, including Mawlawi . Mohammad Ayub, Mawlawi Mohammad Aqeel, Mawlawi Ghulam Jan and Mawlawi Sher' Mohammad, also, during a session, in North Waziristan issued a Verdict declaring permissible the murder of those who return to the fold of communists. (BBCPS)
 *  Only a few days prior to the meeting of the American Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister in Siberia, Najibullah, President of the Kabul reqime, has visited the Soviet Union. According to TASS, the visit was for a medical check-up.
      James Baker, the US Secretary of State, has contradicted the reports of ah imminent agreement on a cease-fire in Afghanistan. He has said the US and the USSR are facing a deadlock on the role of Najibullah. (VOADS)
 *  There are reports of continuous fighting between Pashtuns and Hazaras since five months in the province of Uruzgan. Abdul Quddus Irfani, a commander in Uruzgan, and Abdul Ali, a "guardian of Islamic jehad" in separate interviews with the - VOA, while confirming the clashes and while each one representing his position, have held the other side responsible for the clashes. Both commanders said that

 I
167
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
 the AIG has taken no action to end the clashes. (VOADS)
VOL.3 NO.4
                   31
 *   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President has said in ah interview with the Mujahed newspaper that without an expansion of military * operations, a political solution to# the Afghan problem cannot be accepted. -He added, in order to strengthen and intensify military operations, the difficulties and problems facing the^mujaheddin must be solved. He disclosed that contacts with Shia groups were maintained so they may' also participate in the government, Mujaddedi explained that our Shia brothersdemand for seven portfolios in the cabinet has been acceptable only to Jamiat-e-Islami and 'H.arkat-e-Enqelab-i-Islami and has been rejected by the rest. (VOADS)
 *  Explosives weighing 4 kgs. and placed in a densly populated suburb.
 of Kabul city were discovered by the security forces and confiscated. (RA)
 *   Five persons were killed and another five were seriously wounded when eight ground-to-ground rockets were fired at Kabul city. The rockets also caused financial losses. (RA) *
 *  In attacks on the provinces of Farah and Badghis, the mujaheddin killed 57 soldiers of the Kabul regime and wounded a number of them.' In the operation, four armored vehicles along with four transport lorries of the Kabul regime were also destroyed. The Herat mujaheddin also overran ail enemy military post. (RT)
 *   The Kabul regime President, Najibullah is reported to have left for Moscow on a "short trip" amidst reports that Kabul is facing a foodgrains shortage. A Radio Kabul broadcast has said that Najibullah left for the Soviet capital 29 July. (PT)
  *    Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, told the visiting Soviet ulama 29 July in Islamabad that the release of POWs should be bilateral and collective and it would be more appropriate if persons were exchanged after the war was over and Najib toppled. The ulama delegation was led by Mufti Mohammad Sadyk. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar also advised the Soviet Union to seek a solution of the crisis through direct talks with the mujaheddin who were the true representatives of the Afghan nation. (PT)
           -! . 1 *
  *  In an interview conducted in Kabul 26 July and published by the Hindustan Tildes two days before a meeting in Soviet Siberia between Foreign Ministers of ps and the Soviet Union, •the chief of ! Kabul regime Najibullah said "the decisions of the US-USSR (talks) will, of course, accelerate a
  peaceful settlement of the Afghan conflict but it is the - .Afghans themselves who should settle the problems relating to them and their country". (PT)
  *  Talking to a. delegation of Soviet Muslims in Islamabad 29 July the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto, urged the Soviet Union to cooperate with Pakistan in letting the people
. elect a broad based government in Afghanistan.      She assured the
  delegation to try to get released Soviet Muslim POWs held by the Afghan
-mujaheddin. (NTN)
  *  ^According ■ to Radio Kabul, eight rockets were fired on Kabul 30 July by the Afghan mujaheddin killing five persons and injuring an equal number.
                                                               ■The Radio has also claimed Kabul forces wiped out the mujaheddin basis north of Kabul in the Paghman valley and seized a large quantity of arms and
    ammunition. (JG) 168
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990       HUMANJIHAD                    VOL.3 NO.4
*   Afghan refugees' repatriation
continues in the NWFP and in. the past three days one thousand five hundred Afghan refugees have left the province. (JG)                             *
*   Opposing the Afghan refugees repatriation program* the AIG Minister for Education* Dr. Farooq Azam* has said that the program amounted to the recognition of Najibullah regime. He said the Afghan refugees will not go back unless an Islamic government is 8et(up in Afghanistan. (NWT)
                                    AUGUST
                                           1
*   Abdul Rahim Hatif, the vice President of Kabul regime in an interview with AFP# while explaining the reason for the unexpected visit of N&iibullah# President of the Kabul regime* to the Soviet Uniorv said, in. order to defend his peace plan# Najibullah had to go to Moscow. Hatif added* Najibullah will not be a party to the discussions expected to be held between the Soviet Union and the US. However, if needed he will be present to exchange views. (BBCPS)
*  Leaders of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) repudiated 1 August reports of a split inside the party. They said only nine members of the party's Executive Committee„have resigned. The chief of the political section of Hezb-e-Islami in an interview with the BBC also rejected the reports that differences among the members of Executive Committee were due to the appointment of General Tani, the former Defense Minister of Kabul as the commander of "Sacrifice Army" in Bagram. (BBCPS)
*  In an operation in Badakhshan, the mujaheddin killed 10 Kabul regime
 soldiers and wounded another 25. In another operation in Faizabad, 25 regime soldiers were captured and a , large quantity of arms and ammunition were seized by the mujaheddin. In yet another operation in Ghazni* the mujaheddin killed eight Kabul regime soldiers. (RPDS)
 *  The OIC Secretary General has said that the OIC favored a political solution to the Afghanistan problem. In a speech he said those quarters and countries which have supported the freedom struggle of the Afghans under the guidance of the Afghan mujaheddin ought to play an active role in finding an honorable solution of the Afghan issue in accordance with the wishes of Afghan mujaheddin. (RPDS)
 *  A spokesman of the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry has said* in the absence of Najibullah President of Kabul regime, Abdul Rahim Hatif will be the acting President of the state. Najibullah left for the Soviet Union two days ago for medical check up. (RMDS)
 * The Kabul regime has lately fired
 Nepalm bombs besides SCUD rockets on the residential areas in the suburbs of Ghazni city. A large number of"people have died and hundreds of families have been forced to leave their homes as a result of new operations. It is believed that the Kabul communist regime had started their indiscriminate bombardment of the city of Ghazni prior to mujaheddin's operations. In the regime's bombardments, more than 4,000 families had to flee their homes. The report adds that during the operations# the Kabul communist regime used toy bombs also. In retaliation# the      mujaheddin . attaked        the
 military centers of the Kabul regime in that province 19 July - 8 August. As a result of the mujaheddin's operations,an arms and ammunition depot, a godown of food supplies arid an oil depot, tens of
169
JULY - SEPTEMBER' 1990 fltGHANJEHfiO
 transport vehicles belonging to the regime were destroyed and a large number of. regime soldiers were killed or Wounded. The mujaheddin also suffered heavy losses in men and material . (VOADS)
          • • .         ' V •  *
 *  Reports say that the Kabul regime forces, supported by tlie Soviets in Kabul have captured Paghman after four months of fighting. Western diplomats in Islamabad say Kabul government armored units have occupied the Paghman alongwith a hillock beside it. Other hills in this area are occupied by mujaheddin.
     . According to another report the mujaheddin have broken the Kabul government now. at a defensive lines of Khost cantonment and are five kilometres from the cantonment, Quoting mujaheddin sources, last month the mujaheddin had destroyed 23 aircraft in the Khost Airport. In the outskirts of Khost Airfield, several artillery positions were also occupied by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 *  The Wall Street Journal, quoting Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy for the mujaheddin, in its editorial writes that until April this year the Kabul regime has received 1,700 SCUD rocke^'j and more than 1,400 of these have been fired. The editorial adds, it is Surprizing that the Soviet Union, while begging from the West, can afford billions of dollars worth of military aid to the Kabul regime. (VOADS)
 *  WIDIA reports that in Jadran, Paktia, the mujaheddin have downed a Kabul regime jet fighter plane. In retaliation, the communist regime started bombing mujaheddin positions in which seven mujaheddin have been killed. (RT)
 *  Differences are reported to have cropped up in the executive committee of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan
VOL.3 NO.4
 (Hekmatyar) and nine out of 14 members of the committee including.Hekmatyar*s deputy and head of political committee as well as ^ome other founding members of the party submitted their reisigna-tions 30 July and Hekmatyar accepted their resignations, reports BBC 31 July. The differences . emerged when Hekmatyar decided to nominate the former Afghan Defense Minister,1 Shahnawaz Tani, as commander of Hezb forces in Logar province. (PT)
 *  The deputy chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) ha$ denied reports that he and a number of his colleagues have resigned from the party adding that differences crop up where there is democracy in the party but this in no way means that'they have resigned from the party. (MLM)
 *  The heads of the refugee affairs of the six party AIG have said in a joint statement that when the ultimate victory of the mujaheddin became clearer and nearer some countries attempted to make deals and stall the victory of mujaheddin by plotting conspiracies against them. Sometimes they made hue and cry for the'ex-rulefs or raised the question of neutral personalities. How when the jehad is reaching the threshold of final victory* they hatched another plot of repatriation of .the Afghan refugees, the statement added. They observed that returning of the refugees under present circumstanced, 'when most regions of Afghanistan were being indiscriminately bombarded by the communist regime, was an inhuman and anti-Islamic act. (MLM)
 *  In a 48 hour long operation in Tashqurghan valley along the Kabul Hairatan Highway the Afghan mujaheddin killed ten soldiers, destroyed two tanks and captured 15 militia servicemen of \the Kabul regime. In retaliation, communist regime's aerial
 and artillery forces martyred 40 local
:70
JULY - SEPTEMBER* 1990 AFGHANJHIAU
 people and injured • hundred others in different residential areas of Khulm district inflicting huge material looses to the inhabitants and their boinbing continued for two days. (PT)
 *  The response to       UNHCR, Afghan
 refugees, repatriation program was unsatisfactory even on the fourth day with no registered refugee family reporting for repatriation at the Torkham .center 31 July and only 12 families were reported leaving for their homes from Chitral. (NWT)
                     2
 *  Before his talks with the US
 Secretary of State in the Siberian city of Irkutsk, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, told reporters:  "We cannot decide for the
 Afghans, but we can help in that regard". He dismissed speculations that .Afghan President Najibullah's extended stay in the Soviet Union meant he ‘ was being edged aside to ease the way for a settlement. "He is on vacation* **' the Soviet Minister said. (MLM)
 *   The Acting President of Kabul regime, Abdur Rahim Hatif, has feaid in Kabul that President Najibullah has gone to the Soviet Union to defend his own peace plan during US-Soviet talks on . Afghanistan opening 1 August in the Siberian city of Irkutsk. (NTN)
 *   Twenty-five- unregistered Afghan refugee families left for Afghanistan 1 August via Tourkham and another two hundred refugees via small frontier and^ Tokham on the fifth day of the UNHCR refugees, repatriation program. (JG)
 *  The Awami ,National Party Central
 Secretary of Information, Haji Mohammad Adeel,has welcomed the Afghan refugees,1 repatriation and said that they should not miss this valuable opportunity of
                                                                                         vol.3 wo.4
 establishing peace in /their country. (JG)
 * BBC has quoted the acting President of Kabul regime, Abdur Rahim Hatif, as saying that a final solution ending the Afghan war will emerge in meeting between the; US Secretary of State and Soviet Union Foreign Minister in Siberia. (NWT)
 * In an interview with AAP in Peshawar a former member of Afghan parliament, Fatehul Mulk Nang Yousufzai, has said that Afghan refugees, repatriation before the removal of Najibullah administration is a deep conspiracy of red and white imperialism and is aimed at creating anarchy in Afghanistna like Lebanon. (NWT)
 * Addressing the OIC' conference in Cairo 30 July, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, Sahabzada Yaqub Khan, has said "the Afghan interim government merits support of all members of OIC." He said the illegal Kabul regime is "a major impediment in the solution of the Afghanistan problem." He said the formation of a broad-based government remains elusive though 17 months have passed since the Soviet Union has withdrawn its troops from Afghanistan. (PT)
 * Twenty-eight year old. commander Mohammad Ismail, the younger brother of Afghan mujaheddin commander Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqani was killed in face to face battle with Kabul forces in ’Gardez, • (PT)
 * The Kabul regime Acting President, Abdul Rahim Htif, has said that Afghan repatriates would be given protection in Afghanistan in order to end the war and bloodshed in the country. (JG)
 * The Kabul regime Consul in Peshawar Ziaul Haq . Zalmay, has said that the
171
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
Kabul regime President Najibullah-was on a formal visit to Moscow and termed as incorrect speculations that his return to Kabul was uncertain. (JG)              .
*  The visit f>y Najibullah, the head of the Kabul reqime, to the Soviet Union in the wake of a meeting between the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister has given rise to speculations that the two countries might be close to an agreement oh Afghanistan. Although the two sides have not yet confirmed the imminence of an agreement, it is being said that they have reached a compromise plan and have substantially reduced their differences on the Afghanistan issue. (VOADS)
*  One of the strong supporters of the Afghanistan resistance in the US House of Representatives in a press interview has said that he thinks the US Congress will continue its support for the Afghan mujaheddin until the Soviets continue their war against them. The Congressman,- Dan Ritter, added that the people of Afghanistan are able to determine their own future and the only hurdle between them and their right to their self-determination has been the Soviet Union. (OADS)
*  The Afghan mujaheddin have frustrated a major Kabul regime offensive in Jauzjan .province. Also the mujaheddin have raided Kabul military positions in Paghman resulting in the death of 34 army officers and soldiers. (RPD *
*  Iran has re-affirmed its support for the right of the people of Afghanistan to form their own government. This was stated by a high ranking official of the Foreign Ministry of Iran during the course of talks which he held with the director of political affairs of the Australian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
 (RPDS)
 * Zaher Shah, the former Monarch of Afghanistan-, in an interview with the BBC in regard to the high-level talks between the Soviet Union and the US has said, many Afghans know the Siberia talks between the two countries have an important bearing on the Afghanistan issue and hope that they fvill not be against the aspirations of the Afghan nation.- Zaher Shah emphasized specially the holding of talks between various Afghan political’ groups so, in his words, the Afghan themselves will be able to decide about their future without foreign interference. He said grounds should be paved for reaching an understanding between jehad organizations and other effective elements of the Afghan society. He said the participation of all the strata of the Afghan         society,     including
 mujaheddin representatives, university professors and other people with good name was of vital importance in any dialogue on the future of Afghanistan.
 (BBCFS )
 *  Six ground-to-ground rockets were
 fired 2 July on Kabul residential areas resulting in the death of two and the' injury of another two persons. The rockets were of the Sakar type and hit the No. 4,   5 and 11 district  of Kabul.
 In another similar rocket attack on Kabul five people have been killed and five injured.' (RA)
 *   .The mujaheddin in attacks on Kabul regime positions in Dar-ul-Aman, Bagh-e-Dauod and Qargha have killed a number of soldiers and demolished a number of tanks. The attack was staged 19 July.''' The mujaheddin also have attacked Kabul regime posts in the Seh Gombat area of Paghman destroying one security post and killing 34 militiaman.
      In clashes between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces in the Sangcharak district of Jauzjan 21 July,
JULY
SEPTEMBER, i990
V0L.3 no.4
 the mujaheddin, while inflicting heavy losses * to the enemy, seized 65 different types of arms. Six civilians have been killed .as a result of the Kabul regime jet aircraft bombardment on the area.' (VOADS)
                   3
 *  Zalmai Khalilzad an advisor in the US Dapartment of State on Afghanistan, in an interview with' the BBC bn US-USSR talks in Siberia has said what the US wanted to achieve in these talks
     the removal of Najibullah and holding of elections under a neutural government in Kabul—was not accomplished. (BBCFS)
                   4
                      \     I.'-'.
 *  Burhanuddin Rabbani,’ leader of the Afghan delegation in the 01C foreign ministers, conference, in an interview with the VOA has said as long, as the present Kabul regime remains in power there is no possibility for reaching a settlement of the Afghanistan issue and it will not be desirable to reach orie as well. He said before any elections or solution, the present government in Kabul should step aside and power should be transferred to another authority. Rabbani said that for the establishment of a broadly based government, an all out effort is underway add work is continuing for the formation of an elective assembly so that a government may be formed by that body in which all the mujaheddin organizations in Pakistan; Iran and others are represented and the present political vacuum is eliminated.
 *  At the 19th session of the OIC Foreign Ministers'Conference in Cairo, the Foreign Minister of Turkish Republiq of Northern Cyprus, Dr. Kenan Atakol, reiterated his people's full support for the just struggle of the mujaheddin in • Afghanistan. The
 Malaysian Deputy Foreign Minister, Datuk. Dr. Abdullah Fadzil Che Wan also in his speech said "Malaysia is deeply concerned that a political solution of Afghan issue still remains elusive. We favor a political solution with broad-based government acceptable to the Afghan people whicb could restore peace and independence to Afghanistan and can work for the return of all Afghan refugees to their homeland".
 ( NTN)
 * Quoting TASS the daily Nawa-i-Waqt
 says the US and the Soviet Union have reached further understanding on Afghanistan and after two days of talks with his US counterpart, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, has said that practical results of the understanding will very soon come to light. In Moscow a Foreign Ministry spokesman has said that both the leaders discussed Afghan refugees' repatriation and free elections in Afghanistan. (NWT)
                    5
 * Mullah Abdul Ghaffar, a commander of
 the Mullah Naseem Akhondzada, in an interview about inter-fighting in Helmand has said,           the ‘present
 inter-fighting in Helmand is not between the Hezb-e-Islami and Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, but between the mujaheddin and a number of pseudo-mujaheddin who     claim to ' be-
 members of the Hezb-e-lslami but are actually mercenaries of the Kabul regime and receive a monthly salary of
 30,000    afghanis from the Kabul government. He said a number of these people have been captured, others have fled and some of them have joined the Kabul regime forces. He said that the clashes were not between mujaheddin organizations but have had ideological basis and right now the mujaheddin who are real members of the Hezb-e-Islami are no longer in the area and there has
173
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
 been no opposition with them, (-VOAPS)
 ♦The Afghan mujaheddin have captured a military post from the Kabul regime forces in the Seh Gombat of Paghman and have killed 34 soldiers of the Kabul regime.      They     also     launched
 an operation on the Charwazgi military base, 20 kilometres from the Kabul city# killing 100 soldiers of the Kabul regime forces and capturing 15 positions. During these operations^ 11 mujaheddin were killed, (RPDS)
 * The body of General' Mohammad Shareef was buried recently in Jauzjan (date not given). General Mohammad shareef was from the Kabul regime forces and, was killed in a pitch-battle with the mujaheddin. (RA)
 * Under the UNHCR repatriation program, seven families crossed over to Afghanistan 4 August via Miran Shah while the day's total from, other points was said to be 37 families. Meanwhile; in Bajaur sector some of the Afghan refugees returning to their homeland are reported to have been, beaten up and deprived of their belongings by some unidentified persons whose political affiliation could not be ascertained. An official source said the incident was perhaps the first of its type and didn't seem to be a pre-planned affair. (MLM)
 *  'The 19th conference of the OIC* Foreign Ministers in Cairo- has in a resolution, adopted on the concluding day of the conference, said that "the formation of a broad-based government is essential for the restoration of peace and for enabling the people of Afghanistan to exercise their right to choose their own political, economic and social system, free from outside intervention". It called for "the creation Cf, the necessary conditions of peace and normalcy that would enable the Afghan refugees to* return
 voluntarily to their homeland in safety and honor." It said it "recognizes and supports the role 'of the Afghan mujaheddin for the restoration, of the independent, non-aligned and Islamic status of Afghanistan". The conference decided to ■ continue "generous, humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and to work for their repatriation and rehabilitation in Afghanistan in cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and Iran".
 (pT)
 *  Speaking at a gathering of a religious school in Akora Khattak Mawlana •Sami-ul-Haq, Secretary General of Jamiat-e-Ulama-i-Islam has said that the repatriation of Afghan refugees was not a logical and practicable plan and "this program has been launched as a result of the Conspiracy of the super powers". He said "it is a satanic action and a desparate attempt to prevent the success of Islamic revolution in Afghanistan." (PT)
 *  A foreign office spokesman has told a news briefing in Islamabad 4 August that the US and the Soviet Union have come closer on Afghan issue in their talks in Siberia. (NWT)
 *  Under the UNHCR plain 750 registered Afghan refugees have so far left for Afghanistan from the NWFP. No registered. family has left for Afghanistan via Tprkham- since 28 July.
 (JG)   .
 *  Commenting on reported agreement on Afghan issue between US and the Soviet Union in their, foreign ministers» talks in the Siberian capital of Irkutsk in the Soviet Union, the daily Jang says in its editorial 5 August that peace in Afghanistan can be guaranteed only through participation of the Afghan mujaheddin in any settlement of Afghanistan and in consonance with the will and aspirations of the people of Afghanistan. (JG)
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
          6
                                                                             VOL-3 NO.4
  *  Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, has said in Moscow that the act of sending Soviet troops in Afghanistan is a shameful chapter of the Soviet history. He said that arrangements like elections in Nicaragua and Namabia were needed for a settlement of the Afghan issue. (NWT)
' * The US Secretary of State and the USSR* Foreign Minister could not reach a final decision about Najibullah regime in Afghanistan in their two-day talks in Siberia. (JG)
  *  Peter Tomsen, the Ambassador for the AIG, has said in an interview in Washington that progress had been made
' in US-Soviet talks on modusroperandi of Afghan solution with differences still existing between the super powers. He said that the removal, of Najibullah was essential for a settlement of the Afghan issue. (NWT)
  * Kabul regime air and ground forces
  attacked Waghiz,         Lashmak and
  Shadikoshak villages of Ghazni province 19 July martyring six local people and children, injuring a number Of others and razing many residential houses to the ground. The communist regime war planes showered these areas with 49 Napalm bombs.        The mujaheddin also
  attacked the regime installations on the same date destroying one depot, a storage of foodstuff, one oil container and a military vehicle and killing010 soldiers and injuring a number of" others.     They    also killed ' three
  officers and one soldier in their operation in the capital city of Herat province early last week, with eight soldiers defecting to the mujaheddin. In Kunduz city the mujaheddin inflicted huge human and material losses to the regime 26 July, Kabul artillery targeted residential areas around the
 city martyring five*people, injuring a number of others and destroying many huts. (NTN)
 *  The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Australia^ Senator Evan Garris, visited the Nasir Bagh Afghan refugee camp in Peshawar. The Pakistani Commissioner for the Afghan Refugees accompanied fhe Minister during the visit. (RPDS)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin in attacks on Paghman have’ killed 24 Kabul regime troops and destroyed two tanks, (RT)
 *  . Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President,in an interview with the WUFA magazine published in Peshawar has said that the return of the refugees to the country would have a positive impact for the resistance but the refugees themselves will face' many difficulties.
 He said the refugees should return to the country only when an Islamic government and security are established in the country. (VOADS)
                  7
 *  Kabul once, again was hit by rocket seven August. A Kabul regime spokesmen has said that at least eight persons were killed and seven injured in the attack. Most of the rockets are being fired on Kabul from north west. (BBCFS)
 *  The Hezbollah of Afghanistan has presented an alternative solution for the Afghanistan problem on the basis of which, as a first step, the present Kabul regime should be dissolved and later a 50-member revolutionary council comprising 20 well-known commanders, 20 political personalities of important mujaheddin organizations in Iran and Pakistan , (12 from Pakistani based ' organizations and- eight from Irani based organizations) five refugee representatives from Europe and the West and five, from the Muslims living in Kabul should be formed (VOAPS)
175
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 IUNJMM)                            VOI .3 NO.4
 *  The Afghan mujhheddin have launched rocket attacks on Kabul Airport but the Kabul regime authorities claimed that no damages were inflicted to the airport or the aircraft stationed there. (BBCPS)
 *   According to a decree issued by acting Kabul regime President,Abdul Rahim Hatif, four Kabul regime officers have been promoted to the status of Generals in response to their fair and praiseworthy services to the regime.
 (RA)
 *   King Fahd of Saudi Arabia has through official Haj delegations of Islamic countries called upon their respective governments to continue their assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin till the elimination of the puppet Kabul regime, report AIG sources. He also appealed to the Islamic world to keep in view their obligations vis-a-vis the Afghanistan problem. (NWT)
 *  Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to Afghan muj£heddin,has ' said in an interview to VOA that the USSAR had officially agreed for holding free and fair elections in Afghanistan and the US Secretary of Stafce,^ James Baker had also agreed in this regard with the perceptions of the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze. Tomsen added that both the US and Soviet Union had also agreed on an interim period. He said that the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister will hold further talks in September in Moscow and then in the UN before the announcement of expert level talks between the two countries. (NWT) *
 * AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool -Sayyaf, has condemned the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and described it. a flagrant violation of all human /and
 Islamic principles. He warned that
 Iraq's invasion of 'Saudi Arabia will not be tolerated. He demanded urgent and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi trpops from Kuwait and. asked the Kuwaiti people not to obey the puppet regime of Iraq.1 (NTN)
                  8
 * .The Afghan mujaheddin ambushed the Kabul regime forces 4 August killing 30 soldiers and injuring 20 when the regime forces were going to their posts, five kilometers from Ghazni city and forced them to retreat. In their four-hour attack on Sinjitak's posts the same date, the mujaheddin captured one post, killed four militiamen and took huge quantity of arms and ammunition. According to another repoit, the mujaheddin in their counter attack in the same area of Ghazni . province killed 55 soldiers and militiamen of the regime forces. (NTN)
 * The Afghan resistance fired a heavy barirage of rockets at. Kabul 6 August killing at least eight people and seriously wounding Seven more, says a government spokesman. About 15 rockets slammed into areas of Wazir Akbar Khan and Bibimaharo and three rockets exploded outside the high-security Kabul international airport. Three rockets hit Kabul 5 August killing one man and.injuring an unspecified number of people, the spokesman said. Mujaheddin and . government forces have also been exchanging heavy artillery fire in the strategic eastern city of Jalalabad for the last four days. (NTN)
 * ,The mujaheddin have prevented the Kabul regime authorities from building new posts in areas surrounding the city of Ghazni. In clashes between the mujaheddin and Kabul government forces in the Koshk and Qala-e-Ahmad Khan,- 55 Kabul regime soldiers were killed and
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flHlHDNJEHAD                                               VOL.3   NO.4
 20 injured. The mujaheddin said that the.Kabul regime forces had to retreat. Also the mujaheddin in an attack on the Sanjetac military post, killed four militiaman and captured the post, in these clashes, the mujaheddin have seized 40 different kind of weapons and two mujaheddin have been killed and one injured. (VOADS)
 * According to a report from the Nimroz province, the mujaheddin have launched an attack on the Kabul regime establishment in Zarang and have demolished two tanks and killed 19 Kabul regime soldiers including one high-ranking Khad military officer. In the operation one mujahed has been killed and another injured. Also the mujaheddin attacked with rockets a security post in the Fifth District of Kandahar city killing six people, /including one military officer of the Kabul regime and demolishing Kabul regime trenches of cannons and other weapons. (VOAPS)
 *  Fourteen persons were killed and 23
 injured 8 August in Kabul city as a result of the firihg of 30 ground-to-ground rockets. The rockets hit districts 4,  5 and  11. Heavy material
 losses have also been reported including the demolishing of two vehicles. (RA)
 *  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani reports
 from Khost that the mujaheddin have begun a wide scale operation against Kabul regime forces in Khost hnd Gardiz and shot: down one transport plane 8
 August . in Khost . In Gardiz too Heavy losses have been inflicted to Kabul regimeN establishments. Six armored tanks have been burnt in the Gardiz Garrison. The regime forces in response have been launching SCUD rockets. (BBCPS) *
  * Karim Khalili, represeAtative of the
 Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Isitfmi, who has parti cipated in the OIC foreign ministers, conference in anj interview has said that efforts were exerted in the conference to usher further support for the Afghan cause arid mujaheddin views were conveyed and reflected in the political and cultural commissions of the conference. (VOADS)
                  9
 *   Bill McCollum, a member of the US House of Representatives and a mujaheddin supporter, in an interview on the possibility of a reduction of US assistance to the mujaheddin said, there is no doubt that members of the US Congress still support the mujaheddin and wish for their success. However they are not well-informed about Afghan realities and they have been disillusioned because the mujaheddin 'have not been able to capture important cities. But it should be remembered that the mujaheddin have not succeeded to do so because they have not received enough arms and the US government has failed to cooperate as much as necessary with the mujaheddin in this regard. (VOAPS)
 *   Brig. Moosa Khan, a member of the political committee of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, who has recently return from a trip inside Afghanistan, in an interview - the BBC said, despite the fact that the Kabul regime concentrated most of its forces to capture Paghman during the past few months, it has failed to capture the area completely. He said that, the main problem of the mujaheddin in Paghman was lack and scarcity of means and material. (BBCPS).
 *   According to reports reaching Pakistan, the Aab-e-Karaari district in Badghis has been conquered by the Jamiat-e-Islami mujaheddin 30 July. The mujaheddin have also captured 300 pieces of different arms and a number of military vehicles,. Also the Herat
177
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
 mujaheddin have attacked 26 July Kabul regime centers in Kaja, Cheshma-e-Daraz and Band-e-Bozakf killing or injuring 60 Kabul regime soldiers, and capturing two tanks and 45 pieces of arms. On the same day 16 Kabul regime militiaman defected to the mujaheddin*., Three days later the mujaheddin attacked a truck carrying militiamen in the Hazar Jereeb region of Herat killing five including one officer. (VOADS)
 *   Five senior Afghan diplomats stationed in Yugoslavia, Hungary, Czechoslovakia,' North Korea and Kuwait, have defected in the past two months, sources close to the government said in Kabul 7 August. The defecting diplomats included Charge d' Affaire., Samad Asghar in Yugoslavia and Hashmath Kaihani, envoy to North Korea. (PT)
 * A Kabul government transport plane carrying military supplies was shot down 7 August near the Khost Airport in Paktia province by the Afghan mujaheddin. They also targetted military installations with rockets in, provincial headquarter of Gardez and destroyed one tank and three vehicles. (NVJT)
                   10
                     i
 * AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi
 and Prime Minister Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf have condemned Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait. President Mujaddedi warned that any threat against the Islamic land of Saudi Arabia shall be regarded as a direct aggression against Islamic sanctity. "The mujaheddin are prepared to defend Saudi Arabia with all their might." Prime Minister Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf said tile Iraqi decision to annex Kuwait was a criminal act. He said that the silence of the rest of the Muslims against this development is contrary to the spirit of Islamic fraternity. (PT)                     * *
 *  Eight militiamen and a number of
MW                      ’ VOL.3 NO.4
 soldiers were killed as a mujaheddin planted anti-vehicle mine exploded in the wreckage of an army lorry of the regime on the Kabul-Charikar road, mujaheddin sources told MIDIA. The mujaheddin also attacked Khost Airport 6 August destroying one four-engine plane and inflicting great damages to the airport. They also killed three KHAD servicemen, destroyed eight military . vehicles ‘ and three jeeps during their attack on a KHAD batallion in Gardez' city. The mujaheddin targetted Bagram Airport with heavy machineguns 2 August destroying two military aircraft and set one depot ablaze with flames continuing to rise from 9 a.m to 4 p.m. They also fired five mortar shells on a regiment stationed at Bagram airport killing Maj. Mohammad Ihsan with two of his guards besides six communist regime's militiamen early last week. (PT)
. * Dr. Farooq Azam, the AIG Minister of Education, in an interview with the VOA has said that at ^present 3,13 7 schools have been activated in Afghan refugee -camps- and in the Kunar province the department of education
 * I '
 has begun its work. He said, the AIG plans to establish education department in Kandahar and Zabul as well. (VOAPS
 *  Jalaluddin Haqqani, mujaheddin commander in Paktia province, in an interview to the BBC about plans to return the refugees to Afghanistan has said that he was opposed to the UN program for the repatriation of Afghan refugees from an Islamic point of view because the refugees have actually migrated to fight and so far our jehad has not ended. There is no security inside the
 country and an Islamic government has not been established and therefore we consider this UN program against our jehad. (BBCPS)
 * The first meeting of the Afghanistan jehad commanders, held in Teheran
178
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 flFiiKANJtHAO                                                  VOL.3 NO.4
 9 August and attended byf 200 'commanders, demanded an end to super-power intervention in Afghanistan and good relations between Afghanistan and its neighbours. (RT)
 * The 'Afghan mujaheddin in an attack
 on Kabul regime centers in the Babosh Desert of Logar have killed 18 soldiers and demolished three vehicles carrying arms.    In response to these
 operations, the Kabul aircraft raided mujaheddin positions. Thirty civilians were killed in these, attacks. The mujaheddin have also attacked Kabul regime establishments in Char Asyab, Qara Bagh and Paghman of Kabul province killing about 85 soldiers and capturing sev6n security posts. (RT)
                   11
 *  Heavy fighting continued 10 August around the Afghan capital, Kabul, with government forces hitting mujaheddin rocket-launching positions, officials and diplomats said. More than 50 rockets have slammed into different parts of the capital since 9 August, killing 22 and seriously wounding more than 50 by official count,. (PT)
 *  Afghan mujaheddin were reported to have stepped up their attacks against Kabul 9 August, reports BBC. • The mujaheddin have attacked the capital frequently during the past few days. More than 20 rockets fell in Kabul since 6 August, the broadcast said. (MLM)
                   12
 *  The Coalition Islamic Council of Afghanistan has transferred its central office from Teheran to Peshawar, Pakistan. A spokesman of the coalition explaining the reason for the transfer, said it was due to the. need for having close contacts with the military bases of mujaheddin inside
 Afghanistan. He said from Peshawar the jehad affairs could be administered in a better manner and we will be able to have close contacts with other Peshawar based mujaheddin -organizations. He refuted charges of differences between
                               jTm
 the coalition council and Iranian authorities. (BBCFS)
 * The Afghan refugees in their protest meeting 10 August in Bajour Agency condemned the UN plan for their return describing it an- intrigue of the anti-Islam forces. They said that in the presence of the Najib clique and whereas Afghanistan was1 flooding with
vthe anti-personnel mines it was inhuman to push the Afghan mujaheddin to Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  In an interview to MIDIA after his
 return from OIC foreign ministers, conference, the AIG Minister for Rehabilitation, Burhanuddiri Rabbani, has said that the conference declared premature the Afghan refugees' repatriation saying that peace had not yet been restored in their country and all areas were infested with mines. (NWT)       *
                   13
 *  A Kabul government military plane
 has crashed in western part of Afghanistan killing all 80 of its passengers. The regime radio said the crash his occurred due to technical reasons. (BBCPS).
 *  A five-member visiting Russian
 delegation,      led      by      Soviet
 Parliamentarian, Aiona Andronov, called on the Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, in Peshawar 11 August and, exchanged views over the release of POWs. Talking to the women members of the delegation, Hekmatyar said the Afghans who were captured by the Russians and Kabul army, too, have -mothers, sisters and wives who have been waiting for them
179
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHANJH
VOL.3 NO.4
 "and felt extremely worried about their fate. These mothers, he added, have been asking about the fate of their sons and he had no reply. The mothers of Russian POWs advocated that their sons were not guilty of the crimes they were arrested for but it was the regime of Kabul and the system there which had resulted in such a situation in Afghanistan. They expressed sympathy for the Afghan mothers and wished that their sons top should be released. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in response to the request of two Russian POWs mothers promised that he will arrange a meeting with their sons at the Pak-Afghan border. The delegation, thanked Hekmatyar' for his human attitude and for his assurance in this regard. (PT)
 * Soviet POWs mothers delegation met AIG .President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in Peshawa^r and termed the war against the Afghans a great crime and condemned the USSR's continued interference in Afghanistan. They said that it was an inhuman act on the part of USSR against the innocent people of Afghanistan. The Soviet Union should stop its support to the Kabul regime. Mujaddedi said that all the mujaheddin in the jails of puppet regime of Kabul and Soviet Union will be exchanged with POWs of Russia. (PT)
*  The President of Russian Federation Boris Yaltsin,. has invited mujaheddin leaders for dialogue over the issue of POWs. This was disclosed by Soviet Parliamentarian. and Vice Chairman of International Affairs Committee, Iona Andronov in Peshawar 12 August. He said that he had extended the invitation to mujaheddin leaders to visit the Soviet Union to see for themselves that not a single Afghan prisoner had been confined in any part of the Soviet Union. He,, hbwever, confessed that about 200 Afghan children had been shifted to the Soviet Union during the last • 10 years. He
 clarif ied-^'that all of them were the sons end daughters of Afghan officers and that the children of common Afghans had not been sent to Moscow.
   (NTN).
                  14
 *  In an interview to the Muslim, Dr. Tanvir Ahmed, Pakistan's Foreign Secretary, has said the period of low activity is* over and we should anticipate progress at two levels in Afghanistan. .Brisk progress is Visible among mujaheddin themselves as they are working on an election program of their own which .is beginning to assume a" concrete shape and ,may be finalized soon. On the other hand,- he said, recent talks between Foreign Ministers of US and the USSR indicate that the two superpowers are moving closer to an agreement. There is agreement 'among all that solution of the Afghanistan problem lies in election. Some think the OIC or UN should supe-rvize elections while others say it should be entirely a.mujaheddin affair. (MLM)
 *  Commander Ismail Khan has reported from Badghis that on the niqht of 14 . August about 1,500 mujaheddin attacked important Kabul government security
^jposts around Qala-e-Nau, the center of the province, and captured three major government posts - Cheshm-q-Dozak, Sang-e-Sorkh and Khom-e-Abbasee. During the operation, about 100 Kabul regime soldiers have been killed and the mujaheddin have seizled large quantities of arms. (VOADS)
 *  The Kabul regijme has claimed that about 5,000 alined mujaheddin ,and Pakistani .para'-fltilitary • forces have gathered in the Miran Shah region to stage an attack on Khost. According to a Kabul government Foreign Ministry spokesmen, the men are accompanied with heavy atihs including cannons ^ind tanks. ; The regime has said, in case ofk.^
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 JHRJU                               vol.3 m
 such an attack, Pakistan will be held responsible. The Afghan mujaheddin have not confirmed the Kabul report. (BBCFS)
 *  Differences still persist regarding a change in the organizational structure of Afghan Shia parties. Two days ago, a spokesmen of the Islamic Coalition Council said that the coalition still exists but it has transferred its center from Iran to Peshawar, Pakistan. However, Rahmatullah Mortazawi, a spokesman of the Islamic Wahdat Party, which is a unified organization of a number of Afghan Shia parties, in an interview with the BBC said that the coalition council no longer existed and, therefore, the transfer of its center to Peshawar was meaningless. (BBCFS)
 *  A five member Soviet delegation met 14 August in Peshawar with Burhanuddin Rabbani, the AIG Minister of Reconstruction. The delegation has asked the AIG to cooperate in telling it the where-abouts of the missing Soviet soldiers. Professor Rabbani, while expressing sympathy with the families of Soviet prisoners, said that the issue could be solved in the overall contacts of a solution of the Afghanistan crisis.(RPDS)
 * Since the beginning of Afghan year
 11369, 1,300  rocket have been fired on
 Kabul killing 378 and injuring 1,148 people. At present, seven armed mujaheddin fronts, with a total number of 9450 armed men,are stationed around Kabul trying to recapture their positions in Paghman. (RMDS)
 *  Three persons were killed and 22 injured as a result of the firing of ground-to-ground rockets on Kabul 14 August. Eleven of these rockets have hit districts 4,5 and 10. (RA)
 * Members of the commanders,* committee of the jehad organizations of the
" western parts of Afghanistan met 13 August Ali Akbar Valayati, the Iranian Foreign Minister in Teheran, Valayati, while expressing the Iranian support for the Afghan mujaheddin, urged the unity of all mujaheddin organizations and, in addition to continuation of;the military jehad, he emphasized the continuation of political work in this respect as well.' (RTFS)
                  15
 + It was announced in Kabul 15 August that the Soviet Union has agreed to provide more, assistance for Afghanistan this year in food, fuel and cash. According to Kabul regime authorities, in the course of 1990 the Soviet Union will provide 50,000 tons more fuel bringing it up to 450,000 tons. Moscow will add another 100,000 tons of wheat to its assistance for Afghanistan bringing it up to 400,.000 tons. Also there will be an increase in cash assistance to the Kabul regime. (BBCFS)
 *  Kabul has been facing recently an acute shortage of petrol and gasoline which is usually also used for cooking in homes. Many of gasoline stations in Kabul have been shut' down and the people have to stand on long lines for hours to get their ration. There is petrol in the black market but offered seven times higher than the usual price. (BBCFS)
 *  Two persons were killed in Kabul after being hit by ground-to-ground rockets. The rockets were fired from westerly direction and hit district 5 of the city. (RA)
 *  The mujaheddin, in fighting in the Sorkh DCiwal of Nangarhar, have captured five military posts of the Kabul regime.(VOAPS)
                  16
 *  Commander Are-f Khan, deputy, of the
181
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
Hazrat-e-Hamza Unit in Herat, in an interview with VOA has said that in a sustained mujaheddin operation 13 August, Brigade No.89 of the Badghis province defected to the mujaheddin alongwith their arms. The mujaheddin have recovered large quantities of arms, including 700 klashenkovs, 500 crabin rifles, one dashaka, one ZK-1, 60 heavy and light machineguns, one cannon, one tank, three vehicles, two communication units and 200,000 bullets. (VOADS)
                   17
   Some 93 Afghan refugee families have prepared to leave for their homeland 16 August, a UN representative said in Pishin. He said that approximately 100 Afghan families daily return to Afghanistan voluntarily from the refugee tentage villages. (NTN)
*  The Washington Post has said two
years ago the city of Peshawar in Pakistan was full of optimism and large number of journalists, people working for     humanitarian     organizations,
diplomatsi etc. had piled over , each other. However,, following many terrorist attacks and murders and threats, , no longer people consider themselves immune in that town and a number of westerns themselves say that they are worried about their fate. (VOADS)
*   Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime, has endorsed the decree of the Council of .Ministers of that regime,in regard to the amendment of the Article 8 of the Flag and Emblem Law, the Political Parties Law and the amendment in Article 4 of the National Assembly clause of the Constitution. (RA) *
 *  Three person were killed 17 August after being hit by ground-to-ground rockets in Kabul. Fourteen persons were injured from the rockets launched
vol.3 no.4
  from north westerly direction.Twelve of them hit districts 4, 5, 9 and 10. (RA)
  *  The body of Col. Mohammad Daoud Joyan, the commander of a large unit of militia forces in Herat, was buried in that province 16 August. He was killed in a battle recently. In a function held on the occassion, the First Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Defense of the Kabul regime, the Chief Commander of Kabul military zone. Deputy Minister of the Ministry of State Security and a number of high-ranking generals of the Kabul regime had taken part. (RA)
                  18
  *  The Chief of the United Nations operation for clearing the mines in Afghanistan, in an interview with VOA in Peshawar has said that at present 17 groups exist for. clearing mines inside Afghanistan in which 322 young and trained Afghans have been working. So far they have discovered and neutralized 24 anti-tank, 345 anti-personnel mines and 304 shells which had not been detonated in Ghazni, Kunar, Paktika and Bamian provinces.
  (VOAPS)
                  19
  *  Zalmai Khalilzad, an American expert on Afghanistan, in an interview with the VOA on the impact of the Gulf crisis over the Afghanistan issue has said, "as world attention is now mainly devoted to the Gulf, Afghanistan has been comparatively forgotton. If the Gulf crisis continues, Saudi Arabia might reduce its assistance to the mujaheddin or perhaps completely stop it. • This will depend on how much and for how long the Saudis are going to remain involved in the Gulf crisis.
                                                         However, US-Saudi political and military assistance will have a positive I impact on the Afghanistan issue. He
182
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
AFGHAN JEHAD
 said the US might try to improve its relations with Iran with an aim to distance Teharan from Iraq. If this happens, there might be a positve change in Iranian stand in regard to Afghannistan. (VOADS)
 *  In the south of Kabul, the Afghan mujaheddin attacked a military convoy coming from Kabul by rocket launchers during which 14 troops were killed and injured. ■ The mujaheddin also destroyed an armored vehicle of a mobile force in Kama area of Nangarhar province. On' August 12 the mujaheddin hit the military installations in Gardez, the headquarters of Paktia province,
 killing eight Kabul troops and injuring 22. The operations in Char Asyab and Gardez claimed the lives of six mujaheddin and injuries to 15 others. (PT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin destroyed a Russian made Kabul regime military transport plane 18 August at the Khost airport. Its three pilots and five army personnel were killed on the spot. (PT)
 *  Inaugurating a two-day international conference on Afghan Jehad the Chairman of the Pakistan Senate, Wasim Sajjad, said the Afghan Jehad gave a clear message to all the freedom loving countries of the world that no super or mini power could subjuga-te any nation if it was determined to protect its faith, religion and values. Credit goes . to Afghan jehad, he said, . which kindled the freedom movement in occupied Kashmir. The spirit of Afghan*-jehad helped eliminate the Berlin Wall and it sparked movements in many east European countries like Poland, Romania etc. he said. (PT) *
* * In an interview in Lahore 18 August the Afghan leader., Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that the Afghan mujaheddin were facing a joint conspiracy of the
 two super powers but they were confident that fortitude, endurance and consistency will bear fruit. (MLM)
 *  Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime, in a decree has ordered the release of residential houses and apartments confiscated during the past years to the owners or legal representative or heir of the owners (RA)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have captured 15 villages around Kala-e-Nau, the cfenter of Badghis province, and they are now in the five kilometre zone of the city strengthening their trenches. Also the mujaheddin have captured an important militia center in the Laman Valley. One hundred eighty soldiers have defected to the mujaheddin and the mujaheddin- have seized 358. pieces of heavy and light arms. The Kabul regime airforce subsequently ' bombed the villages occupied recently by the mujaheddin as a result of which one mujahed was killed and three injured.
 (VOAPS)
 *' Heavy fighting took place between the mujaheddin and Kabul •regime forces 11-15 August in Ghazni city as a result of which 375 militiamen of the Badamgi security posts defected to the mujaheddin. In another mujaheddin operation on the Kabul regime military centers, 25 militiaman were killed and nine injured. Also other operations were staged 8-1,0 August on Kabul regime military centers in Ghazni city as a result of which the mujaheddin captured the Qala-e-Adam Khan post and put on fife an arms depot belonging to the 14 Divisions. In these fightings, 19 mujaheddin and civilians have been killed or injured, 12 houses destroyed and 13 wheat harvest burnt. (VOADS)
                 20
 *  As a result of the firing of ground-to-ground rockets on Kabul 20 August, six people were killed -and 14 injured.
183
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 The rockets were launched from westerly ' direction and have also caused heavy material losses. (RA)
 * Radio Moscow in a commentary has said that, with the passage of time-, it becomes clear that the Afghanistan' issue cannot be solved through a resort to arms and also one cannot agree with the view of a number of political observers who claim that only with the solution of the political problem of the Afghanistan issue the refugees would be able to return to their homes. (RMDS)
 *  The Soviet Union will produce a
 feature film on its involvement in the Afghan war. In the film which will cost $  10 millions, Soviet airforce and
 ground forces will also participate and it will depict ideas about a useless war fought by the Russinas in Afghanistan. (VOGDS)
 * The Chief of IJI of Pakistan, Mian Nawaz Sharif, has said that the Afghan jehad was actually a jehad for the defense of Pakistan and the entire Islamic unimah. Addressing the concluding session of the two-day international conference on jehad, organized by the Islamic Council for Asia, (ICA) in Islamabad he said the conquest of Kabul by the Afghan mujaheddin will solve many problems of the ummah. He underlined the need to draw a line of demarcation between friends and foes and forge unity to
 defeat all hostile forces. (MLM)
 * Mohammad Gulab Nangarhari," advisor to the President of AIG and the Secretary General of the NLF, passed away 19 August afternoon. (PT) *
*  According to a mujaheddin source the mujaheddin defeated 15 August a communist regime attack (place not known) destroying one tank and killing all those on board. In another ambush
 they captured two soldiers 12 August in Balamar area of Paghman district. They also attacked regime force the same day in Pul-e-Khumri district of Baghlan province killing a high ranking officer, Lai Mohammad, alongwith 13 soldiers and injuring 18 others. Sixteen armed militiamen and soldiers were captured alive and huge material losses were inflicted on the forces. In their attack 11 August the mujaheddin captured 14 militiamen and soldiers alongwith 18 klashenkovs and huge quantity of ammunition .at Darai Bala's posts in Jauzjan province. Thirteen soldiers and militiamen were killed and a number of others were injured 12 August when the mujaheddin counter attacked the Kabul regime forces in Kokcher area of capital city of Samangan province. They also captured three klashenkovs alongwith one military vehicle. (PT)
 * Addressing an International Afghan Jehad Conference in Islamabad, Ejazul Haq, son of the late President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan and the Chief Organizer of Muslim League, has made a fervent appeal to the Afghan leaders to forge unity among their ranks for accomplishing the cherished goal of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan. When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, he said, there were three options for the Pakistan government: to stand aloof and think about Pakistan's security, to pay only lip service and do nothing constructive and lastly to support the Afghan freedom fighters. The late President, he said, chose the last option and provided shelter to the Muslim brethren of Afghanistan, He appealed to the Pesident and the caretaker Prime Minister of Pakistan to recognize the AIG immediately. (NTN)
                 21
 * Ghulam Farooq Yaqoobi, the Minister of State Security of the Kabul regime,
184
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
in an interview with the BBC has said that a program, envisaging a revision of the organization of state security, has been undertaken. Earlier it was reported in Kabul that the Kabul regime, in order to reach an agreement with opposition forces, was ready to bring about changes in the organizational structure of security.
,(BBCFS)
*  A Western journalist,who has returned from Khost,says intense fighting has been going on around that city and the mujaheddin are now poised at a 10 kilometer distance from the center of Khost. He has said that during his visit, the mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime transport plane over the Khost
airport and 21 passengers in the plane were all killed. (BBPS)
*  In their attack on the military outposts at Sofisn near the prpvincial headquarters of Parwan, Charikar, 15 August the Afghan mujaheddin captured 35 Kabul troops. They also seized two tanks, an armored car and three army trucks carrying five rocket launchers, two machine guns, 35 klashenkovs and two wireless sets. In Paghman valley the mujaheddin destroyed a tank of the mobile force and its crew was killed. They also killed five troops and captured seven others. Three mujaheddin are also reported to have been martyred in the operation. (PT) *
*   The two-day conference on Afghan jehad dnd the role of the Muslim Ummah, organized in Islamabad by Islamic Council for • Asia^, adopted resolutions calling upon the Afghan mujaheddin to sink their differences and concentrate on capturing Kabul and establishing an Islamic government in the country. The' resolutions also appealed for immediate recognition of AIG by the Government of Pakistan. The resolutions and decisions of the conference were announced by th<=^ Secretary General .of the Council,
 Khalid Khawaja,in a press conference 20 August in Islamabad. (JG)
 *  Addressing a function held at his residence in connection with 71st Independence Anniversary of Afghanistan 20 August in Quetta the Afghan Consul, Mira Jan Gharwal, has said that the Kabul regime was prepared to form an election commission with consultation of opposition parties to hold elections in Afghanistan. (N.TN)
 *   In their well coordinated and massive military operations against the Kabul regime in Parwan. province including Parwan, garrison, the Khad battalion and a military supply convoy on Salang Highway, the Afghan mujaheddin . put out of action 22 military tanks and 131 vehicles, says a spokesman of the office of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar. As a consequence o.f heavy combat activities, the Salang Highway remains cut off to traffic, says the spokesman. (NTN)
                 22
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have stepped up their activities to capture Khost garrison and there are reports of fierce fighting in Khost. The mujaheddin are still holding important military installations of the besieged military garrison. (PT)
 *   Commanders of the Supervisory Council report, that from 11-19 August, mujaheddin operations on communist military centers in Jab-ul-Seraj and along the Salang Valley 1 were continuing. Also mujaheddin offensive operations were conducted on Kala-e-Sorkh, Baba Meran, Toghmep, Tutum Dara, Bagh-e-Meeran and the Salang district as a result of which 131 military vehicles and 22 tanks were
                                                            ^demolished, hundreds of communist soldiers killed and injured and a
185
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
helicopter shot down. In another mujaheddin attack on a military convoy in the Salang Valley, 54 soldiers and military officers were killed, four oil tankers destroyed and the Salang Highway was closed for traffic. (VOADS)    .
*  The mujaheddin in an attack in Far ah province, have killed 22 militiamen including a commander and injured eight others. A quantity of arms was also captured. (VOADS)
                  23
.* The Institute of Political Sciences of West Germany lately convened . a conference on national security problems with the participation of 30 countries. In the conference a mission of Afghan Resistance Movement comprising Fatimah Gailani, Prof. Elmi, Dr. Azizullah Lodin, Muteeullah Safi* and General Mohammad Ayub Aseel, representing Afghanistan,participated. Lt. General Aseel in an address to the conference declared:        "for you
Westerners, Gorbachev being the socalled symbol of peace and champion of freedom, is no. more than a murderer of innocent Afghans and the greatest enemy of peace and liberty. (VOAPS)
*  Regarding the stance of mujaheddin position vis-a-vis the Gulf crisis, the BBC has said Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, has forcefully repudiated an ANA news item stating that he had condemned the presence of American forces in Saudi Arabia. On the other hand, the annexation of Kuwait by Iraq has been condemned by all the Afghan mujaheddin. Afghan mujaheddin have not been happy with Iraq's policy on Afghanistan due to Iraq's friendship with the Soviet Union whereas Kuwait had all along supported the mujaheddin's cause. (BBCPS) *
 * A UN representative supervising the
                                                                                 vol^no^
  Afghan refugees, repatriation has said in Pishin that more than 95 Afghan refugee families crossed over to their homeland from border town of Chamman 22 August under the UN package assistance program. He said that the number of Afghan   families    returning to
  Afghanistan was gradually increasing. (PT)
  * Two officials of the UN have reached Teheran to hold talks on finding a solution of the Afghan conflict. The
  .main objective of their talks will be to pave the way for the formation of a broad-based government . in Kabul. Diplomatic sources at the UN say that these fresh negotiation are taking place in Pakistan and Afghanistan in the light of the recent meetings between the two guarantors of the Geneva Accords -- the Soviet Union and the United States. (NTN)
  * The Afghan mujaheddin have shot down an airplane of Kabul regime near the Khost Airport. They are also reported to have fired rockets at a hotel in Khost killing 35 persons. Another report says that 375 Kabul troops have recently defected to mujaheddin in Ghazni province. In another1 operation the mujaheddin have killed 25 Kabul troops and injured nine persons besides capturing a military post. (NWT)
                 24
  *   A West German -journal has .said that recently five diplomats have been wounded due to the firing of a
. rocket on Kabul. The magazine adds, in order to help the diplomats and foreigners lead a peaceful life, a favorable atmosphere must be created. The Kabul regime authorities have opened a department store exclusively, for diplomats and foreigners in Kabul which caters to their needs. In addition to that they are provided with 24-hour electricity, whereas Afghan
186
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
                                                                           VOL.3 NO.4
children, women, and old people are made to queue for hours together in front of the public water tap in order to fill their utensils in extreme weather condition. (VOG)
                                              25
*   Ayatullah Noor Ahmed Taqaddusi, spokesman of Coalition Council in ah interview with VOA in Peshawar Has said the' Coalition Council comprising the Harakat-e-Islami, Afghan Council, the Guardians of Islamic Unity and the United Front, have nothing to do with the "Party of Unity" in Iran. He added, the Shias of Afghanistan, although enjoying common cultural and religipus ties with Iran, have independent policy unrelated to any country. (VOADS)
*  Najibullah, the President of Kabul regime, met with the Soviet President Gorbachev and Prime Minister Rishkov in kremlin and expressed his regime's gratitude for the help and favors of the Soviet Union to his regime. (RA)
*  After his meeting with the Soviet authorities in Moscow, Najibullah, President of the Kabul regime, in an interview with journalists said the outlook of Western., world towards his regime has changed and mentioned in this regard the opening of French and Italian Embassies in Kabul. Pointing to the -tone of Western media, he also added that they all indicate that a military solution to the Afghan problem waB not possible. He said, negotiations between his regime and moderate leaders' of mujaheddin are in progress and most probably they may lead to a compromise for' a1 political solution of the problem. But the fact remains that the Afghan mujaheddin time and again, have emphasized that as long as Najibullah holds the reigns of government there won't be any solution to the Afghan issue. (VQAPS)
*  The Afghan mujaheddin shot down two transport planes of the Kabul regime at the Khost airport 23 August in Paktia province. With this the number of planes shot down in the past ten days has risen to six. They also foiled an attempt by the Kabul troops to recapture the security post of Kalim Jan. Twelve government troops were killed or injured and 18 others arrested in the operation. The Kabul regime has declared unsafe the Khost Airport and started construction of an alternate airstrip at Bagh-e-Sahra, north-west of Khost. (NWT)
                                               26
*  In an interview with the VOA on the statement of Najibullah in Moscow that the Sunni parties keep a distance from Shia parties, Nadir Ali Mehdavi, member of Coalition Council, has said that to the contrary they come closer and that is why the headquarters of the Coalition Council has been transferred to Peshawar. Referring to Najibullah's remarks that negotiations are in progress with the moderate mujaheddin parties, which, Mehdawi said, in a way, includes the Coalition Council as well, he said Najibullah wants to divert the attention of the nation from real facts with such hollow and meaningless propaganda. (VOADS)
*  Two transport planes of Kabul regime were shot down by the mujaheddin in Paktia. (RTFS)
*    The Kabul regime President Najibullah's three airforce pilots, holding the ranks of Colonel, have been promoted to the ranks of Lt. Generals. (RA)
*  Nine persons were killed and 15 injured in Kabul City after they were hit by rockets. The rockets were fired from westerly direction and also caused material losses. (RA)
187
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHAN JEHAD                        VOL.3 NO.4
 *  Prime Minister of Pakistan, Ghulam Mustafa >Jatoi, said 25 August that Afghanistan was still a disputed territory where a government acceptable to all the people should be established so that peace may return to that country. He said a situation was being created in which it was possible that the people might return at their own free will. (PT)
 *  The , Hindustan Times reported 25 August that Kabul regime President, Najibullah, is to PaY a three-day official visit to Iijdia beginning 29 August. Quoting government sources the paper said that he will hold talks with the Indian leadership. (PT)
 *  Quoting statement issued by the ANA the Dari service of VOA said that the Afghan mujaheddin based in Pakistan were sending a contingent of mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia to defend Islamic shrines against possible Iraqi attack. The broadcast said that in the first place some two thousand Afghan mujaheddin were preparing to leave for Saudi Arabia and their number could be increased if the situation demanded.
 (MLM)
                  27
 *  Kabul regime leader Najibullah 27 August signed the referendum law. (RA)
 *  A spokesman for Jamiat-e-Islami has said that, according to a report received 24 August from Badghis, the Kabul regime forces are besieged by the mujaheddin at a distance of 2 kms. from Qala-e-Nau,the center of Badghis, and all air and land supply routes are closed against them. (BBCFS) *
*  A BBC correspondent in Kabul, who visited Paghman, says in his diary that the whole area was in shambles and there is no trace left of buildings once standing there. The roar of cannons
 missiles, being' fired along with'other small arms, continued as before.
 (BBCFS)
 *  The daily Jang in its editorial 27 August commented on . a report of international media regarding a decision taken at the Islamic foreign ministers' conference in Cairo for extending every possible assistance through the Islamic Bank for education, health, agriculture, water supply and construction of houses in the liberated areas of Afghanist^niTrhough its courageous gesture of the reconstruction of
  Afghanistan, the editorial says, the Muslim community has demonstrated that it considers only the Afghan mujaheddin as. true representatives of the people of Afghanistan and Muslim community is interested in early reconstruction of areas controlled by the Afghan mujaheddn. (JG)
 *  Kabul regime President Najibullah, returned home 25 August a-fter nearly four-week visit to the Soviet Union during which he met President Mikhail Gorbachev, the Kabul television said. He returned as quietly as he had left Kabul 29 July for the -visit described as a rest and recreation visit, coinciding with super powers' talks in Siberia. (PT)
                 28
 *  The „ Afghan mujaheddin targetted Bagram Airport with heavy machineguns from Kohi Sher, killing 15 soldiers, destroying a military block and burning two tanks. A commander of the headquarters was also killed, six others injured and a military vehicle destroyed. According to another report, ' Kabul regime forces were confronted with a counter attack by the mujaheddin "near the capital of the province. Three tanks were wrecked in the attack. (NTN)
 * Reports from Afghanistan indicate
188
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 ftHIHAHJtflAD
VOL.3 NO.4
 that a prominent militia commander of Badghis,     Abdul     Aziz    Laghari,
 officer-in-charge of 20 villages) defec- ' ted to the mujaheddin along with his men 25 August. Six hundred and fifty pieces of arms and seven military lorries were also handed over to the mujaheddin. Similarly 24 and 25 August, the mujaheddin occupied the Totak and Kandonawah-e-Mughul posts in Badghis. Due to the aerial bombardment
, of the Kabul airforce, the mujaheddin suffered' heavy losses. (VOADS)
 *  Karim Khalili, a prominent figure
 of the .Wahdat-e-Islami Party in Tehran,, regarding the decision of the AIG about sending 2,000 mujaheddin to Saudi, Arabia to defend the sacred places has said that Haramain-e-Sharifain, (the two most sacred places of the Muslims) are not in danger and they do not need a mujaheddin force. Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former prime minister of Afghanistan, said:   "It is
 better that the Afghan mujaheddin, in the first place, concentrate on the issue of their our country which is in shambles and its present along with future is facing danger. (VOADS)
 *  The, mujaheddin, of Herat province, during an attack on the headquarters of
AKabul regime forces, destroyed 11 transport vehicles and detained 19 militiamen and soldiers. (RT)
 *  Fifteen ground-to-ground rockets Were fired on Kabul 27 August but no casualties were reported. (RMDS)
                    29
 *  As the mujaheddin have tightened
 their seige of Qala-e-Nau the center Badghis,the Kabul regime is airlifting fresh troops to Qala-e-Nau. It is believed that the forces are being transported by planes from Herat, Shindandd and northern provinces. (VOAPS)       v
 *  In the province of Herat the mujaheddin have intensified their operations on Kabul regime forces and have occupied the Pukha post in Adraskan. Similarly, the Kandahar mujaheddin attacked the Mahaz and Chel-Zeenah posts. Over 25 soldiers and militiamen defected to the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin of Ghazni have destroyed fuel and food-stuff depots of Balahesar, During an attack on Ghazni airport, they killed 35 militiamen and wounded another 20. In a retaliatory air attack by the vKebul regime, six mujaheddin were killed and two trucks carrying equipment burnt. (VOAPS)
 *  About 30 large Soviet transport planes arrive daily in Kabul providing aid to the Kabul regime. The program of endless gigantic aid to Kabul is being criticized in the Soviet Union itself vehemently. During his recent visit to the Soviet Union, Najibullah said in a television interview that the Soviet Union has acknowledged that its invasion of Afghanistan was a blunder, as such the Kabul regime claims aid frpm Russia as its right. However, in Kabul there is growing concern over the possibility that criticism of Russian aid program for Kabul regime may have negative consequences. (BBCPS)
 *  A BBC report says that Kuwait's
 occupation by the Iraqi forces has brought changes in the region and the consequent developments are good for the Kabul regime ruler, Najibullah. The report says - that Kuwait was providing aid for the Afghan refugees a.s well as the Afghan mujaheddin. The other main donors are the US and Saudi Arabia and they are all busy in the Gulf crisis. The international community now pays little attention to the Afghan conflict. The Afghan mujaheddin decision to send mujaheddin tc Saudi . Arabia for its defense has al ) minimized the opposition against the Kabul regime. (NTN)      ,
189
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 * At the invitation of the Indian : prime Minister, V.P Singh, the Kabul regime ruler, Najibullah, left on a visit to India 28 August. He is accompanied by a high level delegation including his ministers for defense and foreign affairs. (JG)
                   30
 *  The Badghis mujaheddin occupied 28 August the "Tajiks" district in
  Qala-e-Nau. With the occupation of these posts in this area, the main Kabul regime strategic headquarter in North Eastern Afghanistan has been eliminated. The mujaheddin have also occupied. three other posts. ~ The mujaheddin conquered 21 August four posts south of Qala-e-Nau and 14 gendarmes defected to them. In Ghazni, due to aerial bombardment, 15 wheat harvesters were burnt out. (VOADS)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin captured two helicopters of the Kabul army in sub division Aaq Tappa in Kunduz province and also arrested the pilots and other military men in the copters. (PT)
 * Kabul regime President Najibullah
 arrived in New Delhi 29 August for a three day official visit to India leading a delegation comprising at least six cabinet members, reports Radio Kabul and the UNI. In a radio interview before leaving he said his talks in New Delhi would be aimed at getting      more     economic      and
 reconstruction assistance from India. Sources close to the Afghan resistance movement in New Delhi said the Indian authorities had put several exiled Afghans under house arrest during the Najibullah visit. (PT) *
 *  Talking to reporters after having been accorded a ceremonial welcome at the 'Rashtarpati Bhavan, in New Delhi the Kabul regime President Najibullah said that Indo-Afghan friendship was a
  factor of peace :and stability in the region. The Indian Premier said that Najib's visit would further impetus to economic and cultural cooperation between the two -countries. After 45-minute, meeting with Kabul ruler Indian President, Vankataraman priased , him for effectively dealing with "the divisive forces in his country". He thanked him for his support to India On the Kashmir issue.
      Meanwhile, the chief representative of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan (JIA), Abdul Basir said, in New Delhi that police had directed the Afghan refugees in Delhi not to leave their homes during the current, visit of Najibullah. He said that notices, had been served on them apparently to prevent      them      from      holding
  demonstrations in protest against Najibullah's repressive policy. (MLM)
  * Addressing a reception given in New Delhi to Kabul regime ruler Najibullah the Indian president, Venkatraman, said that ' India supports Najibullah’s proposal for an interim period and UN supervized elections in Afghanistan.
  ( JG)
  * Speaking at a press Conference in New Delhi 30 August, Kabul regime President, Najibullah, said he hid accepted the idea of a "transitional period" before elections for a popular : government in Afghanistan. He outlined his proposal for an ."interim joint commission" and said that it would take charge of the preparations for and the holding of elections. He said that Moscow was in full agreement with his plan under which "certain powers" of some government ministries would be placed under the commission's control in the run-up and during the proposed polls. (PT)
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
                                                                            VOL.3 NO.4
 * Afghan mujaheddin .launched a rocket
 attack on Kabul, Airport just when Kabul regime President Najibullah. and his companions returned from Moscow and their plane was landing at the airport, report AAP sources. Nine persons were killed and more than 20 others injured in the attack. (NWT)             '■
 *  The New York Times in a recent issue has said that the leaders of Afghan mujaheddin have criticized Pakistani authorities for lack of safety and security in the Afghan refugee camps. The AIG President Sebeghatullah Mujaddedi has said that Pakistani authorities ought to contain terrorism. (VOADS)
 *  Referring to the situation in the Middle East, Najibullah the leader of Kabul regime, has said in an interview in New Delhi that he supported the resolutions .’of UN but opposedt steps taken by the US and other countries thwarting Iraqi aggression. (BBCPS)
 * The Kabul regime has stated .that
 negotiations with Ghazni mujaheddin have failed and the mujahedddin are holding cm their siege of Ghazni city. The negotiations had ^ started 20 May. (VOAPS)                .
 *  Ghulam Sarwar, an educated Afghan and an elder of Ahmedzai tribe, was assassinate'd in his home in Peshawar by two armed men. He was 75 years old. (VOAPS) *
 * In an article in the, publicity organ of the/ '"German Association of Friends . of the United Nations" Sadruddin Agha Khan, the UNOCO, has ^written that financial commitments to UN programs for Afghan repatriation in 1990 were far from adequate ♦ He said, with resources available, programs for road-repairing, house building, fighting the drug menace, education, cultural affairs and . helping the
 crippled will never materialize,
 (VOGPS)
 *  In an interview in New Delhi, Najibullah, the leader of Kabul regime, has proposed the establishment of a commission comprising all the parties to look after the country’s affairs in preparation for free elections. While rejecting . the proposal for his retirement from leadership, he said he will remain in power until the elections start. (VOAPS)
        i  .. ■
 *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, referring to the recent proposals of Najibullah, said that the mujaheddin will have nothing to do with such a., government in which Najibullah and his cronies or other non-Islamic .and atheistic elements participate. He said the mujaheddin ought to think seriously about the establishment of an interim government which will-look after state affairs until holding of elections. He did not think that Najibullah will relinquish power peacefully. (VOAPS)
 *  At a meeting of refugees, also attended by some commanders of Kandahar, Uruzgan and Helmand 30 August in the Jarigal Camp of Pir- Alizai, Baluchistan, the participants called on ex-King Mohammed Zaher Shah to return and participate actively in jehad affairs.(VOAPS)
                                 SEPTEMBER
                                                , 1
 * India and the Kabul government
 signed three agreements 31 August in New Delhi to give further impetus to their relation and diversify ,theirv bilateral exchanges. The agreements are:   Cultural exchange program,
 memorandum of understanding for cooperation between agricultural-
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AFGHANJfHAO
 institutions and agreement of prevention1 and traficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. (MLM)
 *  The daily Nation wrote in its
 editorial September 1 that the head of the Kabul regime* Najibullah, seems to be playing a double game. On the one hand he is trying to create an impression that he is willing to quit in the interest of national reconciliation and • peace, and on the other, he is desperately trying to consolidate his position with the help of outside powers. He always had good relations with India, but given the present Soviet disinclination to support his war, he is trying to make India as his chief international prop. His recent visit to India, where he was given red-carpet treatment, and his invitation to the Indian President to visit Kabul, are meant to show to the world that          he’ is not only   not
 friendless, but also a man to be reckoned with. To make matters worse, the IAG has quitely slipped out of the attention of the international media. Among other things factors like the gulf crisis are in no small measure responsible for the neglect into which world-issues like Afghanistan, Kashmir and Palestine have fallen. (NTN)
 *  Reports       from . Badghis say that
 Qala-e-Nau is besieged by the mujaheddin from four directions, and 30 August a number of mujaheddin entered the city. However, they have suffered heavy casualties. Kabul regimes losses in men and material were, however, much greater than those of the mujaheddin. A jet fighter of the regime was shot
. down. (VOADS) *
 * In the Bala plook district of Farah, the mujaheddin have occupied a Kabul regime post and have also killed four     militiamen      and    captured
 six. (VOAPS)
                                             VOL,3 NO.4
  *  The Christians Science Monitor,
 quoting a UN official in Kabul, writes ; that about two million refugees were now living inside Afghanistan. They are faring much worse than those living outside, the reason being that they are neglected, with no foreign aid available for them. (VOADS) .
                                                  2
 *   The International Bureau of
 Afghanistan, an association of French-based Afghans, in a statement 31 August addressed to French government protested a forthcoming visit to France by the leader of the Kabul regime, Najibullah who, they said,      was     the      illegitimate
 representative of Afghanistan. The statement said that Najibullah,, who is due in Paris for a UN-sponsored conference of least developed countries opening 3 September "embodied the violation of the Afghan people’s rights.", French officials say that whilevFrance is hosting the conference, Najibullah is attending the gathering from 3-14 September at UN invitation. (PT)
 *   US State Department says that US-Soviet officials will meet next week in an attempt to minimize their differences on Afghanistan problem.
 (NWT)       ,
             l
 *   The daily Jang has in its .editorial 2 September commented on the statement of Kabul regime ruler, Najibullah, during his visit to India that 10 years
  of bloodshed in Afghanistan has proved that there is no military solution to Afghanistan problem. The / editorial says it is not at the instance of Najibullah or any of his- accomplices that Soviet forces have left Afghanistan. Najibullah regime with the ;help of an alien power, tried till last moment to impose a military solution on the Afghans but the people's
192
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 DfCH/lflJHiAO                                                  VOL.3 NO.4
 resistance in Afghanistan changed the situation* So far as describing Afghanistan under him. as an Islamic State and according to the Sharia is concerned,it is nothing but an irony for at person like Najibullah to claim so in the. face of the reality that from Canada to Japan he is known everywhere as a communist and no Muslim country in the world is ready to accept a State, led by him ' as having an Islamic character. (JG)
 ♦ There has been no rocket attacks by
 the mujaheddin on Kabul city for the last five days. It is being thought that this           may be due to Kabul
 government operastions against mujaheddin targets in Paghman valley. The valley, 25 kms. north west of Kabul, has been badly demolished a^id even electric poles and bridges have bullet holes in them. However, the mujaheddin have many other routes and options to reach Kabul suburbs. (BBCPS)
 ♦ A Moscow daily Sovietsca, Russia
 writes, it will be jno exaggeration that-Afghanistan is drifting towards the kind of tragedy embracing Lebanon* Under such conditions, the demands of the     Kabul      regime     oppostion
 forces calling for the resignation of Kabul regime Presidnet in favor of an Islamic government or a third power seems to be a naive offer. (RMFS)
                    3
 ♦  Commander Ismael Khan reports from the Badghis that the mujaheddin have broken the entire security belt of the Qala-e-Nau city 30 and 31 August and presently the fighting continues inside the city. Kabul regime's militias - have surrendered to the mujaheddin. In the operations the mujaheddin have seized 450oklashenkovs, 960 heavy weapons, two big depots of equipment, three wireless sets end several vehicles. (VOADS)
 *   The Zabul mujaheddin shot down 30 August two helicopters with Stinger rockets in Jegdalik of that province. The helicopters were carrying equipment from Kandahar to Zabul. (VOADS)
 *   Prof. Mohammad Asghar, leader of the Association of National Salvation in Kabul, has in an interview explained his peace plan for Afghanistan. The UN may form a committee in consultation with Afghans. The Committee,named "Peace Committee", will comprise 25 persons, intellectual Afghans, well-known diplomats and statesmen ought to be included in the committee. The committee will pave the way for a Loya Jirgah comprising about 300 members. The Loya Jirgah will, in turn, name a Supreme Council comprising 30 or 40 members. Then the AIG and the Najibullah regime will be disbanded and a care-taker government will succeed them. The new government will draft the new constitution and. an elections law. it will also pave the way for the return of the refugees. Afterwards the Loya Jirgah will be invited to approve the constitution and the elections law. ■ After holding the elections, a constitutional government will be established. Asghar said, during the initial stages of this peace process, Najibullah may remain in power. (BBC)
 *   Kabul was rocketted again by mujaheddin killing two and injuring five persons. The rockets, exploded in the vicinity of Intercontinental Hotel,
^where, according to eye-witness, work for mounting SCUD missiles was in progress. (VOGFS)
                   4
 * As a result of mujaheddin's attack in Chisht-e-Sharif, Herat, 19 militiamen were killed and nine wounded. Thirty of them defected to the mujaheddin.
193
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990   flfCHflHJHIAP                                                     VOL.3 NO.4
 Some arms and ammunition were also seized by the mujaheddin. Three mujaheddin were wounded. In Shindand, the mujaheddin during a gun battle,' killed five militiamen and wounded eight. In f,aghman in a mujaheddin attack 20 August on the Kabul regime posts, 40 soldiers were killed and six wounded. Six tanks and three military lorries were also destroyed. Mujaheddin , casualties were not known. On the same day the mujaheddin attacked the posts of Takht-erKotal in Wardak and killed at least 30 militia and wounded 10. Two tanks and a military vehicle were damaged. (VOAPS)
 *   Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, the Prime
 Minister of the Kabul regime, in an interview with the BBC regarding the solution to the Afghanistan problem said that a provisional council under the guidance of an interim government may be established. Rules and regulations of the elections should be set on the basis of' which general elections throughout the country should take      place.      The     mujaheddin
 representatives can also take part in the council deliberations as well as in the government, he added. (BBCPS) *
 *  Sheikh Mohammad Asef Muhsini, the
 leader of Harakat-e-Islami of Afghanistan, in an interview with BBC said that it was important to set-up a supreme council of Jehad in the suburbs of Kabul and Kabul is liberated by means of jehad. With the liberation of Kabul, the supreme council of jehad may be replaced by a supreme council of revolution. Then from amongst every 100 abound     men of each party           a
 representative may be included in the council. If this cannot be possible, then the other option will be as follow: There are. quite a number of patriotic and honest God fearing people inside Afghanistan who, 3ue to one or another reason, could not cooperate with the mujaheddin. The reigns of
  government may be entrusted to an assembly of such persons for one year. Of course Zaher Shah along with people surrounding him are exempted from this arrangement. About the participation of
  the Kabul regime ih future elections,
                                   \,
  he said, we do not consider this our sole privilege nor it is our personal right     to     remain      indifferent
  towards those who are responsible for the massacre of thousands of our people. No one in the world would forgive them. (BBCPS)
  *  A spokesman of the mujaheddin's military council in Paktia province has reported that the mujaheddin conducted a surprize rocket attack oh the alternate newly constructed runway at Bagh-e-Sahra at the Khost cantonment when the function for its opening was in progress. The function was gripped by panic by the attack and the runway received heavy damage and was rendered unfit for any operation of flights. A member of the Kabul administration's politburo, Ghulam Ghous Nasir, , was injured alongwith some other persons. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin also attacked Shin Dand airport as a result of which it caught fire and in retaliation five civilians were martyred and many others injured in heavy bombing by the aircraft of the Kabul regime 27 August. (PT)
  *  Kabul regime President, Najibullah, arrived in France 3 September to attend a UN-backed conference on poverty ih the word's least developed nations. (PT)
  *  Afgh.an troops began driving allied tribal militia forces out of Kabul 2 September after a deadline expired ordering them to close their headquarters in the capital. A government spokesman said the different tribal detachments, who have in the past sided with the government against
194
JULY - SEPTEMBER# 1990 AFGHAN JEHAD
                                                                             VOL-3 NO.4
 the mujaheddin, had been allocated ' specific locations in Kabul's suburbs where they could re-establish their headquarters. The military decree expelling the warlords wab aimed at maintaining peace in Kabul, the spokesman added. The decree warned the militiamen against bringing weapons within the municipal limits of Kabul adding 1 that violators will be captured and sent for military trialls. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin launched at least 11 surface-to-surface rockets into Kabul 2 September killing two persons and injuring five others, state television said. The attacks occurred a day after the Kabul garrison moved several SCUD missiles to silos near the intercontinental hotel, witnesses said. (NTN)
                    5
 * In their recent operations, the
 Afghan mujaheddin swept dozens of positions of the communist militia northwest , of Afghanistan. Three militia batallions of Osman Beg laid down their arms and surrendered to the mujaheddin towards the end of . last week. The defected militia handed over 100  AK-47s, a dozen mortar guns, 40
 anti-armored rOgkets and a ZK-1 heavy machine gun. Three outposts of the Kabul regime fell to mujaheddin with 30 AK-47s in Badghis province. In Qala-i-Naw the mujaheddin captured a huge -ammunition storage dump of the regime. Two tanks were destroyed and 14 soldiers eliminated as the mujaheddin ambushed a reinforcing consignment of the regime on Kabul-Kandahar highway on the Safidkhak Hill. The mujaheddin planted mines destroying one tank ahd one army jeep in the same region 1 September. The same day they destroyed a military helicopter in their operation against the Ghazni Airport and its surrounding outposts. A huge quantity of ammunition*
 was destroyed and a great number of militia and servicemen of the communist regime killed in      the attack.     In
 Karizimir., north    of     Kabul,  the
 mujaheddin attacked the outposts of the Kabul regime killing two officers and eight soldiers and destroying one army lorry early this week. In retaliation the warplanes           of    the regime
 indiscriminately     bombed   the area.
 Mohammad Shah, a mujaheddin commander and Fazlur Rahman, a group leader were martyred in the attack.
    According to eye-witnesses, the people are suffering from an acute dirth of food.        Prices of consumer
 goods are vqry high* Most of the people are notable to buy foodstuff. At least 2,000 families have left Kabul city due to the problems existing under the communist regime, says Nawaz Ali, 35, who fled from Kabul"city and sought refuge in. the mujaheddin controlled
 Bahbos district of Wardak province. He said: The  militia's tyranny and looting
 the property of the civilians continue in. Kabul city and its suburbs. (PT)
 * A function for the reception of the
 head of the Kabul regime, Najibullah, could not be held at the airport on his way back from the visit to India. He was driven straight to the Presidential palace due to the possible attack by the mujaheddin who had fortified their positions around Kabul and the vicinity of the airport. Hib car was protected by the armored personnel carriers. (PT)       -
 * In an operation in Dand area of Kandahar city the mujaheddin destroyed an army Vehicle killing five troops, says a report received 25 August. (PT)
 * In an interview with the AFP in Paris, Najibullah, the leader of Kabul regime, has said during the period of preparations for elections he will remain at his post and declared that
195
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 HltllVUIlltlliUl                                                                  VOL.3 NO.4
 the plan is supported fully by the Soviets. He rejected, the view that the plan may not materialize due to the new era of Soviet-US relationship.
 (BBCPS)
 * Five persons were killed in Kabul
 city and four wounded due to the firing, of 12 ground-to-ground     rockets. The
 rockets were fired from a westerly direction. (RA)
 *  In clashes between the Afghan mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces in Samangan,40 regime soldier were killed. It is also believed that, owing to mujaheddin attacks, the Shindand Airport has been damaged heavily. (VOGPS)
 * A SCUD missile, fired by the Kabul
 regime,hit mujaheddin positions in Eastern Afghanistan        killing   40
 mujaheddin and wounding a number including two well-known commanders of NLFA. (BBCPS)
                    6
 * Unknown gunmen ambushed an ICRC
 Vehicle in western Afghanistan and shot dead an Afghan ICRC officer, a Red Cross spokesman said       in Kabul   4
 September.lt is for the first time that : a Red Cross official has been killed on „ a mission in Afghanistan.  (PT)
 *  In the conference of underdeveloped countries in Paris, Najibullah, the leader of Kabul regime asked for $ six billion worth of aid from western nations and Japan for his regime. (BBCPS) *
*     Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the President of AIG in an interview with the BBC regarding the firing of rockets on the city of Kabul said that the mujaheddin have clear instructions to hold military.centers as their targets. He said residential areas are being hit by the Kabul regime, so as to smear the
 mujaheddin and vilify them. (BBCPS)
 *  The US Department of State says that the two day Soviet-US talks regarding Afghanistan could not be productive. American circles believe the Soviet side repeated the previous Kabul-Moscow stand on the formation of an election commission (BBCPS)
 *  Three ground-to-ground missiles hit the center of Kabul . city 5 September which killed one and injured five persons. Losses in material were also heavy.(RMDS)
                  7
                                        I
 * Two prominent militia commanders of
 Qala-e-Nau,     Badghis,    who were
 responsible for the security of Kabul regime posts in the city, surrendered 3 September to the mujaheddin. More than 670 rifles with hundreds of thousands of. bullets and two vehicles were also surrendered to mujaheddin. Th® Ghazni mujaheddin rocketted the city airport destroying a helicopter. (VOAPS)
 *  Testifying at a Senate hearing in Washington, the US Secretary of .State, James Baker, has said that the Afghan mujaheddin resistance has sent troops to help defend Saudi Arabia. He referred to the Afghan mujaheddin as "the interim government'! of their country. A senior State Department official said, later that the mujaheddin had contributed 2,000 men, armed with light weapons. (PT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin leaders have agreed on forming a Supreme Council, comprising the leaders of the mujaheddin,to look after the matters concerning the mujaheddin, reports ANA. The AIG will also be responsible to this council. (NWT)
                  8
 * The AIG leaders have agreed on an
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
attack on Kabul and a joint war strategy in Afghanistan during dialogue in Peshawar between the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and AIG Premier, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, and other leaders including Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Prof, Burhanuddin Rabbani. (JG)
*   One hundred and twenty Kabul regime militias in Yaftal, Badakhshan, have surrendered along with their arms to the mujaheddin. The Jauzjan mujaheddin also have captured four military posts-In Kandahar, the mujaheddin, in an ambush, killed 19 militiamen. (VOAPS)
*   Commander Ahmed Shah Masood, in an interview in Farkhar, has supported the meeting of jehad commanders council recently held in Paktia. He said he will try to join their future deliberations. He also underscored the necessity for the establishment of a fresh alliance among . the mujaheddin.
(BBCPS)
                    9
*   A spokesman of the mujaheddin military council in Khost says that the mujaheddin have destroyed two fighter planes at the Khost airport which were a part of the aircraft ready to bomb mujaheddin's positions in the area.
(PT) *
 * Peter Tomsen, the US representative for the mujaheddin, while talking with mujaheddin regarding the lack of headway in the super powers' talks on the Afghanistan issue said that the Soviets persisted that Najibullah along with PDPA remain in power. On the other hand, the US believes that as long as Najibullah and the PDPA remain in power no solution of the issue would
'be forthcoming. The US wants that power should be transferred totally while the Soviets insist that the power be
  divided. He declared that peace in Afghanistan will be established provided the Soviets stop providing military hardware, equipment, food etc.-worth $ 5 billion annually to the Kabul regime. (VOADS)
  *  Eye witnesses who have migrated to Peshawar recently have said the situation in Kabul has been very tense lately and due to • rocket attacks traffic remains at a stand-still for hours. The Kabul University has been damaged extensively and the College of Agriculture is completely in ruins. (VOAPS)
                    10
  *  The Karmal faction of the ruling
  Parcham party in Afghanistan made a rocket attack on the Defense Ministry in Kabul 25 August when head of the Kabul     regime,    Najibullah, * was
  proceeding- on a foreign visit from the Kabul airport. The mastermind behind the rebellion is reported to be Mahmood Baryaley, former President Babrak Karmal's younger brother. (PT)
  *  A correspondent of the BBC television said in an article recently carried by a prominent US journal World Monitor that the extraordinary changes taking place in the world have also affected the Afghanistan problem. There were signs that both the US and the Soviet Union would use their influence and capabilities to bring the Afghanistan war to an end. If that
 * happened, the correspondent says, the refugees would go back to their homeland but there seems to be no possibility that Afghanistan will get rid of its arms culture. (PT)
  *  The panelists of • a four-hour long round tabletalk organized by the MIDIA under- the theme of "The Gulf crisis and its implications of the future of
197
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990 AFGHJlff JEHAD
Afghan Jehad” have agreed that the Gulf situation has caused a setback to the efforts of the mujaheddin in their drive for the establishment of an Islamic government and diverted the attention and energies of the Muslim countries from the Afghan jehad. The well known Egyptian scholar and Afghanologist, Dr. Kamal Al-Halbawey who presided over the round table said in his introductory remarks that a new strategy was the need of the hour for the mujaheddin to achieve their military and political aims. The roundtable was attended by prominent scholars of Afghanistan and the heads of some Islamic aid bodies in Peshawar. (PT)
*    The mujaheddin attacked 4 September, the Shindand Airbase, killing 19 soldiers and officers and wounding 50 others. Forty of " them joined the mujaheddin.■On the same date the mujaheddin outran several posts in Herat city. As a result, one post was destroyed and a militia commander killed. (VOAPS)
*  During an attack 2 September on a frontier brigade in the province of Farah the mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and a number of the brigade personnel,including its commander, were killed.Three mujaheddin were martyred. In Zabul, the mujaheddin during their attacks on regime posts captured three of them. (VOAPS)
                   11
*  Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and four other parties in Afghanistan have evolved a common strategy for capturing Kabul, AAF sources report. The heads of the parties, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Mawlawi Mohammad. Nabi Mohammadi, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar are now discussing fresh composition of the AIG. (NWT)
                                                                                          VOL.3 NO.4
     Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leader of Jamait-e-Islami Afghanistan in an interview with VOA in Saudi Arabia has said, jehad leaders are not visiting Saudi Arabia to discuss plans for a new alliance and changes in the government or a new unity plan among jehad organizations, especially among the six components of the AIG, are not discussed. (VOADS)
 *  In an interview with VOA, the
 leader of Hezb-e-Islami of Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that there were many bottlenecks in the way leading to mujaheddin's unity. There are forces of evil and trouble against the Islamic mujaheddin government and the super powers want to impose a government of their chioce on our people. They are in a way     trying to
 mar the peaceful atmosphere of unity and create obstacles coupled with an environment of animosity. (VOAPS)
 *  The President of the Russian
 Republic, Boris. Yaltsin, has invited a high level Afghan mujaheddin delegation to visit Russia in order to discuss the war prisoners' issue as well as other matters. The invitation has been accepted by the AIG           President
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. The AIG President has said, in the telegram Yaltsin has addressed him as president Mujaddedi. Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) quarters have said that they were also invited. However, they turned down the invitation. (BBCPS)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb-ewIslami Afghanistan in an interview with VOA in Saudi Arabia said, while the visit of mujaheddin leaders to Saudi Arabia is not related to their alliance, it has provided an opportunity for better understanding among the Afghan leaders. (VOAPS)
 * The Kandahar mujaheddin attacked 3
198
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990              AfCUANJEHAU
September the Kabul regime troops killing eight soldiers and wounding six. Thirty five soldiers defected to the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also seized a set of BM 13, a mountain mortar, a 75 mm guni, 30 klashenkovs and other equipment. (VOAPS)
*  The Kabul regime forces attacked 7 September the mujaheddin positions in Jalraiz, Wardak, but were forced to retreat. Three communist troops, one tank were destroyed and 30 soldiers killed. On the same day, the mujaheddin occupied the Regi post near Ghazni. (VOAPS)
                  13
*  The mujaheddin downed 10 September a
Kabul government transport pldne in the Khost     Airfield.    According    to
mujaheddidn, this is the second plane, during the last four days they have shot down at1 Khost Airport. (VOADS)
*  A report from Khawaja Ghar, Tekhar, says that the mujaheddin have occupied 10 of the Kabul regime -posts. During operations for occupying the posts, 45 militia of the regime were killed, 24 wounded and 18 captured while 44 of them defected to the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were killed and four wounded. (VOADS)
                 • I
* In an interview with VOA, Robert Oaklay, the US ambassador to Pakistan, has said that he is of the opinion that as Pakistan played an important role in the military field of the Afghan problem, it can haye an effective role in the po-litical field as well. He said, the US along with Pakistan and other interested parties, are trying to bring about peace in Afghanistan. (VOAPS)
                  14
*  A government spokesman said in Kabul
                                                                                      vol.3 no.4
 the mujaheddin attacked government security posts 'in the provinces of Zabul, Paktia, Nangarhar and Ghazni. They launched a frontal assault in Dadghis in the beginning of the month in an effort to capture provincial capital Oala-e-Nau. (PT)
 * The mujaheddin rocketted 6 September
 the Kabul regime military centers in Pul-e-Charkhi area of Kabul and exploded a big equipment depot. Also five lorries and three tanks were destroyed. Similarly    the mujaheddin
 destroyed 2 September eight vehicles and four Kabul regime tanks in Sarobi. Due to Kabul regime aerial bombardment the casualties among the mujaheddin were heavy. The mujaheddin attacked 7 September Kabul regime posts in Balabade, Paktia, destroying one tank and killing 11 soldiers including an officer. (VOADS)
                  15
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin launched a rocket attack on Khost airport 13 September killing four army officers and destroying the airport administrative office, says a spokesman of Hezb-e-Tslami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar). (MWT)
 *  Farid Mozdak, an assistant of the PDPA leadership cadre in Afghanistan, in an interview with the BBC has declared: We cannot govern or rule by ourselves alone and we need to reach an understanding with Afghans living in Pakistan, Iran and other countries. He said, the allegation that we make a statement like this under pressure is indeed correct. (BBCPS)
                  16
 *  In an interview with the yOA in Peshawar, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami has said that he refused to participate in discussions among several mujaheddin leaders regarding changes in the AIG.
199
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AfGHANJ(HAI)
To bring changes in the gpvernment is the responsibility of those who have formed it. It is not up to a limited number     of     people    to     make
changes. (VOAPS)
*  The mujaheddin conducted a! rocket attack on Jalalabad, city 12 September destroying a security post and killing at least four and injuring over 10 troops of the Kabul regime. In another rocket attack on the corps headquarter in Herat 9 September, they killed four officers and six troops and injured eight others and damaged several vehicles. They attacked the security post near Herat and destroyed a tank and some positions and killed or wounded eight militarymen. The mujaheddin in an area between Islam Qala, and Tana-e-Jadeed along the Iranian borders planted a mine which exploded and killed eight troops and destroyed a heavy army vehicle. (PT)
                   18
*  Iran-based Afghan Islamic Alliance Shoora, has shifted its center to Peshawar, a , spokesman of AIAS told VOA adding that with this the Shoora will be in a position to have close contacts with the Afghan mujaheddin inside Afghanistan as well as the Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin leaders to sort out a united political solution of the Afghan conflict and prove that we have a permanent politics and are not influenced by anyone. (PT)
*  The Kabul regime is reported to have sent a big military force 5 September to Qala-e-Nau, Badghis. Due to aerial bombardment on the suburbs of Qala-e-Nau, the mujaheddin losses were reported to be heavy (VOAPS)
 * In Kabul there has been substantial increase in the prices of essential commodities. MIDIA, quoting its correspondent, who has lately returned
                                                                                        VOL>3 NO.4
 from Kabul, reports that recently the prices of the following items of daily usage read as follows:
 1. Wood (as fuel), per kg. Afs. 400,
 2. Kerosene oil, per gallon Afs. 500,
 3. Petrol, per gallon Afs. 1,800,
 4. Beef, per kg. Afs. 900,
 5. Mutton, per kg. Afs. 1,300,
 6. Rice, per 7 kg. Afs. 3,500,
 7. 1 loaf of bread Afs. 80.(VOAPS)
 *  A spokesman of Kabul regime Foreign Ministry in a statement bitterly attacked the Saudi government for inviting mujaheddin leaders to visit Saudi Arabia. He termed the invitation as interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (RA)
                  19
 *   The mujaheddin shot down three fighter planes over the newly built airport in the besieged city of Khost. It is said that in the operation three officers of the Kabul regime's army were killed. (BBCPS)
                 20
 *  Kabul city was hit 19 September by rockets and 25 rockets perhaps landed in the area of the airport as a result of which traffic at the airport was disrupted for sometime. The casualties are not known yet. (RMDS)
 *  In an interview with the BBC the UF Ambassador to the Afghan mujaheddin, Pete* Tomsen, has said that the US
-and the Soviet Union have agreed on a number of points with regard to a political settlement in Afghanistan. They have also reached an agreement that the UN should take part in the establishment of Shoora and should pave the ground for free and fair elections in Afghanistan. Tomsen . said the US has no objection if Watan Party participates in the elections. He said
200
JULY - SEPTEMBER* 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
 the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister would once again hold talks on the issue When .they meet in the UN General Assembly session in New York- at the end of this month. (PT)
 * In his annual report to the 45th session of the UN General Assembly the UN Secretary General, Perez-de-Cuellar, reported 18 September progress in the "direction, of consensus" at the international level on a political settlement in Aghanistan among the guarantors powers-the tIS, the USSR and the nighbouring countries of Afghanistan- Pakistan and Iran. He said, the opportunity now exists for collective and concerted efforts both at national and international levels to achieve a resolution of the conflict. Meanwhile, Pakistan thwarted an attempt by the Kabul regime to secure the position of a Vice President of the General Assembly. (PT)
 *  Afghan mujaheddin fired several, rockets at Kabul Airport and into the city 18 September. (PT)
 *  Reports reaching from Afghanistan speak of fierce fighting between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul troops in Badghis. The provincial headquarter,. Qila-e-Nau, is reported, to have been virtually surrounded by the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
                   21
 *  As a result of the Kabul regime’s bombing on the mujaheddin positions in the Morghab, Badghis, 67 mujaheddin and civilians w^ere killed and 190 persons were injured. (VOAPS)
                   22
 * A UN convoy carrying 200 tons of
 wheat has arrived in the Faizabad city which is in the grip of famine. This is the first time a convoy carrying foodgrains     has    crossed     the
 mujaheddin-controlled areas without obstacle. (BBCPS)
 *   Addressing a gathering of the mujaheddin in the Anjuman area of Badakhshan province, the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said that the jehad had entered a sensitive phase in which discipline was of prime importance. He said that every sacrifice would be offered for the cause of peace and establishment of an Islamic system in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *   The Nawa-i-Waqt wrote in its editorial 22 September that the annual report submitted to the 45th session of the UN General Assembly by the UN Secretary General, Perez-de-Cuellar, apparently carries nothing tangible for the solution of Afghan issue. The super powers have reached a silent compromise on the issue and therefore seem to have dumped it. Nevertheless, the current silence in war between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime can break at any moment. (NWT)
                  23
 *   Seven communist officers and five soldiers were killed, a cannon and an army jeep destroyed as the Afghan mujaheddin staged a four-hour artillery attack on Balia Hissar and Turkhazrat areas of Ghazni 18. September. The house of the brother of the communist governor of the province was also ruined and two of his dependents killed in the operation. One mujahid was also, reportedly wounded in this attack. In their surprise attack 19 September on the installation lying along the Herat-Islam Qala road, the mujaheddin captured two outposts. The same' day the mujaheddin also . took over three defense outposts of Shindad Airbase in Farah. They attacked an armored squardon at army corps headquarters; attacked the defense outposts of the Maiwand district of Kandahar 16
201
 JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990                     flfGIllNJEHAD                                VOL..3' NO.4
September and captured over 40 assorted weapons; attacked eighth army division of Qargha-20 Km to the downtown of Kabul - with surface to surface Saccker-20 rocket 16 September destroying one military vehicle and killing six officers and soldiers and injuring a number of others; the same day targetted Kabul regime forces in Baghi Dauod and the fifty security precince on Khoshhal Mina, western suburbs of the capital Kabul, killing 14 officers and soldiers and destroying a tank and burning one uniform depot.
In their    stepped up  operations in  
Paghman    district  of   Kabul    the 
mujaheddin   killed six  officers  and 
 soldiers and injured several others and inflicted huge material losses. They attacked the Jerkadoni National front in Faryab province and inflicted heavy losses to the regime militiamen forcing regime captain Shehzad of the 19th unit of the front to surrender alongwith a number of militiamen. The mujaheddin seized 200 klashenkovs, two wireless sets, two ZK-1, two rocket launchers, six machineguns and one military vehicle. Some 80 militiamen from the "Sayyed" national regimenent also surrendered to the mujaheddin in the that province with 60 klashenkovs, 30 machineguns, one ZK-1 and two rocket launchers. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin repulsed an attack two weeks ago on the mujaheddin strongholds in the Junjan district of Baghlan province killing five militiamen and injuring 30 others. A number of arms was also seized by the mujaheddin. In Parwan province tbey attacked the central headquarter of regime forces killing 18 militiamen and injuring 55 others. (PT>
 * Under the UNHCR repatriation plan 40 thousand Afghan refugees . have so far left for Afghanistan since July this year. (NWT)
                                            24
 * In their stepped up operations aimed
  at capturing Kabul, the mujaheddin are shelling the Kargha garrison and Reeshkor military headquarter of Najibullah regime. They destroyed one military barrack and four vehicles in Reeshkor and one arms depot in Karga garrison killing or injuring 10 soldiers. (NWT)
  *    Javad Mansoori, the Iranian Ambassador in Pakistan, met with the mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad. He said he met with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad and some other mujaheddin leaders in order to ascertain their views. While elaborating the Iranian stand vis-a-vis the Afghan problem, he said Iran's policy is that all the mujaheddin parties should unite and form a legitimate and representative government (VOAPS)
                 25
*  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, Afghanistan, has said in an interview with the BBC that negotiations for the formation of a new Council for the government is ^n progress. The aim was to break the present deadlock. He said that negotiations have reached the final stage and it would be better to wait for an official announcement about the details of decisions reached by the mujaheddin leaders. (BBCPS)
*  Addressing a big gathering of the Afghan mujaheddin and the people in Takhar province of Afghanistan the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said that time had come when the Afghan people would reap the harvest of
jtheir 12-year long jehad. He said it was only possible when the political leaders, ulama, commanders, mujaheddin I and the common people were united to bring to the culmination.the success of * jehad. Earlier, the AIG President had a lengthy and exclusive meeting with Commander Ahmad Shah Masood at Masood's
202
JULY - SEPTEMBER. 1990 AFGHAN JEHAD
 war center. (PT)
 *  In an interview with ANA the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that before the Afghan mujaheddin overrun the Afghanistan's capital, Kabul troops should topple the Najibullah regime to prevent bloodshed. He said that the communist Kabul regime would soon come to its end in Afghanistan and an Islamic government would be set up there. (NWT)
                   26
 *  Ali Akbar Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, in a speech at the annual session of the UN regarding Afghanistan, said, "while reiterating our support to the struggle of the Muslim Afghan nation, we emphasize the need for the establishment of an Islamic, independent and non-aligned government in that country which should have the support of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and have good relations with its neighbours. (VOAPS)
 * The Wall Street Journal, writing
 about the possibility of the reduction of American aid to the mujaheddin, has stated that the American Senate has already voted for 100 million dollars Cut  in the US aid, but the US
 administration is .trying to continue the  aid until     present   political
 efforts for the solution of the Afghan problem yield result. (VOAPS) *
 * Addressing the inaugural session of the UN General Assembly the Foreign Minister of Iran, Ali Akbar Velayati, has reiterated his country's full support to the struggle of the people of Afghanistan and said that Iran was ready to extend every help to their right of self-determination. He said^ that the establishment of a free/ democratic and Islamic government in Afghanistan was imperative. (JG)
VOL.3 NO.4
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have shot down two aircraft in the Khost cantonment in Afghanistan over the last 48 hours. (PT)
                 27
 *  A BBC correspondent has reported from Kabul that in the diplomatic enclave of Kabul a big explosion has occurred. After a short while, military forces entered the government buildings and tanks and armored troop carriers rolled on the roads. Four hours later, Nabi Azimi, the Defense Secretary, said no explosion had occurred. (BBCPS)
                                                                                                    I
 *  The mujaheddin demolished three security belts around Qalat city and hoisted their own flags in the city but Balahesser, situated on a hill in the vicinity of Qalat city and well fortified, is still controlled by the Kabul regime forces. (VOADS)
 *  The head of Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, has said in an interview with the VOA, the people today praise the peaceful policies of Gorbachev' and believe that Soviet forces withdrew from Afghanistan as a result of these policies, but they are absolutely wrong, because the Afghan war and the Afghan fighters compelled Gorbachev to adopt such a policy. The reason is that he is a statesman and knows that from the political point of view, one should do only the possible and continuing the occupation of Afghanistan was an impossible task to accomplish (VOAPS)
 *  There has been a big explosion 26 September in the diplomatic area of the Afghan Capital,Kabul, near the Ministry of Interior and the Afghan Radio and Television stations, says BBC. It was not immediately clear what caused the explosion which prompted widespread panic. (PT)
 * Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan,
203
 Gulbuddin  Hekmatyar,               26 September
 in Peshawar, called upon the Kabul army to avail the final opportunity being given to them by the mujaheddin to undo the despicable regime of Kabul. He said that before the, mujaheddin enter Kabul by force, the army should play its role and save          the city from a major
 bloodbath by overthrowing Najib . He put forward two options for the Afghan army: remove  the Kabul rulers through
 a joint action or join mujaheddin at the time of armed attack on Kabul. He advised the inhabitants of Kabul to vacate the places adjacent to military installations so that in the event' of an attack their lives are saved. He said that very soon the people will hear the news of unity among the major political parties of mujaheddin and the world will witness the final blow to .the Kabul regime. (MLM)
                   28
 * A Swiss daily has said that only the Afghans themselves can bring about peace in Afghanistan. But the super-powers can persuade the hostile parties, to reach a compromise and understanding by reducing or cutting off supply of arms to both the parties. However, the isolated Kabul regime will suffer lesser harm than the resistance movement. (VOGFS)
     The mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime security posts 20 September in the north Greshk, Helmand and occupied one post and killed 12, militiamen. In Samangan, 14 militiamen joined 17 September the mujaheddin with' their arms and ammunition in Aibak. (VOADS)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin launched a rocket attack on the Kabul international Airport early 28 September and the operation continued till 11 a.m. (PT) *
 * The Afghan mujaheddin conducted a
 runway and badly damaging the airport and also killing three troops standing close to the airport. Meanwhile,, 80 Kabul troops at Maimna defected to the mujaheddin with arms. In Aliabad of Kunduz also 190 Kabul troops Surrendered to the mujaheddin alongwith their commander Shahzada and handed over to the mujaheddin 200 klashenkovs, five machineguns,. 12 rocket launchers, wireless sets and two heavy vehicles. In another attack on Khenjan along Salang Highway the mujaheddin are reported to have seized arms and ammunition and killed or wounded eight troops of Kabul forces on the spot. (PT)
 * At least five children and two women died and 22 were injured when their Van hit a mine in Herat province, officials said in Kabul 26 September. (PT)
 * Addressing a gathering in Taluqan,
 provincial capital of Takhar, the AtG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, said without the formation of another consultative      Shoora     comprising
 influential elements, ulama, spiritual leaders,     mujaheddin and the
 representatives of the Afghan people, a handful of persons have no right to change the present structure of the Islamic interim government of Afghanistan. (PT)
 *   The UNOCA handed over 64 vehicles to three Afghan agencies in Islamabad 27 September for demining programs inside Afghanistan. The vehicles will be used by Afghan demining teams in areas where peace has returned. Their objective is to clear these areas from mines and unexploded ordnance for safe and peaceful return of refugees. (MLM)
                  29
 * The mujaheddin began 26 September sn attack on the Kabul regime posts in
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
                                                                        VOL.3 NO.4
 raid on the Kandahar Airport 23 September destroying an aircraft on the
204
 JULY - SEPTEMBER* 1990               AFGHANJfHAD                          VOL.3  NO.4
 Trinkot, capital of -Uruzgan and by the 27 September afternoon six Kabul regime security posts including the provincial radio station fell under the mujaheddin control. In the operations, two tanks of the Kabul regime were destroyed and 45 militiamen were arrested by the mujaheddin. There is no mention of casualties among the mujaheddin.
      According to another report, the mujaheddin attacked 25 September the Kabul regime posts in Mohammad Agha, Logar, destroyed six tanks and killed 25 soldiers and militiamen. Two of the mujaheddin lost their lives.
      The Maiden Shar mujaheddin attacked 21 September Kabul regime centers, destroying three tanks and killing 28 militiamen. Seven mujaheddin and local people were killed. Similarly the mujaheddin occupied three posts of the regime in Chehel Dokhtaran, of Pul-e-Khumri, Baghlan, killing 189 militiamen and injuring seven of them. As a result of Kabul regime air force's bombing, eight civilians were killed. The Balkh mujaheddin too occupied three security posts at Ishan Qala of the province on 20 September. (VOADS)
 *  The US Secretary of State, James Baker, has told Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebz&da Yaqub Khan,in NY 25 September that there 1 was a degree of convergence of views on the Afghanistan question between the US and the Soviet Union but not ^et an agreement. Baker assured Yaqub Khan that the US would continue to take a firm position against Najibullah's role and Washington would stay in touch with Pakistan on the Afghanistan question. (PT) *
 *   Speaking at a conference in
 Washington,        prominent      Soviet
 Journalists and observers have said the increase in the nationalist and regional feelings in the Soviet Union
 show that the civil war in Afghanistan had now stretched to the Soviet territory. They said the experience gained by the mujaheddin in Afghanistan was being used in Azerbaijan, Armenia and Karabakh. They said that although there were many comments about the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the correct reasons .for this attack were still not known. (PT)
 *  Addressing a Junta congregation at
 the Shamshatu refugee camp in Peshawar 28 September leader of the HeZb-e-Islami Afghanistan,Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said five Peshawar based mujaheddin parties, have agreed on a joint military plan to topple the puppet riegime in Kabul in the very near future and the nation 'Would hear the news very soon, reports ANA. He said the current negotiations between the jehad parties have made an encouraging headway. Meanwhile, the AIG Defense Minister, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, has    in  an interview in
 Peshawar welcomed the current negotiations between the mujaheddin leaders and said that these have made headway to remove Najib through a unified struggle. (MLM)
 *  Negotiations  are  underway  between
 Afghan mujaheddin leaders, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Ypunis Khales, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi for      a  common    strategy
 for attack on Kabul. According to ANA the Afghan groups based in Teheran have also expressed their desire to join in the Kabul operation and shifted their headquarter to Peshawar. Meanwhile,the proposed alliance has appealed %o the citizens of Kabul to shift to the liberated areas so that they remain unhurt. (NWT)
 * Several persons have been killed and injured in a big bomb blast near
205
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1990
VOL.3 NO.4
Taluqan, the capital of Takhar province. More than 10 vehicles were also destroyed and a number of houses raised to the ground. (NWT)
                   30
* Addressing a     two-day seminar  on
past, present and future of Afghanistan under the auspices of Policies, Studies     in     Islamabad,     Naib
Murshad-al-Alam Mustafa Al-Mashood of Akhwanul Muslimin, has said that the Afghan jehad has had a major contribution in the defe.at of communism in the world. Both the superpowers, he said, were now impeding the establishment of an Islamic government in Kabul. Analysing various eras of Afghan jehad,        the     chief  of
Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said on the occasion  that
the present era of the jehad was most critical. The      acting     Amir  of
Jamat-e-lslami, Khurram Murad, said that the Afghan jehad had disturbed the equilibrium of power in the world. (JG)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have made a rocket • attack on the Kabul Airport forcing it to be closed for traffic for several hours. Meanwhile, due to continuous bombing by Soviet planes, crop fields and orchards have been destroyed in Badghis province of Afghanistan causing starvation and diseases in the affected areas. According to AIG Ministry of Information prices of essential commodities have also gone up. (NWT)
 * The- Afghan mujaheddin, led by senior commander Captain Allauddin, have destroyed . two military posts of the Kabul regime in their operations 21 to 25 September and killed 10 troops including army officers. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin have foiled an attempt by the Kabul troops to capture their positions in Sang Charak and captured one army truck and 12 communists. In another joint operation the mujaheddin captured several security posts of the Kabul regime with large quantity of arms and ammunition. (NWT)