'JEHAD ANNUAL
 PRESS       JUNE-DBG EMBER       1985»
  at this stage. (JG)
  244.  Severe fighting continues between mujaheddin and Soviet-Karmal troops in Gardez and Khost areas. The enemy planes have flown a large number of dead bodies of Soviet-Karmal troops to Kabul. (PT ).
                                 31
  245.  Mujaheddin have shot down five Soviet helicopters and MIG fighter bombers in Zazi war front. 50 Karmal troops defected to mujaheddin in Paktia, where a fierce fighting is going on. (PT ).
  246.  According to an AFP report, fighting in Paktia province has reached to its climax. Mujaheddin in their operations have killed 170 Soviet-Karmal troops including 4 military officers. Besides they shot down one Antonov aircraft and a helicopter,
  247.  Leader of the IS Congressional delegation Mr. Peter W. Roadho currently visiting Afghan refugee camps, has appealed to world community to give generous aid to Pakistan to reduce its burden. He said Pakistan is doing a great Job by giving shelter to such a large number of refugees.
  248.  The liS envoy at the United Nations Lt. General Walters has said there is complete identity of views between Pakistan and the liS on matters to be discussed in the coming session of UN General Assembly.
  249.  The two day impasse in the indirect proximity talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan was broken and talks were resumed on 29th August. (IN ),
                                               September
                                 4
 250.  Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zain Noorani has expressed hope that next round of Geneva talks in December would produce a comprehensive solution of the Afghan issue (PT ).
                                 5
 251.  Sphjhgartn Yaqub Khan has said that intensity in fighting inside Afghanistan has nothing to do with Geneva talks. Perhaps efforts are being made to end the resistance in certain Afghan areas. (JG )•
 252. Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said that 6th round of Geneva talks in December
5A
JEHAD ANNUAL
                               PRESS
JimE-UCEMBBER
1985.
 would be difficult one because it would focus on the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. (PT).
                                     8
 253.  Radio Kabul has reported mujaheddin shot down an Afghan plane when it took off from Kandahar airport, killing all 52 people on board. Radio said, an Ameri-
           I
 can missile was used. It said guerillas were agents of ISA and Pakistan. (EN ),
 254.  Thirteen villages in Hazro area of Paktia province have been wiped out by the Soviet bombardment. In thi3 action, thousands of civilians and 60 mujaheddin were martyred.
 255.  A commander of Afghan militia, Tor Jan has reached Pakistan alongwith his weapons. He surrendered himself to Nijat-e-Milli Afghanistan party. (JG ).
                                     9
 256.  Fierce fighting continues in Paktia. Sixty wounded mujaheddin from Paktia . were shifted to Hayatabad Field Hospital, near Peshawar, for which funds have been provided by Norwegian Red Cross Society. (NWT ).
                                   10
 257.  Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani has said, the recently concluded conference of Foreign Ministers of non-aligned countries in Luanda, stressed on the need of a solution of Afghan issue which is based on Soviet troops withdrawal and honourable return of Afghan refugees to their homeland. (JG )•
 258.  A large number of Mujaheddin were injured in fierce fighting in Paktia recently. Injured mujaheddin were taken to Red Cross hospitals near Peshawar. A representative of injured mujaheddin said they will fight as long as they are alive. He said Soviet forces have occupied large area in Badakhshan but Nooris-tan is still independent. (NWT ).
                                   11
 259.  According to BBC, mujaheddin's rocket attacks an Kabul have increased during last one week. Two rockets fell in the compomd of Soviet embassy and 7 other rockets fell in other parts of Kabul. (PT ).
 260.  Mujaheddin have Intensified their attacks on Kabul. They have also hit the Soviet embassy. These attacks were made at a time rfien Kabul authorities have invited tribal elders from different areas to attaid a meeting. (JG).
                                         55
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
  261.   Six mujaheddin leaders under the leadership of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar have arrived in Malaysia for talks with Malaysian leaders (PT ).
  262.   One person was killed and 10 injured,when 4 Afghan aircraft violated Pakistan airspace in North Waziristan and fired some rockets at village Faqiran on September 9. (® )•
  263.   Reports from Afghanistan say one Pakistani student Mohanir.ad Ali, who was studying in Moscow, was killed when Karmal forces opened fire on a truck carrying Pakistani students near Jalalabad. (PT )•
                                     13
  264.   Governor NWFP General Fazle Haq has said that intensified violation of Pakistan territory by the Afghans is an attempt to divert the attention of her people from the mounting jehad and to sabotage Geneva talks. (MIM ).
  265.   Mujaheddin have admitted they shot down a civilian plane near Kandahar airport a week ago. But they say it was hit by a missile on receiving information that it was carrying Soviet advisers. (IN).
  266.   Over 1000 Soviet-Karmal troops were killed in fierce clashes, with Afghan mujaheddin in Khost. Mujaheddin also destroyed dozens of tanks. (NWT).
  267.   Four Afghan Jet aircraft violated Pakistan airspace in North Waziristan area on 11th September and dropped six bombs and fired about 100 rockets. One sepoy of Frontier Corps was injured. (PT ).
                                    14
 268. " Mujaheddin killed 60 Soviet troops and captured 35 others in their Joint operation on Septanber 6, in Bari area of Paktia province. They also captured arms and ammunition. (PT ).
 269.  Mujaheddin killed Deputy Commissioner and five other officials of Karmal regime, by attacking the sub-divisional headquarter in Far ah province on the Iranian border. (NWT ).
                                    15
 270.  President Zia has said he considered Afghanistan's freedom struggle as Pakistan’s owi because today Afghanistan is facing this situation, it may be Pakistan tomorrow. He said Pakistan has no apparent danger from one lakh Soviet forces in Afghanistan, but if this strength increased to three lakh or more, then situation may be considered really threatening for Pakistan. (IN ).
                                            56
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
  271. An Afghan guerrilla chief Fatehullah Haqqani has been killed in fighting against Soviet-Kabul forces near the Pakistan border, in Paktia province. (PT )•
                                    17
  272. Presiaent Ziaul Haq has said Pakistan will continue to support Afghan
  people in their just struggle. He said if Afghanistan whose population is 15 million can face a super power for five years, Pakistan with 90 million population should face it for atleast 30 years. (NWT).
                                    19
  273 • BBC has reported that mujaheddin have launched several attacks on Soviet embassy in Kabul. The radio said Soviet-Karmal troops have intensified their activities against mujaheddin in Khost and some other areas. (JG ).
  274. Mujaheddin are making fresh efforts to devise a new strategy to counter
  the ever-increasing Soviet army in Afghanistan. The two Afghan alliances are hoi- • ding high-level talks to forge unity to face the Russians under a single command. On the other hand Karmal regime has decided to call an Afghan national assembly (jirga) to endorse government policies and to support Soviet presence in the country. (PT ).
                                  20
 275.   Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani has said Pakistan is highly concerned over the increase in military activities and concentration of forces near Pakistani border. He said although all this is being done inside Afghanistan, yet Pakistan cannot remain indifferent. (JG ).
 276.   The' UN Steering Committee has recommended that 40th session of General Assembly should discuss the Afghan question. Representatives of Soviet Union and Kabul government vehemently opposed to inclusion of the item on Afghanistan.(HIM ).
                                  21
 277.  Twenty five Afghans were martyred in bombardment by Soviet planes on
 Logar province. (NWT      .
 278.   According to a Radio Kabul report, over 2000 Afghan mujaheddin were killed in a month-long operation by Afghan-Soviet forces in Paktia province (UN ).
                                       57
JEHAD ANNUAL :          ,        PRESS        JDNE-DECEMBER 1985.*
                                                     22
  279.  The US Congress has appropriated five lakh dollars for the Afghan mujaheddin to start a publicity compaign to bring their struggle against Soviet troops to the world attention. With this money, they will train Afghan journalists to use television, radio and newspapers to advance their anti-government cause. The program will be supervised by the US Information Agency. (EN )♦
  .-80. Mujaheddin attacked Kandahar Governor House on September 12 with mortars and killed 8 security guards. A portion of Governor House was badly damaged. (PT )•
  281.  Sahibzada Yaqub Khan ha3 said Pakistan will seek world support for the resolution about Afghanistan in the UN General Assembly session. The question will come up for debate in November (NWT).
                                  24
  282.  BBC has quoted mujaheddin sources as saying that government forces have withdrawn from the mountains back into Khost and mujaheddin themselves are withdrawing from the battleground. With this a month long government offensive against mujaheddin stronghold near Khost appears to be over.
  283.  VOA has quoted mujaheddin as claiming they have shot down a Soviet transport plane near Kabul. 26 Soviet soldiers died when the plane crashed in Logar valley. (PT ).
                                  25
  284.  Soviet-Afghan forces launched a surprise attack against mujaheddin in eastern Afghanistan close to Pakistan border on 24th September. An Afghan guerilla commander told western newsmen that their bases and supply routes in Paktia province are under seige by Kabul troops.
  28$. Pakistan Government has rejected Kabul authorities protest of 17th September alleging that Pakistani militia personnel attacked Pasta Kassa area in Khost, Paktia on September 6. (DN ).
                                  28
  286. Sahibzada Yaqub Khan met West German Foreign Minister Ganscher In New York as UNGA continued its general debate. Yaqub Khan briefed Mr. Ganscher on latest developments in Afghanistan as well as Geneva talks. (PT ).
  287* A mujaheddin commander Dad Mir was killed in a surprise attack on the gar-
                                              58
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
rison .town of Khost, by Soviet forces. He was killed by a machinegun fire when he and his men were recapturing an outpost taken by the Karmal troops. (PT ).
 288.   According to Voice of America, Afghan pilot Lt. Mohammad Gul Sharif who defected to Pakistan in July has said he avoided to fire on Mujaheddin groups, even if he aaw them. (NWT ).
 289.   Mujaheddin destroyed 9 military aircraft by attacking the biggest Soviet airbase near Kabul, by Saun missiles. (NWT).
 290.   Voice of America has reported that aim of recent Soviet-Karmal troops attacks in Paktia and Ningarhar was to end the seige of garrison and cut off supply routes of mujaheddin. The daily Christian Science Monitor says without 1.55 lakh Soviet troops, the Karmal regime would go away only within a few hours. (PT ).
 291.   Washington Post has carried an article written by Soviet novelist, Alexander Prokanov, which has justified the Soviet action in Afghanistan. The article says, Soviet contingent entered Afghanistan 5 years ago, when schools and mosques were being set ablaze, large number of foreign troops had entered into Afghanistan from Pakistan and an undeclared war had begun in Afghanistan. The article describing the United States as the biggest enemy of Soviet Union, says Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan in its own defence. (JG ).
 292.   Babrak Karmal has accused his government employees of abuse of powers and said they had amassed immense wealth through misappropriation and bribery. (PT
 293.   Mujaheddin killed one Soviet pilot and several other Soviet troops in guerilla activities in Kabul. (NWT ).
294. Police has arrested four terrorists, near Zhob, close to Afghanistan border and seized a large quantity of arms and explosives, which they were taking to Pakistan for subversive activities. According to police Intelligence sources, the terrorists groups are being sent to Pakistan after imparting training to them in Afghanistan (JG ).
29
30
1
M M M
w w
59