U ' /,/ •>
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
Editorial
m

? ^ <
           IN THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIRJL.
         FAILING TO EVOLVE EFFECTIVE MUJAHEDDIN LEADERSHIP
     The question of forming an effective leadership for the Afghan nation, whether we like it or not, is being awaited by the Afghan people. Their eyes are fixed at leaders of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujaheddin (IUAM) to come up with a viable government. About the government that they have already announced no body is certain whether this government is already functioning or it will start working after certain other criteria are met. There has been a universal demand from the IUAM leadership to come up with a broadbased interum government. What is meant by a broad based government varies from mind with some interpreting it include even the die hard communists of the Kabul regime. But we prefer to stick to the kind of scenario announced by the IUAM last February in which they proposed a 28 member government.
 Fourteen members of this government was to be from the mujaheddin, seven of them from the refugees (the mohajerrin) and another seven members from among the Muslims living inside' Afghanistan. What happened to that proposal? The government headed by Engineer Ahmad Shah announced later in no way. meets the 22 February criteria set forth by the IUAM Supreme Council. Furthermore, according to that same 22 February communique of the IUAM Supreme Council, the head of the transitional government was to serve as the head of the state as well.
     There were other very positive and constructive features for this government as well. But the crux of the matter is that we have to come up with a viable government supported by a wide spectrum of our people.No one should be serious in entertaining the idea that, in such a government, the die hard communists of the Kabul regime also participate for the simple two reasons of (a) such a government, as also proved by experience in many other countries,will not be practicle and (b) will contradict the very principle of our Islamic jehad. Based on the hard experiences of last ten years, the broadba,-
3
 ^ mi ai i
 PRICE SERIAL NO:
SHAH M BOOK CO
PRINTERS, PUBLISHERS, DISTRIBUTORS S BOOKSELLERS
c mnii> shahm.bookco@usa.net b ma ■ shahmbookco@onebox.com l.1
PO BOX: 1328, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN ........—--  ■■ — ’m *3Mm- n
    July—September, 1988                              AFGHANJ[KAfl Vol.2, No.l
sed government at this juncture, should have its main core from the commanders inside Afghanistan. They should be assisted by a team of experienced Afghans from the mujaheddin side as well as by those who have been living inside Afghanistan as proposed by the IUAM itself. The rest of the scenario could be something like this:
--- start a world wide campaign for making this government acceptable, even
      by holding direct talks with the Soviet Union.
---this government should first and most of all maintain law and security
      in the country,
--- after securing peace and order in the country, the refugees ought to
      return both from outside and from within the country.
---then make use of the funds available by the international community to
      rebuild and repair what has been lost and damaged in the war.
-  - appoint one person from this team of government as head of the state
      to perform the ceremonial functions of this office.
-  - hold general universal elections after the law for such elections is
      drafted and scrutinized by the IUAM and other parties not members of the IUAM. The elections too should be supervized by this same powerful body. Any party which wins the elections should take charge of the government.
-  — the period for the term of office of this government should be as short
      as possible.
      A scenario like this has avoided controvercial issue. May be there are other viable scenarios, although this one has tried to take into account all other major ones. But the idea is that let us stick with the idea of creating a broadbased interim government. The nation is waiting. The miseries of the Afghan, nation are many and nobody should prolong this unjustifiably. Even our adversaries admit that we are winning the war. But what if we fail to form a government which will rest at peace the souls of our martyrs and meet their aspirations and hopes?
      If due to a number of reasons, the IUAM leaders cannot come forth in this important matter, a task force of mediators (Islamic term =s muslehin) ought
July-September, 1988
AfGHAN JEHAD                   voi.2, no.i
 to comeforth and pave the way for the emergence of an acceptable interum government and consider projosals like the one presented by us in this editorial*
                                         THE VAIN OF TRUTH
     This magazine, with quite some efforts, has been able to present the important points of the remarks made by a wide spectrum of the views of non-
                                                                  I
 governmental Pakistani political figures and opinion makers as per May this year (sorry for the delay) presented in a forum held by the daily Muslim in Islamabad in regard to the Afghanistan issue. There is one vain of truth in these remarks and that, in itself, speaks of the contradiction which had existed in the Geneva accord on Afghanistan concluded 14 April this year and now, as we see, that very contradiction has been instrumental in a failure to (a) bring peace in Afghanistan, despite the fact that the Soviet Union says half of its some 115,000 troops have already withdrawn from Afghanistan,
 (b) the Afghan refugees have not been able to return either from Pakistan or Iran and (c) the people of Afghanistan have not been able to exercise their
                                                   J
 right to self-determination due to a lack of conducive atmosphere.
     While the Pakistani figures, have generally supported the singing of the Geneva accord, in no way they have adhered to a position advocated by groups such ANP demanding the brotherly nation of Pakistan should send home the Afghans living in Pakistan whether peace is restored or not and. they have the chance to decide their fate. The ANP position has been all through one. of opportunism in tune with Russian stand-at one point supporting the inva-
 sion and calling the Afghan jehad a "CIA jehad" and then calling for the implementation of an impracticle accord. Look at the arrogent remark of its lea-
                                                                 * ‘
 der in The Muslim forum (page&O). He was many times a trumpet and echo bird for the very democratic order that the Afghans tried to evolve in the 60s. and 70s and now, by playing the Communist tune, he says the Afghans were unaware of the very meaning of democracy. At one point he says the "so called" refugees, meaning they are not refugees and then he says he respects the refugees. Despite the fact that a whole country has been devastated by the Russian.imperialist, the Khan says everything is swell in that country and he is not touched by the martyrdom of millions of lives and the misseries of a nation.
                                                                    5
He has rediculed the sacred concept of miracle by saying that, while Muslims consider the miracle to be shown by prophets, "Godless Russia has done this by withdrawing from Afghanistan." We would put it this way: God*s miracle, through the Afghan valour, forced the Russians to pullout from Afghanistan.
     The other Pakistani figures have indeed pointed out to the vain of truth which has prevailed throughout the Afghan jehad but the Geneva accord has utterly disregarded it: you cannot have peace in Afghanistan until a government, supported by the Afghan people, is established. Trumpeting support for the Russian puppet government in Kabul is no way in the interest of Pakistan which calls for a peaceful Afghanistan, paving the way for the voluntary return of millions of refugees to their home, an Afghanistan which by choice, and not interference, will make close and amicable ties with Pakistan, a corner stone of its national and traditional policy. We want to point out, that contrary to some perceptions, the views, of Pakistani political elite are one of utter support for the right of the people of Afghanistan to- establish an independent and non-aligned Islamic state of their own choice.    0
     UNWORTHY OF A UNITED NATIONS
                                       OFFICIAL
     When one goes through the latest report submitted by Phelix Ermacora the UN Human Rights Commission special rapporteur on human rights situation in Af- «
ghanistan,one wonders how a UN official can allow himself, as an international servant, to become involved in issues in a way that, from a far distance, breeds partiality and lack of understanding of the real issues at stake or tantamounts to a gross violation of the limits of his 'duties.
1.  For instance, have a look at paragraph 56 of the Ermacora*s summary (see text page   He says, "the will of the (Kabul) government to bring human
rights situation with its international objections cannot be implemented •••”
     That means that Mr. Ermacora maintains that the renegade regime of Kabul has the will to meet its international allegations in fields related to human rights. Is this not the very bone of contention? How does he know that the puppet regime has the will to do so? We do not want to prove that the regime does not have such a will and that it is entirely hypocritical about this whole issue. What we want to say is that we feel surprized that an international public servant claims that he has been able to find the win
                                          6
____________________TO-2. K..1
      of the Kabul government whicht he,somehow, finds out to be not cortipatible with what its officials are doing.
      2.  He refers to what he calls the "deliberate" killing of ex-govemor of Baghlan and the murder in Peshawar of Sayyed Bahauddin Mujrooh (paragraph 6U)t the first being carried by the mujaheddin and the second one; Mr. Ermo-cora impliesfby the Kabul government.
           Mr. Ermacora,in fact,complains that in Afghanistan where people have been carrying a war against foreign aggression, and for the overthrow of a government established by aliens, the governors life should have been spared. A strange logic! In a war situation one just cannot spare the lives of those who are one’s sworn enemies and are intent to destroy you.
      3.  Mr. Ermacora suggests (article 68) that a government ought to be formed in Afghanistan to represent the present Kabul regime, and what he calls the "opposition movements’ and the repersentatives of the "refugees". But, if the UN stands for the right of the people to self-determination, why Mr. Ermacora advises a coalition with the present government - - a scenario already rejected by all Afghan groups other than the communists in power who to our people are the tools of a foreign power.
      4.  He urges a ceasefire when the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan is completed (article 76) as, though, the Afghan war had not been going on before the Soviet invasion and that that very war had actually not promf>-ted the 'Russians to attack us.
      5.  In his paragraph 83 he Suggests that the Afghans should adopt the status of "permanent neutrality". He gives as an example in this connection of his native country Austria which was declared "neutral" by big power after World War II. He thinks our situation and their’s are close. But we have been fighting the occupation forces, while the Austrian did not. In Afghanistan the main. important factor in forcing the Russians out was the armed resistance . of the people of Afghanistan. We have fought for self-determination and not. for neutrality or for aligning ourselves with any other power or group*. Let there be no doubt about this. If we are saying that we are going to remain
      a non-aligned nation, it is because we feel that this policy will serve our people’s interest. From an academic point of view, there is actually a basic difference between "neutrality" and "non-alignment", the former being imposed
July-September, 1988
                                                   7
July-September, 198#
                                        him mi_______________________M.2.. *,.1
      upon a people and the latter adopted by a people at their own free will.
           What is actually happening, unfortunately, in the Afghan sc.ene,. is, that despite our obvious ability to bring down to its knees an imperialist superpower, due to a lack of a parallel progress in developing an active, sophisticated and broadly based political institution, others, with or without really understanding properly the Afghan realities, have been devising plans for us. or trying to carve out a destiny for us, Mr0 Ermacora being one of them. Mr. Erraacora, furthermore, in his report has pointedly transgressed from his impartial role as a UN official.
 /
8
      July-September, 1988 AFGHAN J[HAO                     Vol.2t  No*l
    Political Dimensions
                THREE MONTHS OF UNPARALLELED MUJAHEDDIN MILITARY SUCCESS
      Fateful Deadlock in Mujaheddin Ranks to Create Acceptable Government
       The death of President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan posed new questions to the Afghanistan issue which, despite many frantic moves bTr the communists to evade the basic problems, is still unsolved.-* But whatever posture the new Pakistani leadership may adopt in helping to find a mechanism for solving the issue immediately after the tragic death of the champion of the Afghan cause in Pakistan, Islamabad made it clear that Pakistan will not budge in the issue until a broadly based government is formed in Kabul to make it possible for the refugees to return home in "honor and safety." The Kabul regime, obviously prompted by Moscow, once again resorted to raids deep inside Pakistan because of desparation or to intimidate Pakistan. But commenting on these latest communists violation of Pakistan air space, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yakoob Khan said Pakistan will not be intimidated by such clumsy and crude means in its quest for a just settlement of the Afghanistan problem and Islamabad will not hesitate in shooting down more communist planes just as did
   shot down two of them-one of the Kabul regime and the other one piloted by a Russian. Indeed
   two days later the Pakistani Air Force said it shot down another intruding aircraft and again two more,
       The Pakistani Minister made his comments in Islamabad Airport from where he was flying to Cyprus to participate in a non-aligned ministerial conference in which Pakistan put on the agenda the communist violations as well as the question of the formation of a broadly based government in Kabul to pave the way for the final settlement of the Afghanistan issue now that the Russian troops are on their out from Afghanistan after unsuccessfully battling an entire nation for almost nine years to sustain a puppet regime.
       The deadline for the withdrawal of last Russian troops from Afghanistan is 15 February next year and Moscow says that, according to the Geneva accord, half of its troops have already left by August 15* But, while the withdrawal has been taking place, the Russians have resorted to second thoughts in several places they have already evacuated, notably Kunduz and reportedly Kandahar.
   Late August the mujaheddin captured the city of Kunduz and this, while denied by the Kabul regime leader Najibullah,was confirmed by the Soviets. A week later, Russian planes flew from the Soviet Union and bombed heavily the city and the mujaheddin said, in order to avoid mass civilian casualties, they evacuated the city.
       Although the Russians Have been claiming that their troops are no longer engaged in fighting in Afghanistan, many reports indicated that Russian soldiers and military power are still employed in support of the Kabul regime.
       While it was quite obvious that the mujaheddin was on the offensive and the communists were desparately crawling for survival, the whole drama - - the Kabul air raid in Pakistan, the. Russian
                                                      9
        July-September, 1988                   AFGHAN J[HAO                        Vol.2,  No.l
     comeback in areas already it says it had evacuated, the very weak position of the Kabul army, and finally a Russian insistance to sustain the Kabul regime--speak of the need of realism in Gorba-
     chev’s approach to pullout from Afghanistan. Russian physical withdrawal from Afghanistan will not lead to peace in Afghanistan unless there is a change of heart in Kremlin by realizing the new realities in Afghanistan where an entire nation has fought a war not for any other sake but Islam which calls upon them to safeguard their honor, religion and freedom*
          The man who helped negotiate the agreement for the Kabul regime and Pakistan, Diego Cordovez, despite quitting in August his UN post to become his native country Equador's Foreign Minister, announced he will continue his "second tract" helping to establish a broadly based government in Kabul, And despite the fact that for a long time, he had been insisting that his proposed broadly based government ought to include the PDPA's as well but, as he witnessed a universal Afghan opposition to this, after his journey to Kabul during his July shuttle in the region, he indicated that he no longer insisted on the idea of an interim government and he also indicated that the Najib government has. to quit in case a solution to the Afghan issue is found. He called for the convening of a loya jirgah and said neither the IUAM nor the PDPA members were in a position to bring about an acceptable government.
          He said he has prepared a list of 3b "impartial and respected" Afghans to farm an interim government which in turn should pave the way for a loya jirga to work out a Permanent political order for Afghanistan, But earlier the IUAM readily rejected the Cordovez plan, although its spokesman Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said that, as far as he himself was concerned, the IUAM should have met Cordovez and given serious thought to his proposals, a posture criticized by the Hezb-e-Islami official organ - - the Shahadat - - as detrimental to the main interest of jehad.
          While international efforts were bogged down with many problems to find a solution to the remaining.of the Afghanistan problem so that the war may end and refugees return and the UN embark, actively on its $1,6 billion program of resettlement and reconstruction, the Afghans themselves also failed to come out with^a viable solution to the political problems they are facing. Indeed, whether the communist regime is dismantled through a peaceful accord or by military means, the Afghans have to have a viable administration to take over. So far they have failed to accomplish this. The interim government formed by the IUAM as early as February this year failed to impress even the mujaheddin themselves as, among other shortcomings, it was incomplete falling far too short of the 28 members which the IUAM itself had agreed upon and in which, in addition to 14 mujaheddin members seven would have been from what the IUAM leaders called the Afghan refugees and seven others from Muslims living inside Afghanistan.
          But though incomplete and lacking sufficient authority and financial means, the government of Engineer Ahmad Shah, for sometime, tried to seek recognition but later a number of the IUAM top leaders created further doubts about this government saying that it could function officially until elections were held for an IUAM council. The date for holding elections, as could be gathered from remarks by two IUAM leaders who particularly lobbied for them, was October 10, What kind of elections? Although the IUAM has not made any public statement about it (a proclamation by five IUAM leader June,1987,had said universal,free and impartial elections under present Afghan condition was impractical) the electorate would have been asked to vote for the parties rather than individuals and two third of the 310 member council would have been elected from inside of Afghanistan and the
                                                 10
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
     rest from the refugees.
          However, 27 August the IUAM came out with a different version in which the mode of representation in the council has been almost entirely altered.According to the new rules,in areas where people can have consensus on a single individual, that individual should serve in the council;in areas where the ulema,intellectuals and elders agree on an individual, he should serve in the council and in areas where there is a already an elected council, that council should send one of its members to the IUAM council. Elections will be held in areas where these three conditions do not exist. In such areas, if they are under mujaheddin control, elections should be held under the supervision of mujaheddin teams and in areas under the Kabul control, the IUAM leaders will give a list of •‘good" people as candidates and the refugee of the area in question will vote on them. Those who receive the highest votes will serve in the council.As to how all the electorate will be tracked down in refugee camps all over Pakistan and Iran was not spelled out in the IUAM declaration.
          The lack of a dynamic planning on the part of the IUAM leadership have indeed posed certain dangers to the entire aim and objectives of the Afghan jehad. Forces that had either taken only a casual role in the jehad or have been willing to strike dubious compromises with the enemy are reported to be offering solutions.
          By mid-September, there were strong rumours that a number of Afghans in collaboration with minor jehad circles, were contemplating on holding a loya with the participation of the PDPAs in a foreign land. Whether such a jirgah will be held and whether it will succeed to form a government satisfactory to Afghans,was not known,but the fact remained that the Afghan mujaheddin ranks and their supporters found themselves frustrated with a do-nothing record of their leader in evolving a viable government.
          But while the Afghans were performing poorly in the political field by not being able to come out soon with a viable administration to match up their military successes,the situation was deteriorating very rapidly for the Kabul regime.All the cards played by the Najib regime to induce even the most moderate elements of the Afghan mujaheddin to join the PDPAs in an alliance were brushed aside. The military fortunes of the puppet regime was down and its bid to gain some kind of international recognition were frustrated; the suggestion by the Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil for holding a Kabul-Pakistan-USSRr-USA foreign ministers conference was turned down harshly and immediately by Islamabad; the UN continued its refusal to allow the Kabul government work as its partner for the multi-billion dollar package aid for the resettlement and rehabilation of the Afghan population and economy. The call by non-aligned ministerial conference in Cyprus for a broadly based government in Afghanistan was yet another signed that no one intends to allow the *PDPAs continue their dominant role even in the guise of national reconcialiation, etc. The master minder Russia thought, by bringing in a man like Hasan Sharq as Prime Minister,the regime will be able to attract many of the so called royalist. For Sharq was for many years a close confidant of President Daoud the cousin and brother-in-law of King Mohammad Zahir Shah. But the impression that Sharq has had among the Afghan is of a man who achieved high fortunes after his mentor - - Daoud - -was disgraced. Daoud, actually sacked Sharq after discovering that he and a .group of other members of his government were serving Kremlin*s interests.After Daoud assassination by the PDPAs during the April 27, 1978, coup, Sharq again became an active member of the Kabul government first becoming Ambassador to India and then serving in high post in Kabul. Knowledgeable Afghans have always
                                                  11
   July-September, 1988        AFGHAN JIHAD            Vol.2f No*l
 suspected him of being a direct KGB recruit and such an impression about him alone is enough to make him a nobody in the Afghan eyes.
    But the most disasterous misfortune of the communist regime was its military setbacks. For the mujaheddin were scoring success after success in their drive to capture the countryside and towns, though of secondary military importance. During the past three months, for instance, they captured provincial administrative.units and 63 provincial centers. The Kabul government reverses were so acute that Soviet bombers flew from Russia to help the Kabul troops regain control of Kunduz in northern Afghanistan, The Soviets had earlier reported to have evacuated that city. The shooting down of a Kabul transport plane in which several Kabul regime military elite died was yet another devastating blow to communist morale.
    Whether by negotiations or by military means, the Kabul regime has to dismantle. The major question that faced the Afghan nation was who will take over after that. Would the mujaheddin be able to come out with a viable government supported by the masses of the people? The record held by the IUAM leadership in this respect has been so far not good and they have to ccrae up with alternatives that will convince the nation that the gains of Afghan jehad achieved by the blood of their 1.5 millions of compatriots, are being sustained.
 Military Dimensions
  MUJAHlDDIN CONTROL OVER NON-URBAN CENTERS EXPANDS
  Coordination, better Arms Needed for Urban Control
    Since the signing of the Geneva accord on the Afghanistan issue, very little has been going on the political side of the Afghanistan issue at an international level to bring about a government based on the will of the Afghan people. Thus attention have mainly shifted to the military field with a test of strength by the mujaheddin, on the one hand, and the Kabul regime and the Russians, on the other hand. The mujaheddin were intent to bring about a dismantling by military means of the puppet regime while the communists were trying to defend themselves from collapsing totally. But indeed the war during the past three months (July-September) has been a mujaheddin offesive war.
    The main result of the war during the past three months has been that while the mujaheddin vigorously, with utmost speed and effeciency have been increasing the areas under their permanent control in the countryside, their efforts to conquer permanently major cities have in one or anoth-erway, been frustrated largely due to (i) Russian army intervention helping the Kabul troops to sustain themselves (ii) lack of coordination and tactical means and proper weapons by the mujaheddin.
    The mujaheddin had conquered the cities of Kalat in Zabul, Maidan Shahr in Maidan and Kunduz but had to evacuate them due any of the abovementioned reasons. But nevertheless, they have been able to hold their control over Taluqan (Takhar) and Bamian (Bamian province).
                                            12
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
     When the Afghans had to face the Red and Kabul puppet regime armies at the height of the war, their tactics were mostly one of hit and run; but now, that the mujaheddin are expected to capture and permanently stay in an area and set up an administration, their tactics has to be hit and stay. They have to have the means and weapons to do so. Indeed a plan undertaken by Ahmad Shah Masood the Commander in Northern Afghanistan to recruit a regular army to cope with the new realities of the war was aimed at enabling the mujaheddin to stay in areas they conquer.
     The Kabul regime, too, is unable to hold all major centers. It seems thatj due to weak military position, it is intent to only control a number of major centers such as, Kandahar, Herat, Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz, Pul-e-Khumri or, in other words,cities that are located on major highways or with maximum strategic importance.
     Other than their constraint ---- not having enough means to sustain themselves in a major center
once they conquer it - - the mujaheddin are also handicapped with not hitting a major center too hard lest it may cause many civilian casualties. Indeed, the mujaheddin predicament in this connection has been so acute that, for instance, in cities like Zabul and Jalalabad large segments of population are panickied.
     When the city of Kunduz fell to the mujaheddin late August, the Russians had to send planes from the Soviet Union to expel the freedom fighters and return that northern industrial city to its Kabul puppets. But for how long Moscow is going to continue such flagrant violation of the very agreement which itself is revering? The same trend seemed* to be occuring in the case of a number city the fall of which had became eminent, of other cities already evacuated by the Russians.
     The situation in Kabul also became very acute. There was hardly a day that the city did not witness rockets being fired, at times in randon, killing several people each time. Many Kabulis accused the Russians for these random firings aimed a dicrediting the mujaheddin. By late August and early September it seemed as though the earlier attacks might have indeed have carried out by the Russians. For the mujaheddin attacks took place mainly on important military targets such the Kabul Airport which witnessed some of the worst rocket attacks of the nine year old.
     The city of Jalalabad, particularly the airport, also was subjected to fierce mujaheddin attacks. But the mujaheddin main concern was the civilian population. They even issued warning to the people to leave the city and new exodus of people were reported to be coming out of Jalalabad.
     The monitoring service of the CCAR, based on major radio stations broadcasting in Afghan languages and major Pakistani newspapers, showed that fighting during the past three month was most intense and widespread in Kabul city and the whole Kabul province, registering. some 175 news items. Then was Kandahar with 119 news items and (3) Nangarhar ( 94 items); (4) Paktia ( 51*items), (5) Kunduz (40 items); (6) Baghlan (28 items); (7) Kunar (28 items); (8) Parwan (27 items); (9)
Logar (21 items); (10) Zabul (10 items).
     Of course, except Uruzgan, fighting was reported in all Afghan provinces but the following is an indication of major engagement in 10 province from where the largest number of news were reported.
KABULs Several rocket attacks on various places of the city, particularly on Kabul airport, destruction of a number of aircraft including damages to seven Soviet jet planes of SU-25 type equipped with modem technology.
                                                               13
    July-September, 1988                    AFGHAN .JEHAD                      Vol.2f  No.l
 KANDAHAR: Occupation of Kandahar silo, attacks on the Kandahar airport, destruction of planes, conquering a military center at 10km in the west of Kandahar, Capture of Spin Boldak near Pakistan,
 NANGARHAR: Rocket attacks on Jalalabad city, explosion of a bomb entailing more than 100 casualties,
 PAKTIA: Shooting down a large number of aircraft particularly transport planes in Khost and rocket fires on Gardez,
 BAGHLAN: Blowing up arms and ammunition dump in Kilagai at a main Soviet base killing 598 troops and injuring 284 others, eight helicopters demolished, forty thousand tons of food stuff, 113 tanks and 137 trucks were demolished,
 KUNDUZ: Capturing of Kunduz city by the mujaheddin and its reoccupation by the Kabul regime with the support of Soviet air force flying from.Russia,
 LOGAR: Capturing of Mohammad Agha, Khoshi and Charkh sub divisions by the mujaheddin,
 PARMAN: Explosion at the Bagram airport, destruction of planes and capturing Farza sub division,
 ZABUL: Capturing Kalat, the center of that province by the mujaheddin and its reoccupation by the communists, capturing Shah Joey sub division by the mujaheddin.
 KUNAR; Capturing of military communist cantonement in Shaigal.
      The death of President Ziaul Haq in Pakistan ushered in a revival of frequent Kabul regime violations of Pakistan’s airspace. The Pakistanis shot down two communist planes one being piloted by a Russian, But the Kabul planes twice bombed areas deep inside Pakistan, Islamabad said. While Kabul accused.Pakistan violating the Geneva accords, for the Islamic Republic, the violations of its airspace provided an excellent opportunity to tell the world how sincere the other side was in normalizing the situation. However, analysts interpreted this new wave of air raids nothing but a manifestation of sheer communist desparation or, at most, aimed at intimidating Pakistan,
                                                       14
July-September, 1968             AIGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2,  No.l
             CENTERS, SIB DIVISIONS AND DISTRICTS CONQUERED
                            BY THE MUJAHEDDIN:
                            JU LY-SEPTEMB HR, 1988.
 EDITOR’S NOTE: Following is the list of provincial capitals, sub divisions and districts which have been conquered July-September, I988, by the mujaheddin. Centers conquered earlier were listed in the Afghan Jehad April-June I988. The list is based on radio reports broadcasting in Afghan languages and Pakistani newspapers.
 Badakshan:
 Badghis:
 Balkh:
 Bamian:
 Ghazni:
 Helmand:
 Kabul:
 Kandahar: Kunduz:
 Logar:
 Nangarhar: Nimroz: Paktia: Paktika: Parwan: Samangan: Takhar: Uruzgan: Wardak: Zabul:
Sub division: Keshem.
Sub divisions: Qades and jawand.
Sub divisions: Sholgarah and Balkh.
Provincial headquarters: Bamian city.
Provincial headquarters: Shahr-e-Kuhna, Ghazni; Sub division: Moqor, District :Ramak.
Sub divisions: Gereshk, Kajaki and its Electric Dam, Hazar Juft.
Sub divisions: Guldarra, Mir Bacha Kot, Qara Bagh, Paghman, Sarai-Khwaja,
Villages: Farzah, Sanjedarah, Estalef.
Sub division: Spin Boldak.
Sub divisions: Khanabad, Imam Saheb, Archee, Chardara; Districts: Sher Khan Port and Ali Abad.
Sub divisions: Mohammad Agha, Kulangar, Khoshi,Azrah, Baraki Barak, Charkh Logar, Altomore.
Districts: Lalpur and Durbaba.
Sub divisions: Kang and Khashroad.
Sub divisions: Sayyed Karam and Zurmat; District: Zarmak.
Provincial headquarters: Sharan .
Sub division: Panjshir.
Sub division: Darra-e-Suf.
Provincial headquarters: Taluqan city} Sub division: Yangi Qala District: Darqad. The mujaheddin controlled all the province except Tarinkot.
Provincial headquarters: Maidan Shahr and all the sub divisions.
Sub divisions: Shahr-e-Safa and Shah Joey.
15
July-September, 1988 fifGWIN J[HAO           Vol.2
 o
 53
 July-Sept ember, 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
        comparison of war casualties AprU-Jme 1988 and July—September 1988*
              Particulars April-June July-3ept em¬ V          
                                     ber           difference 
 1 Aircraft shot down     63         189              +126    
 2 Tanks and Vehicles     1573       1234          -339       
   destroyed                                                  
   Security posts captu¬                                      
 3 red by the mujaheddin  291        593           +302       
 4   Soviet troops killed 294        877           +583       
 5 Soviet troops injured  166        311           +145       
   Kabul troops and       7413       5249          -2164      
 6 militiaman killed                                          
 7 Kabul troops and mili¬ 1712       1008          -704       
   tiamen injured                                             
 8 Number of Kabul troops 4491       4526          +2035      
   Joining the mujaheddin                                     
 9 Nell known communists  9          6             -3         
   killed.                                                    
10 Arras captured by the  3593       10322         +6729      
   mujaheddin                                                 
11 Mujaheddin martyred    813        1277          +464       
12 Mujaheddin injured     634        792           +158       
13 Civilians martyred     843        2214          +1366      
14 Civilians injured      211        381           +170       
15 Villages destroyed     226        915           +68T       
16 Based eliminated by    •          1             +1         
   the communists                                             
17 Arms captured          3          1254          +1251      
18  Kabul regime captures 182        4308          +4126      
17
  July-Septembert 1988              AFGHAN J[HAQ Vol.2f No.l
Martyr Ziaul Hag and Afghanistan
   The Nan Who Stood Fast

    EDITOR’S NOTE: As a tribute to late President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan, the following is a chronological account of his remarks about Afghanistan since I985, The accounts are taken from the archives of the CGAR which started collecting Pakistani newspaper items on the Afghan issue since the beginning of 19&5.                     »
 *
 e<
 o«
 01
 * Strongly reaffirmed his commitment, in the Senate, for continuation of Pakistan’s support to the Afghan freedom fighters on his arrival from Moscow after attending the funeral of Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko. This was in response to Gorbachev’s remarks that Soviet-Pakistan ties would be affected "most negatively" if Pakistan did not abstain from supporting Afghan mujaheddin (National Review} April 19, I985),
 *  The Pakistan government wil’l not acknowledge and recognize the puppet regime in Kabul which is responsible for deliberate devastation of itsown country and uprooting and killing of millions of its people.
 *  Pakistan is supporting Afghan Muslim refugees on humanitarian grounds. About 20 to 30 thousand refugees are entering into Pakistan every month and we had not laid "any ceiling to the number".
 *  The Afghanistan issue is a global issue, and in fact it is of the entire humanity.
 *  We are giving humanitarian help to Afghan refugees who had been forced to leave their homes. If
 this was a mistake we are prepared to repeat it. (After visiting sites in Chitral bombed by Kabul planes; Nawa-e-WaqtjJune 9, 1985).
 *  Our restraint for not responding to the naked airspace violation by the Afghan regime’s aircraft is to provide a congenial atmosphere for peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue, as we think that this is the only course. The sacrifice of few people for this sublime and great cause is not too much. (After visiting sites in Chitral bombed by Kabul planes; Nawa-e-Waqt, June 9, 1985)
 *  The Afghan issue is not a Pakistan or regional issue but it is a global issue which will never be settled by force and militarily. It will be solved only through negotiations under the auspices of United Nations. Zia hoped a day will come soon when it will be amicably settled. We want immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops and return of refugees to their homes honorably.(interview with Korean television; Jang, August 21, 1985).
 *  He considers the freedom struggle of Afghanistan as Pakistan's own, because if it was Afghanis-
                                           18
     July-September, 1988           . AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2t No.l
   tan facing this situation today it might be Pakistani turn tomorrow (addressing Pakistanis in Jeddah; Dawn, September 15» 1985).
   *  Pakistan is getting moral and material assistance from Islamic countries and China without which it was difficult for Pakistan to continue its support to Afghans (Nawa-e-Waqt September 16,
   1935).
', * We will never have direct talks with Karmal government (Nawa-e-Waqt, September 16, 1985).
   *  We will not bargain on our principled stand on Afghan issue. Our stand is a matter of life and death for us,(interview with a Saudi daily at Jeddah; Nawa-e-Waqt September 17, 1985).
   *  Ultimately the success will kiss the feet of Afghan freedom fighters. It is our religious and moral duty to support the Afghan cause. This is an historical fact that no foreign power could subdue Afghanistan and, Inshallah, the mujaheddin will maintain the status quo and succeed, (At Naser Bagh Afghan refugee Camp, while accompanying former US President Richard Nixon; Nawa-e-Waqt September IS, I9S5).
   *  Withdrawal of Soviet forces (from Afghanistan) will be a miracle of 20th century. This (will be) an historical miracle. There is no difference in the policies of imperialist;Russia and communist Russia. Will this world be able to see this miracle (Nawa-e-Waqt interview to a Saudi daily at Jeddahs September 26, 1985).
   *  Pakistan is proud of the cooperation and assistance extended by the tribal peoples in sharing to shoulder the greatest responsibility of the government i.e. providing shelter to the homeless Afghan peoples on humanitarian grounds (Talking in his Chamber at National Assembly with a tribal delegation; Nawa-e-Waqt, October 13, 1985).
   *  He said that the Soviet and Karmal forces have intensified their operations against Afghan mujaheddin. They are searching each and every comer of Afghanistan for genocide of Afghan Muslims (interview with the Far East Economic Review; Jang, October 22, 1985),
   *  Russia can and will never win the war of Afghanistan (Nawa-e-Waqt, October 23, 1985).
   *  Pakistan-Soviet relations have been affected due to Afghan crisis; otherwise there was no any direct issue between these two neighboring countries (interview with Al-Watan newspaper, Oman; Nawa-e-Waqt, November 17, 1985).
     *  Pakistan is ready to face any possible attack from Karmal and Soviet forces (radio address in Dacca, Bangladesh; Nawa-e-Waqt, December 10, 1985).
     * He disapproved continuation of Babrak Karmal*s regime in Afghanistan as a condition for the withdrawal of occupying forces from that country and said "it should be left to the people of Afghanistan to decide there own future" (interview with Iranian journalists; Muslim, January 13, 1986).
     *  Pakistan would continue giving shelter to more than 3 million Afghan refugees till the time conditions conducive to their safe return to their motherland "with honor and dignity" were ensured ... In Baluchistan and the NWFP the Ansars and Muhajirs were having enviable relationship based on Islamic faith and brotherhood. Our faith is that unless a muslim helps a coreligionist, his iman (faith) remained incomplete and unfirm. Hence it was no ihsan (favor) if Afghan refugees were treated in accordance with this basic principles of Islamic faith, (addressing local bodies in Baluchistan; Pakistan Times,February 24, 1986).
                                                    19
   *  Without the Russian cooperation we cannot solv§ the Afghan issue (Special interview with Jang; Jang| March 19 f 1966)*
   *  Muslims never bargain on principles and convictions. This statement was in reply to a question that Russian Ambassador had said if Pakistan changed its policy on Afghanistan, Russia will purchase one million shirts from Pakistan. If Russia purchases 10 million shirts, I will kick off that deal at the cost of our principled stand on Afghanistan (in dinner with Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry; Karachi; Nawa-e-Waqt; June 26, 1986).
   *  We welcome the token withdrawal announcement but only complete withdrawal, (of Soviet troops) will be helpful for peace and normalize the situation. The presence of forces and troops of a Super power in our neighbourhood is a threat to our country and regional peace. The time frame for withdrawal of Russian troops should be reduced to a minimum (Hararay non-aligned summit conference; Nawa-e-Waqt; September 5» 1986)•
   *  The Afghan people have undergone a lot of sacrifices and hardships and yet they will have to face more. This nation has the courage and will for sacrifice and Inshallah will ultimately be able to live as a living nation. The nation which is ready for its defense never depends and waits for any help from others, (while accompanying former US President Jimmy Carter; Nasir Bagh Tentage Camp; Nawa-e-Waqt; November 4, 1986).
   * We want a kind of solution which should be based on the following these four points; (i) withdrawal of Russian troops; (ii) return of three million refugees with honour and dignity to their homeland; (iii) permission to Afghan peoples to solve their own problems; and (iv) independence, prosperity and non-aligned status of Afghanistan should be honored and restored. We know Russia wants to go back but it will not be willing to accept an Afghanistan hostile to Russia. Though America can tolerate Cuba but Russia will not tolerate an hostile Afghanistan (interview with British TV; Jang; December 24, 1986).
   *  There should be collective efforts and a unanimous decision for solving (the Afghan) problem by countries participating in the 5th Islamic summit conference. We are hopeful that this issue will be solved this year or the next year, I am surprised, if the Kabul government is sincere about its offer for ceasefire then what is the hinderance for withdrawal of Russian troops. The freedom fighters have the right to turn down the ceasefire offer by the Afghan puppet government in Kabul (interview with Al-Anba; Kuwait News. Agency; Nawa-e-Waqt January 26, 1987)*
   * Solution of the Afghan issue is not less than a miracle and we hope this miracle will happen this year (interview with a Turkish newspaper Daily News, Ankara, Jang, January 29, 1987).
   *  He debunked the propaganda that the Afghan refugees were in any way linked or involved in the tragic happenings in Karachi and other parts of Pakistan ... Every Afghan refugee is working hard to earn rizq-e-hilal. If one talked to anyone of them he would find ah appeal in his eyes ”1 want to go back home please help me". (Sialkot, All Pakistan Seerat Conference; Jinnah Islamia College, Dawn; February 18, 1987).
   *  The allegation that Afghan refugees are responsible for the series of bomb blasts and acts of sabotage in various parts of Pakistan is an abnoxious effort to malign them, to create a situation of mistrust among the peoples of Pakistan to such an extent that they should not give such honor and respect which they are presently according to refugees. Furthermore with these acts, they want to pressurize the government of Pakistan to change its principled stand. But they are mis-
                                              20
     July-September9 1988                     A[GHAN J[HAQ                        Vq1«2»  No.l
   taken.Pakistan vri.ll never change its just stand (in joint session of the Parliament Jang; April 2,
   1987).
   *  Pakistan will not accept pressure by terrorism through air bombing on its citizens and acts of sabotage. Of course this will not help in solving the Afghan problem as it needs a political solu-ion.The Afghan peaple are fighting against the biggest power of the sorld and simultaneously become the victims of bombardment by Soviet and Kabul communist forces. The freedom loving Afghan peoples will not stay a single day after they got their homeland free from foreign troops. I request my
   refugees brothers to take and treat this country - - Pakistan----as their home and watch any black
   sheep (in ajoint Session of Parliament;. Nawa-e-Waqt; April 20, 1987).
   *  Russian apprehension that the wave of Islamic revivalism may spread to the central Asian Islamic states in Russia was the reasons for its aggression and invasion of Afghanistan. If Russia. will pull out its troops from Afghanistan it will be a miracle of 20th century. Russia, in fact, is willing to go back from Afghanistan and we do agree with the statement of Gorbachev that Russia wants to pull out its troops from Afghanistan. The real problem is whether Russia would be willing to accept a non-aligned Afghanistan or was not the pre-invasion Afghanistan a pro-Moscow Afghanistan? (interview with an American Television! Jangj June 17, 1987).
   *  A small ray of hope was perceived recently in our search for a solution of this problem with some signs that the great power which had entertained the illusion of consplidating its military solution, (has realized that its)the"bleeding wound",as they put it,could only be healed through negotiations. The day will not far off when an honorable political solution would be found (in banquet hosted in honor of visiting Chinese Premier at Aiwan-e-Sadar Zhao Ziyang Dawn, June 24,1987.
   * Russia will not pullout its troops from Afghanistan unless it has 100 percent guarantee that the government in Kabul will safeguard its interest in Afghanistan (interview with an American Television in Pakistan; Jang; June 28, 1987).
   *  Pakistan was continuing its efforts for peace in Afghanistan both "through bilateral contacts with the Soviet Union and proximity talks with the Kabul authorities" under the auspices of the UN Secretary General's special representative.The valiant people of Afghanistan continue to resist and oppose foreign intervention .They have proved beyond any doubt "that the use of brutal forces and repression cannot and will not subdue strong urge of self-respecting nation to be free ..." (banquet given in his honor by President Kenan Everan of Turkey at Ankara; Dawn October 7» 1987).
   *  Russia should not be invited for any role in the affairs of southern and southeastern Asia unless it gives up the policy of high handedness and expansionism .The UN and non-aligned movement countries can exert pressure on Soviet Russia for immediate vacation of Afghanistan. I also request Thai Prime Minister who is going to pay a visit to Moscow next year to stress upon Russian leadership to change its policy on Afghanistan (interview with Thai newspaper "The Nation" Bangkok: Jang; October 24, I987).
   *  He reiterated his government's resolve that no compromise would be made on the issue of Afghanistan and Pakistan would stick to its principled stand at all costs. "The Afghan mujaheddin were waging jehad not only for the liberation of their homeland from foreign domination but also fighting for the cause of Pakistan and the entire Muslim world". Although Pakistan is not directly involved in the jehad but it (Pakistan) could provide succour and relief to more than three million uprooted Afghan brethren-in-faith. (D.I. Khan, speech at a reception given by Dr. Khalid Reza
                                               21
JuLy-September, 1988         lt[|SilA!i JEHAD                   Vol.2f No.l
 Zakori, former Provincial Minister} Pakistan Times} November 17> 1987)*
 *  Russia which invaded Afghanistan eight years ago have not been able to defeat the valiant Afghans who were fighting for Islam and for their freedom* Having failed to achieve any success in Afghanistan the Russians were trying to destablize Pakistan through bomb blasts .These subversive activities were being carried out by some mis-guided Pakistanis and not by the innocent Afghan refugees, Bomb blasts had made some peoples in Pakistan to believe that Pakistan*s policy on Afghanistan was wrong and that Pakistan should abandon it and have direct talks with the puppet regime in Afghanistan* Pakistan was pursuing a correct policy and had taken a principled stand on Afghanistan which had the overwhelming support of the world community. This stand has been endorsed by 123 members of the UN voting on Pakistani resolution in the UN General Assembly recently ... If Russia succeeded in sowing germs of socialism in Afghanistan it would be a very dangerous situation (in a tribal jirga at the headquarters of South Waziristan, Muslim,. November 18, 1987)*
 *  Pakistanis will unitedly frustrate any attempt being made by Soviet-Kabul authorities to create misunderstanding about the presence of Afghan refugees. Tribesmen have played a vital role in keeping affectionate relationship between ansars and muhajreen.Eight years have passed and a little
 more time will be required for the realization of the objective - - solution of the Afghan problem.The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan to check the Islamic renaissance in Pakistan and advent of Islamic revolution in Iran (Vans ;The Muslim, November 18, 1987)#
 *  Russia had invaded Afghanistan in order to check Islamic wave, which it is feeling, will in the long run affect the geo-political status of Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara, Azarbaijan and
 Uzbekistan Muslim states which at one time were playing a role of spring of knowledge and were used to be Islamic learning centers for Muslims all over the world,and now usurped by Russia.
 Russia is adopting the policy of expansionism since the time of Czars, If Russia become successful in sowing the germs of socialism in Afghanistan this will be harmful for Pakistan and Afghanistan, (addressing tribes at Razmak near Waziristan} Jang, November 18, 1987)*
  *  The Soviet Union had been made to realize that the people of Afghanistan who were staunch Muslims and fierce freedom fighters would not permit the present communist system to perpetuate itself through the puppet Kabul regime. The Soviet Union had expressed willingness so often to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan (but) wanted the socialistic system in Afghanistan gain ground and be permanently imposed on the people. This was not possible because the Afghans, who were committed Muslims, would never allow this (addressing a jirga of tribal chiefs of Khyber Agency at Landi Kotal} Muslim, November 19, 1987).
 *  Pakistan is convinced of the sincerity of Moscow* s offer to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan and was prepared to offer them full cooperation to achieve this. It seems that the Soviets are serious in their offer to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan but they fear this would result in a massacre of their supporters there. Soviet pullout from Afghanistan should take place as soon as possible and be coupled with the creation of a caretaker government in Kabul under the
  control of UN peacekeeping force, (remarked to an Austrian journalist in Islamabad} Pakistan Times November 22, 1987).
  * He proposed that the adhoc government should include l/3rd representation from Afghan resistance movement, l/3rd from Afghan refugees and the remaining l/3rd from the present communist regime
                                          22
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 Something would have to be-given to those who are present there. However, it would be very difficult to bring together the hostile elements in Afghanistan. Russians at present have been piling everything around Najibullah but we have explicitly told them that this would not work and the Afghan peoples will also not accept to live under the rule of a communist regime (Sunday Telegraph, Broadcast by the BBC} Pakistan Time December 1, 1987).
 *   We will, Inshallah, celebrate independence of Afghanistan next year in this place. May Allah help Afghan brothers and sisters in an inauguration ceremony of Exhibition on Photographs and Painting on heroic struggle of Afghan peoples and atrocities committed by Soviet forces (Lahore, Muslim} December 28, 1987).
 *   The fate of the Afghan people should be allowed to be determined by the peoples of Afghanistan in accordance with their wishes'and aspirations and the original identity and Islamic character of their country should be restored. According to the Afghan resistance forces, their idea behind jehad in Afghanistan is ... to have a climate conducive to the enforcement of complete Islamic order in Afghanistan. The people of Afghanistan have now made it clear even to the occupiers that no amount of forces could deter them from deciding their own fate ... The people of Pakistan considered expression of solidarity with Afghans as sacred act. (at a dinner hosted by him for the delegates attending the Afghan conference jointly sponsored by Tehrik-i-Istekam-i-Pakistan and Rabita-al-Alam al Islamij in Awain-e-Saddarj Islamabad} Pakistan Times, December 29, 1937)*
 *   The Afghan peoples have spent 8 years on Pakistani soil with patience and tolerance and had not created problems for the hosts brethem. World renowned sociologist are surprised over the examplary behaviour shown by an uprooted population. Bomb blasts at Islamabad and elsewhere in Pakistan are the part of international conspiracy and its causes are many. Those who have not been able to win the battle in Afghanistan wanted to see the results through other means (Multan, press conference! Muslim} December 30, 1937)*
 *   Pakistan initiated the Geneva talks because it believed in the political solution of the issue and hoped for the success of these talks...Even if the Soviet Union deploy more than double the army presently in operation in Afghanistan they cannot guarantee the safety and security inside Afghanistan. The Soviet Union is very much conscious of the prestige of the Red Army and if the Red Army is defeated in Afghanistan they do not have a place to hide their face. So they want to have a face saving device to withdraw from Afghanistan. The Soviet Union will not want a fundamentalists government in Afghanistan. Politically and geo-politically the stability of the region was disturbed by the Soviet movement in Afghanistan as they are sitting at the edge of the Indian Ocean and thus will have the access to the warm waters. Soviets will not withdraw from Wakhan sector which was granted to them by Babrak Karmal on long lease and is occupied by their mechanised troops and is a missile site in this area (interview with Brend de Bruin, the Netherland, Radio journalist} Pakistan Time, January 11, 1983.
 .* Nothing could be achieved without sacrifice for a noble cause and the death toll from bomb blasts in the country is a small sacrifice as compared to the huge loss of human lives in Afghanistan about 1.2 million. The blasts are in fact part of the nefarious designs aimed at creating a wedge between the peoples of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Afghan refugees, in turn* for the defense of Pakistan, have been given temporary shelter, which is really a very small sacrifice as compared to their sacrifice and,being Muslims,it is obligatory for Pakistanis to play the role of ansars
23
   July-September, 198$                  . AFGHAN JEHAD                      Vol.2, No.l
 at least. He asked the gathering to go and see for themselves the distress and ragged families of Afghan mujaheddin, sisters and mothers of martyrs family heads in refugee camps who are in high spirits despite all tribulations. They will ask nothing from you except dua (prayer) for the noble cause they have been fighting for, (Lahore, Al-Hamra Art Center, addressing 1st International Women Seerat Conference; Pakistan Times, February 5» 1988)*
 *   Since Afghanistan is an integral part of the Muslim ummah, it is the moral and religious duty of Pakistan to come to their aid when Afghan brethren are in trouble. If we cannot help a neighboring Muslim country we have no right to describe ourselves as Muslim, This impression is incorrect that large number of Afghan refugees had set up their business and purchasing property in Pakistan and will not go back, because they are not living a prosperous life in camps and their love to their homeland is evident that they prefer to burry their dead in the soil of Afghanistan therefore, 99*9 percent refugees will return to their homeland. It is not the concern of Pakistan and USA or the Soviet Union as to what sort of government should be formed in Afghanistan, In fact the Afghans alone should decide this (talking to newsmen in Lahore; Pakistan Times; February 26, 1988),
 *   By virtue of struggle by the Afghan mujaheddin, Pakistan is being safeguarded from many treats, therefore we cannot neglect the interest of Afghan peoples in the Geneva accord, (Special meeting of the Federal Cabinet; Islamabad Nawa-e-Waqt February 28, 1988),
 *   The withdrawal of Soviet troops should be followed by creation of suitable conditions allowing 3 million refugees to return to their home in safety and honor (addressed at the banquet in honor of Gambian President A1 Haj Sir Dewda Kaira Jawar; Muslim, March 22, 1988),
 *   If the mujaheddin face a defeat today, the next day there will be a turn of Pakistan as they are fighting the battle of our freedom. They are repeating the glorious heroic deeds of Khalid Bin Waleed, Tariq Bin Ziyad and Mohammad Bin Qasim. We should pray that God Almighty may bless them with success. The Afghan peoples are not tired inspite of fighting for eight years but we have being sitting in the air conditioned rooms are tired here. The struggle of A'fghan freedom fighters has now been recognized in the palaces of the super powers. Pakistan should learn a lesson from the Afghan jehad ,,, Our religious leaders, scholars, writers, poets and journalists should highlight and inculcate the glorous struggle of Afghan mujaheddin in the armed forces of Pakistan and the nation as Nasim Hejazi has done in his writings (book launching ceremony Islamabad; Jang, March 28, 1988).
 *   From Pakistan point of view, the Afghan issue has three most fundamental aspects the first and the foremost is the withdrawal of Soviet troops.This has been achieved by the ••• signing of the Geneva accord. The other two are return of refugees and formation of representative government in Afghanistan, Peaceful conditions in Afghanistan are not possible as far as there is friction between the people and the government (and) return of refugees will (also) be not possible.The only way for removing the friction is that there should be a representative government in Afghanistan which has the confidence of the- People*s Daily, of China; Pakistan Times, May 30, 1988).
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin are not signatores to the accord and are not bound by it. By imposing negative symmetry, Russia has accepted the fact of continuing resistance by mujaheddin in Afghanistan. Pakistan can have no control over fighting inside Afghanistan. The Soviet Union has decided to,leave practically all their equipment with (the) Kabul (regime). The Soviet Union has started withdrawing physically but mentally they want to stay in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union has, through
                                                   24
July—September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 the mouth of Rajiv Gandhi, raised the slogan that they cannot accept a fundamentalist regime in Kabul. Russia wants to have somebody with Indian help who could head the Afghan government and play
                           "ame r°le aS was played before 1979 (interview with the NPT editors; Pakistan Time, August 13, 1988^# f
                                                       25
July-September, 1988           AFGHAN J[HAD                 Vol.2f No.l
   MAJOR documents:
0 NEW IlIAM RESOLUTION FOR NOMINATION OF MEMBERS TO IUAM COUNCIL.
#  OBJECTIVES OF THE IUAM INTERIM GOVERNMENT (SUMMARY).
#  RESOLUTION OF THE SUPERVISORY COUNCIL OF THE NORTH AND NORTH-EASTERN PROVINCES (JAMIAT-E-ISLAMl).
#UN PROGRAM FOR REHABILITATION IN AFGHANISTAN.
#ERMACQRA»S REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN AFGHANISTAN.
                                             -26
July-September, 1988'
Vol.2, No.l
 IUAM Leaders Issue New Directives for
 Council Membership
                                                                             in
                    IN THE NAME OF GOD, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL,
    The Supreme Council of the alliance (IUAM), under the chairmanship of esteemed Sayed Ahmad

          EDITOR1 S NOTE: The following is the text of the resolution adopted by the IUAM Supreme Council 27 August, 1988, about what the council calls elections.

Gailani, convened 27 August, I988, in the headquarters of the alliance and adopted the following decisions about elections:
    (1)      Inside Afghanistan in those electoral regions now under the mujaheddin control, elections ought to be held by adopting the following procedures:
    (a)  A person, already accepted by a public consensus in the region can be spnt as a represen-tative for the alliance council,
    j(b) Councils elected by the majority of the people, can send one of their representatives to the alliance council,
    (c)  A person agreed upon by the commanders, ulema and dignitories can be sent to the alliance council,
    (d)  holding polls under the supervision of special teams and electing a person to represent the region in the alliance council,
    (2)  In Afghanistan where an electoral district is not under mujaheddin control, for electing
a deputy for the alliance council, the IUAM Supreme Council will issue a list of candidates comprized of good people and put these names for voting by the refugees of the related province. The refugees of that province will vote for the candidates. Those who receive proportionately the higher votes, will be brought into the alliance council,
    (3)      Authoritative teams will be appointed for the implementation of the above mentioned two articles.
                                                      27
JuLy-September, 1988 AfGHAN JEHAD                 Vol.2,  No.l
Interum IUAM government Issues Policy Statement,
         Summarized
     UU EDITOR’S NOTE: The following is the text of "objectives and duties of the mujahed-
     JCT                                                                                            !' *
     44- din interim government* The text has appeared in the first issue of this govern-           |jJ!
     IIII                                                                                             Jr
     Sments newspaper "Islamic Government"- - in Pashtu. In translating it in English, Jp': the Afghan Jehad had to make a number of changes in the diction of the text.
      The objective of heavy and grave sacrifices rendered by the brave mujahed nation of Afghanistan during these 10 years have been to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan and to enable the Muslims to worship God Almighty in an atmosphere free from the cluthes of infidelity and communism* The formation of (mujaheddin) organizations is also meant for the accomplishment of the same sacred objective so have been the very resistance as well as migration.
      Thanks God, that step, were taken for the achievement of this lofty goal# The seven resistance organizations proclaimed some time ago the interim government of the mujaheddin. The head of the interim government Engineer Ahmad Shah appointed a number of cabinet members. Charter of the transitional state and government was approved and published. Members of the administrative boards of some Ministries were appointed and approved and work is progressing on some others#
                                i                                        «
      The Afghanistan Muslim nation, whether they are the valorous mujaheddin sitting in the trenches of truth, or they are living in the refugee camps, Muslim Afghans living in far away countries or the toiling people living inside Afghanistan, all have supported this government and are anxiously awaiting the time that it may function inside Afghanistan and the time will soon reach when the mujaheddin interim government replaces the present Kabul puppet regime.
      The interim government of the mujaheddin has a number of objectives and duties which are briefly summed up as follows:
      1,       To remove differences and misunderstandings among the valorous mujaheddin pious Muslims of different parties all over the country and exert efforts to consolidate unity among them and restore peace and security in provinces, sub divisions and regions which are presently liberated from the domination of the Russians and their mercenaries or they are being liberated.
      2,       After achieving the desired conditions, to exert effective efforts for the repatriation of the refugees to the country, the construction of their devastated homes and to provide them with the essential means and facilities of life and to seek unconditional assistance for the purpose#
      3.       To pave the way for holding general elections as a result of which in accordance with the provisions of the Charter a pure Islamic government is established in Afghanistan which is the sole aspiration of every Afghan and so that only the law and order of God may rule over the servants of God.
28
    July-September, 1988                    AfGHAN JEHAD                       Vol*2f Nb.l
     4.       To form an organized and grand army from the ranks of mujaheddin and to continue resistance until the complete and unconditional withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the establishment of an Islamic government.
     5.       To exert efforts for.the establishment of cordial social relations among different strata and nationalities, the removal of all types of unreasonable religious, racial, linguistic, ethnical, regional and party prejudices and discrimination and evolve a society free from oppression, dishonesty, injustice and vice, where Islamic fraternity, sympathy, cooperation and solidarity would prevail.
     6.       To utilize all its resources to propagate the Islamic invitation, promote moral virtues, provide conditions in the light of Islamic teachings for all people - - men or women - - to achieve their legitimate rights, bring about respectable living conditions and struggle against moral corruption.
     7.       To look after the widows and orphans of the martyrs as dictate to a Muslim ruler by the sacred religion of Islam and to provide facilities and means of life for those who have been rendered disabled and affected during the resistance so that life may not become bitter and dipressing for them.
     8.       To provide an Islamic syllabus for education and utilize the mass media for the public enlightenment in accordance with Islamic teachings.
     9.       To launch fruitful technical, industrial and agricultural projects for the reconstruction, economic development and progress of the devastated and war-tom Afghanistan in accordance with Islamic economic principles and, as a first step, to make use of the scientific, technical and physical talents of the members of the nation itself and to seek unconditional foreign aid (in the form of grant) for the development of the economy of the country.
    10.  To invite all the Muslim Afghans living abroad - - and desirous to offer help----to take
active party in the reconstruction of their country by putting into service their scientific and technical experiences.
    11.      The interim government of the mujaheddin manifests the entire Afghan nation and seeks to establish a free, united and independent Afghanistan free from linguistic, ethnical, religious and party prejudices.
    12.      To protect the territorial integrity and independence of the country and to establish non-aligned Afghanistan with military pacts.
    13.      To adhere strictly to the dictates of the sacred religion of Islam in all national and international relations and commitments.
    14.      To strengthen fraternal relations with the nations of Islamic countries, Islamic parties and governments which support the Afghanistan resistance and to enlighten those Islamic countries who are opposing our resistance and bringing home to them their responsibilities.
    15» To cooperate and support for the freedom of all oppressed Muslims throughout the world-including the liberation of Al-Quds.
    16.      To seek unconditional assistance from all those countries, parties, organizations and individuals who have been supporting our resistance.
                                                          29
^uly-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2f No.l
     17» To refrain from taking part in any gathering detrimental to Islamic cause at an international arena and to strengthen relations, in accordance with Islamic requirements, with those non-Islamic countries which support our resistance taking into consi eration their stand vis a vis the disputes of the Islamic nations.
     NOTE: Matters contained in these 17 articles do not cover the entire objectives and duties that are to be undertaken by the Afghan mujaheddin interim government but they are a summary of the kind of essential and significant matters to which this government plains to give priority.
30
  July-September, 1988 AFGHAN JEHAD      Vol.2, No.l
Jamiat Commanders and Current Topics
     "And fight them on until there is no more tumult or oppression, and there prevail justice and faith in God ..." (The Holy Quran).
     "The age in which we are living is the age of relentless struggle of mankind for bringing to an end slavery and oppression and attaining freedom and for the realization of justice in human societies and, in this struggle, the school of Islam has been playing the most effective role. Following this sacred path the heroic and Muslim nation of Afghanistan also has resorted to a struggle within the framework of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and, with the formation of the selfish Daoud government, the momentum of this struggle strengthened and the sentiments of the youth and intellectuals of this country became stronger. The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan has struggled from the very beginning for achieving the pleasure of Almighty God, and for victory of the truth over false, and for putting an end to materialism and atheism, and uprooting evil and mischief and propagating justice.
     Because the communists, on the basis of a political stealing and staging the shamefull and black coup of the 7 Saur established a communist government in Afghanistan, the Jamiat-e-Islami of Afghanistan mobalized all the Muslim brave nation of Afghanistan against hireling and puppet forces and proclaimed a jehad immediately. Those peopie of the country who were endowed with a perception and sympathy were brought under military and political recruitment and they inflicted their deadly blows on the enemy with great force and intensity and resorted with utmost effectiveness to the repelling and driving out of the hireling forces. At this juncture, the puppet enemy, as a result of successive defeats, was on the verge of dismantling. But the world devouring Russia with the cooperation of Warsaw Pact, resorted to naked and flagrant aggression against the weak nation of Afghanistan with all its might coupled with advanced technological possibilities, and, in order to intimidate our Muslim nation undertook savage massacring of our people. From the sky through its planes and from the land through its most modern tanks and war machinery, it converted Afghanistan into a valley of blood and fire by showering ruthlessly all kinds of bombs and fire arms.
     The war of world arrogance spread all over Afghanistan especially against the genuine, organized and trained mujaheddin bases and, in this way, the armies of Islam were once again faced with a historic trial this time to fight the Russian super beast.
  Northern Provinces Supervisory Council Meets,Text of Resolution
                  IK THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL.
                                                  31
July-September, 1988
Vol.2# No.l
     The Jamiat—e-Islami Afghanistan, taking into consideration the jehad needs, established power^-ful bases and centers in various parts of Afghanistan and the positive and constructive results of these are being observed in the nine western and south western provinces, regions belonging to the supervisory council and other regions of the country.In achieving these victories,the sincerity and untiring efforts and activities of Martyred Brother Zabihullah Khan is especially worth mentioning.
     The Supervisory Council from the time of its foundation, 6 December, 1983, has exerted persis-
                             / * tent efforts, coupled with firm and constructive and party-initiated steps, towards consolidating
 the jehad ranks, bring about a healthy leadership and organization, raising the standard of battles,
 inciting active and theoratical unity among the mujaheddin and other Muslim people of the country,
 and providing military and moral training for the revival and expansion of Islamic traditions. By
 doing so, the Supervisory Council earned, in a short span of time, the confidence of the Afghan
 nation and attention of the people of the world.
     Under present conditions, when Afghanistan is going through a very sensitive and fateful stage and the political and military atmosphere of the country is faced with many ups and downs, on the basis of the instructions issued by the prudent and beloved leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, under the chairmanship of Brother Masood, the first session of the Supervisory Council was held 5 June, 1988, with the participation of the responsible jehad representatives from the provinces of Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Samangan, Bamian, Parwan, Kapi-sa, Laghman, Paghman and north of Kabul. The council, after considering various issues, adopted unanimously the following resolution:
 (1) The Supervisory Council rejects the Geneva agreement which has ignored the blood of the martyrs of the Islamic revolution,the genuineness and independent character of the iehad and Afghan mujaheddin;
 (2)  the Supervisory Council proclaims to the leaders of Russia to refrain from all kinds of support to the hireling Kabul regime during its unconditional withdrawal from Afghanistan so that the blood bath in Afghanistan may end;
 (3)  the Supervisory Council resolutely reject the political manoeuvres, staged jirgahs, farce parliament and coalition government which are part of the communist imperialist program and the Supervisory Council sincerely asks all the friends and mujahed brethren as well, as the entire Muslims of the country to -unite their ranks in a short span of time without taking into consideration political, tribal, regional and organizational differences and prepare the plan for speedy attainment of the freedom, independence and establishment of Islamic government;
 (5)  the Supervisory Council emphasizes that the valorous mujaheddin of the country should continue their offensives against enemy centers until the establishment of Islamic* government;
 (6)  the Supervisory Council demands the achievement of national unity, preservation of territorial, integrity and non-alignment of the Islamic country of Afghanistan and in no form or manner it can tolerate the partition of Afghanistan;
 (7)  the Supervisory Council resolutely asks all the people working in Kabul government organs, who have due to a number of reasons remained so far in the ranks of the enemy, to establish contacts with the Supervisory Council networks and do not refrain from rendening sincere cooperation;
 (Q)members of the Supervisory Council express their support with complete unity for the prudent leadership of Prof .Burhanuddin Rabbani taking into consideration the basios of the principles of baiyat
                                                  32
July-September, 1988
  f
  r.
  1
  i
  j
Vol.2, No.l
 (allegiance)and the Charter of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan which is based on the Shariat of Isla Tslam and demands the continuation of jehad under the wise leadership of its leader. Signed by:
     Ahmad Shah Masud, Administrator General of the Supervisory Council; (2) Teacher Ghulam Moham-mad Arianpur, Administrator, Badakhshan province; (3) Engineer Sayyed Ahmad Roeen provincial administrator, Takhar; (4) Teacher Abdul Haee Haqjoe, provincial administrator, Baghlan; (5) Qari Rahmatullah, provincial administrator, Kunduz; (6) Brother Arshed Farid frovincial administrator, Samangan; (7) Mohammad Ismail Tariq provincial administrator Laghman; (8) Col. Ghulam Jilani administrator, Jabal es Seraj sub division (9) Mawlawi Ghulam Aishan, administrator sector 4# Parwan, Kapisa; (10)'Prosecutor Abdul Mahmud Administrator Panjsher base; (11) Dr. Abdul Rahman Deputy Chief of the Supervisory Council; (12) Dr. Sayyed Hussain Deputy Chief Takhar; (13) Sayyed Najmuddin Waseeq Administrator Jurm, Baharak, Karan and Monjan bases; (14) Mullah Ezzatullah, commander general, Paghman; (15) Mohammad Nader Sabooryar, administrator Roostaq sub division;
 (l6) Mohammad Saleh Administrator, Taghab sub division; (17) Sayyed Ikramuddin administrator Ashk-mash sub division; (18) Judge Islamuddin Hamed Incharge Sector-1 Ashkmash; (19) Haji Inayatullah commander general Parwan province; (20) Teacher Abdullah commander Kohand, Parwan, (21) Dr. Haq-been Deputy Chief of sector-4 Parwan, Kapisa; (22) Dr. Sharafuddin from Kunduz province; (23) Sufi Abdul. Mateen from Kunduz province; (24) Amir Mohammad acting incharge, education and training, Baghlan; (25) Muftish Raham Khuda Khan administrator Andrab sub division; (26) Dr. Mehdi Waseeq, administrator Doshi and Khanjan; (27) Deputy Mohiuddin Sayyad incharge Naishkan front; (28) Mulla Sayyed Amar incharge Daraim front; (29) Mawlawi Abdul Hafeez incharge Argo front; (30) Brother Nasiryar member supervisory council, (31) Sayyed Abdul Karim Hashmi incharge cultural committee of the council (32) Dr, Sadruddin Sehar incharge Health committee of the council; (33) Mohammad Nasir Formol incharge Military committee of the council, (34) Munir Ahmad prosecutor general of the council; (35) Sayyed Yahya incharge Farkha and Rasaj base, (36) Mawlawi Sayyed Mirza incharge Kalfegan; (37) Mawlawi Abdul Ghaffar incharge Anjuman front, (38) Brother Abdul Faheem from Panj-^sher member of the Supervisory Council; (39) Mawlawi Lai Mohammad representative from Ghorband;
 (40) Muslim Saheb incharge Aiskeen Taghab, (41) Judge Ikramuddin representative from Ghirbandha; (42) Teacher Mohammad Ghous representative from Ghorband; (43) Mawlana Mohammad Ayub, representative from Salangha; (44) Commander Mohammad Aman representative from the Salangha, (45) Abdul Aze-em commander Chaar Asiab, Kabul, (46) Brother Azeemi incharge Kohestan front, Kapisa; (47) Brother Shafaq incharge Bagram sub division; (48) Mawlawi Shah Mohammad from center of Takhar; (49) Mulla Abdul Wadood from center of Takhar; (50) Teacher Saifuddin from center of Takhar; (51) Judge Tajuddin from Badakhshan province; (52.) Mawlawi Sayyed Akbar Fanaee, Judge Takhar; (53) Mawlawi Shah Saeed Judge Baghlan; (54) Teacher Hameedullah Deputy chief of Khost and Farang base; (55) Brother Paiman incharge Gandum Qul front; (56) Mr. Taqvi from Takhar province; (57) Dr. Mushahed from Takhar province; (58) Brother Sayyed Asrar from Takhar province; (59) Dr. Abdul Samad from Takhar province; (60) Mawlana Abdul Qadeer from Gulbahar; (61) Sayyed Muzaffar from Parwan; (62) Engineer Abdul Ghaffar from Parwan; (63) Pehlawan Mohammad Ibrahim from Takhar; (64) Judge. Safar Ali from Bamian province; (65) Mullah Abdullah from Bamian province; (66) Sheikh Saheb from Andrab; (67) Engineer Abdul Hannan’ from Takhar, (68) Fazal Ahmad from Badakhshan; (69) Mawlawi Din Mohammad from Samangan; (70)Brother Mir Wais from Chah Aab;(7l)Engineer Mohammad 0mar;(72)Head Teacher Fazal Ahmad Tareq incharge sector-2; Ashmash;(73)Mohammad Yousuf; (74) Mawlana Painda Qutbuddin.
33
  July—September, 1988                       AFGHAN (J[HAfl Vol,2» No.l
UN Apeals for World- Wide Help
    Outline of Resettlement,
           Rehabilitation Program for Afghanistan
   j* EDITOR*S NOTE: The following is the text of a program prepared by the UN for the j £
   |F reconstruction of Afghanistan through.the Co-ordinator for UN Humanitarian Ass- • | -2                                                            i ®
   g| istance to Afghanistan and announced 14 June, 198S, in NY. i |
                                      Foreword by the Secretary-General
     Today, in Afghanistan, the United Nations system faces a historic opportunity at the same time as it carries a heavy responsibility. The international community must mobilize a vast relief and rehabilitation effort in the cause of peace. Here is a nation at the brink; on the one side lies the possibility of further suffering, on the other, the prospect that the urgent commitment of humanitarian assistance can make a decisive contribution to alleviating that suffering*
      The opportunity for the international community depends in large measure on separating the humanitarian mission from the political role of the United Nations. Economic and humanitarian assistance should not be used for the purpose of influencing political developments which can only be the result of the free expression by the Afghan people of their wishes.
      This appeal is. the first outcome of the collaborative effort of the United Nations system, and the appointment of the Co-ordinator is the first expression of this effort. I hope that the whole international community, bilateral donors and the non-governmental sector as well as the United Nations system would abide by the priorities, parameters and guidelines that the Co-ordinator is developing on my behalf.
      It is essential that all Afghans in need, wherever they are located, are reached by a program dedicated to the recovery of self-reliance. That is the challenge. I urge you all to contribute with the utmost generosity to this appeal whose ambition goes beyond the alleviation of suffering to the roots of the United Nations orignal mission. We can once again demonstrate that international solidarity is not a rhetorical and empty expression, but a concrete manifestation of how the community of nations can work together.
                                       34
                                                  Javier Perez de Cuellar Secretary-General
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN J[HAO                  Vol.2, No.l
                                                       INTRODUCTION
                    ••When I remember the mountain tops of my Afghan land,
                        If I must choose between it and the world,
               I shall not hesitate to claim its barren deserts as my own,"
                                                              Ahmad Shah Durrani
 1,   The Afghan people face a crisis of hope. The opportunity is there to begin rebuilding their lives after years of conflict. Yet it is as precarious a path as any of those that cross Afghanis-* . tan’s high mountain ranges. Unless the essential needs of normal life can be quickly met, hope may be just as quickly followed by despair and renewed suffering,
 2,   The Afghan people's opportunity is also the international community’s. Today, we have the Chance to drive in the wedge that will support their future. The international community, not just the United Nations but all the donors, governmental and non-governmental agencies alike, should join in facilitating the Afghans’ journey to dignity, peace and honor,
 3,  We can succeed in this bold mission, however, only if we respect its humanitarian character.
 The Secretary-General has clearly distinguished this co-ordinated humanitarian effort from his political good offices. The international community must establish the humanitarian framework within
 which it can operate. The co-ordinated program will seek to reach all Afghans in need,
 wherever they may be located. It must also assist them to come home when they really choose to do so.
 4,   The co-ordinated program of the United Nations system is the result of a series of collaborative undertakings involving the different agencies and programmes of the United Nations system. This has involved an inter-agency meeting in New York on 28 and 29 April 1988, followed by extensive technical consultations and the pooling of information under the direction of the Co-ordinator including an informal intern-agency meeting on 23 May at Geneva, In the month since his appointment on 11 May 1988, the Co-ordinator has visited the executive heads of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the World Food Program (WFP) and the World Health Organization (WHO), in New York, Geneva and Rome, He also had consultations with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the League of Red Cross (ICRC) and the League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IRCS), He led a mission to the region at the end of May and had extensive discussions with'the Governments of Afghanistan, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan,
 5,   He was accompanied on this mission by the Administrator of UNDP, as well as representatives of FAO,the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), UNHCR, UNICEF,
 WFP, WHO and IRCS, Following his return and that of a supporting team, a further round of consultations was held at Geneva to finalize the details of the present appeal,
 6,   The appeal has been prepared with such urgency because, while the situation in Afghanistan may not conform to the classic concept of emergencies, this is precisely the moment when a decisive humanitarian intervention by the international community can make the difference. It reflects a coordinated effort of the United Nations system while paying due regard to the role of UNHCR relating to the voluntary repatriation of refugees under the relevant bilateral agreement of the Geneva Accords, It seeks to ensure that the United Nations responds in a concerted manner, so as to maximize the
                                                   35
July-Septemberf 1988             AfGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2t No.l
 impact of assistance programmes.
 7* Here is a country whose people have suffered death and desolation. Few Afghan families have been unaffected. In addition to the many who died on the battlefield, large numbers have become victims of widespread internal disruption. Countless thousands have been disabled for life. Everywhere there are widows and orphans.
 8. Millions of Afghans, men, women and children, have left their homes and become refugees. The Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran reports 2.4 million refugees and that of Pakistan a total of 3.1 million refugees. Several million are thought to have been displaced within the frontiers of Afghanistan. There are hundreds of thousands still bearing the injuries of war. The traditional patterns of population distribution have been dramatically altered, putting extraordinary pressure on the fragile infrastructures and slender food resources of many regions of the country.
 9* In addition to its human losses, Afghanistan has also suffered extensive damage to all sectors of its economy. The precise dimensions of the tragedy remain to be ascertained. What is offered in this appeal is no more than the first outlines of a picture that must be completed in the coming months.
 10.  Today there is a strong chance that peace might be restored to Afghanistan. A basic framework for a gradual return to peaceful conditions is already in place. But peace is still but a fragile sapling in Afghanistan, threatened by the many storms on the horizon. Peace needs to be nurtured and protected.
 11.  That is primarily a task for the Afghan people themselves but they need international support. The return of peace to Afghanistan requires the implementation of major relief and rehabilitation projects capable of helping to revive the nation's economy and to ensure confidence in its future.
 The Afghans, are proud, hardworking and industrious people who value self-reliance and enterprise.
 The task at hand is to help them to help themselves. What is needed is a grass-roots, people-oriented effort.
 12* Afghanistan, a mosaic of peoples and languages, ia an example of unity in diversity. There is no intention of imposing a uniform pattern of rehabilitation where local initiatives, supported by international effort, might produce better results. The program is intended to restore to Afghans their self-reliance, not to encourage a new dependency on international aid.
 13* The problem Afghanistan is facing today is not a routine problem of displaced persons. Much of the country's economic and social life must be regenerated. Together, the international community and the Afghans have much to do and no time to waste. Wherever possible, the rehabilitation must be closely linked with the provision of relief,
                                         I. PROGRAM AND ROLE OF THE CO-ORDINATOR
                                      A. The Program'
 14* The program has two phases, both of Which have been costed as fully as available information permits. The first phase is immediate relief and rehabilitation which will be implemented as rapidly as conditions permit. For planning purposes, bearing in mind the agricultural cycles and projections for the expected return of refugees, an 18-month time-frame has been allotted for this phase. The total costs of this first phase amounts to $US 1,166.1 million (see table 1).
36
July-September, 1988
UNI
Vol.2, No.l
 15* The second recovery phase consists of the longer-term rehabilitation of the country* s infrastructure and follows from the first. A further three-year period is assumed for this second phase, with needs so far identified costing about $839.6 million (see table 2). This projection is necessarily tentative at the present time and does not form part of the current appeal except in so far as some donors may wish to make a long-term commitment to Afghanistan's recovery and plan now for the future by making a multi-year pledge.
 16.  During the years of conflict, Afghanistan has foregone many forms of foreign aid that a country of its per capita income might have expected. There have, of course, been limited United Nations program inside Afghanistan. In addition, there has been bilateral assistance. Nevertheless, there has been almost a decade of lost opportunities for development, as against relief, in much of Afghanistan.
 17.  At a later stage, when the situation permits, the international community could also help Afghanistan to make up for the years of development lost. At this point in time, it is hoped that the activities of the financial institutions will devetail with these recovery activities at an appropriate stage.
 18.  For the immediate future, though, the priority is to make prompt operational arrangements that will meet the vast relief and rehabilitation demands. It is clear that the conditions inside Afghanistan, the impressive but limited capacities of the relief agencies to function inside the country and the constraints on the reach of public services make it unrealistic to attempt a nation-wide rehabilitation effort at the present stage.
 19.  We must start where we can. At every step the Co-ordinator will have the task of matching the unlimited needs against the limited absorption capacity. He has set himself certain criteria-for deciding, together with his colleagues from the United Nations system, in which regions of the country relief and rehabilitation operations can be satisfactorily initiated. These criteria'are:
      (a) The presence of large numbers of vulnerable people in need of assistance, be they return
 nees, internally displaced persons, war injured, women, children or others:           t.
      (b) The reasonable assurance that an area has returned to stability and security and that it
 is safe for people to return. One critical condition for security is that an area has been adequately cleared of mines;
      (c)       Access to the area for United Nations staff and other project personnel to ensure the programme's consistency with the humanitarian principles of the operation as well as its effectiveness;
      (d)       Accessibility of an area for the materials and supplies required for the operation; logistical problems must be overcome.
 20.  Following his visit to the region, it is the Co-ordinator's view that there are a number of areas which can be provisionally identified as meeting these conditions. Further fact-finding missions to the area will be undertaken to confirm this. It is critical that the first confidence-building projects begin as soon as possible.
 21.  An integrated approach in the locations covered is proposed. Together with implementing partners that accept the humanitarian principles of the mission, the Co-ordinator will establish a range of decentralized services, including immediate short-term relief to vulnerable groups, and of services and infrastructure repairs that will raise communities to a minimum level of self-reliance as
                                                    37
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 rapidly- as possible.
 22* So, in any given area where operations are initiated, an attempt will be made to provide a minimum slate of services. These will include initial food aid to returnees and internally displaced persons as well as vulnerable groups. The longer-term food-for-work programmes will be linked to infrastructure repairs. This latter phase will be monitored to ensure that the provision of food aid encourages the return to agricultural self-sufficiency and other productive activities.
 23.  In addition, basic inputs covering such essentials as seeds, tools, irrigation, draught animals, primary health care, drinking water, education, housing and rural transport will be provided. In a fragmented land, the approach must inevitably be geographically piecemeal but it must also be intensive as the recovery and rehabilitation activities are extended to each region of the country as the situation permits.
 24.  If the inputs are standard, the output should not be. Afghanistan is a land of diversity. If the assistance is responsive to and driven by the grass-roots needs of the Afghans it is intended to help, the program will yield as many different fruits as its beneficiaries choose to derive from it.
 25.  It is clear that implementation will primarily rely on the energy and resourcefulness of the Afghan people themselves. The assistance of the United Nations sytem as well as ICBC, MGS'and the non-governmental organizations (NGOs) will, however, be critical. This operational chain must adhere to the humanitarian, non-political guidelines that the Co-ordinator will provide.
                           B.  The role of the Co-ordinator
 26. The Co-ordinator’s functions may be summed up as follows:
      (a)       Central co-ordination of the various components of the action undertaken within the United Nations system on behalf of the Secretary-General;
      (b)       Monitoring of operations in the context of an integrated United Nations program of humanitarian and economic aid while implementation remains the responsibility of the agency concerned;
      (c)       Discussion and negotiation with all concerned parties, when necessary, as the spokesman for the United Nations sytem;
      (d)       Direction and organization of special tasks not within the mandate of any given United Nations agency;
      (e)       Adoption of a flexible and geographically decentralized approach to meeting humanitarian and economic needs on the basis of a realistic assessment of implementation and absorption capacity area by area.
 27.  The United Nations system has made growing use of co-ordinators to provide leadership among individual agencies when responding to a complex crisis. The appointment of co-ordinators has been welcomed as a significant measure for enhancing effectiveness, eliminating duplication and increasing the confidence of donors in the responsiveness of the United Nations system.
 28.  The Co-ordinator sees as a first priority the development of an information system in order to provide more solid ground for planning. There have been impressive, but necessarily partial, surveys carried out inside Afghanistan seeking to measure physical damage and crop loss. A lot of data, however, really only covers the main urban centres at this point. The data base will include both an
                                                   38
July-September, 1988
Vql.2, No.l
 extension of such work and also satellite imagery and other such techniques to build up a comprehensive picture of the Afghan people's condition. It will vary widely from region to region. Such a system must also be predictive: where are refugees likely to move back to? Will the current overflow populations of cities and towns return to their rural areas? The new demographics of the country in the recovery phase will not be a replica of what they were 10 years earlier. Despite the conflict, and in many ways because of it, a process of social and economic change is under way in Afghanistan that cannot be ignored in planning for recovery.
 29.  Even before recovery, in the emergency relief and rehabilitation phase, there are elements of uncertainty that point to the need to give the Co-ordinator and his colleagues in the agencies maximum flexibility. In the midst of continued hostilities, it is vital that donors do not hold back; they must give the United Nations system the means to drive in a humanitarian wedge for peace. However, with the pace of repatriation still unclear, the Co-ordinator must retain flexibility over the use of resources. This will enable the appropriate agencies to start grass-roots rehabilitation efforts in areas where security has been restored, where there are people already in need and where, in the near future, many more may return and impose themselves on a weakened infrastructure.
 30.  The selection of geographic target areas of operation for the United Nations program will hopefully give donors the assurance of operational effectiveness. Nevertheless, difficulties in implementation will remain, and one of the functions of the Co—ordinator will be to monitor projects. He in no way sees this task as replacing the agencies' own responsibilities to report on the use of funds but rather as measuring the impact of projects on beneficiaries. If projects do not have the expected impact, he Will reserve the right to review the priorities.
 31. There are certain tasks that do not fall within the mandates of the agencies. In the case of
 the Afghan people, the most urgent is mine clearance. The Co-ordinator has already initiated a series ( of discussions with concerned parties and hopes to arrive at a satisfactory plan of action.
 32.  Finally, the needs of the Afghan people pose a challenge to the capacity of the United Nations system and its many partners in this operation to deliver assistance in an effective and appropriate way. A decentralized approach has been adopted in a double sense: target areas will be selected and, within those areas, services will be delivered at a decentralized local level so that people will settle back permanently in their home areas and not find themselves on a migratory treadmill, dependent upon relief distribution centres. The fundamental purpose of this program is to link people back to their homes and engender self-reliance in order to avoid institutionalizing relief.
                               II.   VOLUNTARY REPATRIATION
 33.  The voluntary repatriation of refugees in their homeland is the most desirable durable solution to a refugee problem. The specific international protection mandate of the High Commissioner and the capacity of his Office to ensure an international presence alongside refugees and returnees over the years have been vital to the success of voluntary repatriation programmes.
 34.  A large-scale repatriation operation will require international support both in the immediate future, as refugees return, and in the medium term as they assume their rightful place in Afghan society and participate in the wider rehabilitation effort. Activities related to the identification, transfer of refugees returning to Afghanistan and the provision of assistance to them must go in hand with assistance to internally displaced persons returning to their homes and, to a limited extent,
                                          39
J uly-September, 1988
Ifl
Vol«2, No«l
 the most affected local population in areas of returnee concentration, UNHCR's principal concern, however, will be the protection of and assistance to refugees during their repatriation,
 35* The initial plan of operations developed jointly by UNHCR and WFP includes a number of assumptions, Firstly, many will return spontaneously and may not require assistance for transportation. Secondly, internally displaced persons returning to their homes in rural areas may also need temporary food assistance. Finally, with the uncertainty about the numbers of refugees who will return, the volume of assistance including food now being provided to the refugee population in Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran should not initially be reduced,
 36, The budgetary approach is based on:
      (a) The identification and costing of the basic infrastructure and services that Will need to be set in place irrespective of the size of any population movement. This includes storage, vehicles and personnel of the UNHCR and WFP joint logistics unit;
      (b)       The estimated cost of assisting a basic "module" of 250,000 people, excluding food aid, for a period of one year;
      \                                              4
      (c)       Owing to the delays inherent in food deliylries and for prudent management, the planning of food stocks to be available initially for at least four "modules", Bach module will consist of
 250,000 people over a maximum of 12 months. Costs for food items are included in the general food budget submitted by WFP,
 37* The program of assistance must be as flexible as possible, particularly in the initial stages, as conditions inside Afghanistan will vary from one area to another. Implementation arrangements and the choice of operational partners will be subject to local considerations. Assistance will be in three phases as described below,
          A,  Organization and protection before leaving the country of asylum
 38, Protection. An essential element in any organized return is to ensure that refugees are voluntarily returning from their country of asylum, UNHCR will ascertain the voluntary character of the repatriation,
 39* Monitoring of refugee movements. UNHCR and WFP will establish food distribution facilities inside Afghanistan if it is clearly, seen that returnees are arriving in a particular area in sufficient numbers to warrant UNHCR intervention,
 40, Health. An expanded program of immunization (EPl) in refugee villages in Pakistan is being prepared by UNHCR in collaboration with UNICEF and WHO. The target is to immunize 80 per cent of Afghan refugee children before the end of 1988. As most refugee children are in satisfactory health, this is the single most effective preventive health measure that can be taken prior to their return to Afghanistan,
                                       B.   Assistance en route
 41. Transport. Arrangements will be made to transport those refugees who choose to return under an organized return program together with their belongings. Transport for, both people and supplies will be provided through a combination'of commercial vehicles and others purchased by, or donated toy the program, A joint UNHCR./WFP logistics unit is foreseen to ensure the Safe transport of food and ofher
                                       40
July-September, 1988
Vol.2f No.l
 relief items as well as of returnees.
     Transit facilities. Many refugees live within a day's travel of their villages of origin. However, in case of long distances or when appropriate, transit facilities will be established both for logistics purposes and to ensure the welfare of returnees as they travel from their refugee villages to their eventual destinations. Food, water, health care and temporary shelter facilities will be provided and the monitoring of refugee movements undertaken,
                                        C,  Operational facilities
 43* Facilities will be established in areas of returnee concentration to provide an outreach system of commodity distribution and related services in the area. The precise locations for the distribution of food and supplies will be decided as sufficient information on refugee movements within the provinces in Afghanistan becomes available. Beneficiaries under the program will have access to these facilities while they rebuild their home villages. It is currently planned, subject to a further assessment of all relevant factors, to distribute the following items:
     (a)       Shelter, Provision will be made for the purchase of approximately 80,000 tents and 240,000 tarpaulines that some returnees will have to use as family shelters until their personal dwellings can be repaired or rebuilt;
     (b)       Household goods. Quilts, plastic buckets and portable stoves will be provided to assist beneficiaries in their initial resettlement efforts;
     (c)       Agricultural assistance, UNHCR will purchase and distribute seeds and agricultural implements to returnees to enable them to begin basic agricultural rehabilitation,
 44* The form of assistance provided may differ from one region to another, particularly as concerns shelter and agricultural assistance. The availability of food,marketing facilities and,wherever possible, the beneficiaries' own ability to sustain themselves will be considered through a process of local assessment,
                                              D,  Food
 45« General food distribution in Afghanistan will be limited to 12 months on the assumption that this will allow returnees adequate time for one harvest. The food ration to be provided to the returning population wall be in line with that initially provided to Afghan refugees in Pakistan, namely, 500 grams of wheat, 30 grams of oil, 20 grams of sugar and 3 grams of tea. Milk and pulses, in small quantities, will also be needed for supplementary feeding programmes. The number of persons
 and the time-frame involved for the returnee repatriation program, to be monitored by UNHCR and WFP
                                                                                                   <«/
 staff, will be adjusted in accordance with the actual flow,
 46, To ensure the availability of food for the large number of returnees anticipated, food commodities will be positioned in the region to cover the expected needs of 1 million beneficiaries.
                                E,  Financial requirements
 47* The financial requirements for voluntary repatriation are linked entirely to the number of returnees and the period of time over which they move. Regardless of the pattern of returnee movements, UNHCR and WFP are obliged to establish the essential infrastructure and purchase the necessary equipment for a repatriation operation, whether organized or spontaneous. The operation will be conducted
                                           41
July-September, 1938
Vol.2f No.l
 on the assumption that, although refugees may decide to return in a sporadic manner, nearly all will repatriate within the. foreseeable future and that substantial investment must be made as soon as possible to cover the eventuality of a significant initial return. Provision must also be made for ongoing expenditure on essential services. These costs, together with the purchase of equipment for the program are indicated in annex I to the present report, whereas food requirements are included in the section on food aid.
                        III.    FOOD AID AND RELATED LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
 48. The food-aid component of this appeal covers three broad areas:
      (a)  The expected returnee movement from Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran;
      (b)  Internally displaced Afghans and severely affected local populations;
      (c)  Food-for-work rehabilitation activities.
 49* Reduced agricultural output and productivity losses during the past years will result in initial ' but hopefully temporary, problems when large sections of the Afghan population return home. Structur-ral food deficits will be amplified by mass movements that may conceivably not only deplete existing national food resources but also reduce the level of self-sufficiency of those who have remained in their home areas.
 50. While it is likely that seasonal and agricultural crop cycles will have some bearing on the timing of the return and rehabilitation of the uprooted people, it may not be prudent to rely on such factors alone in preparing for the eventuality of mass movements within a short time.
 51* Uncertainties about patterns of repatriation and the degree of need inside Afghanistan make it difficult to predict the number of beneficiaries that may have to be temporarily sustained or assisted by food aid, be it in the form of unconditional relief assistance, food for work or other nutritional support programmes.
 52. Within the relief time-frame of 18 months, individual beneficiaries would receive assistance over a period of up to 12 months or less if the circumstances so warrant. As programmes get under way, there may be cases when assistance beyond 12 months will be justified. Similarly, food aid earmarked for any one category of beneficiaries may be redirected to alternative categories and activities. Donors should therefore allow maximum flexibility when making their pledges,
 53# A modular approach designed jointly by WFP and UNHCR will be retained as the basis for tfydge-ting assistance to returning refugees. The suggested costing of this component assumes that the majority of refugees will choose to return within an 18-month period. Once the immediate needs of returnees are met, they will enter the transition period of rehabilitation, during which the reestablishment of their own agricultural and economic bases will be supported, when appropriate, by food-for-work programes.                                                                           *'
 54. Parallel to assistance to returnees, internally displaced and severely war-affected people will be considered eligible for similar assistance from WFP. The primary criterion for all assistance will be actual need. Returnees will not be treated as a privileged group. However, In many cases, the transition from pure relief to rehabilitation may be more rapid for those not dislocated. Their own farming areas may also be restored more rapidly.
 55* Traditional food-for-work rehabilitation activities will primarily concentrate on self-help
42
   July-September, 1988           IKGUIUI JIHAD                  Vol.2,  Ho.l
 initiatives at the farm and village level to reactivate the economy and allow Afghans, whether or not they have been refugees or internally displaced, to achieve self-reliance in the shortest possible time. Activities will include reconstruction of houses, clearing of land, restoration of irrigation and drainage systems, repair of primary and secondary roads, rehabilitation of water structures, building Sand repair of schools, clinics and first-aid centres, etc*, in short all that would help to put a community back on its feet,
 56,  Naturally, such activities require additional' financial and material support which is expected to be channelled mainly through other agencies and NGOs, However, even reasonably funded rural works often require essential basic tools and implements. Normally, an amount of $60 per labourer is recognized as adequate to cover such essential support items as spades, hoes, picks, wheel-bar-rows, wire, cement, etc,
 57,  To extend the necessary support to vulnerable groups, a relatively small program to benefit pregnant and nursing women as well as pre-school age children is proposed, to be operated essentially through UNICEF and NGOs, An in-depth assessment of needs is foreseen as soon as circumstances allow, which will eventually lead to a medium-to long-term strategy. Likewise, a limited school feeding prpgram is proposed for immediate assistance in villages where the massive return of refugees and displaced persons may result in the ad hoc creation of schools,
 5&, Transport costs of food aid have been calculated to cover both maritime freight and overland/ inland transportation costs into provincial capitals, as well as to final distribution centres inside Afghanistan, To the extent possible, the very considerable commercial trucking capacity of neighbouring countries will be utilized. The necessary arrangements are being made to permit transit movements into Afghanistan,
 59,  Notwithstanding the existence of such facilities, it is essential to set up an independent transport and distributxon capacity to cover any unexpected eventuality that might disrupt the repatriation and relief effort. Accordingly, a modest provision is made for a small fleet of 75 trucks, to be managed and operated jointly by WFP and UNHCR, This unit will be expected to handle the movement of food and returnees and their belongings, as well as basic survival and relief items,
 60, Considering the magnitude of the operation, the additional staffing proposals are very conservative and represent, in terms of cost, less than 1 per cent of the proposed food-aid program, partly because it is intended to utilize, to the extent possible, the present staff in WFP offices, as well as locally available trained manpower. Food aid requirements, together with transport costs for the program, are indicated in annex II,
                       IV,   AGRICULTURE, IRRIGATION AND DEVELOPMENT
 61,  The.restoration of national productive capacity in the agricultural sector is fundamental to the economic recovery of rural Afghanistan, Since 197&/79 agricultural production has steadily declined. Some estimates suggest the decline to be half the previous level. Labour shortages as a result of armed conflict, the destruction or disuse of irrigation systems, heavy losses of livestock and other factors have all adversely affected the situation,
                  A,  Agricultural commodities
 62, FA0*s strategy for recovery underpinning this appeal aims at redressing directly the situation
                                                            A3
Vol»2, No.l
   July-September, 1986                     AFGHAN  JEHAD
 at the grass-roots level* Proposed agricultural commodity inputs include seeds, fertilizers, farm tools, draught animals, small tractors, animal feed and animal vaccines against rinderpest and foot-anct-mouth disease* Some 50,0000 tons of wheat seed, 5»000 tons of cotton seed and 1,000 tons of v^* getable seed to cover two planting seasons will be provided along with 50,000 tons of urea and
 100,000 tons of phosphates* A comprehensive package of farm tools will be supplied to help to restore abandoned land holdings to cultivation and, as appropriate, oxen or tractors will be provided for ploughing.
                B.  Infrastructural and technical assistance to agriculture
 63* Assistance to the rehabilitation of the agricultural infrastructure will have as its main objective the strengthening of services providing credit, fertilizer, seed, veterinary and crop extension services to the rural farming population. The entire local seed industry will need to be progressively rehabilitated and, where appropriate, supported by genetic research. Tree nurseries should be reestablished, both to restore fruit orchards and to aid reforestation and the supply of fuelwood* Rural wheat procurement as well as storage and distribution capacity will also be strengthened*
 64* Technical assistance needs to be provided to support the outreach operations of the institutions involved, as well as the replanting of tree crops, relevant applied research, livestock production and improved capacity to service agricultural machinery.
 65* The relief and rehabilitation needs envisaged for the agricultural sector total $226.1 million over the 18-month period as indicated in annex III. Of this figure, by far the greater part, or $169.3 million, consists of agricultural commodities such as seeds, fertilizers, farm tools and draught animals to meet urgent recovery needs. The remaining $56.8 million relates to the rehabilitation of the agricultural infrastructure and to technical assistance. Agriculture is the backbone of the Afghan economy and it is essential that agricultural rehabilitation and recovery are given high priority. Within the five-year program, the total needs are estimated at $432.1 million.
                                           C.  Irrigation                                   -
 66* Scxne estimates suggest that as much as 40 per cent of all traditional irrigation systems, including the underground channels known as "karez". have been destroyed, damaged or fallen into disuse and disrepair. The destruction has been a major contributory factor to the reduction of yields on irrigated land or the abandonment of land oh which irrigation has become impossible. In the modem irrigation sector, five schemes which together provide a major part of the, country* s wheat crop need
 to be rehabilitated or completed.
         /
 67* A large portion of the cost of restoring traditional irrigation systems can be met under food-for-work programmes, which are'provided for under the food Sector of the appeal* Other infrastructure.' ral requirements total $53*1 million over the 18-month period of the appeal within a provisional figure of $157»S million over five years. Modest technical assistance in irrigation planning and water management is included,
                         D.  Rural development
 68. Levels of productivity in the rural areas of Afghanistan are very low, partly because of the growing inadequacy of the rural infrastructi\re such as feeder roads, bridges,, culverts and drainage
                                                  Uh
July-September, 1988              AfGHANJEHAD                       Vol.2, No.l
 systems and other local public works* Moreover, rural development operations have been severely constrained by security considerations, the scarcity of trained personnel and a lack of equipment and supplies. The appeal calls for aid totalling $58 million over 18 months, within the global projected figure of $131 million over five years. Most of the repair and reconstruction work will be carried out through simple laboun-intensive methods often involving food or cash for work*
                         V.   HEALTH PROGRAMMES AND WATER SUPPLY
                               A* Health
 69* In public health, as in other spheres, Afghanistan falls, clearly within the category of least developed countries. The health condition of the Afghan people is characterized by high infant mortality, with rates variously estimated at 182 to 260 per 1,000, malnutrition and a prevalance of diarrhoeal and respiratory diseases, including tuberculosis. Malaria is also a serious health hazard in much of the country* Many health facilities are no longer functioning, particularly in the rural areas where a number of the 147 basic health centres and the great majority of the 76 sub-centres which existed in 197&-1979 have since been destroyed. The training and supervision of health workers has been severely disrupted. Many preventive health programmes, including immunization, have been interrupted, and most people now have no access to simple curative care* The conflict has left many adults and children severely disabled*
 70* A massive effort will be required to rehabilitate and restore a functioning health system even of a rudimentary kind. Go-operation between WHO, UNICEF and IECS as well as NGOs is being strengthened to provide a coherent program of support. The most pressing need is to restore a minimal level of health services through the rehabilitation of health facilities, including health posts, health centres, some regional and local hospitals and their equipment. Manpower needs in public health must be met by recruitment, training and retraining. A variety of preventive and curative services, such as immunization, malaria control, diarrhoeal diseases control, tuberculosis control, prevention of blindness and nutritional support need to be strengthened. Epidemiological surveys for program planning and other assessment and monitoring activities will be initiated. Once the logistic and suppor-/
 tive mechanisms to sustain restored health services have been put in place, the development of health systems which can meet the full range of the needs of the Afghan people can properly begin. These must tap, to the eitent possible, the strong network of traditional medicine.
 71,  Requirements for the most basic restoration of the health infrastructure (some of which will also be met under rural development schemes) along with a whole range of other requirements, embracing both technical assistance and preventive and curative programmes related to specific diseases and the rehabilitation of the disabled, have been estimated at $64,2 million over 18 months, as indicated in annex IV, within a total of $224*2 million for five years*
                                                         B* Disabled
 72.  Even before the conflicts of recent years, a considerable number of people, women and children in particular, were already disabled. War has added an estimated 300,000 to 500,000 persons to this category, making the issue a critical one. A comprehensive plan to create an infrastructure for vocational rehabilitation, training, employment and social integration in both urban and rural areas has to be developed. It is necessary, though, to fill the information gap as a matter of priority particularly concerning the extent of disability amongst children who have fallen victim either to the
                                                      45
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
conflict or to health and nutritional problems. According to a conservative estimate, 1 in 10 children may be disabled. Given the magnitude of the problem, institutional approaches are not - in the short term at least - either practical or cost-effective* Solutions have to be found at village level building upon community organizations. Information on the care and protection of victims at the family level must be disseminated. Low-cost aids and appliances should be introduced. Simultaneously, projects for the rehabilitation of the physically disabled should be set up on a pilot basis. As the required numbers of medical officers and paramedics are trained, the projects will be expanded accordingly. ICRC will have a major role to play in regard to the disabled population.
73.   It should be remembered in this context that many areas have been mined. The highest priority must be given to their clearance, provisionally estimated to cost some $9 million.
                              C.  Water supply
74.  Safe drinking water is a scarce commodity in rural and, to a lesser extent, in urban areas.
Only 8 per cent of the rural population benefits from piped drinking water. The remaining population obtains its water from water catchment, rivers, hand-dug wells, etc. Host of these sources have deteriorated; for security reasons, major water supply programmes in rural areas have not been implemented. Efforts have to be concentrated on the supply of clean water to rural communities. Priority will be given to the repair, reconditioning and rehabilitation of existing water sources, creating new sources when there is no other alternative. In view of the varied topography and rugged terrain, various water supply systems will be used including protected hand-dug wells, bore wells with hand pumps and gravity-fed systems. Technical support, supplies and equipment will be provided and local communities will receive appropriate training. Although the water supply in Kabul has been improved, capital and technical assistance will al3o need to be extended to urban areas to increase the supply of water and improve sewerage disposal. The amount of $20.7 million has been provided for water supply under the relief/rehabilitation phase over 18 months within a total of $82 million for five years and $79 million under the recovery phase. The redistribution of population makes this investment in water supply and sewerage necessary even at the recovery phase. This essential investment probably cannot be postponed until a later phase.
                   VI.   HUMAN RESOURCES DEVEIOFMENT AND CULTURE
                                       A.  Human resources
75.   The rehabilitation and recovery program is aimed at revitalizing the productive sectors of the economy, primarily the agricultural sector. Simultaneously growth potential for the future must also be built up by investing in human resources. One of the basic trusts should be the improvement of the quality of skilled personnel.
76.   The literacy rate, which was already one of the lowest in the world, is estimated at between 10 and 15 per cent. Enrolment in primary and secondary schopls has reportedly declined by 35 per cent and 8 per cent respectively. Less than 20 per cent of the population of primary school age is enrolled in schools. A large number of school buildings have been damaged or destroyed and the quality of education has suffered as a result of the shortage of qualified teachers and textbooks. In most rural areas, the process of formal education has practically come to a halt on account of the security situation, although traditional religious education has continued. Nevertheless, enrolment in vocational schools and institutions of higher education has increased, although this is limited to
                                                       46
July—September, 1988
 AFGHAN MAD
Vol.2, wo.-*-
 the capital and. other urban areas.
 77. While priority must be given to primary education in rural areas and particularly in those affected by the war, past experience has ^o be taken into account. For, despite large>—scale assistance in the i960 a and 1970s for primary and secondary school improvement, success was limited. The participation and literacy rates did not ma^h the scope of the aid. Similar conclusions can be drawn from the efforts undertaken in the lastN^ew years on behalf of Afghan refugees. Most of the school-age children, particularly girls, fail to attend dr drop out. Many people of rural backgrovsr. do not perceive education as relevant to their needs and culture. Beneficiaries and local leaders must therefore be associated with the design, planning and implementation of educational programme As far as possible, teachers should be recruited and trained locally. In the longer term, measure? have to be taken to re-establish effective teacher training.
 78* Vocational training has been a permanent feature of assistance programmes on behalf of refu* Several thousand skilled workers, as well as instructors, have been trained. The projects establ fed. for this purpose are being expanded pending the return of refugees. These include, in particv crash vb^a^ional training programmes for essential public services. Efforts will be made also t-attract qualiis-ocL Afghans living abroad to participate in the reconstruction efforts.
 79.  After a fuller &^essment of available facilities and needs, it will be possible to make
 &$ls for the rehabilitation of existing institutions, the development of additional facilitxo. training programmes, tripling machinery and equipment needs, crash training courses and spec! programmes required for the rural sector. The long-term development of the vocational trainii tem will need considerable^capital and technical assistance resources beyond the acops'us th. sent appeal.                                      1
 80.  Infrastructural assistance to the education sector concentrates on the rehabilitation, ry, secondary and vocational ^hool buildings. Some attention will also be given to the re\ tion of university—level trairiW for engineers and technicians required for the recov Technical assistance will inclua\+he strengthening of technician training at the universi as well as planning for the recon\^uc^on Gf the educational sector as a whole* Provisio: in the appeal for $50 million oveA^ 18-month period within a total of $81.3 million f01 relief and recovery phases over flv^ears.
                                               B • Culture
 81.  Afghans have fought to preserve thy national identity and values. In keeping wit traditions of Afghanistan, it is essential-to emphasize the cultural dimension of the i efforts, all the more so since millions p£ people have been uprooted and hundreds of t
                            *                V                                      I
 children have grown up away from their habitual physical and social environment* Hffor undertaken as soon as possible to preserve and, when needed, restore the historical p country* An inventory of monuments and objects has to be prepared if only to determin the damage* In any event, plans should be kade to maintain or restore a number of imj sites and museums, including well-known places such as the Timurid monuments of Hera mosque, the minaret of Djam and the Buddhist site of Hadda* Similarly, the National istan in Kabul and other museums in the country may require special attention on th
 tories to be made*
w
July-Sept ember, 1988               AdSKIlli JEHAD
Vol.2, No.l
82. The cost, including the training of personnel in museum development, is estimated at $2,7 million. This sum does not include actual restoration costs tentatively estimated by UNESCO at $40 million
                   VII.    COMMUNICATIONS, INDUSTRY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
                              A. Transport and communications
83* The primary mode of transport within Afghanistan is the road network consisting of 2,700 km of paved road and about 14,000 km of gravel and earth roads. As a land-locked country, Afghanistan is dependent on its neighbours for its foreign transit and trade. Infrastructure assistance would include the rehabilitation of some 1,000 km of paved central artery roads, particularly those linking the capital and other towns with Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the repair and maintenance of the rest of the network. The preservation of this basic infrastructure is essential for the successful implementation of the relief and recovery program. Technical assistance is also envisaged in support of the planning and implementation of priority road improvement and maintenance activities. Rural feeder roads connecting the national system should be upgraded. The amount of $4^.4 million is provided for transport under relief and rehabilitation over 18 months within a total of $97*7 million for five years.
                                           B.  Industry
84* The small manufacturing sector is based on the processing of domestic raw materials. The major manufacturing items are ginned cotton, cotton textiles, sugar, vegetable oil, cement, electricity and chemical fertilizer. As a result of a marked decline in cotton production, the output of ginned cotton and cotton textiles has declined sharply. Sugar production has almost ceased and cement production has also dropped. Assistance to the industrial sector should be primarily for the rehabilitation of agro-industries and a cement plant which is essential for the rehabilitation of storage facilities and other buildings. Public enterprises will receive technical assistance to improve their management practices. Technical assistance is, however, intended mainly to strengthen institutions providing credit and technical advisory services to small indigenous enterprises responsible for the generation of rural cash incomes and the provision of household and farm products and services. The amount of $40.3 million has been provided for industry under relief and rehabilitation over 18 mon-ths within a total of $87.8 million for five years.
                                            C. Power           ■
85.   The output of electricity has grown mainly as a result of the installation of a large number of diesel plants. In addition, northern areas of the country import electricity. However, total installed capacity estimated at some 400 MW, remains small and annual per capita consumption is 60 kWh, Presently only 6 per cent of the population has access to electricity. Assistance in this sector would concentrate on the rehabilitation of power production and its transmission to provincial towns. Related technical assistance in the training of personnel is required for the planning, management and operation of such schemes.
                                             D.  Mining
86,   The major output of the mining sector consists of coal, natural gas and salt. There are substantial deposits of important metals including iron ore and copper. Reserves of petroleum, the exploitation of which is starting^ are estimated at 20 million tons. Gas is, for the most part, exported and accounts for about half the export revenues. The production of coal has fallen sharply. Priority
                                                               LB
July-Sept ember, 19 88
Vol.2f No.l
 should, therefore, be given to increasing the use of existing capacity in this area as well as in the extraction of salt, principally to meet domestic demand.
                      VIII.    CONCUJSIONS AND FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS
 87• The needs of the Afghan people are so great and, in their broad dimensions, so clear thjat no uncertainty as to detail should deter the international community from an immediate and determined effort to redress them. The present appeal is a starting point on the road to recovery, and in setting out upon that road there must be no delay. Every step on the way will be closely monitored and it will be a prime task of the Co-ordinator to ensure that any necessary adjustments in direction are carefully but firmly made. The situation, particularly in the early days, will inevitably be a rapidly changing one calling for flexibility and adaptability at every stage.
 88.  Simultaneously with this appeal the preparation must begin in the field, and specifically in the zones identified as suitable for early action, of precise plans and projects which can be implemented straight away. The role of NGOs will be particularly important in this regard, in view of their knowledge of the situation on the ground. Out of the long process of rehabilitation and recovery which will follow should emerge not only the return of those in exile and the restoration of self-reliance to the Afghan people but a firm base and infrastructure from which long-term activities can be launched.
 89.  In responding to this appeal, donors are urged to be not only generous and timely but flexible as well. Uhile some donors may prefer to earmark their funds on an agency-by-agency basis, cash donations would be processed through the Afghanistan Emergency Fund (see para. 90 below)} inputs of food or other contributions in kind, on the other hand, would be routed directly to the agency or program concerned. The Co-ordinator should be informed immediately of such contributions so that the Co-ordinator should be informed immediately of such contributions so that he is at all times fully abreast of the information he needs concerning the resources made available.
 Only in this way can he fulfil the task of monitoring the international, response to this appeal and its impact in terms of implementation from the very outset. The Co-ordinator should similarly be informed of contributions made bilaterally or through NGOs. It is particularly important that bilateral donors keep the Co-ordinator fully informed and make every effort to integrate their contributions into the overall rehabilitation and recovery plan.
 90.  An Afghanistan emergency fund to be administered by the Co-ordinator is being established to receive the cash contributions in order to meet the needs identified by him in terns of the financial and human resources required and to ensure the right degree of flexibility and rapid action. The Coordinator will be responsible for the presentation of a coherent program, priority-setting and, as appropriate,-.allocations to programmes and agencies from within the. Fund, This is required to ensure that the response to identified needs is accurate and affective and that waste, duplication and misspent effort are avoided. Furthermore, in view of the fast-evolving situation which, of necessity, calls for priorities to be adjusted to prevailing circumstances rapidly, it would be advantageous
 to place the unearmarked contributions at the disposal of the Co-ordinator, This would enable him, in consultation with the agencies concerned, to exercise the flexibility that the situation demands.
 91.  The implementation of so complex a program in such changing circumstances will itself involve a whole variety of co-ordinating mechanisms and operational arrangements, both within AfghanistarTHind without. The Co-ordinator will be assisted at his headquarters by an inter—agency task force on which
                                                                                        1+9
Vol.2, No.l
July-September , 1988            AFGHAN J[HAD
all the main concerned agencies will be represented, same of them - if the work-load justifies it -by staff seconded to the Co-ordinator*s office* Similar task-force arrangements will be instituted in the field where the Co-ordinator will be represented either by staff on mission from his headquarters or by a member of his staff stationed in the area concerned* Co-ordinating arrangements are also being developed with NGOs and with donors. The common data-base which the Co-ordinator is establishing will serve as a central source of accurate information pertaining to Afghanistan for United Nations agencies, donors and other interested bodies and should provide a valuable and unique resource for many years to come,
92.  A poet from the region once wrotes
                                          ’•My friendship means that, should you need my help However early in the day or late You can rely on it - for here I stand A saddled horse, expectant at your gate."
                                                                 Ha’im
93* For the Afghan people it is already late in the day and friends are sorely needed. The international community is urged to act at once to demonstrate a friendship on which the Afghan people, who have suffered so much for so long, can now rely.
              Table 1# Estimated relief—rehabilitation needs for Afghanistan, I988-I989
                                                                                                  (In millions of US dollars)
Voluntary repatriation Health.
     Transport/logistics Water supply Household goods Shelter
     Agricultural inputs Agency operational support
Food aid a/
     Repatration refugees/intemally displaced persons
     Vulnerable groups
     School children
     Food-for-work program
     Ageqcy operational support
Agriculture, irrigation, rural development
     Agricultural inputs Agriculture Irrigation Rural, development
                                                      /
                                                 50
Relief/rehabilitation needs.
  8.0
169.4
  3.0
  5.0
 22.0
  4.8
 13.2          225.4
239.5
  6.1
  6.3
 80.0
  3.5   •       335.4
164.5
 56.8
 53.1
332.4
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
Social services
    Health programmes Drugs and medicines Water Supply-Education Clearance of mines
Communications, industry and power
    Transport/logistics Communications Industry Power
Administration and management
    Planning and statistics Project formulation/monitoring Project management Monuments/culture survey
       Total
37.2
19.0 17.7
50.0
 9.0           132.9
42.4
16.7
40.3
 129.3
 6.0
 1.5
 0.5
                                                                                                                            10.7 1 166.1
    a/ Includes ocean freight and overland/inland transport costs amounting to $160 million for food aid deliveries to provincial capitals as well as distribution centres inside Afghanistan.
Table 2. Estimated rehab Hit at ions-recovery needs in Afghanistan, 1990-1993
                                             (in millions of US dollars)
Agriculture, irrigation, rural .development
    Agricultural inputs
    Agriculture
    Irrigation
    Rural development
Social services
    Health programmes Drugs and medicines Water supply Education
Communications, industry and power
    Transport/logistics
    Communications
    Industry
    Power
Rehabilitation/recovery needs
 143.0
  63.0
 104.7
 J2.-2.
 383.7
 92.0
 68.6
 61.3
 252.6
55.3
41.6
47.5
JtUl
 186.3
51
Vol.2, No.1
Jul/-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD
Administration and management
    Planning and statistics Project formulation/monitoring Project management
       Total
14.0
 2.0
 1.0          17.0
                                                                                                                           839.6
                                                 Annex I
                                 UNHCR VOLUNTARY REPATRIATION PROGRAMS
              (In
A. Purchase of equipment/fixed costs
     Transport/logistics
     Purchase of equipment In-country transport:
          75 trucks (7.8 ton) plus spares 50 project vehicles Warehouse construction/improvement
     Fixed costs (IB months):
       Mechanical workshop services Vehicle park, fuel and lubricants
       Subtotal
     Domestic needs/household support
     Purchase of equipment
       Household goods (quilts, stoves, buckets)
     Water
     Purchase of equipment
          Water system construction/improvement
     Health/nutrition
     Fixed costs (18 months)
          General health services
     Shelter/other infrastructure
     Purchase of equipment Refugee shelter:
           Tents/tarpaulins
                                                Community/other infrastructure:
           Tents (health)
           Tarpaulins/tents (storage)
           Prefabs (administration)
Millions of US dollars)
4.25
0.80
3.00
 3.00
13-05-
 5.00
3.00
 8.00
15.00
2.00
5-2
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
  5.00
22.00
 0.60
 0.90
0.20
0.10
 5.00
 1.40
 3.00
 2.00
13.20
62.25_
B, Non-food budget module (250,000 beneficiaries)
    Transport/logistics
       In-country transport:
         Transport contract (trucks) Fuel/lubricants, transport/storage Refugee labour
       Subtotal
    Crop production
       Agricultural inputs Total, non-food module
For 3.000.000 beneficiaries
    Equipment/fixed costs Non-food module x 12
             Total
 62.25
163.20
225.45
 0.40
 13.60
 8.00
 5.00
 0.20
13.20
 Fixed costs (18 months)
     Site/land preparation/road improvement
     Subtotal
 Agency operational support
 Purchase of equipment
     General project management services: Communications costs -Telex, telephone, radio Vehicles (50)
     Office supplies Furniture
Fixed costs (18 months)
     General project management services Staff costs
       -   salaries/related costs (UNHCR)
       -   salaries/related costs (WFP) Services - aircraft charter
     Other agency administrative support
     Subtotal
     Total, equipment/fixed costs
■53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
J uly-Sept emb er, 1986                     ■Mi      Vol.2, No.l                        
                                        Annex II     ....                               
             ESTIMATED TOTAL COST TO WEP TO COVER 18 MONTHS* FOOD NEEDS                 
                                      (              (in millions of US dollars)        
                                    ■ 1                                                 
                                  ' • )  Food cost   Transport Support Total            
                                      J                                                 
                                                                                        
Repatriation of refugees and assistance                                                 
to internally displaced                 117 396 000           122 040 000 - 239 436 000 
Rehabilitation, food, for work           41 5?0 600     32 497 200 6 000 000 80 017 800 
Vulnerable groups                        3 622 500                2 457 000 - 6 079 500 
School children                         2 812 500         2 520 000 1 000 000 6 332 J00 
Total                                   165 351 300- 159 51A 200 7 000 000 331 865 000. 
Estimated total cost to cover staff                                                     
requirements9 material, equipment and                                                   
running costs in Pakistany Afghanistan                                                  
and the Islamic Republic of Iran*                                             ? ?3i aoo 
Estimated total cost of 18-month                                            335 397 600 
operation                               Annex III                                       
        FAO ESTIMATES OF RELIEF-REHABIHTATION NEEDS IN AGRICULTURE, 1988-1989           
(in millions of US dollars)                                                             
                                                            Relief/rehabilitation needs 
Agricultural inputs                                                                     
Seeds:                                                                                  
Wheat                                                25.O                               
Cotton                                                                              2.5 
Vegetables                                                                          2.0 
Fertilizers:                                                                            
Urea                                                                                9.0 
Phosphates                                           25.0                               
Farm tools                                                                         75.0 
Small tractors/draught animals                       22.0                               
Animal vaccines                                                                     i.5 
Animal feed                                                                             
      Total, agricultural inputs                                   164.^                
54
■
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2f No.l
      Agricultural infrastructure and services
          Irrigation rehabilitation                                                  30.0
          Credit                                                                      2.0
          Research                                                                    1.0
          Other technical assistance  projects                                        3*5
               Total, agricultural infrastructure and services                       38.5
               Grand total                                                          203*0
                                                 Annex IV
         WHO/lJNICEF ESTIMATED RELIEF-REHABILITATION NEEDS FOR HEALTH SECTOR, 1988-1989
                                          (in millions of US dollars)
      Restoration of health facilities Essential drugs and vaccines
      Logistics for health service Health manpower development Preventative/curative development Immunization Malaria control Diarrhoeal disease control Tuberculosis control Nutrition support Prevention of blindness Rehabilitation of disabled
      Surveys/planning/management
              Total
Relief/rehabilitation needs
                                                                                                                            8.0
                                                                                                                           19.0
         5.0
                                                                                                                                  4.5 18.2
         5.0
         7.0
         1.5
         2.5
         1.5 ,
                                                                                                                           0.5
                                                                                                                           0.2
        ■2.-1-
        64.2_
                                                      55
    July-September, 1988 AFGHAN JEHAD Vol.2f No.l
          ... —.. — ... - —.. —
   The Ermacora Report
   Kabul Government Still faills to Fulfil Human Rights
                Obligations
    |$ EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the conclusions of the last report submitted to the UN on human rights situation in Afghanistan by Felix Ermacora jQj the UN Human Rights Commission Special Rapporteur on
       56.  The human rights situation in government-controlled areas has improved as compared with the situation described in previous reports. However, there are still reliable reports of torture under interrogation and killing of political prisoners. This indicates that the will of the Government to bring the human rights situation into line with its international obligations cannot be implemented, in all the regions under government control or in all branches of government.
       57.  After being suspended in 1987,inspections of Afghan prisons in accordance with ICRC criteria have now resumed. This is a welcome development.
       58.  The hunan rights for which provision is made in the Constitution require new legislation in
       order to bring than into effect, thus several political rights are not as yet implemented.
                      I
       59*' Religious manifestations are not restricted.
       60.  To the extent that it provides for the setting up of special prosecutors and special tribunals
                                                              \
       the Constitution allows for the continuation of the notorious system of revolutionary prosecutors, who have broad powers to detain persons without trial,and revolutionary tribunals. The activities of these bodies have not conformed in the past with Afghanistan's .international obligations.
       61. Efforts are being made by the Government to persuade refugees to return. It has set up outposts with very accurate registration methods near the Iranian and Pakistan borders as well as guest-houses to receive returning refugees. The Special Rapporteur was able to see such guest-houses in Kabul, Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar and Jalalabad, he was also able to visit outposts on the Pakistan and Iranian borders.
       62.  Whereas the Government states that some 111,000 refugees have returned, according to official
       United Nations sources, the number of refugees (about 5 million) has remained the same. Newcomers arriving in Pakistan from combat areas in the north of Afghanistan and the region of Khost roughly equal the number of returnees. The Special Rapporteur was able to see many of the new refugees in Pakistan and interviewed some of them.                            *
                                                    56
July-Septemberf 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2f No.l
      63* Acts of brutality in the conflict which violate humanitarian law are still being reported*
      64* Acts of terrorism have resulted in innocent civilians being killed outside the areas of active hostilities in Afghanistan and in Pakistan* Such acts are imputed in Afghanistan to opposition movements and inside Pakistan to the KHAD and Afghan aviation and artillery. Two such acts must be mentioned: the deliberate killing of the ex-Govemor of Baghlan and the murder in Peshawar of Mr* Sayd B* Majrooh, former Dean of the University of Kabul*
                                                                                               I
      65« Foreign journalists are reported to have been detained and imprisoned* The Special Rapporteur draws the Commission*s attention to General Assembly resolution 2673 (XXV) on protection of journalists in dangerous missions in areas of armed conflict*
      66* The new Constitution contains important human rights elements, but its legitimation depends on that of the **constituent power”, namely the Loya Jirgah. However, the Loya Jirgah did not represent the millions of refugees, their political organizations or the mujaheddin* The elections to the National Assembly will be burdened with the same problems unless the electoral laws enshrine the same principles as those in the 1964 Constitution, namely, free, secret and universal suffrage*
      67* In the present situation in which agreement may soon be reached on the withdrawal of foreign troops and the modalities for that withdrawal, the Special Rapporteur is of the opinion that the primary problem remains the return of the refugees in freedom and dignity and their participation in a government which ought to represent all sectors of Afghan society and thus guarantee the free exercise of the right to self-determination.                             '
      68*1 It would therefore seem imperative that concerted efforts should be made in Afghanistan to establish an interim transitional government involving all the parties concerned, i.e*, the present Government, the opposition movements and the representatives of the refugees* Such a government would then have to chart the future course of the country*
                                              RECOMMENDATIONS
      69* The Special Rapporteur must remind the Commission that his mandate .also requires him to make recommendations as to the restoration of human rights "during and after the withdrawal of foreign troops”* Since the human rights situation is different in the various regions of Afghanistan his recommendations differ accordingly*
                                         (a) GOVERNMMT-CONTROLIED AREAS
      70* The amnesty should be broadened* Amnestied persons should be entirely free and should not be put under house arrest or police surveillance*
      7l*i The Government should implement the human rights provisions contained in the new Constitution in the spirit of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights*
      72* The system of revolutionary or special tribunals, revolutionary or special prosecutors and the*^ KHAD should be dismantled*                                   '
      73* The fate of missing persons should be investigated*
                                (b) AREAS NOT UNDER GOVERNMENT CONTROL
      74* The full assistance of specialized agencies and non-governmental organizations should be extent
                                                     57
    July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 ■ ded to areas not yet under government control. ICRC should be guaranteed free access to all places in which humanitarian action is required.
 75. Opposition movements should find a way to release all prisoners under their control.
                                        (c)  COMBAT AREAS
 76., The withdrawal of foreign troops should be accompanied by a universal cease-fire in conformity with all relevant rules and the parties to the conflict should adhere strictly to the Geneva Conventions of 1949 or, if they are not parties thereto, they should at least implement article 3 of these Conventions.
      As already stated in paragraph 134 of his report to the Commission on Human Rights (E/CN.4/1986/
 24):
      "In regard to the human rights situation during withdrawal of troops, adequate precautions should be taken to ensure the protection of all civilians, in particular women, children and elderly persons. The international community and humanitarian organizations,such as ICRC,should be invited to supervise this protection and to furnish humanitarian assistance,wherever needed”.
                                    (d)  THE REFUGEE PROBLEM
 78. The refugees outside Afghanistan should be completely free to decide about their return and no obstacle whatsoever should be created to prevent them from crossing the border at any of the official outposts.
 79•' Conditions should be created for refugees inside Afghanistan to return to their homes so that the changes in the demographic structure of the country may be redressed.
 80.  Elections to the National Assembly should not be held in the presence of foreign troops; the government in Afghanistan should be genuinely representative.
 81.  Journalists should be treated in accordance with General Assembly resolution 2673 (XXV) on protection of journalists in dangerous missions in areas of armed conflict.
 82.  The Special Rapporteur is of the opinion that, as far as the establishment of a system of human rights protection is concerned, the United Nations can play a useful role. In post-war Afghanistan, it will be essential to adopt concrete measures aimed at securing the observance of human rights. It will be necessary to introduce appropriate legislation and to establish monitoring mechanisms and essential infrastructure to safeguard human rights. In this process, the United Nations may advise and provide assistance through the advisory services programme in the field of human rights. A pilot programme could be envisaged and Afghanistan could become a test case for the effectiveness of the advisory services system. At this juncture, the Protecting Powers system for safeguarding human rights, as provided for in articles 9 to 11 of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War of 12 August 1949*.should be implemented.
 83* Given the geopolitical situation of Afghanistan and the present conditions, the Special Rapporteur believes that, if the country were to adopt the status of permanent neutrality, new perspectives for the peaceful existence of Afghanistan would be opened. The Special Rapporteur has recommended ^ this course of action several times in his previous reports, on the basis of his experience as a citizen of a country with that status.
                                           58
                        AFGHANISTAN IN INTERNATIONAL FORUMS
     ^ Pakistani Political Figures,
     opinion makers and Afghanistan
     (The Muslim Forum )i
      1# Agha Murtaza Pooya; (2) Aitzaz Ahsan; (3) Farhatullah Baber;(4) Gen. (Retd.) Fazle Haq; (5) Maulana Kausar Niazi; (6) Hussain Haqqani; (7) Frof. Karam Elahi; (8) Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi; (9) Brig. Noor Hussain; (10) Javed Jab-bar; (11) Zulfiqar Ali Khan; (12) A.R. Siddiqi; (13) Dr. Taqi Bangash; (14) Syed Ghaffar Mehdi; (15) Khan Abdul Wall Khan; (16) Qazi Hussain Ahmad
     ^ Paris meeting discusses war casualties in Historic Herat.
other monuments have been damaged or destroyed in the war.
                                                      59
   July-September, 1983 AFGHAN JEHAD Vol,2, No.l
  The Muslim Daily Form
   PAKISTANI POLITICAL, PUBLIC OPINION LEADERS ON AFGHANISTAN
 EDITOR*S NOTE: The following is the highlights of speeches delivered by a number of Pakistani political figures and public opinion makers in a forum held by the The Muslim newspaper in Islamabad 20-21 May. The Afghan Jehad, through the cooperation of the Muslim, secured the video tapes of the forum and transcribed the salient points of the speeches of Pakistani leaders.
                            AGHA MURTAZ A POOYA (Editor-in-Chief Muslim Newspaper, Islamabad)
           1979 for the Muslim world was a year of disaster.lt was the year of the signing of the Camp David, the shameless capitulation of the rights of the Palestinian and the Muslim world hardly took notice of it.That event in my opinion provided the seed for the invasion and occupation of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union.The Soviet Union was encouraged that the response from the Muslim world is
                                                                                /
     not something to be bothered about, and thus invaded Afghanistan which was done in full knowledge of
     the US who later on ■— rather too late------became the champion of the cause of mujaheddin and
     freedom loving people of Afghanistan.
           I am now jumping from 1979 to 1988 which appears to be the year of solution of the Afghan issue. I am not going to term it a solution. Those who resisted the Geneva accord, and the Geneva process until a few months ago today are supporting it. When the Geneva process first started in 1981, the Government of Pakistan came under pressure from its friends, being told: while I am talks?, ing to the Soviets you should take a confrontational position ... In my assessment, the US would not allow us to come to an accommodation with the Soviet Union. But last November they suddenly discover. red the virtue of Geneva process and rushed towards it. And this, in my opinion, is the product or the by-product of the uprising in Palestine. With the uprising in Palestine, the futility of the US policy came to surface. That was why it sought the assistance of the Soviet Union in trying to bring down the temperature in the Middle East. It was after November, that the US decided to put pressure on Pakistan to sign the Geneva accord.
           In my opinion the Geneva accord only achieve very very partial objectives. Because one of the most important and integral aspects of the Geneva process was that the current Soviet supported puppet regime in Kabul would not remain in power at the end of the process and Pakistan should not need to continue to interfere into Afghanistan. We miss the bus, we fight every last minute and fail due to pressure from friends and we were not able to stick with the most integral part of the
                                            60
      Jul/-September, 1988             AfGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
     Geneva accord| that.was that the Najib government should have gone with this accord# Today we are still in a state of suspense and now what I see in respect to Geneva accord - - if it is going
     to be implemented --there would be another ceasefire in Palestine because the super powers are
     trying to stop Islamic revivalism. Another argument to reinforce my theory is the Indian anxiety to come out.onto stage because the impact of Islamic Afghanistan on the Palestinian liberation movement, on the Liberation Movement in Kashmir would be tremendous.
          Do we have any option? Are we going to allow our government to move from one mistake to another? I believe that with this present system and this state of depoliticization you would not expect that the peoples of Pakistan to worry about what is happening in Afghanistan or with rest of the Muslim world. You will have to raise the level of political consciousness in Pakistan.
                                         CH# AITZAZ AH SAN (lawyer from Lahore)
     * The Afghanistan issue started in April 1978 with the "Saur Revolution”. At that time when this trouble started in Afghanistan, Pakistan-US relations were at their lowest point ever in the history of Pakistan: burning of US Qnbassy building at Islamabad, violation of human rights, execution of former Prime Minister Z.A., Bhutto and suspension of .civil rule and the emergence of Martial Law.
          I      just say three simple things about the Geneva accord.on Afghanistan: (l) Pakistan has undertaken the responsibility and duty to push the Afghan refugees out of the country particularly ”the insurgents”, (2) the Afghans have the right to go back to Afghanistan not because of the situation in Afghanistan but because of the Geneva accord; (3) the recognition of present regime in Kabul#
     I  believe, as a lawyer, a student of law, the text of the agreement does not merely imply, it expres- • sly spells recognition. The other side who has signed it, Abdul Wakil, on behalf of Dr. Najib*s government as a high contracting party is described in the protocol as the government of Republic of Afghanistan. Until 14 of April Pakistan was not prepared to recognise Afghanistan but now the situation has been changed.
          As far as our priorities are concerned, our first priority must be Kashmir. We fought jfor it for about 40 years. Kashmiris were also denied their right of self-determination and vote. But for the priorities on scale of morality---active morality-----should be the Palestine. They have been figh-
     ting for their Cause, for their legitimate rights, for which they were pushed out of their homeland and have been living as refugees in various parts of the world for the last 40 years.
          What lesson we conclude that we are motivated to activate only such priorities and issues as suit the US. Kashmir is not a US issue, Palestine is a US issue but in the reverse and as the Afghanistan war was in the US interest, the Geneva accord is too.
                            FARHATULLAH BABER (Managing Editor of Frontier Post, NWFP)
          I      believe that Geneva accord opens up tremendous opportunities and options for Pakistan. We can mend our relations with the USSR. For the last 40 years our foreign policy is dominated by three condiferations; (i) subservience to the US; (ii) excellent relations with China and (iii) an effort to have good and strong relations with Islamic countries. We have never bothered to have good neighbourly relations with the Soviet Union. This Geneva accord offers us the opportunity to mend our relations with the USSR. I think there is convergence of interests. Also neither the USSR nor Pakistan would afford the continuation of civil war. This convergence of interests can be capitalized by our
                                                    61
July-Septemberf 1988                                   AFGHAN JEHAD Vol.2f No.l
     foreign policy planners to bring the two countries---the USSR and Pakistan-----closer together.
     But if we miss the bus and if we do not avail of this opportunity Moscow can play the Indian card if we make another folly of violating the Geneva accord.
          International wind of changes is growing. Diplomatic marathons are happening. A few days ago the fundamentalist Saudi Arabia’s King Fahed purchased aims from Beijing. In a few days time the President of a super power,who once described the USSR,an evil empire is going himself to the capital of that empire for talks and these are the kind of wind of changes growing on. I would suggest that let us (Seize the opportunities and options offered by the Geneva accord and make use of these.
          I  am worried when Zain Noorani says that because of clause of symmetry the text of the Geneva
     accord has been changed---therefore it is different,I am worried when the foreign office spokesman
     says that Geneva accord does not have any provision for the future of mujaheddin/refugees and their future is still lying with Moscow and Soviet backed government in Kabul. I am worried when the President says that Pakistan is ready to pay the price to the mujaheddin to instal their own government.
     I  am worried when Mr. Hussain Ahmad says the border of Pakistan will not be limited to Torkham (the Durand line) but will extend to Moscow. I am again worried when religious leaders and masses say that Gorbachev is now under run.
                  GEN. (EETD.) FAZIE HAQ ( former Govemer and Presently Chief Minister NWFP)
          The Geneva accord is not the best accord but, under the circumstances, this is a very good accord.
          The withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan was possible only through the tough resistance of the Afghan people and firm stand of Pakistan government.
          Let us examine the interest of various countries in the Afghanistan issue:
          PAKISTAN INTEREST
          -- establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan;
          -  - politically a stable and economically a progressive Afghanistan; and
          --complete cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan in cultural, commercial and, if
               possibles even in defense fields.
          SOVIET INTEREST
          -  - Access to warm waters. But the actual problem had been that Afghanistan is a buffer state
               between the British empire and the Russian empire. However the Russian intention to reach the warm waters still persists;
          -  - some geopolitical compulsions: Russia prefers to have nationalist government in Afghanistan,
               Because it has a large Muslim population and, if an ideal Islamic state is established in its neighbourhoodAthat will certainly have its implications over the Russian Muslims.
          -  - There should be a nationalist government in Afghanistan friendly to the Soviet Union. Moscow
               would.like to continue strong economic and commercial relations with Afghanistan
          US INTEREST
          Before the revolution, the US interest in Afghanistan was very weak but the Geneva accord has
                                                    62         '
July-September, 1988             AfGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
                                                  >{
 paved the way for developing Afghan-US relations. The US has the following interests:
      - - Wants a mujaheddin dominated regime in Afghanistan but not by the. fundamentalists.
      -- a desire to provide massive economic assistance to Afghanistan for reconstruction of its
           economy. Due to this, it will have a permanent foothold inside Afghanistan, and hence a
                A
           very strategic advantage.
      -- would like to supply military hardwares and training facilities to the Afghan armed forces
           to re-orient them with the western systems - - as presently it is eastern or Soviet.
      -  - to bring about political and defense cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan to be
           able to withstand any future threat.
      -   - The US has already guaranteed the territorial integrity and political stability of Pakistan.
      IRANIAN INTERESTS
      Iran is playing a role similar to that of Pakistan but,due to the following qualitative and quanti tative reasons,its role has been confined:,
      -  - A pro-occupation in the war with Iraq.
      -  - US involvement on the side 6f the mujaheddin and Pakistan.
      Iran's objectives like Pakistan are as follows:
      -  - It will prefer the establishment of an orthodox Islamic government----of course fundamen-
           talist - - which could guarantee the political and religious autonomy for the Shias.
      -  — establishment of economic links with Afghanistan specially in areas contagious to
           it to generate its own influence,
   _  - - prefers to isolate Afghanistan from the influence of the Arab world.
      When the war with Iraq would be over, the regional interests of Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan shall coincide and there is every likelihood that greater cooperation between these three countries would emerge,
      INDIA* s INTEREST
      India has already lost the sympathy of Afghan peoples. Furthermore,it supports the Najib government, although at the behest of USSR. India's interest in Afghanistan has always been against Pakistan.
      -  - It would like to create trouble on the western border of Pakistan. This is possible only
           through such tactics like fanning the problems of Durand Line and Pakhtunistan.
      -  - support for a regime which has secular and nationalist character but not an Islamic one at
           all. Najib is a special pet of Russia and India. In collusion with the USSR, it will try to bring another nationalist until such a time that the situation may emerge in Afghanistan for the creation of an atmosphere against Pakistan by every conceivable means.
      -  - In order to undermine the role of Pakistan for solving the Afghanistan crisis, India is
           ready to play any possible trick.
      CHINA'S INTEREST China has identical interests with that of Pakistan and the US.
                                            63
Jul/-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
   AFTER THE GENEVA ACCORD
   --- The PDPA has failed to consolidate the party and establish a stable and independent government in Afghanistan, Majib’s government will totally collapse with the total withdrawal of Soviet troops,
               •                                                                       t
   - - The seven party alliance: As stated by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, they can play their fullest
         role for establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, They also claim that they will be able to undertake the reconstruction and rehabilitation task in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of Russian troops,They have the planners and intellectuals for providing a '       better future to Afghans,
   -  - The mujaheddin commanders are another faction and they play a role. They are linked with
         the seven parties in Pakistan, They say, that under the directions of their leaders, they will be able to establish a stable government in Kabul,
         AFGHAN NATIONALISTS AND INTELLECTUALS ABROAD
         This group of intellectuals will feel more comfortable with the former King rather than obviously with a fundamentalist regime. These people are highly qualified and their talent can be usefully utilized for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, On the other hand, the fundamentalists and the commanders in Afghanistan look at this group with suspicion. The mujaheddin fear that these people will become too powerful and Influential anci will eventually become king makers. The fundamentalists also suspect this group due to their religious convictions.
            There are two schools of thought in so far as the solution of the Afghanistan problem is concerned:
 - - - Moscow would like to have a non-aligned, democratic Afghanistan not dominated by the mujaheddin, Pakistan, the US and the West, This position is supported by India and the Russian bloc,
                                                                  I
         Pakistan would like to establish an Islamic regime dominated by the mujaheddin. This stand is supported by the US, a majority of Islamic states and a good number of non-aligned states, .
         For the success of these two options, the one which has the maximum political and military support inside and outside Afghanistan will have to succeed,
                 MAULANA KAUSAR NIAZI( Former Federal Minister for Information & Broadcasting,
                                   i                                                               ■
                                        translated from Urdu version).
     The super powers long before the accord was actually signed, had already reached a consensus about the accord in Washington, Pakistan had just to put its signature on a pre-arranged accord.
     The provisions of the accord indicate that: (a) the process of withdrawal of Russian forces from Afghanistan will be completed within the time frame stipulated by Pakistan - - this was a bone of contention between Pakistan and USSR and (b) the UN is willing and ready to spend one billion dollars for reconstruction of Afghanistan and rehabilitation of refugees and mujaheddin. This is really an
                          >
Vol.2, No.l
       July-September, 1988            AfCHAN JfHAO
      attractive proposition for Afghans to go back to their homes.
          Pakistan should not hesitate in honoring the provisions of the accord. But it seems that we, inspite of this, do not want to get out 'of this situation. It looks that there are three forces, presently active on the issue, in Pakistan (l) Afghan refugees: They ?re making announcement every now and then, that they, will not return to their homes; (2) the June jo government: It is excercizing maximum care in issuing statements on the issue; (3) the Zia government: It contends that,for seeking the pleasure of God and manifesting the real spirit of jehad, pushing of tie refugees into Afghanistan and discontinuing any possible support to Afghans are not in the interest of Islamic, revolutionary forces.
          Our policy makers are forgetting the possible role of India on the issue as the talks between Dr. Najib and Rajiv Gandhi at New Delhi are not purposeless and their consequential repercussions can hardly be underestimated. Indian forces can enter Afghanistan under any defense pact, as India did in Sri Lanka. 1989 in India is a year of elections and, for getting votes, Rajiv can go beyond limits and will prefer to take advantage of the situation of confrontation with Pakistan; This will aggravate the situation further for Pakistan.
          Even if the mujaheddin succeed in their war what will happen then? Will the mujaheddin be able to form their government and will maintain their control and rule on the whole of Afghanistan? This is quite impossible. Division of Afghanistan was a focal point between the super powers before arriving an agreement on the accord. This is not the only instance. This is the way the super powers are behaving. Division of Korea, Germany and what happened in Vietnam are examples in question. Similarly a division of Afghanistan has been decided upon and the northern part of Afghanistan, enriched with oil, gas and other natural resources, will continue to remain under Russian occupation----its hire-
      lings - - the rest of Afghanistan, which has nothing except liabilities, will be left for the mujaheddin. There will be another Azad Kashmir----a liability, for Pakistan.
          In view of the gravity of the situation I suggest that Pakistan should honour the Geneva accord, for the sake of our own interest, the interest of mujaheddin and the interest of international peace. I request the secession of hostilities and bloodshed in Afghanistan forthwith. We whould try at our own to persuade the mujaheddin and refugees for normalization of the situation and establishment of a government representative of all the four factions i.e. the party in power at Kabul, the mujaheddin, the Afghan nationalists who are living in foreign countries and the refugees.
          Further we should not allow the use of our soil for continuation of the hostilities.
                                    HUSSAIN HAQQANI Journalist)                                           '
          Issues like Pale Stine, Kashmir and Afghanistan have implications for Pakistan only because the nationhood of Pakistan is conceptual* Neither in Palestine nor in Kashmir military struggle within the country by the masses of those countries existed.Afghanistan is the only one where there has been a war for independence fought by the masses resulting in 1.2 million dead and, by the way it is the greatest sacrifice rendered throughout the history because in the Second World War, the Soviet Union offered 4$ of its total population for the war as sacrifice. Yogoslavia had the highest number of deaths, i.e. about Tjo of the Yogoslavia total population died in the world war. But for Afghanistan almost 9$ of the pre-war population has died during the course of this war. There are more than 3 million refugees out of Afghanistan, in Pald.stan and Iran - - l/3 of the Afghan popula-
                                             65
July-September, 1968
Vol.2, No.l
 tion.
                                                            ■ ;
      Pakistan, as an ideologically conceived nation, has an obligation to support the freedom struggle, of the people of Palestine, Afghanistan and Kashmir. Where it can support politically it should support politically, where it can support militarily it should support militarily. As far Pakistani support for the mujaheddin is concerned, specially when their victory is very near, it should support them by all means and exercise all possible its options.
      Peoples say that our involvement in Afghanistan was a mistake and we paid more than gained.
 True it has perpetuated a certain government in Pakistan - - on the pretext of influx of refugees in Pakistan - - but this.was as a result of our domestic compulsions.
       Due to this war;it has been said that a new culture has come about in Pakistan ----- the heroin
 and Klashinkov culture. But why should we blame the Afghans since we have been the ones who have adopted this culture. It is true that the Afghan war might have created the circumstances which resulted the Klashinkov and heroin culture. But it was within our   ability to try and  control the
 impact and affect of this menace. If we could not do that, it was   our failure.
      One and half billion dollars every year have been put by the   Arab countries for funding  the
 Palestinian struggle. The Syrian government has been paid a subsidy of $ 600 million every year since 1973 war by the Gulf Arab states. Had the Afghans received $ 300 million from US and an equal amount from the Arab and Gulf countries, because of their conviction, motivation and the support more would have been achieved here than they have today. This $ 300 million of arms caning to mujaheddin are far less than the annual subsidy of dollars going to Palestine. For obvious reasons Pakistan’s, being an ideological nation, our option should be in the following orders: Afghanistan, Kashmir and Palestine as Afghanistan is utilizing this support tremendously,
                           PROF. KARAM ELAHI (sociaiogist, nwfp).
      When we took a stand vis a vis the Afghan issue at an international level we had three points:
      1-  the unconditional Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan;
      2-  for getting self-determination for our own selves -— Pakistan;
      3-  a time frame for the Russian withdrawal;
 But we never consulted those who were fighting. It is true that we are housing them and we are rendering a great humanitarian services to them, but they must have been consulted, at least during the
                                     I
 talks.
      We are not worried about the sacrifices we offered. We are worrjed about the time when peace is approaching Afghanistan but we are trying to use this for a kind of polarization which is already in the offing in Pakistan. The Geneva accord is a good accord and Pakistan has signed it. This is the option of Pakistan, should we abide to an accord which we have so solemnly agreed to, or should we withdraw from it? Is the accord stopping the mujaheddin to have a government of their own in their country? The first option is that let the mujaheddin settle their affairs. According to the accord, they are not bound to honour the accord as they were not represented in the talks. But we are a signatory to the accord and, therefore, it is binding on us morally as well', as legally. For those who say that the accord is not a good ’accord I ask our stand was that we are nbt allowing the Afghans to use our soil for raids inside Afghanistan, we are not equipping them, and we are not training •
. them. May be this was a diplomatic statement. But basically we agreed that we are not a participant
                                          66
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 in the Afghan conflict. Secondly as the future of Afghanistan ought to be settled by the Afghans themselves, therefore, is it appropriate for us to help them have self-determination? Wherever the Russians are withdrawing the mujaheddin are taking over, thank God, peacefully and they will peacefully take over the Najib's government as well. Therefore let them settle their affairs and have their Government.
      The Afghans should not care about the kind of accord we have signed. They should go ahead to change the structure according to their own liking and nobody stops them since the mujaheddin are not a party. We love them and respect them a lot.
      As far as the humanitarian aspects of the issue are concerned, I have seen many innocent Afghans suffering yet I noticed speakers and peoples asking them to which group they belonged. I had to convince the administration that,,for Gods sake, these peoples are ruined. Don't ask questions but give them something Rendering 1.2 million martyred, 1.5 disable is enough price for a cause.
      Mow when the things are coming nearer and when the UN is going to settle them, who deprives the Afghans from exercising their right to have their government. I urge an everlasting peace in that land, congratulate for their victory, and salute their determination,
                   GHULAM MUSTAFA JAT01                       (Former Chief Minister)
      In Rawalpindi conference of leaders of political parties on March 5» I had warned about the dangers and apprehensions arising out of our foreign policy.I proposed that the objectives of Pakistan should be:
      a- Immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan;
      b- Restoration of status of Afghanistan as nonaligned, neutral and sovereign Islamic state.
                                                                                 ■ -i *'
      c- Return of refugees to their homeland.
      d- Prevention of civil war -in Afghanistan following the Soviet withdrawal to facilitate return of Afghan refugees;
      e- Establishing a broad based government to the satisfaction of three militant groups; namely, the Afghan resistance groups — — the mujaheddin, the Afghan refugees and the peoples living in the present Afghanistan,
      I had also called for large UN role in these words:
      "When two super powers have already come to certain conclusions, reliance of Pakistan should be
      on the aides of the UN for implementation of the agreement and they are required to place their
                                 /
      personnel in Afghanistan for the purpose. In fact the UN and its specialized agencies can provide
      for the following roles:
      a— As an observor, br- peace keeping, c- rehabilitation, d- holding free and fair elections.
      At the March 5 conference I deliberately avoided mention of the frontier problem with Afghanistan as we were satisfied with the expression "existing internationally recognized boundaries" appearing in the Article No. 3 of the draft agreement.
      But it was due to the folly and negligence on the part of the government of Pakistan that it slipped and conceded the elimination of these vital words and in the final agreement only the word
                                                                                                   f
 "boundary" was referred to. Thus, Pakistan lost rather than gained and missed a historic opportunity
                                          67
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 to settle once and for all the frontier questions with Afghanistan ... This was voiced by the Afghan Foreign Minister first time in his press conference at Geneva on March-19 that the government and said the representative of Afghanistan, is not in a position to include into the Geneva accord matters that can encounter the will of the people of Afghanistan. We conceded to a situation which was against the interest of Pakistan.
      In the Delhi conference held in April on the eve of his visit to India, Gen. Najibullah reiterated the stand of his Foreign Minister that Afghanistan does not and will not accept the Durand Line. It is yet to be settled with India (these are the words of Gen. Najibullah that the Durand Line is issue yet to be settled with India.)
      The Afghan Foreign Minister tacitly admitted Afghanistan«s complicity in the bomb blasts in Pakistan. In an answer to a question about what he called the negative approach of Pakistan towards Geneva talks, he said Pakistan will face the dire consequences if the Geneva talks became failure, and I quote:
     "You should note that it is for the last nine years Pakistan has waged the war against Afghanistan and the mujaheddin have inflicted a great loss of men and material to our country.If Pakistan thinks that it can extend this war for another nine.years it should be understood that naturally the flames of war will grab Pakistan as well. The flames of fire in one house will be spread to neighbours* house".
     It is clear that we have made certain commitments at Geneva that (1) we will not interfere in the internal affairs of each other, (2) we will not train the people and that we will not make any propaganda against each other ... It is our duty to see that the Afghans are free from the yoke of communism and, with the grace of God, you will see the time will come we see them succeeded. It should be an effort of Pakistan government to see that the Afghanistan status of a non-aligned,sovereign and Islamic state is restored. We should do our best that they succeed in maintaining their independence in both social and economic spheres.
                                   BRIG* NOOR HUSSAIN (former Director of ISS)
      Afghans are on the verge of achieving their goal. We have to see the present and future, putting
                                                                                             i
 aside the past of Afghanistan. Afghanistan has been traditionally, geopolitically, geographically in all respects a security zone of Asia. It is a region which is of direct interest to us. What happened in Afghanistan is very much of our concern and it is ironical that, after these brave Afghan peoples have sacrificed 1.2 million lives, half of their population about 7 million out of 15 million have been rendered refugees, after all their pastures, their villages and homes have been totally devastated, Pakistan* s reaction is very cold and poor.I am sxirprised over this. It is a separate issue whether the Soviet Union wants to have good relations with us or not but we should not forgive is the barbarity they committed to our Muslim brothers in Afghanistan.
      We should- not forget that the Durand Line has been affirmed and recognized as an international frontier between Pakistan and Afghanistan by the 5 successive Afghans regimes ... It is no more an issue between us as the status of frontier does not change with the- change of government under the international law. It is an international frontier by all canons of international law.
      In Afghanistan, it is the first time, that Islam has come in direct clash with the atheist militant ideology of communism and it has been pushed back.
                                                 68
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
                                JAVED JABBAB (Senator)
     In the Afghanistan issue Pakistan set some sort of a worst record. I can hardly find a case the air space of a sovereign country was violated so many times and we deliberately chose not to respond
     Pakistan did not accept and even recognize Soviet offer for Kashmir and Palestine in 1954* and it never lost an opportunity to be = antagonistic towards Russia and also in Afghanistan case.
     The Afghan invasion by Soviet Union resulted in tragic loss of 1.2 million lives. From the views of the third world countries, Pakistan has obviously, in a spiritual sense, paid a higher price.
                                      ZULFIQAB ALI KHAN (Air Chief Marshal)
     The interests of parties concerned in the Afghan issue will be as follow after the Geneva accord:
     THE SOVIET UNION
     Gorbachev wanted to improve the international image of the Soviet Union.He wanted to arrive at a certain accommodation as far as the arms reduction with US is concerned. He also wanted to improve his relations with China and for all this he had to get out of Afghanistan.
     Gorbachev also decided to cut out his losses. There is no doubt that the Soviet Union, 'during the last eight and half years suffered losses in terms of money, material and manpower. Some western analysts claimed that Soviet Union suffered a loss of about 20 billion dollars and about 15j000 dead over a period of 8 years.
    Furthermore Russia is not in favor of American presence in any form in Afghanistan and, by having this accord, it can minimize this possibility.
     THE US
     The US, through its military assistance to the mujaheddin and its unshakable support for Pakistan, succeeded in obtaining a Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan.
    An unfortunate point so far, as far as the American policy is concerned,is that they are worried about the future government in Kabul. They do not want fundamentalist government there and, as far as that poipt is concerned, they are in line with the Soviet Union and India, because they are terribly afraid of the very thought of the fundamentalist government after what they have experienced in Iran.
     INDIA
     India remained silent during the last eight years or so. Their stand was that Soviet military presence is in the interest of the regional peace. They also said that the Russians entered Afghanistan on a invitation by a legitimate government in Afghanistan and they will go back on the request of that government and they said the presence of the Russian troops in Afghanistan will not violate the sovereignity and independence of Afghanistan. This was their stand until January 1938 when there were signs that the Geneva accord might be signed. Then we saw a sudden spur on their behaviour.
 They are now interested to bring back King Zahir Shah. You may recall that Nat war Sing, Indian Minister of State for Foreign Affairs went to talk to King Zahir Shah. In February they invited the President of Pakistan for talks on the Afghan issue. They also sent envoys to all Arab countries.
 The Indian Prime Minister sent a special envoy to the Amir of Kuwait who is the Chair-
                                            69
J uly-Sept ember , 1'9 33
Vol.2f No.l
 man of the OXC and in April the President of Afghanistan Dr. Najibullah was invited by them. In defending their stand* Natwar Singh replied to a question that we had very close, cultural, economic and political relations since long times with Afghanistan. We have also 55,000 refugees on our soil anc because the weapons that are,coming into the Indian Punjab are coming through the tribal territories of Pakistan* We have geopolitical and geographical interests and therefore we want to have these interests safeguarded. At the same time they geared up anti-Pakistan lobby in Washington and they feel that this is the time to convince the American administration and policy makers that, since the Afghan problem is over, there is no point to continue military assistance to Pakistan* As you know, there are many Congressmen and Senators who are against US military assistance to Pakistan.
      CHINA
      China, of course is very happy on the withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan. Gorbachev has been specially trying to improve relations with China. In the past there were certain impediments to improve Sino-Soviet relations, Afghanistan being one of these.
      AFGHANISTAN'
   ‘ ' 1
      The resistance has been fighting a great war against heavy odds. It has in the process suffered .very heavy losses. It fought in accordance with the tribal culture and traditions. The people of Afghanistan have never" submitted to any outside interference in the history. This is what they repeated in this war as well. The crux of the problem is that there are seven parties in this war but they are not united. There is no single centralized leadership which is quintessential for such a revolutionary movements. The only unifying factor, at the moment, is presence of Russia in Afghanistan. They have differences even on the assistance they are receiving from different countries. The moderates and fundamentalists have the differences in approach, traditions and culture. So there will be a situation of chaos in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of Russian troops.
      It is also very hard for me to believe that a super power like Russia quit this country without having its share. There are certain apprehensions regarding the division of Afghanistan in the way of Korea, etc.
      Pakistan has signed the Geneva agreement. There should have been direct talks instead of indirect talks, but we always maintain that direct talks would mean the recognition of government in Kabul, though there are many examples, America did not recognize Vietnam and China when it had direct dialogue with these two nations. Under the Geneva accord the Afghan refugees should go back to their country. They left their homeland due to disturbed conditions, in the first instance, but if the conditions are going to remain disturbed,then do you expect them to go back?
      It is often said that after the withdrawal of Russian troops, the Afghan will be able to set up a government which will be friendly to Pakistan, What happened in Vietnam when they started their struggle under the leadership of Hochimenh against Japan? China provided them all kinds of support and Chinese support remained firm throughout their struggle. You can see their relations now. Similarly the example of Bangladesh can also be given, when with the Indian intervention they separated the eastern wing and now they are not tinder the obligation of India.
                                             A.R. SIDDIQI (Brig. Retd.)
      As far self-determination to Afghan peoples is concerned, this right is not even given in any of the Muslim countries as in almost all the Muslim countries there is dictatorship in one form or
                                                     70
Jul/-September, 19SB
Vol.2, No.l
 the other.
      The Afghans have allowed the super powers so close and deep,that it has dared to interfere into their international affairs.
      Their resolute resistance is very encouraging and will Inshallah bear fruits,
                                     DR. TAQI BANGASH
      It will be dangerous for the Americans if Afghanistan is going to be changed into another Iran and so,with this thought, they decided to take backward steps. They told their friends, the Arab billionairs from whom they were getting petro-dollars through CIA,that the American government is not willing to buy another Teheran in Kabul.
      There is no example in the history that communism has ever succeeded in the Muslim world as it has succeeded in Afghanistan, There may be communist parties in Islamic‘countries but through these parties they will never be able to occupy any Muslim country ideologically. They tried their best to do something in Afghanistan but ideologically it was a failure and when the argument failed they rushed over to Afghanistan with their heavy military power. With military might you cannot conquer the people. The occupation of Afghanistan proved just a physical occupation, an immoral act, and it was declared immoral by the communist organizations. The freedom fighters of different countries, were ashamed of the Soviet occupation. They, could not suppqrt Soviet occupation of Afghanistan,
      If Afghanistan changes into a real Muslim state, and a true radical Islamic state is established there it will never be pro-American, So America is not in favor of true Islamic state in Afghanistan, On the other hand,the Soviet Union failed and it was a failure of communist ideology.
      Behind printed words of Geneva accord there have been intrigues between the two super powers. •
                                   SYED GHAFFAR MEHDI ("Futurologist" of History)
                              Under the headline of "a house on Fire", I wrote 16 February, 1986, in the Pakistan Economist:
      "Russia has committed a monumental blunder in aggressing against Afghanistan militarily.Russia has embarked upon a war that she cannot win and should not win. Russia can overwhelm Afghanistan but cannot subdue it0"
      I predicted in August 1979» Russia has not yet played its military card and only intervened politically at that time, when it came to know that a situation of confederation between Afghanistan and Pakistan has been developing, Russia will get nothing from Afghanistan except earning bad name and adverse international opinion,
      American support and assistance to the liberation struggle of mujaheddin was not for the l,Qve of Afghanistan independence, rather it was out of USSR-American rivalaiy.
      In Russia a tremendous historical change has come. This change is a revolution within a revolution, The first revolution was in 1916, This is another revolution after 60,70 years. Gorbachev is reversing the policies of Stalin, Khroshchev and Brezhnev not only globally but also internally in the field of economics.
                                         KHAN ABDUL WALI KHAN (anp chief)
      Our President has been saying about the Afghan issue that his government will not take rest unless the people of Afghanistan have their two basic rights, i,e. (i) a representative government*
                                                        71
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 (ii) a system of government according to their choice. It will be appreciated if this is done in Pakistan first. We have been deprived of these rights for the last 12 years by the armed forces. It is often said that the interest of our government in the Afghan issue is merely directed by the Islamic spirit, I do not agree with this argument because if it is so that should have been manifested in the case of Palestine and Kashmir,
      It looks from the interest of our government in the Afghan issue that Afghanistan is the fifth province of Pakistan. Too much attention and importance is given to this province ignoring all other four provinces,
      The Afghans are not familiar with the terms of rights, democracy and President and Prime Mini- * ster. They only know Kings and Khalifatul Muslemin •
      In schools, colleges and universities the weapons and arms supplied for the so-called Afghan jehad are frequently being used by the students, and just a week ago, from the convoy of weapons sent to the border about 35 trucks of arms were sold in Dara Adam Khel,
      Once I was asked-by a correspondent at Karachi Airport that I am not so sensitive over the issue of Afghanistan. I told him, that my house is only 11 kilometres from the border whereas you are living 1,100 kilometres away from the border. I told him that according to my observations there is nothing to be worried about as far Afghan issue is concerned. There is saying in Pashto that you will feel heat on that land where there will be fire.
      We always suggested to solve this issue through negotiations and war is not at all the solution to this issue. Like a foolish man, who does the same thing after loss while a sane person does that before any loss take place, they decided to start talks but with this plea that they will not have direct talks.
      Russian decision of withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan have put these peoples in trouble by the very thought that the aid from America will be discontinued and they will fall totally. I am confident that no power on earth can push Russia out of Afghanistan. Our faith is that miracles are shown by prophets, but the Godless Russia has done this by withdrawing from Afghanistan at its own,
      You have signed the agreement and now you are trying to go back from it. It was accepted and agreed in Geneva that supply of arms will not be routed through Pakistan territory to the Afghan mujaheddin. But you are witness that weapons are still supplied through Pakistan to the so-called mujaheddin. If we will not honor this agreement what will be the option for Pakistan? If we do not accept peace there will be no other option for us. When Russia says that it is withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan, this is really an offer of peace.
      The Afghan government offers dialogue, for ceasefire, for sitting in the parliament, for joining coalition government. The Afghan resistance says no,Their offer to work as political party against them was also'dashed to the ground by the resistance. The mujaheddin are offered greater rights than us as our government in Pakistan is not ready to give us the right to work as a political party.
      If the so-called refugees are not sent back to their homes and supply of weapons are continued to them through Pakistan,then there is a saying in Pashto that if some bullets come to you from any house you have the right to start firing on that house. How will you expect baskets of flower when
                                                      72
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 you are firing rockets and stingers on them? For.God’s sake have your priorities settled and your first priority is to safeguard your.own interest.
     Afghan refugees are our brothers, these are our guests we never said them that they are refugees. This is my advice to them that if you want to continue the war against a super power for God sake do not use our territory.
                 QAZI HUSSAIN AHMAD (Ameer of Jamat-e-Islami Pakistan)
     The freedom loving Afghan Muslims, by selecting the path of martyrdom, became a torch bearer for freedom loving down-trodden nations in general and the Palestinian and Kashmiri Muslims in particular. This is a message for Palestinian and Kashmiri Muslims from Afghan mujaheddin that freedom needs blood and if you want freedom you will have to offer your blood.
       No other reasons will be acceptable and convinceable except that it was because of Soviet humiliating defeat, that Russia decided to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan. Their propaganda campaign to convert the international opinion by arguing that it was because of the Gorbachev domestic and foreign policies, because of the kind heartedness of Soviet government or as a result of Geneva accord that the withdrawal of Russian troops took place, will be a futile exercise and already dashed to the ground. They will never be able to hide their shameful defeat.
     The Soviets have turned Afghan cultivable land into barren, they have destroyed Afghanistan's pastures, killed 1.3 million peoples resulting in thousands of widows and orphans, they have forced about five million inhabitants to seek refuge in the outside world and rendered about five million displaced within Afghanistan. Inspite of all this,it is ironical and absurd to say that such a barbaric super power has, out of sympathy and kindness decided to withdraw from Afghanistan. Such a statement is in fact a cruel joke. Mr. Najibullah has admitted in a press conference,which was later on telecast, that communism and socialism will never come in Afghanistan. These were the words of Dr. Najibullah that "which foolish thinks that socialism and communism will ever come in Afghanistan." In other words, he admitted himself that he is the foolish. What is the Saur Revolu-tion?Everybody knows it. Every one knows who were Tarakai, Hafizullah Amin and Babrak Karmal. Najib— ullah himself is a communist and every one knows this.
      The argument that Soviet forces withdrew as a result of Geneva accord is also not valid and hence is absurd as Gorbachev in a statement much before the signing of the accord, declared that Russia will withdraw its troops whether the accord is signed or not.
                                     fx
      Those who are of the opinion that Najibullah will rule Afghanistan they are living in the para-dize of dooms. This is surprising to me that as The Afghan Muslims have achieved a renowed victory for themselves and the urnmah, and have opened a new golden era>’in the history of mankind, our own brothers (these are from amongst us) are trying to undermine it. They are spreading despair among the Muslim ummah instead of being happy over this gigantic success. What kind of service they are rendering to the ummah? Is this patriotism? These are open traitors of the nation and the ummah.
 They are not sincere to the motherland and ummah. They are the agents of others and are working for their vested interest. This is a very crucial time of history. We should have complete harmony of faith with the Afghans. The Afghan nation has emerged as a very big power and become a shield for Pakistan defense. As a result of our unshakeable support, Pakistan will get rid of the Indian superiority. Not only four divisions of our army will be spared from this area but we will also have a
                                                      73
Vol.2, No.l
July-Sept ember, 1988
big power on our back - - Afghanistan. The balance of power, which is now in favor of India, will be no more in the Indian favor. Then Pakistan will be a free Pakistan from the exploitation of super powers, a self-sufficient Pakistan not to be dictated by any super powers for aid reasons. Therefore I congratulate the Afghans for this jehad. I desire and hope that inshallah there will be a pure Islamic government in Afghanistan which will become a beacon for Muslims all over the world. Since the Afghan mujaheddin wrote the golden history with their sacred bloody the Palestinian and Kashmiri Muslims will acquire new courage, momentum and inspiration. New ways of struggle will be opened for them and there will be a new era of respect and honor for the Muslim ummah.
      Paris Conference Discusses Heart Historical Relics Ruined in the War
*HH(XXXX*XXXXXX«XK"XXX-XXK*XXX**-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX*tt-XXX*XX XXflXX XXXfc
 it
 3;
 : c 3 c :c 3: sc 3 C 3 C 3 C 3 C 3 C 3C 3 C 3 C 3 C 3C 3 C ac ac a c
 3 C 3 (
 ac a c ac 3 c
                                                                                                                                                                                           a c . a c
 3 C
 ac
 ac
 ac
 ac
 ae
 V. 1
 EDITORS NOTE? A. conference was held 3 May, 1988,in Paris on the destruction caused in the historic city of Herat as a result of Russian aggression against Afghanistan, Participants in the conference, such as Sayyed Qasim Ryshtia, Dr. Michael Barry, Rashed Saljuki, Olivier Roy and Allauddin Khan, General Mujaheddin Commander of South Western Regions spoke about the history, Herati School of thought and the-Herat uprising March, 1979•
     Bernard Dupaigne, the President of the Afghan—French Friendship Society and Andrea Brono explained through pictures the innumerable destruction caused to Herat monuments as a result of Russian aggression against Afghanistan. Herat historical relics were declared as part of the world historical heritages at a conference in Nairobi in 1976 and The French,government,by extending a grant, has decided to hold an exhibition of Herati art.
     Those who organized the conference included Michael Barry and Bernard Dupaigne. The conference was held under the auspices of AFRANE (The Afghan French Friendship Society) and CEIEDAF (Center for Afghan Studies) and the committee for organizing the conference was headed by Senator Jocques Golliet. Following is a summary of the proceedings of the Paris meeting.
*X IHHt-X XXX XX E-X X*tt-X *»XX* X X X X-tttt* XX*XXXXXX E-X-X X X X X X X X-X X-KXX X XXX*
     Herat, is situated in northwestern Afghanistan and has had relics which manifest the 1,000 years history of that city and today almost all of them have been converted into ruins.
     According to historians, the foundation of the city of Herat was laid down in 330 BC by Alaxen-der the Great when he was on his way to India. The Herat city was an important post situated on the Silk Route and it was a crossroad of trade for precious items between China and Western tides.
 74
coun-
Vol.2, No.l
July-September, 1988                  AFGHAN JEHAD
      In the 10th century AD, Herat was considered one of the most beautiful centers of Islamic civilization* By the end of the 14th Century, the Timurid monarchs rebuilt this city which was ruined by Jenghiz Khan.
      After that, until the beginning of the 16th century, Herat remained the capital of the Timuri-ds' and a center for the popularization and blossoming of arts. In Herat scholars, literary figures, artists and architects came from all comers and Herat became entirely a city of beautiful arid grand monuments and relics. The best architects of the Islamic world,at the zenith of the city*s progress, made use of their knowledge and art in constructing the Herati relics.
       In the 20th century Herat, was also an important literary and artistic center. Architects, poets, painters, minaturists, ceramics, artists and composers of that city had a wide ranging fame and many kinds of artistic produces were available in Herati bazars. Herat was the center of best Afghan silk and scholars, poets, writers, goldsmiths, glass workers, brass workers, tanners had once again revived the thousand year old arts and traditions of Herat. The Uzbeks and Turkmans were weaving the most beautiful silk and woolen carpets of the Central Asia in this city.
      UNESCO, by taking in view the fact that the Herati relics are considered part of world historical relics, during the Nairobi conference of 1976 worked out a program for restoring the relics of Herat through international cooperation. This program was undertaken and financed by the UN and work began in August 1976,                                                                      '
                           t                                                                      ■
       15th March, 1979 the people of Herat,including scholars, writers, students and the army rose against the Soviet puppet regime which had captured power 27 April, 1976* in Kabul, Tanks from the Soviet Union arrived in Herat valleys and, together with the Air Force, attacked the city of Herat and, on the surface, silenced the historic movement of the people of Herat by martyring
  25,000  people and converting the city into ruins.
       After that the Soviet army stationed itself in the heart of Herat but despite this, it was unable until the very end, to conquer and defeat the valorous Afghan mujaheddin.
       Tanks have converted into a ruin the ancient city of Herat. Bombers and Russian cannon fires have destroyed all the western and green parts of Herat, During the attacks most of the historical relics have been destroyed. The pictures taken by the mujaheddin and the documents collected by a handful of htmantarian institutions are witness to this fact.
       The Herat famous grand mosque has been heavily damaged by rocket hits. The grand tomb of Gawhar Shad Begum and similarly some of the famous minarets of the Herat Mosque have been ruined. Similarly. The famous Herati Madrasa known as Fakhrul Madares next to the Herat Mussalahs (minarets) has also been demolished and from the four Madrasa minarets two of them have been damaged. Several other historical relics have either been damaged or completely demolished. These include the tomb of Abdul Waleed Ahmad bin Abul Rija (died in 232 Hijri Qamari or 853 AD) the teacher of Imam Bukhari, the tomb of Fakhruddin Ghazi (1165-1227 AD), The tomb of Behzad and tomb of Mawlana Nooruddin Abdul Rahman Jami. Also the historic Herat Palace have been inflicted with irreparable damages. In the outskirts of the city villages have been ^bombed resulting in the destruction of many, historical relics and, in areas near the Iranian border, the tomb of Abul Ghazi in the Kohsan sub division has been completely levelled to the ground.
       Can we remain silent to such savage massacre and destruction? The Russians are claiming that,
                                                    75                                              -
Vol.2t No.l
July-September, 1988                  AFGHAN JEHAO
throughout this time, they have undertaken the repair of this ancient city -under the supervision of archialogists as a part of an international project but the fact is that the Herat historical relics are vanished.
    May be still it is time that the world ought to know about the beauties of the Herat city and especially take part in putting an end to killings and unparalleled lootings. So, God willing, we may be able to revive Herat from the ground and once again beautify it.
76  >
July-September, 1988 AFGHAN JIHAD               Vol.2, No.l
    CATALOGUE OF MUJAHEDDIN PRESS
 D
 ft
 ft
 B
 B
 ft
 O
 B
 O
                                        Part V (in alphabetical order)
EDITOR*S NOTE:   The following is the concluding installment of
a catalogue of newspapers and periodicals with their relative
a
m
□
B
a
data published by the mujaheddin or mujaheddin related organizationsft
during the past ten years.
ft
ft
is
77
Name of the        Years of        Publishers                                      Duration  Place of           Langu   Period of    
Publication        Foundation         Name:                 Owner         Editor   of Publi¬ Publica¬    Size   age     Publication  
                                                                                    cation   tion.                                   
Azadi (Freedom)    1987       Afghanistan Freedom   Afghanistan Freedom   Zaman     Monthly  u.s.        Medium Dari,   Continues    
%                             Society               Society               Stanza!                               Pashtu,              
                                                                                                                English              
Akhbar-e-Haftagj   1987       Invitation of Itte-   Invitation of Itte-             Weekly   Iran               Dari    Continues    
Jehad (Weekly                 lad-e-Islami Party of had-e-Islami Party                                                               
News of resis¬                Afghanistan,          of Afghanistan.                                                                  
tance)                                                                                                                               
Armanr-e-Mujahed   1987       Cultural Committee of Cultural Committee              Monthly  Peshawar    Large  Dari/   Continues    
(The aspiration               IUAM.                 of IUAM.                                                    Pashtu               
of Mujahed)                                                               •                                                          
Al-Badr            1986       Publicity offices of  Publicity offices of  Mohammad  Monthly  U.S.        Medium Dari/   Continues    
                              Afghan mujaheddin     Afghan mujaheddin     Zubair                                Pashtu.              
                              [European Section)    ([European Section)   Tanwir                                                     
Al-B alagh-ul-     1981       South Western Sector  Harakat^Enqelab-e-                       Baluchistar Large  Dari/   Not known    
Mubeen.                       of Harkat-e-Enqelab-  Islami-Afghanist an                                         Pashtu               
(Clear express¬               e-Islami Afghanistan                                                                                   
ion).                         (Moazzen group).                                                                                       
Al-B ay an (State¬ 1987       Publicity and Cultu¬  Hezb-e-Islami Afghan¬ Mohammad  Monthly  Quetta      Large  Pashtu/ Continues    
ment),                        ral Department of     istan (Hekmatyar).    Masoom             (Baluchis¬         Dari                 
                              South Western Provin¬                       Poya               tan).                                   
                              ces,                                                                                                   
Srshad (Publici¬   1983       Islami Association    Mohammadan Associat¬           Monthly   West        Small. Dari    Not mention¬ 
ty)-                          of Muslim'in Europe,  ion of Muslims in                        Germany                    ed           
                                                    Europe.                                                                          
kl-Hejratal-       1986       Office of Hezb-e-Is-  Office of Hezb-e-Is-                     West Ger¬   Small  Dari/   Continues    
jehad (Migra-      )          lami (Khales) in      lami (Khales),.                          many.              Pashtu.              
tion/resistance               West Germany.                                                                                          
J uly-Sept embel*, 1988          AIGHAN JIHAD
-a
v£>
Name of the           fears of          Publishers                                          Duration  Place of            Iangu   Period of   
Publication           foundation           Name           Owner                 Editor      of Publi¬ Publica¬    Size    age     Publication 
                                                                                             cation   tion.                                   
Jehad                 1983       IUAM                          Not mentioned ft ot men¬     Not men¬  US          tedium  Dari    Continues   
(Resistance)                                                                ' t tioned      tioned                                            
Da Jehad Ghag         1978       Cultural Committee :     Provincial Council f  laulawi     Monthly   Peshawar    Small   Pashtu/ Continues   
(Voice of Jehad       .          of the Provincial        of Nangarhar, Jami- ^ \bdul                                     Dari                
                                 Council of Nangarhar,    at-e-Islami Afghan¬   Jalil                                                         
                                 Jamiat---e-Islami Af¬    istan.                paqiri                                                        
                                 ghanistan.                                     4urad                                                         
Kabul                 1987       Cultural Council of      Department of Kabul    Cultural    Monthly  Peshawar    large   Dari/   Continues   
                                 the Central Office oi    Office.               Council                                    Pashtu             
                                 Kabul ,J amiat-e-I slami                                                                                     
                                 Afghanistan.                                                                                                 
Al---Najam-us-        1987       Department of Poets      Department of Poets   Paiman                Chitral     Large,  Dari    Continues   
Saqeb                            and Writers.             and Writers.          Pan j sherd                                                   
N ida---e---Jundullai 1987       Cultural Council of      Not mentioned                      Monthly  Peshawar    Small   Dari    Continues   
(Voice of the                    Jundullah base.                                                                                              
army of God) *                                                                                                                                
N ida---e-Sangar      1987       Cultural Department      Office of Jamiat for   N.Tayye-    Monthly  Peshawar    Medium  Dari    Continues   
l Voice of the                   of South Western Sec¬    the provinces in          bi.                                                       
trench).                         tor, of Jamiat-e-        South Western Sector                                                                
                                 I slami-Af ghanist an.   Peshawar.                                                                           
CJ ida-e-Muj ahed-    1983       Afghan Press Interna¬    - Khalilullah Mateen    Khalil-    Casual   Quetta      Differ  Pashtu/ Continues   
din (Voice of                    tional                                            Ullah              Baluchistar i rent. Dari                
the mujaheddin)                                                                  ’ Mateen.                                                    
Niru-e---Iman         1987       Cultural Department      Jamiat-e-Islami                    Monthly  Quetta      Large      Dari Continues   
(The force of                    of J amiat-e-Isiami      , Afghanistan South                         Baluchistar i                           
faith)                           Afghanistan,South        Western Sector.                                                                     
                                 Western Sector.                                                                                              
Name of the      Years of   Publishers                                            Duration  Place of         Langu                  
Publication      Foundation * Name                       Owner         Editor     of Publi¬ Publica¬  Size   age     Period of 11   
                                                                                   cation   tion.                    Publication || 
Payam-e-J ehad   1987       larkat-e-Islami       Peshawar Office      A.Kawar-    Monthly  Peshawar  Large  Dari    Continues 11   
(Message of the             [Mohseni)                                                                                               
Jehad)                                                                                                                              
Payam-&-J ehad   1986       Office of Jamiat-e-   Office of Jamiat-e-                       London    Small  Dari    Continues 11   
(Message of the             Islami Afghanistan,   Islami Afghanistan,                                                               
Jehad),                     London.               London.                                                                           
Rahrawan-e-      1987       Not mentioned         Activist students    Not men¬    Monthly  Not men¬  Small  Dari    Continues |l   
Islam (Followers                                  of Afghanistan.      tioned.              tioned.                                 
of Islam.)                                                                                                                          
Seraj-e-Munir    1987       Not mentioned         Not mentioned        Not men¬    Monthly  Peshawar  Small  Dari    Continues 11   
(Shing light)                                                          tioned                                                       
Sada---e-Islam   1987       Cultural Committee of Cultural Committee,  Jalal       Monthly  Peshawar  Medium Russian Continues 11   
(Voice of Islam]            Jamiat-e-Islami Afgh¬ J amiat- e-I si ami  Farhai-                                                      
                            anistan.              Afghanistan          Khta.                                                        
Tawheed(Unity)   1987       Islamic association   Islamic Association  Not men¬    Monthly  Australia Small  Dari    Continues j    
                            of Afghan students in of.Afghan Students   tioned                                                       
                            Australia.            in Australia                                                                      
Ummat-e---Azad   1987       Islamic Unity of Stu¬ Islamic Unity of                 Monthly  Peshawar  Small  Dari/   Continues J    
(Free Nation)    /          dents and Youth       Students and Youth.                                        Pashtu                 
Waqeeat          1984       Cultural Committee    Islamic Revolutiona¬ Abdul       Casual   Peshawar  Large  Dari/   Not known 1    
(Reality)                                         ry government of     Ghafoor                               Pashtu                 
                                                  Afghanistan.         Noon.                                                        
Afghan Jehad     1987       CCAR                  CCAR                 Sabahud--- Quarterly Islamabad Medium Pashtu, Continues 1    
                                                                       din                                   Dari,                  
                                                                       Kushkaki                              English                
Name of the      Years of         Publishers                                         Duration  Place of        Iangu   Period of         
Publication      Foundation          Name                  Owner          Editor     of Publi¬ Publica- Size   age     Publication  c_7  
                                                                                      cation   ■ tion.                                   
Da'awat          1987       Edara-e-Ehyaal-         J amaat-ul-Da * awat  Abdul       Monthly  Peshawar Medium Urdu    Continues    cn   
(Invitation)                Da* awatr-ul- Islaraia  Ila-Quran Wal-Sunna   Rahim                                                     (D   
                                                                                                                                     n   
                            (Office of the                                Muslim                                                     i   
                            Rennaisance of Isla-             -                                                                      cr   
                            mic- Invitation)                                                                                        «.   
                                                                                                                                   I---* 
Estaqlal         1986         Afghan Association     Afghan Association   Editorial    Monthly Paris    Medium Dari    Continues    vO   
                            Paris                  Paris                  Board.                                                    CO   
                                                                                                                                    Ob   
Jehad            Not          Islamic Mujaheddin     Islamic Mujaheddin   Not men-    Monthly  Not men- Small  Pashtuy Not known         
                 known.       Commandos, Wardak.     Commandos, Wardak.   tioned               tioned.         Dari                      
Al-Khilafat      1986.      Islamic Revolutionary  Not mentioned.         Arub       Quarterly Peshawar Medium Dari                      
(The Caliphate)             Government of Afghan¬                                                                                        
                            istan.                                                                                                 CTta  
Morchal          1987        Islamic Movement of   Islamic Movement of    Sayyed      Monthly  Peshawar Medium Pashtu  Continues    HI   
                            the Tribals            the Tribals.           lulab                                                     &=;  
                                                                          Sabaoon.                                                   H   
Paikar-e-Islam   Not known  Publication Departme-  Publication Depart-    Not men    ■ Monthly  Mashed  Small  Dari    Continues         
(Islamic Strugg-            nt - of Hezb-e-Islami  ment of Hezb---e-Isla- tioned.                                                        
le).                          Ra»ad Afghanistan.   mi, Rafad, Afghan-                                                                    
                                                   istan.                                                                                
Qalam Wa         1985          Safiullah Sabat        Safiullah Sabat     Safiull---   Monthly   u.s.   Small  Dari    One year          
a                                                                         ah Sabat                                                       
Khedmat                                                                                                                                  
Shariaat         1970-       Faculty of theology   Faculty of theology    Burhanud-    Monthly Peshawar Medium Dari /  Not known.   <3   
                 1987       University of Islamic  University of Isla-    din Rab-   ■                         Pashtu                0   
                            Invitation and Resis-  mic Invitation and     bani and                                                   M   
                            tance                  Resistance             Nimatul-                                                 • s;  
r                                                                                                                                    O   
                                                                          lah Shah-                                                  •   
                                                                                                                                     p   
% •                                                                       rami.                                                          
 July-September, 19SS AFGHAN JEHAQ Vol*2f No*l
 A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICALS
 Complete identification of each publication is at the end
                     of this section
July-Septemberf 1988 AfGHllN JEHAO                 Vol#2f No.l
    NEWSPAPERS
            July-Sept ember 1988.
Rah-e-lslam A- June, 1938
EDITORIAL: "The Moscow conference - - from the balance of power to the balance of interest".
The editorial says from the time that Gorbachev assumed ..power in Kremlin in 1985» it has been the fourth time that he has been sitting with the leaders of the satans and no longer Russia to Reagan.is the "evil empire" nor America is the source of international, disorder and threat?
REPORT: The Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs in a statement has warned Pakistan that if Pakistan continued the violation of the Geneva accord, Russians will reconsider the schedule for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
NEWS: The President of Piakistan, Ziaul Haq has said "The Russians are not ready to withdraw from Afghanistan spiritually."
* Nangarhar the eastern part of Afghanistan has.not been eradicated from the dirt of the presence of the Russians, The western press is oply attending to the superficialities of the issue.
ARTICIES: "The political solution of the Afghanistan issue and the official role of the mujaheddin in the future of the country." The article says, "Since six years, it has been said that the military solution of Afghanistan issue is not possible and the only way to end the war in this country will be to resort to a political solution.Does this not mean that the mili-
 tary dimension of this issue is void of all importance and the Muslim nation of Afghanistan can in no way achieve their aspirations by resorting to military means?,.. Despite the fact that the mujahed Afghan nation has strongly rejected the theory of solving the issue through political means and has announced time and again that until it achieves a victory and obtains its jehad objectives it will continue to fight, supporters of the political solution of the Afghanistan issue succumbed to the signing of the shameful Geneva accord...The
 Afghan mujaheddin, who have rejected the Geneva talks and the accords signed on their basis, have announced time and again that on the one side of the Afghan issue are the Russians and on the other side are the mujaheddin and, in case the Russians are ready, the mujaheddin are also ready to attend talks ... (On the basis of the Geneva accords) the mujaheddin were not able to become a party in the talks and therefore they have to achieve their aspirations and objectives through military means. As a matter of fact, this political solution was a.political deal in which Pakistan and the US, on the basis of pledges they made to the Russians, were able to pave the way for the withdrawal of the Russian armed forces from Afghanistan and thus attain their strategic objectives. Therefore, the political solution of the Afghanistan issue becomes related to an international deal which has been achieved with the cost of the blood of more than one million people and in fact the
83
 real issue of Afghanistan ought to be solved through the same military means ... Now the mujaheddin are faced with only two optionsc First, if they agree to a political solution, they should wait outside the framework of the Geneva accords for the outcome of personal efforts of Pakistan, the US and the inefficient UN organization so that they might be accepted as provisional party to the talks. The second option is to intensify and further coordinate the jehad and continue it until imperialism is toppled and eradicated alongwith its domestic or internal puppets."
 Enqelab-e-lslami
 Afghanistan 5 June, 19'88*
 "The new phase of the epoch making Islamic revolution of Afghanistan has been written with great pride by the Afghan mujaheddin on the 'one hand from Kabul, Jalalabad, Paktia until Badakhshan, Mazar-e-Sharif, Samangan and Bamian and, on the other hand, from Herat and Panjshir until Farah, Badghis and Faryab (stet). This has been the kind of pride which the whole humanity can rejoice." The editorial, after what it calls the "Geneva deals" reviews the whole process of the jehad and says it has resulted in the total and absolute defeat of the Russians and their readiness to pay reparations for their ten years of aggression and intervention to the Muslim revolutionaries and to the future Islamic sovereign country,
 MESSAGE: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in his message to the Muslim people of Afghanistan in relation to recent developments in the country, has said "Continue your brave uprising and resistance, inflict your final blows on the enemy, thrive for the strengthening of your trenches and unity in your ranks more than before and with utmost alertness and wisdom frustrate all enemy intrigues.
 INTERVIEW: Mohammad Anwar Khaiqani the mujahed brother in an interview with the reporter of The Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan has said "the agreements reached among the leaders of world arrogance in Geneva for coordinating their arrogance programs are aimed at quelling the Islamic revolutions in the world."
 Da Sabaoon Zairey
 (The Morning Herald) 10 June 1988 (First issue).
    The newspaper has set forth for itself the
 following objectives:
 (l) Invitation to unity and coordination, (2) non-alignment to any of the groups, (3) invitation to all the people .to accept Islam and practice it (4) mobilization of all intellectual resourse (.5) unity among offices and trenches of Jehad and mounting pressure for the establishment of an interim government and putting it into operation.
 EDITORIAL: "We should all stregthen the interim mujaheddin government".
    The Russian have severely been defeated in the heroic Afghan land. In this sensative phase of our national life, all eyes are fixed on the mujaheddin leaders ... Intrigues and plots hatched by enemies of Islam have also multiplied by several hundred per cent and both the East and the West imperialists are trying, with all means and possibilities at their disposal, to prevent the victory of Islam and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan ...
 They have launched a propaganda that the mujaheddin and jehad organizations of Afghanistan cannot form a government in Afghanistan and they will fight each other after the withdrawal of Russian forces. However, the esteemed jehad organizations,by proclaiming a government and its organizational structure,have refuted this Satanic propaganda and have proved their ability for the establishment of a mujaheddin government in the blood stained country of Afghanistan. But this is not enough. It is neces-
eiv
                                                                                                                                                                 9
July-September, 1938
 Vol.2, No.l
sary that all the leaders of jehad and all those who are at the trenches as well as the refugees and, in short, all the Muslims of the country exert their utmost efforts for the strengthening of the mujaheddin government.”
ARTICIES: "Hasan Sharq, or the fox of politics" Hasan Sharq became acquainted with Babrak Karmal at the Kabul .University campus 39 years ago when he was 23 years old... This young man was very active and cleverly established friendshed . with Daoud Khan and was able to share all his secrets and private life. From 1953 until 1963, Hasan Sharq was \t.he private secretary of Daoud Khan ... Daoud Khan used to call.him as his son ... In 1973, when Daoud Khan captured power, Hasan Sharq was appointed by him as Deputy Prime Minister and at this time Sharq, in cooperation with Nimat— ullah Pazhwak, Abdul Hamid Mohtat, Jailani Bakh-tari and Faiz Mohammad had the duty to obstruct genuine Islamic movements and all freedom movements ... The Russians at these sensative moments have appointed Sharq for the realization of their plans. The Russians’ think that Sharq
(1) among the people of Afghanistan is considered a non-communist figure (2) has been among the veterans of the tyrannical monarchial system and, therefore, will attract a number of the supporters of monarchy both inside Afghanistan and abroad to cooperate with the regime, (3) has sufficient knowledge about the political and ideological differences between India and Pakistan, (4) with a figure like him the trend of events in Afghanistan will be reverted to the period prevailing before th'' 1978 communist coup. In other words, he might be able to eliminate the inter-party disputes between the Khalq and Parcham factions gradually and, at the same time, prevent the success of the Islamic revolution by promoting nationalist and anti-lslamic groups and ideas.
Mujahed                     14 June, 1988.
EDITORIAL: "For the attention of the command-
 ers of the fronts around Kabul". It says"...The people of our cities, due to the existence.Of thousands of difficulties, cannot change or convert their cities into the trenches of resistance or fighting. The resistance is not being transferred from the countryside into the cities as well for the following reasons:
 (l) All military divisions and security posts are located in the cities and are defending the administration of the cities; (2) The cities, in relation to the countryside, have more population and their total evacuation is not possible; (3) It is impossible to convert the cities into battle sites because large number of non-combatants will be killed;
 (4) The cities are centers of industrial production and, if they are'converted into figh- 1 ting bases, national industry will be damaged and shattered; (5) Many hospitals and schools are in the cities and because of this, too, the cities cannot be converted into fighting bases; (6) On the basis of the Shariat also we do not have the right to extend the fighting into populous areas; (7) Russian aggressive forces, who had come to Afghanistan to quell the Muslim Afghan nation and sustain its puppet regime are stationed in the cities. Taking these factors in mind, we have to continue using the countryside as the basis for our resistance and do not extend or shift them into the cities and populous centers ... Fighting the centers from the areas around Kabul is not an ordinary job. There should be a thorough plan prepared by the experienced commanders and all our brothers in Kabul and its surrounding areas should follow that plan and then resort to conquering that city."
 * The leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Rabbani, in a speech, inaugurating a training and organizational. seminar of the commanders of the jehad fronts, said it was the wisdom and alertness of you Muslim mujaheddin which brought a world super power to the state
8$
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 of defeat and disgrace,
 NEWS: A four day training and organizational seminar of the commanders of jehad, which had opened 30 May in the Madrasa of the Khalid Ben Waleed Brigade, ended 3 June,
 *  The mujaheddin shot down 27 April an -enemy military helicopter in Ghazni,
 *  According to an authentic report, during the course of last month in Kandahar, about 170 Russian soldiers and officers were killed and nine captured, also 3P9 puppet regime soldiers and officers, were killed and 330 of them captured alive, 110 tanks and personnel carriers destroyed and five planes shot down,
 ARTICIES:. "Holding talks and meeting with Cordo-vez is a treason to the Jehad" (By Abdul Ahad Tarshi). The article reviews Cordovez activities vis a vis the Afghanistan issue and accuses him of pleasing the Russians,: It says, the same way that meetings with Cordovez did not have any result, during the course of Geneva talks and resulted in a humiliation of those who met him, because Cordovez, after that meeting when the talks began * refused the Pakistani'demand of inviting the jehad, leaders to come to Geneva, future talks with him again will entail only humiliation and insult to our jehad.
     The newspaper, seeking the views of. cultural and political figures about political, organization of the jehad., has interviewed Sayyed Noorullah Eftad, the Minister of Interior of the IUAM interim government and the Secretary of the Jamiat-e-Islami, He has said "a council, consisting of 21 members constitutes the high council of the alliance,, In case one third of this council decides that a particular issue was important, on the basis of consensus among seven leaders, that issue was being decided and the seven member council was called the leadership council representing the state. After solving and tackling many difficulties, the seven leaders of ipujaheddin organizations agreed that
 the affairs of the jehad should, hereafter, be executed by the transitional government, especially the political affairs of the jehad.
    Abdul Ahad Tarshi has said "In my view, the high council, comprising the leaders of seven organization, Is the best kind of council and if they cooperate completely with each other, they can cope with all the issues.
 The prospects for the (success of the) interim government depends on the activities of the high council. If this council renders sincere cooperation to the interim government, the government is going to have a bright future,
    Mushfiq has said only the mujaheddin interim government can guarantee peace, prosperity, freedom and security of the country, because it is the mujaheddin government that will make use of the principles of brotherhood, solidarity, counsel and justice in organizing and building up the society,
 Ariana Voice 15 June, 1988.
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is about the anniversary of the newspaper. It says "The Sada-e-Aryana is beginning with its third year of publication with printing of this issue.
 During the first two years, the journal has been published every fortnightly despite economic and financial difficulties. It is apparent from the letters reaching us from our friends that the journal, despite its small size, has attracted the attention of the people. During these two years The Sada-e-Aryana has published material about Islam, the country and those who are da-fending it from the trenches. We have also published material about important Islamic personalities and positive criticism of the affairs and have pointed to shortcomings of our society and interviews with the commanders of the jehad. We have also published interviews with scholars and poets of the country and issued material on the golden history of Afghanistan and about unity and solidarity. We have refrained .from offering
86
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN J[HAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 undue praises and it is up to our readers to judge our record.
 NEWS: The BBC has said once again that the former Afghan King Mohammad Zahir Shah has bluntly rejected the proposal put forward by Najibullah in which the King has been asked to take part in an interim government.
 Rah-e-lslam 18 June, 1988,
 EDITORIAL; "The policy of the neither the winner nor the loser of the war is being popularized".
    The editorial says, "World arrogance, no ■matter to what camp it belongs, has an identical concept and differences between world arrogance is only on the surface and a passing phenomenon.
 1
 Putting the peoples and the nations at chains and looting their resources and wealth one their basic objective. The difference among them i? how to expoilt these resources. One of the points which international imperialism has reached a consensus is the slogan of "neither the winner nor the loser of a war." This slogan has been used vis a vis the Islamic world ... World imperialism has an identical stand towards the Iranian Islamic revolution and also the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan. Since infidelity, no matter where it belongs to is a single nation, we should also realize that Islam, too is •a united nation ..." and,therefore,we’ should close our ranks and stand against international imperialism and take our fate and destiny at our own hands."
 ARTICIES: "The changing of beads in Afghanistan will never solve the problem. Hasan Sharq is the veteran member of the Parcham and a faithful servant of the terrorist organization of the KGB."
    After describing the "Black Face" of Sharq, the article says "Diplomatic sources believe that by appointing Sharq as the Prime Minister, the Russians want to put an end to the Khalq-Parcham rivalries for power before their troo-|ps withdrawal from Afghanistan and the Khalq-
                                                                                                          87
     -----                   '          * -■    r~
Parcham groups become satisfied with what is
being given to them by Kremlin and should not allow them to be defeated by the mujaheddin when the Russians completely withdraw from Afghanistan.
* "The story of the signing of the. shameful Geneva accord as told by An.ond Hammer; "I consider the superpower summit conference as one of the climaxes and high points of my life. The stage has now been set for a fresh and new development in peace between the East and the Westt and this has been one of the dreams of of my life ... I am very happy to have played a role in the events and developments which resulted in the signing of Geneva agreement 14 April
1988 ... In february 1987, Diego Cordovez met me in Los Angeles and said that talks on Afghanistan had reached a deadlock and I should do some thing about it. I told Cordovez whatever I have in power as an individual I will do in order to reach an agreement on the issue. During the course of 14 months after that, I made one trip to Kabul and six trips to Pakistan to meet Pakistani President General Ziaul Haq and leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin. During the course of this time.I also went to Moscow and Washington to meet high ranking officials. By the end of 1987, it became clear that the Russians wanted to pullout of Afghanistan as soon as possible, provided no conditions are set forth about the nature of the government which ought to replace the Najib government ... On January 7, 1988, Howard Baker, White House Chief of Staff, sent me a letter in which he had said we are not sure to what extent the signals sent by the Russians speak of their real intention towards a move for solving the Afghanistan problem or to what extent these are aimed at a public consumption. I sent a word about this to Gorbachev 15 January. I also told him that if he did not send Vorontsov (the Soviet deputy foreign Minister,, to Islamabad to talk and exchange views with Ziaul Haq on the spot, the Pakistanis will not make a speedy
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
action and originate a move towards establishment of peace in Afghanistan. Gorbachev told me to convey to Reagan that, while the Soviet Union intends to pullout of Afghanistan by the end of 1988, it is also desirous to stop further bloodshed ... I promised to Vorontsov when he visits Pakistan I will also be in Islamabad and I fulfilled this promise 10 February ... Ziaul Haq dictated the text of the letter which I was to take to Reagan and I took the letter to Washington. I delivered Zia’s letter to Reagan and mentioned to him to contact Ziaul Haq on telephone. I told him if he talked with him personally it would have a greater impact ...As we know he did talk with Ziaul Haq on telephone and, following that, Pakistan stopped its opposition to the Geneva agreement and decided to sign it.
lSliro-e-lman 19Jme, 1988.
EDITORIAL: "Russian treasons in Afghan economic spheres such as oil, gas and mines" (By Engineer Ahmad Shah. "Afghan oil resources were discovered by an American company before world war-II in 1936-37 and had become ready for drilling. It was estimated that only two oil wells will produce 600 million tons of oil annually. Complete plan of projects related to these surveys were left to the Russians. In 1951 a Dutch company came to Afghanistan on behalf of the UN. The team discovered in a short time many rich oil reserves ... However, the Russians opposed the UN surveys ... In 1958, when Zahir Shah went to northern Afghanistan, he signed an agreement with the Russians under the title of geological survey of northern Afghanistan. This treaty served for the Russians as an easy avenue and in return they extended a $15 million loan to Afghanistan to be repaid in 50 years* Moscow decided to seal the oil wells and, instead, started preparing maps of all Afghan oil resources as well as a map of important strategic areas ..."
Jabha-e-Jehad
                        20 June, 1988. EDITORIAL: "Afghanistan and the issue of reconstruction". It says after signing the Geneva accord, UN officials from time to time, have spoken about the need for funds to reconstruct Afghanistan. It is true that Afghanistan during the past 10 years not only has been trailing the caravan of progress and civilization but whatever it had achieved during the past was destroyed as a result of Russian savagery and aggression. As an example, the people who belong between the ages ranging from 15 to 45 years, have been mostly the victims of casualties and people in these range of ages form QCffo of working force in a country like Afghanistan ... As a result of casualties mostly among these people, we are now faced with the following problems:
(l) Not only we have lost a large segment of our working force but we have been deprived of the kind of people who would, be able to administer the country, (2) In order to train the same number of technical and educated personnel like 10 yeahs ago we have to have large amounts of capitalj(3) In ordnr to solve these two difficulties we have to wait and work for many years, (4) By loosing one or two generations of educated people, it means that we have lost or we are not in a position to have capita] for bringing up another generation of educated people.
   Similarly, Afghanistan has lost all its power and capital to develop its agriculture, industry, artisanship, education, commerce, mine minerals, towns, villages, irrigational canals, dams, roads and communication facilities. It is true that we have been inflicted with all these casualties and the people of the world also know about the atrocities which the Russians have committed in Afghanistan during the past 10 years. It is also true that we need the help and assistance of the international community. But we give ourselves the right to ask the UN authorities how this assistance is going to be
88
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                   Vol.2, No.l
among the Muslims of the Central Asia ... and,
 rendered to Afghanistan? Who is going to be the authority for the reconstruction of Afghanistan? If the world assistance for rebuilding Afghanistan is channeled to the country before the establishment of an independent and free government in Afghanistan, the Russians will certainly use it for promoting their own puppet government and inducing the world to officially recognize it. The Muslim and freedom loving people of Afghanistan have rendered innumerable casualties in order that they should not lose their freedom. If the assistance offered by the international community is rendered without any planning, on the one hand, the war will not come to an end and, on the other hand, it will strengthen the position of the Russian puppet government in Afghanistan. It is for this reason that the people of Afghanistan are not ready to give up their valuable freedom in exchange for anything else.
 NEWS: Five enemy tanks were destroyed in Paktia.
 * In Kandahar,. 60C militiamen of the atheist government defected with their arms to the mujaheddin of KIF.
 *  In Paktia, six enemy tanks and four vehicles were set ablaze by the mujaheddin during their operation0
 Neda-e-Jundullah
                                                                                                    20 June, 1988,
 EDITORIAL: "The victory of the Muslim people
 of Afghanistan or the beginning of the end of
 the Russian imperialism". The struggling and
 revolutionary Muslims of Afghanistan had begun
 their efforts and activities for rebuilding and
 developing the political, social,.cultural,
 economic and educational affairs of the country
 in accordance with the Islamic principles well
 before the Russian sponsored communist coup
 The blood thirsty and expansionist Russian
 government, which has nourished the idea of
 annexing Afghanistan to Russia, for many centuries, was afraid of expansion of Islamic ideas
therefore, it resorted to a coup by using force ... However, the Islamic uprising of the Afghan people taking its aspirations from the TslairrJ c revolutionary, progressive, and ideological school, uprooted the communist way of thinking and ideology and proved that it was not religion which is the opium of the society but, rather, communism itself was the opium of societies and it was communism that poisoned human societies and peoples mentally and intellectually and faced them with both material and moral want."
NEWS: The Jundullah mujaheddin captured the Shakardara battalion on the 4 June and seized • 160 items of light and heavy weapons, two military vehicles, two big wireless, and four wireless sets.
* The Jundullah mujaheddin killed 5 June three enemy atheists and captured five others alive with their weapons and they executed 3 June a Russian hireling Brigadier.
REPORT: The AMRC reports Russian soldiers are selling Khalqis and Parchamis in return to cash money to the mujaheddin. Abdul Salam Bagh-lani, who has recently come to Peshawar, says he himself saw the selling of the Khalqis and the Parchamis. He added the Baghlan mujaheddin told him 17 May Russian soldiers sold four Kabul atheist regime militiamen and 12 officers for Afs 4,000-5,000and had promised that in the future,too,they will sell the die hard members of the Khalq and Parcham to the mujaheddin for cash. Abdul Salam says the mujaheddin in this way must be able to get hold of important Par-chami and Khalqis.
Ekhlas                        20 June, 1988,
EDITORIAL: "The Geneva peace accord, another outdated weapon of Russian imperialism". The editorial says" the beastly leadership of imperialist Russia who have, at the same time, served as the enemies of humanity during the past
July-September, 1988
mum
 70 years by sub jugating their neighbouring Islamic countries through the force of tanks and cannons, have tried to impose their own material-ialistic and atheist laws to replace the Islamic concepts and laws but in all cases they had been faced with the resistance of the Islamic mujaheddin both within the country and outside. Within the Islamic nations, the Russian imperialists have used cold force to suppress Islamic movements and when the Islamic mujaheddin had gone to other countries to continue their resistance against the Russians, Moscow has resorted to. all kinds of intrigues and plots to frustrate their activities". The editorial refers to the uprising of the people of Bukhara and to what it calls a collusion by King Aman-ullah and Mohammad Nader Khan with the Russians against the mujaheddin. It writes, on the basis of the Geneva agreement, the hands and feet of the Afghanistan mujaheddin, have been tied and the Russians -urged Pakistan to hand over the mujaheddin and the refugees with tied hands to them. However Gorbachev ought to know that the esteemed Ziaul Haq the present leader of the government of Pakistan is not like King Amanul-lah. He is a brave and sincere Muslim and will never agree.to hand.over.his Muslim.and mujahed brethren to the great enemy of the Muslims and this Russian tactic through Geneva accord will in no way change the resolution and determination of our mujahed nation. The Russians, whether they may laugh or cry, will eventually see that, with the help of Almighty God and with the power of the mujaheddin* an Islamic government. will be established.
 I        •
 NEWS:   The cabinet of the interim government of
 the mujaheddin was announced on the 20 June,
 *  The Seratul Mustaqeen Journal and the Baitul Hekmat library marked 6 June in a function the 10th anniversary of the martyrdom of the pioneers of the Islamic movement,
 *  The valorous mujaheddin of Herat have killed 450 soldiers and officers of.the Russian puppet
 regime and set ablaze two enemy planes,
 IETTER: A number of Afghan Muslims, residing in the US have sent a letter to Engineer Ahmad Shah the President of the interim mujaheddin government and the newspaper has produced a photocopy of that letter. It says "Dear and esteemed Brother Engineer Saheb, Assalamo Alaikum,
    "Prom the day the news of the formation of the transitional government, headed by a noble person like yourself, has been announced we have all become content and are nourishing hopes for a better future. But we are unhappy that enough publicity has not been given to this government in various mujaheddin publications... Another matter that ought to be mentioned is that, unfortunately, the world considers this mujaheddin government as an extremist government and fears it. Because of this, even those countries that are considered to be our friends, are also advocating the establishment of another government other than the government formed by the mujaheddin ... In order to eliminate these problems, it might be better for the mujaheddin to send a roving ambassador at the head of a delegation to friendly countries to explain the importance and objectives of this government, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, assure the world that resorting to terrorism at the level of state or individual is against the Afghan character and the mujaheddin, in addition to being able to fight, have also the power to govern. The government of the mujaheddin will be based on consultation and common sense and its relations with the world will be very friendly and reciprocal on the basis of divine teachings".
 Ittehad-e-lslami
                           21 June 19.88 EDITORIAL: The editorial is about the transitional government announced by the IUAM. It says "The transitional government should first of all find out about the expectations of the
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2# No.l
nation,, which has undergone many miseries and has fought, bitterly with atheism and infidelity., The nation, first wants , to see peace returned to their country, the savage Russian army is withdrawn from Afghanistan and the Kabul puppet regime dismantled. In order to achieve these goals, every one member of the cabinet should show sacrifice and examplary service. The people want them to remain stable like they are today and should invite and secure the cooperation of all Muslims inside the country and outside and establish relations with Muslim and friendly countries and initiate official .contacts .for the recognition of this government."
NEWS: The mujaheddin in Khurd Kabul demolished .8 June an enemy arms depot and si* military posts.
*  The mujaheddin attacked 11 June the Pul-e-Charkhi prison and killed 10; soldiers and freed a large number of prisoners.
*  Graduation certificates were conferred 16 June on 51 students of the coordination faculty for higher Islamic education,
ARTICIES: "The Puppets". The article refers tp Hasan Sharq the new Prime Minister of the Kabul regime arid also to members of the Kabul Parlia- . ment and what it calls the new faces. It says "the people, who neither belong fo the Afghan society nor they are aware of the miseries and pains of the Muslim nation and do hot have any religion and belief and are being used as puppets by their masters acting without their own will, can we say that such people ere the representatives of the* Muslim nation of Afghanistan?Never".
Shahadat                     22 June, .1988.
EDITORIAL: "Parliament, the new farce of the Kabul regime". It says, "the Russian puppet government in Kabul,, which is greatly worried about the opposition to it by the people, resort continuously to new intrigues to deceive the nation. Sometimes it relies upon the shaky foun-
                                                                                                     91
 dations of tribal order, and, by convening an artificial loya Jirgah, it wanted to show it is governing the country upon the wishes of the people, at other times it assumes the face of a western democratic order and hold elections in a country where even 20$ of its territory is
 not under its sovereignty --- even with the
 help of Russian soldiers. By Imitating the procedure of a parliamentary system it has gathered a number of people in an assembly called parliament. The enemy has put all its bid on creating disunity among the ranks of the mujaheddin ... but, with the help of Almighty God, the shadow of the unity of Jehad forces has appeared as a result of the formation of the mujaheddin transitional government and now the way is paved for the election of. an .Islamic assembly which will be tantamount to the parliament of the country."
 *    A function was held at Nasrat tyeena Congregational Mosque 1.6 June to commemorate the mart*-, yrdom of Abdul Hayee Shaida, the Amir of Badakh-shan Jehad fronts. The function was attended by the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Hekmat-yar. He told the gathering "the elections that are to be held for the mujaheddin council will ... not be on the basis of voting for particular individuals but voters will be asked to vote for parties."
 NEWS: The Brigade of Shahe.ed Jehadwal shot down 15 June in Khost an enemy aircraft.
 *  The Mountain Brigade of the Kabul regime at Cheghcheran, Ghor, fell to the Hezb-e-Islami mujaheddin on 16 June.
 *  The Russians have despatched new troops and, arms to Wakhan.
 *  The Russians have been selling their slaves in auction* Reports reaching from the country and eye witness accounts say lately Russian officers and soldiers, have been selling the. Kabul government militiamen and mercenaries, in auctions. Prices are paid on the importance of the
July-September, 1988
Vol,2, No.l
       duties that these militiamen and members of the Khalq-Parcham bond have had in the government,. They vary from Afs. 1,000 to 8,000,
       ARTICLES; "Loya Jirgah or Islamic Jirgah?"
       (By Aezami), "There is no doubt that councils (jirgah) is an important principle in the Islamic Sahria and the Islamic order will be resorting to backwardness if it did not apply the principle of council ... Obviously in the history of our country, which has been full of ups and downs during the past several hundred years, several loya jirgahs have been held and those holding power, by using their influence, have convened these jirgahs for the sole purpose of strengthening the bases of their own rule • ••
    We can say that these jirgahs, other than being used as a weapon by foreign colonial powers and a,s a toql .for internal oppression, have had no other value for our people .•••. Undoubtedly opposition being waged against holding elections and favoring the convening of loya jirgah are . parts of an imperialist plot and intrigue in which the monarchies are a part The Islamic jehad with the. revival of the honor and grandeur of Islam and Muslims have once and for all eradicated the deceiving values, of oppressive orders whether monarchy, nationalist or communists,"
  * "The Geneva agreement, anxieties and possibilities" (Translated by HameedtGJLah Samim),
     "Every Muslim of the world knows very well that both arrogant powers of the world are against the establishment of true Islamic governments, Because, they know that, in such governments, their interest will be threatened. Therefore, both these powers have made hectic effort? to solve the Afghanistan issue in such a way that, according to them, will prevent the foimation pf an .Islamic government and the success of an Islamic revolution in Afghanistan,"
Al-Noor
EDITORIAL: "Islam: Cure
            22 June, 1988 for Disunity:", It
 | says,
 Afghan Muslim nation has been fighting the infidels for the cause of Islam but the kind of unity needed among the. mujaheddin has not been achieved so far. In other words, we have not been able to support one Amir and have been divided into various organizations ,,, The reason for disunity prevailing so far is that we have not iheeded Islamic command which prohibits among Muslims factionalism and party politics.
 It is true that in Islam among followers of the Holy Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, and leaders of the religion also some disputes emerged but no group took arms against the other Disputes emerging in our ranks have been mostly due to selfishness and a lust for power which in dtself is contrary to principles of Islam, Islam says we should trust those who have the talent and power and, whenever there is a dispute among the Muslims, they should refer to Almighty God and the Prophet, .peace be upon him, and on the basis of the commands of Almighty God and Holy Prophet' peace be upon him, they should put an end to their dispute. Some people want Zahir Shah to become the head of the Muslim state and thus they are resorting to a dispute and some others want other people to become the head of the state and so on ,,, Muslim brothers, if you give the power to real Islamic personalities, you will in no way trample oyer the rights of the pcojle and if you delegate the power to incapable and inefficient, people, then you should remember that these people will indeed create discord and evil in the society,"
 NEWS: Prom the 23 May-3 June, the mujaheddin in their operations in the Katawa#—Wazakhwa road shot down twp. enemy helicopters and all four pilots of these helicopters were killed,
 * The Kabul province mujaheddin, destroyed 6 June five enemy posts, and killed 2.1 government, personnel.
92
July-September, 1988
                                                                    Vol.2, No.l
 *  Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan went to Nangarhar,
 12 June for jehad.
 Mujahed Ulus 22 June, 19$S.
 INTERVIEW: The newspaper has interviewed a former Afghan Prime Minister Dr. Mohammad Yousuf.
 He has been asked, J’The American magazine Newsweek has reported that the Kabul regime has contacted you and a member of your cabinet (of the time) Sayyed Qasim Rishtia and have invited you to join a coalition government. What is your answer?" Dr* Yousuf had said, "No contact has been made with me and 1 basically reject the kind of national reconciliation and coalition government which is being advocated by the Kabul government."
 *  Dr. Farouk Azam the Deputy leader of. the NIF in an interview with the newspaper in answer
 to a question whether the former Afghan King will be able to render (an effective) service to Afghanistan has said "I think that every Afghan citizen can. render service to his country. It is up to the former King how he can render service to his country and people." •
 *  The former Kabul University Prof. Dr,. Azam Gul in an. interview with the newspaper about his ■work in Peshawar, has said, "our project is active within the. framework of the Swedish Committee to. survey the Afghan agricultural, situation,. One important Russian goal is to. destroy the agricultural, system of Afghanistan, especially in areas, where Afghan mujaheddin have been fighting than On the basis of this survey,
 we want to (1) show to the world to what extent, the Russians have damaged and destroyed pur
 agricultural system;' (2) On the basis of the information that we gather, we may be able to render advice to other institutions about, various agricultural difficulties; (3) To raise the standard of knowledge, pf our officials about, agricultural matters sp they may be able to
 offer proper guidance to farmers inside Afghanistan about increasing the level of the production.
 ARTICIES: "After the catastrophe of Geneva and . its ominous repercussions" (By Abdul Rahman Pazhwak). With the continuation of the Kabul regime we cannot say that the Russians are going to leave Afghanistan. The results of the Geneva, accords are going to be ominous and one cannot expect anything but bloodshed and animosity among the people. If the Russian withdrawal is only physical, then we should not remain indifferent ... It is important to pay attention to. a Russian resort to the 1921 treaty about its claim for helping the Kabul government. The Russians started to rely on this treaty when the American assistance to the mujaheddin, and the Russian assistance to the Kabul regime became an issue ... In that agreement the word "military" assistance has not been mentioned and. one should interpret it to be economic assistance and also in the text of that agreement a synoni-mous to the word financial (Material) assistance has been mentioned. Now the Russians are interpreting the word material to military. The fact is that at that time the Russians, due to fears, which they had in regard to the British reaction, refrained from using the word.military. It is more important that in the text of that treaty the Russians had promised the return of terri- . tories which were once a part of the Afghanistan and the Russians had occupied them. However,, the Russians did not meet their obligations and they neither returned Panj Deh nor the islands, which were located in the (.QxusJ riverandnpw;, as it has. bean reported,, the. Russians. by.». rjesor-ting to .that .treaty,, are continuing their mili-tary assistance tp the illegal Kabul regime, and, in addition to that,, are. entitling thems.elyes to annex, the Wakhan region, in. disregard, tot the. territorial integrity of. Afghanistan. This ip contrary to the commitment made by Moscow in regard, to the withdrawal, from Afghanistan as
93
July-Sept ember, 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
 stated, in the Geneva accord* If the Russians consider the 1921 treaty valid, they should return to Afghanistan the territories, which were, annexed to Russia in the 19th century and not annex additional territories."
 NEWS: Dr. Najib, leader of the Kabul regime., who. during his journey to NY made a. two. hours . stop in London, was welcomed by the Russian Ambassador, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, Haji Zahir Dastokhel. Kuchi, from Nangarhar. end others, belonging, to. the. Kabul government. Haji Zahir
 offered, to. Najib big gifts,.
 * Dr. Najib,. wh.o for. the sake of propaganda had gone to the special UN General Assembly session on disarmament, was met by Afghan demonstrators from Washington and NY. According to reports, Abdul Majid Khan ZabuLi had prepared a tea, reception in honor pf Dr... Najib in Waldorf
 Astoria Hotel.
 * The American magazine. Time has written 23. May "Michael Barry of the US has revealed to Mawlawi Mohammad YunuS' Khales that the Americans had reached a deal oyer the question of Afghan mujaheddin with the Russians and signed a secret protocol between themselves before the signing of the Geneva accords.
 Enqelab-e-lslami
 Afghanistan 22 June, 19.88.
 EDITORIAL: "We are still half way throughV The editorial says we have so far covered part of
 the way with paying a very high price, the price
 of the pure blood of. 1.5 million martyrs, the
 king success and showing our heroism by making our chests shields to defend our cause and by undoing the myth of the undefeatability of a super power. But we should be careful that we are still half the way. Still the aspirations of our Muslim struggling nation for the ultimate and final success of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan has not been realized and still the enemy is at our home and their elements are sitting in their tanks and helicopters. This enemy, is like a wounded snake and coils itself trying to transmit its poison through other available means".
 REPORT: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani leader of the Jamiat-^-Islami Afghanistan, in a speech 5 March in Imam Khomeini Mosque, Teheran, told the Afghan refugees and the Iranian Ansar brethren "Does not the world know that if yesterday Brezhnev and his associates were massacring our nation with their wrathful faces, now Gorbachev with his deceitful smiles is continuing the same kind of killings and massacres?"
 INTERVIEWS: A commander of the Engeel sub division, Sayyaed Ahmad Qatali in an interview with the newspaper has revealed "we' should have a greater role in promoting our cultural struggle. On this basis the dissemination of articles, books, pamphelets, holding meetings of the scholars, teaching schdol subjects and political ideology to the mujaheddin in the trenches of. jehad and local mosques have been undertaken by us and, at present, several primary madrasas in the mosques related to the mujaheddin fronts are conducting Islamic teachings".
 price of the struggle of a resistant nation, the price of five million wandering refugees for 10 years for the sake of Almighty God and. the price ; of accepting the sufferings and pains of hundreds of thousands of handicaps and prisoners. It is true that in return for all these sacrifices we have beaten the most powerful force and the most blood thirsty army equipped upto its teeth with modem weapons and by building up an epoch ma-
 23 June, 19B8.
 EDITORIAL: "Futile attempts of the Kabul regime" (By Mohammad Naseem Faqiri). The editorial reviews Kabul regime plans in resorting to national reconciliation, ceasefire, elections^ parliament, and a non-political prime minister" and says these are all vain attempts. He says^ "new efforts exerted by the Kabul regime will
94
July-September f 1988                AFGHAN JEHAD
Vol.2, No.l
    not end the longstanding and incurable pains of the Soviet puppets as all these have been described as useless and futile both inside the country and abroad."
    REPORT: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a big gathering of Afghan and foreign journalists in answer to their questions about the recent developments in the jehad and region, said "the mujaheddin have been busy at developing their administrative organization? and the establish-i ment of a Commanders* Council of ten. provinces, in northern Afghanistan can be described as an example of this." He added, "Peace in Afghanistan will be achieved when the Afghanistan mujaheddin are recognized as the main pivot of power."
    NEWS: Kalat, the center of Zabul province has been liberated by a force of 600 mujaheddin.
    *  In Rustak. sub division,. Takhar, 300 Russian soldiers, and their puppets were killed or injured when they came under the mujaheddin attack during communist, operation on the. defenseless people of. the area. The mujaheddin, in their operation 14 April, set ablaze one enemy armored vehicle and one. eight cylinder vehicle.
    ARTICIES: "The Khalqis and Parchamis are being, sold" (M.Y. Shahbaz). "An old man, who has returned recently from the trenches near Kandahar, while shaking his head and laughing was telling this following story to the people in a restaurant: "So far several Khalqis and Parchamis have been handed over to the mujaheddin by the Russians in return for various amounts of money and the mujaheddin, after holding summary courts, and going through the Shariat and legal procedures, have executed them ,.. According to this old mujahed, the price of these hirelings have been fixed at from 70,Q00 to 80,000 and it can go down to 20,000 and 10,000,".
    *  "Rumors and speculations about the embezzlement of 375 millions Pakistani rupees is a KGB
 plot and a slander hatched by bypocrats. It says, "A newspaper called Serat-ul-Mustaqeem in its 29 May issue, has published a news item saying that 375 million Pakistani rupees has been embezzled and that this embezzlement has taken place in the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and the Jamiat had remained indifferent to it ... The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan rejects this unfounded allegation and asks forgiveness for those who have disseminated this news unconsiously and unaware by and hopes patience and console to those brothers who have been unduly slandered."
 Mahaz                      26 June, 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The communist government is new in its name but old in its nature". It says, "The Kabul puppet government, under Russian directions, relieved Kishtmand from his post as Prime Minister and assigned Hasan Sharq, an old and veteran member of the KGB, to form the new Kabul government. The Russians want the people to believe that Sharq is neither Khalqi nor Parchai-mi ... If they think that nobody knows Hasan Sharq, then they have been mistaken. Similarly, the ministers of his government and the President of the House of the People and of the Se4 nate are the kind of people who have been on the scene for a long time as a part of plots hatched by Kremlin. Then how is it possible that such socalled President and members of his gov- . ernment who have been known as Communist traitors and spies, are going to be trusted by the people of Afghanistan. Our aim is clear and. clean: Until an Islamic order on the basis of the wishes of the people and support of the mujaheddin is formed in Afghanistan, our jehad will continue",
 REPORT: Pir Syayed Ahmad Gailani, President of the IUAM, after being elected to this post, in his first speech 16 June said "it is obligatory on us to create a strong unity among the Muslim ranks of Afghanistan and among different groups of our society ... Selfishness and clinging to
95
JuLy-September, 1988             AfGHAN J[HAD                  Vol.2, No#4
 party politics will cause stalemate in our jehad. NEWS: Twelwe hireling troops were captured alive 5 April in Faryab province by the mujaheddin.
 * Forty atheists were killed 4 April in Logar in operations by the mujaheddin.
 ARTICIES: ••Compassion of the enemy?" (By Dr. Mohammad Zahir Siddiq). It has never occured in history that the enemy will show compassion. However, it is not surprizing that today an enemy is being found that clearly expresses compassion and that, too, the enemy of Afghans and Afghanistan and after 10 years of kiling and savagory.., The Russians say we are withdrawing from Afghanistan. However these midwives of compassion tear their voices that, after their pullout from Afghanistan, the country will be converted into a blood bath ... The Russians mu3t know that the Afghans have always been harsh to their; enemy and it is understandable that they should be harsh* Tenderness to enemy is synonimous to cowardice and submission* But this nation will never take out their swords against each other. How is it possible that our nation will permit the fire of disunity reach our country to destroy the hopes of those who fought years the Russians and their hirelings.This is never going to happen.The brothers of the days of jehad are also going to be the brothers of days to come. The Afghans are each other*s brothers. The nation of Afghanistan has always stood against enemy in one solid rank."
 Ittehad-e-lslami
                            27 June, 1988.
 EDITORIAL: '•The wishes of the nation". The editorial has commented on the appointment of the Ministers of the interim government and says"... The proclamation of a government through the waves of a radio cannot cure our problems. It is necessary that a plan envisaged by the interim government is implemented: (l) Members of the government should resign from their posts in their political organizations and completely
 devote themselves to the execution of the new heavy responsibilities entrusted upon them; (2) Each Minister, in the framework of his Ministry, should select his essential personnel so they may activate the departments needed during the interim period; (3) They should select a proper location for the establishment of the government inside Afghanistan and should form a strong mujaheddin army comprising the mujaheddin of various mujaheddin organizations, so, under . the supervision of the Ministry of Defense,
 they may perform their duties; (5) Cultural and$
                                                                                                                          vT’ -
 Information departments should perform their / duties in accordance with the policies issued by the Ministry of Guidance and Da*awat and avoid scattered and dispersed publications; (6) All educational offices and departments should be organized under the supervision of the Ministry of Education; (7) All hospitals should work under the Ministry of Public Health; (8)
 In the liberated provinces and sub divisions, governors and administrative officers should be appointed by the Ministry of Interior, to prepare for elections of the future government of Afghanistan; (9) Judges should be appointed for the Jehad fronts by the Ministry of Justice,
 (10) Islamic and friendly countries should be asked to recognize the interim mujaheddin gov- , ernment, (11) The Ministry of Reconstruction should secure foreign assistance for providing food, clothing and housing to the people.
 INTERVIEWS: Engineer Ahmad Shah, President of the mujaheddin interim government, in an interview 21 June with a Turkish journalist said "By combining all military committees we will fight the enemy under one command."
 * Mawlawi Mir Hamza, the Minister of Education of the mujaheddin interim government, in an interview has said "We are planning to bring all schools and madrasas run by various, institutions and parties and the government of Pakistan as well as those run by the mujaheddin inside the country, under the Ministry of Edu-
96
 cation so that, with the application of a single carriculum, the future generation would become immune from'moral and spiritual dangers.
 * Mawlawi Ghulam Mohammad Ghareeb. in charge of the Ahya-ul-Jehad, Brigade of Kandahar in an , interview about the recent mujaheddin victories in Kandahar has said, ‘'jehad in that province is continuing and the military situation is satisfactory.' God willing, soon Kandahar will fall to the mujaheddin, and will be liberated.
 Right now, the Russians are still stationed in. some parts of Kandahar such as the airport, the new garrison,, the bazar of the Maiwand. subdivision: and Spin Boldak. however , all other areas are under the mujaheddin control,"
 ARTICIES: "Symbolic protocol" (By Abdul Raqeeb Jaheed). .'By carefully scrutinizing the four instruments of the Geneva agreement, one finds out that the agreement has been signed between two. countries who have common borders with each other and. it is. aimed at. strengthening their mutual relations and reduce tension among them and t,he main problem of. millions of refugees and wanderers of our land have not been addressed justly on the basis of humanitarian sentiments. Neither anything has been said in the treaty about support, for our Islamic jehad and reduction of tension in the region and the world due to the establishment of an atheist and infidel regime in Kabul and savage Russian aggression of Afghanistan."   .
 Ariana Voice >
 EDITORIAL: "Najib and rotten eggs" It says "...When Najib went to NY to deliver a speech in the General Assembly on disarmament, more than half of the UN members walked out as a sign of protest, from the General Assembly hall. This was a. big . shame but Najib did not care about it and continued to deliver his speech until its last line, Afghans living in the US, gathered in. NY and. wanted to enter the General Assembly hall. However they were barred by secu-
                                                                                                           97
 rity men. When Najib left the session he was subjected to hundreds of rotten eggs but still he was bold enough to take part in a press conference • ••
 INTERVIEW: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the IUAM in an interview with the BBC . has said "I am trying to complete the election law so that we will be able to convene a. council comprised of the mujaheddin, the refugees and all Afghans residing in liberated areas.
 Mujahed                        2 July 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "Our revolution, despite the black plots hatched by the enemy, has still remained free, independent and non-aligned and no power on the earth has the right to intervene in it"
 (By M.Y. Shahbaz). The editorial reviews the Islamic Afghan revolution and rejects enemy allegations that alien hands- are involved, in this revolution. It concludes, "We are sure that such plots, propaganda and futile publicity will not hinder the current of our revolution nor it will stop the people of Islamic countries to fulfil their responsibilities and Islamic obligations vis a vis issues related to the Islamic world including the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan.",
 NEWS: In Herat all the socalled security belts established by the enemy, have been shattered by . the mujaheddin of Islam.
 *  The Kunar mujaheddin in a successful operation have demolished two trucks and three armored tanks of the enemy,
 *  An enemy helicopter has been shot down by the mujaheddin in Ghor province,
 ARTICIES: "The Russians were defeated in the Geneva plot as well" (By Daneshyar)* "The mujahed nation of Afghanistan which has always brou**' ght plots against itself to a futile end, once again rejected and revealed the plot hatched for quelling our holy aimed resistance. This treacherous plot was the signing of the agreement
Vol.2, No.l
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD
 imposed by the Russians on an imposed war and aggression ...• Fortunately after the unilateral signing of this agreement opr mujahed nation intensified their attacks on enemy centers and every day there are news about the conquering of a * sub division or a sub. district and even of the centers of provinces. The Russian communists were thinking that,as the core of Afghan resistance is in Pakistan and when they induce Pakistan through political pressure to sign the hated Geneva accord,, the issue will be ended according to Russian interests and the Afghan resistance will be encircled, without having any support. But they were unaware about the fact that this resistance, which is going to determine the destiny of our nation, had been continuing for a long time without foreign backing in the heart and texture of the Afghan nation."
 Shahadat                 5 July, 19$8.
 EDITORIAL: "The Russians are reviewing the many promises that have been given by the October Revolution and the, practical defeat inflicted to that country. The communist party Congress debated the confessions and mistakes committed so far. Debating the Afghanistan issue in the . Communist Party General Congress has brought forth this important question once again to the light that who is taking decisions in the political order of that country and which authority should accept, the responsibility of mistakes in taking decisions. For the first time in Russia one sees a courage to refer to the inefficiency of the leaders and the incapability of staff ... Several years ago, even mentioning views entailed the danger of punishments of even serving in the hard labor camps in Siberia. Therefore, the communist myth which for decades created lots of noise about its constructiveness in economic, political and social order has now been shattered and those who, for years, were after creating a socialist society on the basis of this ideology are now becoming disaUusioned, The west considers this
 change as a victory for itself... But, as far as the Afghan valorous nation is concerned, which the Afghanistan jeha4 and the defeat of Russia in the war inflicted upon the Soviet society have had the most important impact on.the process of events in Russia and this will not only have prominence in contemporary Russia but it will influence the future history of country as well."
 REPORT: Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Amir of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in a graduation ceremony held for students of religious madrasas, said "my recommendation to the graduate brethren is that we should serve as an example for others of piousness and jehad."
 *  A seminar, under the title of Geneva agreement and the future of Afghanistan, was held from 30 June - 1 July in which Sardar Abdul Qayum Khan, the President of Azad Kashmir said," undoubtedly the valorous jehad of the Afghanistan mujaheddin brought into prominence the identity of the people of Afghanistan and kept aloft the jehad spirit."
                                      In the seminar, important personalities of the Islamic world and Afghanistan had taken part.
 NEWS: The Mohammad Agha sub division was conque-red by the mujaheddin under the command of brother Hekmatyar,
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin delegation met a number of Ambassadors of the Islamic countries and these ambassadors showed positive reaction to the question of the recognition of the transitional government of the mujaheddin.
 *  The Bagram sub division, has been conquered and 50 Russian soldiers killed.
 ARTICLE: '(Each alliance ought to have ideological basis "(By Al-haj Mohammad Amin Ferotan).
 "In the process of their drive towards unity *>nH solidarity the committed and revolutionary ’ forces need to have a common stand, towards, the closeness of. their ideological stand and re-
                                                  98
J uly—Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
      volutionaxy movement ... The Hezb—e-Islami Afghanistan, which is the genuine inherent of unity movement and history of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan, has already tabled in the IUAM council a special program in this connection and is now resolutely trying for its implementation.
    Da Sabaoon Zairey
                                  6 July 1988
    EDITORIAL: "The announcement of the mujaheddin . transitional government and the. hues and. cries of imperialism.". It says "Until some time ago the Western imperialism media specially, the BBC were making the propaganda that there are many difficulties among the mujaheddin and, after, the withdrawal of. Soviet troops from Afghanistan, they will fight each other ... But. when they noticed increased cooperation among the mujaheddin ip the. blood stained jehad trenches ... they then claimed that the mujaheddin will be. unable to form their own government ... The esteemed •leaders of. Islamic revolution once more demonstrated foresight edness and capability in. having a united stand and with the proclamation of the mujaheddin transitional government and inductment of a cabinet surprised, doth the Jfast and the West ... Now they are difusing the poison that this government is not supported by all the people of Afghanistan and is not broadbased and is being criticized ... We tell to these lie making institutions that they should not trouble themselves apy further; because the Muslim and mujahed n&tion of Afghanistan has discovered its hazardous but sacred path. You will no longer find or call out a leader of your own choice for this nation through whatever hues and cries you may create.n
 NEWS: A spokesman, of the. IUAM and the President of the transitional government, of the mujaheddin have congratulated President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan for promulgating the Shariat ordinance in Pakistan. . .
 * The President, of the mujaheddin transitional, government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has said the. purpose of. the visit by UN Afghan mediator,
 Diego Cordovez in the region is to bring about, a coalition government between the mujaheddin and communists in Kabul.
 ARTICLE: "Why Rajiv Gandhi is afraid of the establishment of an Islamic Government, in Afghanistan?" The article says, the hues and cries made recently by Rajiv Gandhi -that the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan
 is detrimental to the region and will create instability ip the area especially in India,, surely
 emanates from the old complexes that the Indians
 have developed from the deeds, of the Ghazni Jfripe-
 ror Sultan Mahmood who shattered into pieces the.
 Sumanat idol and from the victories which Ahmad
 Shah Baba of Afghanistan had achieved in India..."
 Arman-e- Mujahed
                                                                                              6 July, 1988
 ARTICLES: "Reality": "When the Russians in Afghanistan attempted to maintain the rejected atheist order, the Muslim people of Afghanistan, on the basis of the verdict issued by the Islamic scholars, took their Islamic stand against, this order and began their armed resistance . With the ■passing of time, while the mujaheddin resistance did not lose its momentum and was moving towards success, in the political arena it had faced a defeat ... The blood of the Afghan Muslims pot only paved the way for a number of people to become wealthy but also , by the virtue of this blood, a number of people achieve political name and identity under a similar title of rights and privileges of the king, they, too,(l) were able to issue orders for the distribution of millions of dollars; (2) issue execution and pardoning orders; (3) travel to any country they wanted;
 (4) make the true1 false and the false true;
 (5) create for themselves a royal status at the time of hejrat and under the circumstances of. the life of refugees. But despite these previli-
              SHAH RfL BOOK C®.
              P.O. Box 1328, Kabul, Afghanisic.i Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25888
July-September, 19#3
Vol.2t No.l
   ges, alas, they have no powers to be invited to a conference table to decide about the destiny of Afghanistan* We do not know what are the reasons for this?” The article discusses many reasons for this and says that two main reasons are: weakness of faith and weakness of policies,
   * "The position of Islamic countries". This article reviews Russian aggression of Afghanistan and regrets what it calls the apathy and indifference of the Islami countries and the fact that Najib, "this murderer of the people of Afghanistan" is being permitted to go to the UN General Assembly and the Islamic countries failed to protesting against it. It says, it is worthwhile. to mention that the Islamic; countries at the UN by showing silence to this move set aside their Islamic pride and valour and in practice put themselves in the, service of super fcowers,..
   Neda-e-Jundullah
                            6 July, 1988 EDITORIAL: "Communism in Afghanistan has reached the bottom of the line". It, says, "Communism, tinder the name of class struggle and eradication of class order, has brought about a new. class exploitation which is far more dangerous and very much against, humanity than capitalism. In capitalism, the elite, nobility and the ruling class all, exploit the oppressed members of the
Paghman region when they were attacked by the mujaheddin from a hideout and the mujaheddin capttired from them one Russian kilashinkov.
*  The Jundullah Mujaheddin, in an operation 29 June on the Dasht-e-Barchi, Kabul province, sent to the hell one enemy officer and three soldiers. On the same day the enemy Air Force and artillery brought under fire mujaheddin positions. However the mujaheddin resisted as a result of which one enemy bombing plane was shot down*.
AI<Noor                          7 July, 1988.
EDITORIAL: "The decision of Almighty God" (By Qanet). "The US and Russia consider themselves big powers on His earth. There is no doubt that both of them are technically advanced but they are in a very lower and primitive, status in the eyes of Islam, provided the Muslims practice Islam and this will surely make the Muslims the great power on earth.
    The editorial considers the Geneva agreement,-: which it says was reached between the United States and Russia,.contrary to the wishes of humanity,
NEWS: In a joint mujaheddin operations 23-26.
June in Nangarhar, eight enemy posts were demolished.
*  In a mujaheddin operation 14 June in Paktia, . three atheists were killed and. two injured.
    society while, in the new communism system the nobility, and elite are from the communist party aind under the. name of dictatorship of the proletariat and toiling people they have revived the worst kind of. dictatorship in the world exploiting every one else...".....
    NEWS: The Jundullah mujaheddin, in an operation 22 June on the Bahar Hotel of Paghman, killed * t> Kabul atheist regime military officers and tv»      soldier and captured two soldiers with do-
one ts which showed they were in the service cumen Red Army, of the
                                                                                       ^nemy soldiers were killed 28 June in a
  * Four V
 * In an operation 16 June, three transformers, and one diesel engine belonging to the Mahipar Hydro Electric plant was demolished.
 ARTICIES: "Victory of our Islamic Revolution: good tidings for peace". It says, "the real " meanings of peace is drasticly different from what the communist have in mind. The purpose for the proclamation of peace by communists is that they want to achieve their own objectives and, after becoming disillusioned completely in reaching their aim even after using all their forces including poisonous weapons, they then call for peace. The proclamation of so called peace..

100
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2f No.l
 and the NRP by Najib are best examples in this respect. It is obvious to. all the people of the world that Russians and their puppet regime in Kabul during the past 10 years consistently used weapons and never talked about peace ... Now that our Islamic revolution is about to reach its victory point, this in itself is the. good tidings for real peace." .
Mujahed
9 July 1988
 EDITORIAL: "Achieving our objectives in the light of counsel" (By Sakhidad Fayaz),"As according to Quranic teachings Almighty God has told his Prophet that he should hold counsel in executing the affairs of the people, the. Muslims are obliged to. abide by the important and useful principles, of counsel in improving their affairs ... The Holy Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, in a Hadith has explained the obligation of those who offer counsels in these words. "A councellor is an honest and benevolent person and in giving counsel to. his superior and to the one who invites him for advice,he should not resort to treason, and deceit. Also the elders are dutybound to hold counsel with men. of opinion and wisdom and execute public affairs on the basis of counsel so that these affairs .
 may not be hindered and. faced with .difficulties".
 REPORT: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan., in a speech to the students of the martyr Mawlawi Mohammad . .. Tahir Madrasa,at a graduation ceremony said "Our jehad has. now reached its victory stage.
 Our enemy ha.s been defeated and has chosen re-
 treat."
     The heroic Herat mujaheddin, in a successful ' operation 11 May, captured 850 enemy troops and seized 60 items of various kinds of weapons.
 * The heroic. Kunduz mujaheddin, .in their operation against the. infidels, have captured nine communist posts and seized 169 items of. various types of arms.
 * An enemy aircraft, on a bombing mission, was. shot down in Dasht-.e-Khaka, Logar, by the mujaheddin. .
 ARTICLES: "The martyrdom of the mujaheddin, children as a result of heat is. another manifestation of patience and resistance by our nation, in their struggle against communism" (By Daneshyar).
    The article praises resistance and stability, of the people of Afghanistan and extends console and patience to those parents who have been losing their children in the refugee camps in the summer heat and has' asked all Islamic organizations that are leading, the political and. . social destiny, of the mujahed nation, to attend to their Islamic responsibilities and prevent such shocking and tragic scenes by. establishing contacts with the government of Pakistan and.
 High Commissioner for refugees,"
 " The victory phase of the Jehad" (By Al-haj ' Nangyal). "Revolutions usually pass through three stages. The first stage is the beginning of the movement, the second is the phase for achieving maturity and extending it to the whole popula- . . tion and its recognition by the world community and the third is the victory stage ... The third stage is a determining factor ... During this stage those who have an ideological commitment and those who have not such commitments are being separated. One of these goes further and continue his movement and struggle and the other one wants to exploit the situation for his own. personal gains and resort to conventional and antiquated methods ... Today the time and new. conditions call upon us to make a review of mur-jaheddin organizations, personnel and political activities and avoid repeating mistakes."
 Mahaz                          10 July, 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "Towards a further consolidation of Unity". The editorial says the Russians came to Afghanistan in order to consolidate the rule of a puppet government in Afghanistan and initiate in the region intrigues and plots. They are
101
July-Sept ember, 19 88
raiui
 Vol.2, No.l
 keen to exploit our single and small mistakes and shortcomings for their own benefit. At this sensative phase of history, we should have utmost goodwill towards each other. We should not become arrogant because of our victories.Right now also our difficulties are numerous. We are of the opinion that these difficulties can be solved on the basis of complete unity of our mujahed and valorous nation and our efforts can only be fruitful when we change the spirit of sovereignty over the people to the spirit of service to the people. We should show this not in words but in deeds. The communists took away the right of self determination from the people
 and offered this to their masters - Russian
 imperialisms - so they decide the fate of our people. Our policy and approach should be the opposite of this.”
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani President of the IUAM'in a press conference 25 June said "elections for a council of the people will take place in three months time."
 NEWS:, ^ie,Gulshan and Ypusufzai posts of Wazikhwai Paktia, haye been conquered by the mujaheddin.
 *  In Paktia 15 enemy personnel have been killed and 60 others captured by the mujaheddin.
 *  The Giro sub division of Ghazni province has fallen to the mujaheddin.
 *  In a mujaheddin, operation 25 April,. 18 Russian soldiers and 3Q puppet regime soldiers were killed.
 Ittehad-e-lslami
                                12 July 1988.
  EDITORIAL: ."We don’t accept Cordovez’s mediation*” It says, "In Afghanistan the war. is. between the truth, and false ...Our, enemies, in order to frustrate this mujaheddin sacred and natural, aspira-v tion, haye selected. Cordovez as a mediator on the Afghan issue and he,, during his. six. years of mission has made only unilateral, and one sided moves and, only for the sake of. depriving the.
 deserving people from the fruits of jehad and handing it over to those who do not care for Islam and do not value the unprecedented big sacrifices of the Muslim Afghan nation ... Now, that the interim mujaheddin government has been established and proclaimed ... all the nation is supporting this government and is ready to cooperate with it. We ask the Islamic countries and friends of jehad to recognize this government and, by their material and moral assistance, take part in the consolidation of this government and this is the only way to solve the problem". ‘
 MESSAGE: Leader of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Sayyaf in a message sent from the trench of jehad in relation to Cordovez’s activities has said "We proclaim once again to the entire people of the world that we are the real party of the Afghan issue. We have not. accepted Cordovez as the mediator and will not accept him. in the future ... If the Afghan issue is dependent on us and the people of Afghanistan belong to us and we are the people of Afghanistan, then we are rejecting this mediator and his efforts and warn that we will not abide to any outcome of his efforts. On the other hand, if Afghanistan does not belong to us and others consider Afghanistan to be their property or that it belongs to nobody and help Cordovez in his efforts, which are against Islam, against jehad and against the interests of the country, they will bear the responsibility of its consequences and they will be responsible for creating problems for the Muslim nation of Afghanistan in the future as well."
 INTERVIEW: Engineer Ahmad Shah, President of the. interim, government of Afghanistan, in an inters view with a West German journalist 7 July said > we are opposed to a government in exile and. we will transfer our government to the interior of the country and continue our resistance until a time when the Russians and the Kabul regime are wiped out and replaced by an Islamic government".
102
July—September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD   ■              Vol,2,  No.l
     NEWS: Prof# Sayyaf, leader of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan and Prof. Rahbani leader of the Jamiat—e-Islami Afghanistan visited the Azra sub division 3 July, and exchanged views with the mujaheddin over a number of issues.,
     * On the basis of a proposal by the Ministry of Da’wat and Guidance of the interim government and approval of the cabinet, a publication has been approved to serve as the official organ of the government.
    * Malang, a Kabul regime militia commander has defected with 500 of his men to the mujaheddin.
    ARTICIE: "The retreating Russian experts” (By Abdullah Muslimyar). "Russian military specialist, after observing the defeat of the Red Army in an eight and half year war with the God worshipping and Islamist mujaheddin of Afghanistan, came to the conclusion that the leaders of Moscow should decide to withdraw the weak Soviet forces from Afghanistan and by doing so the Russians in fact confessed the absolute defeat of their aggressive forces in their war against the Muslim and heroic nation of Afghanistan, however the Russians,, in,order to avoid . being ridiculed by the people of the world and hide from the future generations the defeat of their forces at the hands of the Muslim and courageous people of Afghanistan, and compensate for this military defeat with a political trick, after many efforts and with the cooperation of. criminal. Americans, paved the way for the signing of the. shameful Geneva treaty .14 April, in the presence of the. Foreign Ministers of Russia, and the puppet KSbul regime and Pakistan.
 Shahadat 13                         1383
 EDITORIAL "There is no place for Cordovez mission in regard to the Afghanistan issue". The article says the Cordovez mission for creating a broadly based coalition government has proved futile. The kind of serious difficulty that Cor-dove? and most other world circles are facing
 in regard to the Afghanistan issue is that they do not have sufficient knowledge about the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and the nature and objectives of their current Islamic struggle.,,"
 REPORT:  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the
 Hezb-e-Islami told journalists 7 July in Islamabad elections for a 310 member Parliament of Afghanistan will be held on a proportionate basis in 105 days The parliament, comprised of 26Q members from inside Afghanistan and 50 members from the Afghans living outside the country, can decide on future general elections ... He said all mujaheddin commanders are opposed to loya jirgah and, until the fall of Najib government and the complete withdrawal Qf Russian forces, they demand in their country free and fapr elections based on political party organization ... Talks about convening a loya jirgah is a plot hatched by the Russians and their puppet Najib as well as the imperialist against.the Muslim Afghan nation. The commission appointed by the IUAM has decided to send a delegation to Iran.to invite the mujaheddin organizations in that Country to participate in the elections. Wien the mujaheddin interim government is established in Kabul, it is obliged to hold elections within six months ,., None of the jehad organizations Will accept a non-elected government,
 INTERVIEW: Char Gul Nesar, responsible for the
 Saidabad and Jaghatu fronts of Wardak province, has said in an interview "the mujaheddin coordinated 9 April their attack on the Saidabad sub division. When the battle began, many fighter planes . and helicopters took part against us but they only killed or injured them their own puppets and a number of them fled. Three mujaheddin were killed and 17 injured in this battle* A number of houses were demolished or.damaged. Hundreds of thousands of different shells and tons of foodstuff, weapons, vehicles, etc, fell to the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin even captured KHAD and other spy centers* documents which proved to be very useful for the mujaheddin,
103
July-September, 1988
Vol>2, No.l
ARTIGIE: "Efforts for peace or for winning peace prize?” (By Waheed Muzhdah ) The article comments pn recent efforts by Cordovez by going to the refugee camps under the impression that the mujaheddin and the refugees have opposing views, and objectives. It says the answer which the refugees gave to Cordovez was tantamount to a total support of the mujaheddin.
They said until all Russian forces have withdrawn from Afghanistan and all the mines planted throughout the country are defused and an Islamic government for which the people of Afghanistan have rendered 1,3 million martyrs is established, they will not stop their struggle. The article concludes, ”it seems from Cordovez*s recent activities that he wants to keep himself engaged in the Afghanistan issue in any manner he can and prove that he deserved the Nobel Peace Prize, However, if such a prize is connected with the kind of peace in Afghanistan urged by world organs, then the mujaheddin by continuing the jehad, will deprive Cordovez from receiving the prize.”
Mujahed                      16 July 1988
EDITORIAL: "Successive mujaheddin victories prove the weakness of the hireling regime" (By M.Y. Shahbaz), The editorial reviews the capture of power by communists, the usurpation of power, their oppression, the national uprising against them and finally the victory of the Afghan Muslim nation over, thorn. and it concludes, the same way that their masters withdrew from Afghanistan with disgrace and took with themselves bitter memories of their aggression against Afghanistan, communist puppets also will be tried and questioned by the Afghan Muslim nation and will reap the harvest of their treason, and the ingratitude which they committed towards the oppressed nation of Afghanistan during the past 10 years."
NEWS: In a. successful operation, $ July the mujaheddin in Nangarhar conquered six posts
 and set ablaze an arms depot. In the operations 18 mujaheddin were injured and 14 martyred.
 *  The brave Herat mujaheddin in their successful operation 24 June shot down three Russian MIG fighters and captured 16 enemies,
 *  The Ghazni mujaheddin, during their successful operations 6 June destroyed 24 enemy kila-shinkovs and one DC cannon and killed 25 hirelings of the puppet regime.
 ARTICIE: "The government proposed by Cordovez is part of the Geneva plot" (By Daneshywar).The article talks about the "negative role" played by Cordovez in signing the Geneva accords and says his recent move are of a similar nature and writes we will not accept any organization established from outside and, without the participation of true representatives of the nation nation -- the Islamic organizations. Organiza-
 tions, imposed on us from outside, will be rejected by the logic of bullets,
    "Other items of the newspaper are:.(l) "The interim mujaheddin government and the aspirations of the people"; (By Mohammad Nasim Faqiri) j
 (2) "The face of the victory of Jehad";(By Al-Haj Nangyal); (3) "In the course of the 10 years of history of Afghanistan" (By K.N.Elini).
 Ariana Voice 15 July 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The UN mediator.on Afghanistan, . Cordovez once again travelled in Pakistan,Kabul and Iran and at the conclusion of his visit he told a press conference that for solving the Afghanistan issue, the Afghan nation should make use of their traditional principles. They should form a loya jirgah and, under its supervision, delegate the affairs of the country to the representatives of the people and they, should form a government of their choice. The Cordovez proposal was rejected by those who have accepted the already established government of the mujaheddin. They levelled accusations against this man of peace. Although a number of refugees and mujaheddin. considered this proposal
104
J uly-September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 as an important base and appreciated it, as far as Cordovez is conceded, and for the successful solution of the problem, it was his first duty to bring an end to the Geneva talk§l; on . the basis of which the Soviets were forced to withdraw from Afghanistan. Of course, the sacrifices rendered by the people of Afghanistan, by giving hundreds of thousands of martyrs and injuries and by the‘ migration of its people are, things that primarily concern the people of Afghanistan ...At an international level we cannot ignore or disregard the services rendered by Cordovez ...
 As far as experience has shown and out from the daily events, the advice rendered by Mr.Cordovez is a good one and may save Afghanistan from a new round of misfortunes ..."
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani in a press conference recently in Islamabad said we are rejecting any person or solution which are not supported by the people. The people should be free to decide about their political institutions."
 Ittehad-e-lslami
                            19                            July, 1988. EDITORIAL: "We are rejecting Cordovez efforts". It says "Cordovez has a new proposal which says a government ought to be formed inAfghanistan in which neither the mujaheddin nor Russian hirelings would participate and this government should be staffed by such people who according to Cordovez are neutral.In other words,they should neither be an infidel nor a Muslim. It is strange. A person, neither an infidel nor a Muslim, then he must be a hypocrat. Then Cordovez actually wants to bring forth the hypocrats to govern our people and deprive the deserving people for reaping the jehad harvest and brush aside the blood of 1.5 million martyrs ... However the enemies of the Afghan jehad and Islam should know that they cannot succeed in any of their plots aimed at deviating the nation from its chosen path ..."
 MESSAGE: Prof. Sayyaf, leader of the Ittehad-e-
 Islami of Afghanistan in a message from the trench has said the nation which has broken the red slavery will in no way allow to be chained by the slavery of others."
 REPORT: Qazi Hussain Ahmad Chief of the JI in a Jamiat-e-Ulema sponsored meeting in Hyderabad said 16 July "The mujaheddin are awake and they will accept no other leadership than that of the mujaheddin."
 ARTICLE: "The new Cordovez plan and the mujaheddin stand "(By Abdul Raqeeb Jaheed). "The message of the mujaheddin endowed with a mission to the dN . envoy. is that ho should once and for all forget the kind of nonsense he.is adyopating.
 For now this nation has the power to.decide its own fate".
 The Voice of Jehad
                                 20                                 July 1988. EDITORIAL: "The last maneuver (By A.Faqiri Murad). "... And the last maneuver is that the Russians and their hirelings ought to know that Afghans are no longer going to be cheated by such maneuvers. Changing the name of a country by ommitting the word "Democratic", talking in words about Islam, closing down in Nangarhar cinemas and theatres are all part of the same old game. Now a new game, is being played under the guise of Islam. But the Russians are still behind it. The mujahed and valorous Afghan nation will not lay down their arms until the formation of a solid Islamic government and they will continue their sacred jehad".
  MESSAGE: Prof. Burhanuddjn Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in his Eid message has said "The Eid is actually for those who are guests of the Almighty God during these sacred days in the trenches and are defending Islam".
 ARTICIES: "The Geneva accord or the final defeat of our enemy." (By Sayyed Abdul Jamil Murad) " "The Russians are not recalling their troops
105
July-September, 1988
Vol«2, No.l
 from Afghanistan on the basis of the Geneva accord. They have actually been defeated in the hands of mujaheddin and have chosen the accord as an. excuse for their, retreat* They signed the Geneva accord to cover their shameful defeat.” "That is due to the inefficiency Qf a leader that causes many misfortunes among the entire Islamic ummah and even it is due to such inefficiency that the way is paved for the withdrawal of sincere members from the ummah movement and for creating factions*"
    Other items of the newspaper are: (1) Jehad or sacrifice for the cause of truth; (2) advices by Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq about Jehad and (3) news about Jehad.
 Shahadat                    20  July, 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The big trial is still ahead of us".
 The editorial discusses the sacrifice offered by Prophet Ibrahim and the history of HaJ and then refers to the sacrifices rendered by the people of Afghanistan and the tragic Eids that they have been celebrating and concludes, "Eids are coming one after the other, but the country is suffering the burns of their thirst for Justice and freedom and the big trial is still ahead of us".
 REPORT; Leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin Hekmatyar recently in an address to Jehad commanders said "A commender should not only serve as a leader of the war but should be a motivation, a teacher and a guide for the people as well. Fighting should not be his only duty.•• We should have good relations with the mujaheddin of other organizations.and party, consideration should not prevent us from haying good relations ,with good commanders and mujaheddin of other organizations."
     Prof. Fazel in regard to recent developments has spelled out his position in this manner: "For many years the royal family had imposed itself by force over our helpless
 nation and we should not repeat this mistake once more".
 ARTICIE: "Why the west is afraid of Islam?"
 (By Mohammad Zaman Mozammel) "The west is afraid of Islam and Islamic movements and has the impression that Islam carries with it the savagery of the middle ages of Europe."The writer then dispels such an impression.
    "Leadership calls also for efficiency"
 (By Exami).
 Neda-e-Haq 20 July 1988
 EDITORIAL: "The success of our jehad is a good news for the freedom of Indian Muslims". It says, "In 1947t when the Hindus obtained their freedom from the British, in the beginning they were afraid of the Muslims of Afghanistan, and in consultation with Moscow, they worked out a plan for the partitioning of Afghanistan and Pakistan The Hindus, for the sake.of.consolidation and continuation of communism in Afghanistan, sacrificed their own freedom of action and non-alignment ... and declared their opposition to Islam in a very unmanly manner and this for the reason that if Islam was established in Afghanistan, then in the light of Islamic movement in entire Asia and especially in India and Central Asia, the sleeping and weak Muslims will awaken to support the Islamic Afghanistan government ... Because in India, 150 million Muslims are living in acute deprivation under the Hindu slavery and suppression. They will surely rise for their freedom and also the people of occupied Kashmir will rise against the Hindus ... We want to tell Rajiv, this broker of the east and the west that, God willing, the Islamic government will be established ... and all the Indian Muslims will rise against the idol (worshipping Hindus ,,.) REPORT: Pakistani ulema convened 10 June in Islamabad Hotel a meeting for declaring solidarity with the Afghan jehad and condemnation of the black Geneva accord. In the meeting Maw-lawi Mansoor, leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-
106
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 e-Islami Afghanistan said "the jehad of the people of Afghanistan is the jehad of the Muslim people of the world and with the blessings of this jehad, the occupied land of' Palestine will be cleansed from the dirty footsteps of world Zionism."
 ARTICLE: "The errors of Cordovez."
     "Cordovez so far has failed to understand the reasons for which this nation has rendered sacrifices ... By proposing a government neither belonging to the mujaheddin nor parchamis, Cordovez confirms his non-Islamic status. The position of our entire nation has already been set and determined.
 Our people should either be Muslims or infidels and communists. In Afghanistan now there is no other faith and belief other than these two and the war is between these two beliefs,"
Ekhlas
 21 July, 1988*
 EDITORIAL: ''The new chorus sung by Cordovez".
 It says, "Cordovez in a news conference 10 July declared in Islamabad that.1 September this year a neutral interim government will be announced and established in Afghanistan and this government will be called upon to convene the loya jirgah before 1. March, 1989 and then form a broadly based national government which will in turn receive a vote of confidence from this very loya jirgah ... This is a plan first approved by Reagan and Gorbachev and then supported by the former Afghan King Mohammad Zahir Shah and his associates. As far as Cordovez is concerned, he is not aware Of the nature of the loya jirgah and other Afghan traditions and does not know the political temper of bur Muslim nation ... At any rate, the plan, whoever has worked it,tantamounts to a futile and unreasonable demand being made after the leneva accord. The same way that our mujahed lation has rejected that accord they will also. ' reject the new Cordovez plan because the muja-aed nation of Afghanistan will proclaim their
 own transitional government and will execute the affairs of their country under its own leadership ..."
 NEWS: The mujaheddin during the past month conquered 50 military centers and 60 sub divisions.
 * Brother Mohammad Yasser, the Minister of Da’awat and Guidance of the interim government of mujaheddin participated 17 July in the ceremonies held in Makkah for washing the Holy Kaaba.
 ARTICIES: "Islamic journalism under the influence of others"' (By Abu Abdul Baseer). "The principles of Islamic journalism: (1) The people ought to know the truth and reality and do not oppose the truth; (2) All publications, articles, news, stories or poems in an Islamic society ought to be inconformity with the Islamic laws;(3) a refrain from publishing material considered unethical in the eyes of Islam;(4) a resolute refrain from developing personality cults; (5) a refrain from publishing news and articles against the sacred religion of Islam, and against Islamic interests; (6) a refrain from publishing items causing ill feelings among the Muslims or affecting negatively Muslim relations and benefiting the enemyf (7) a refrain from publishing untruthful news ..."
 * "The decision of the IUAM Supreme Council not to meet Cordovez was a correct one" (By Darmalgar).. "Spokesman of the IUAM estearned Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani in an interview with the BBC has said leaders of the IUAM did not take a good decision by not meeting UN Secretary General*s special envoy Diego Cordovez, They should have met him. However, we say that this decision of the jehad organization was correct and appropriate. This is a reasonable decision in conformity with the wishes of our mujahed nation because Cordovez had come here and wanted to meet the mujaheddin leaders to tell them to disregard their own proclaimed interim government and another government would have been imposed upon them ... We propose to Pir Saheb
107
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 that, as a spokesman of th&IUAM, he should take positive and new steps and should guard himself against making conflicting views."
 Neda-e-Jundullah
                       21 July# 1988. REPORT: The mujaheddin of Jundullah of the Kabul province in. theii* operation; (1) 30 June conquered the central post of security forces in Para-chi, Paghman,and armed personnel of the post fled. During the operation, arms depot of the security forces fell completely to the mujaheddin including one cannon and two wireless sets, (2) 2 July they conducted operations on the Fajak Brigade garrison, KHAD No.6 center, Bagh-e-Daoud, the Qargha 8 division and Kabul Poli-technical Institute. As a result of these operations, the Chief of staff.and Chief of the political affairs of the garrison, one captain and one cadet and a number of soldiers were killed, 0) 4. July the Jundullah mujaheddin again mounted operation on Pajak Brigade as a result of which 32,soldiers and two officers were killed, (4) on the same date the Qol-e-Jog of Paghman was subjected, to. an attack as a result of .which , the post, belonging to this military center, was ‘conquered, four enemy soldiers were.killed and two kilashinkoys.captured, (5) 11 July the Qargha division was attacked as a,result of which the rader center mounted on the mountain was demolished, eight military. officers and 15 soldiers were killed. "Other items of this issue are: (l) communism has reached its bottom end in Afghanistan;(2) the victory of the Muslim mujahed nation of Afghanistan and the worries of the Indian Prime Minister} (3) encircle the enemy;
 (4) a glance at the Quranic Sura of Saf ( Battle Array)".
 Jabha-e-Jehach
 EDITORIAL: "The big sacrifice". It discusses the philosophy..of sacrifice in Islam,- the sacrifice offered by Prophet Ibrahim and the one
by Imam-e-Hussain and now the sacrifice of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. These are aU trials posed by Almighty God to mankind. It asks success from Almighty God to enable us succeed in this trial*
INTERVIEW: The leader of NLP Hazrat-e-Sebghat-ullah Mojeddadi, in an interview with the VOA has said "as long as the Russians are present in Afghanistan, the mujaheddin will, accept no kind of peace and moves for the establishment of an interim government and convening of a loya jir-gah are of course reasonable measures upon which the Muslim nation of Afghanistan-the mujahed-
din and representatives of the refugees - - , should finally come to a decision and this could be achieved through a loya jirgah. ±f our friendly brethren and those brethren who are involved in the Afghanistan issue as well as the governments connected with the issue had heeded my proposals and resorted to this from the very beginning, by now, the loya jirgah would have been convened and we would not have faced so many difficulties* In the course of history the loya jirgah has decided about vital issues of the nation ... Until the traditional Islamic loya jirgah of the Afghans is convened and decides about a leader for Afghanistan and the interim government, no peace will be possible in Afghanistan. "
Payam-e- Shuhada
                                                                                                July, 1988
EDITORIAL: The editorial explains the objectives of the newspaper. They are; (1) at this trying juncture of the Afghan history, when others are attempting to put our Islamic revolution off track,to speak about the objective and aspirations of the strugglers, mujaheddin and the pious and Muslim people of Afghanistan;
(2)'to. speak, about the aspirations of our martyrs. For, at this juncture of history, those who are engaged in political games want to close the mujaheddin chapter •••; (3) to speak for the
108
Vol.2, No.l
 July-Sept ember, 1988           AFGHAN JIHAD
 cause and pbjective of martyrdom and Islam, the establishment- of Islamic government end standards in our country where many people have shed their blood; (4) to discuss or explain the true Islam from what has been posed under the name of this religion by world arrogance, ($) it will be a spokesman for all the oppressed strata of the society as well as religious groups and parties committed to Islam,
 * •The present interim government is not accepted and supported by us”. It says, "the oppressed Afghan nation which has refused to succumb to humility throughout the history by rendering and sacrificing the blood of its valorous people and, at present, by immigration of more than six million of their dear ones and by accepting hundreds of others of difficulties and by standing and complete resistance against the biggest satanic power of the time, and has forced the aggressors to retreat from our Islamic country. Yes,this.nation.will allow not its fate to be decided by aliens and people who lack leadership and administration qualifications in Islam and to impose on us a government on the basis of religious, ethnical, regional, linguistic and tribal prejudices and ignore half of the body. of Muslims and their struggle. Such a government will not be acceptable to our Muslim and valorous nation and is condemned and rejected by us. Similarly the composition of the present transitional government is not based on social justice and true rights of all the strata of the nation and it.is not acceptable to us and our people.
 EDITORIAL: "The editorial starts with, the following verse of the Holy Quran, "And when.it is said to them, make not mischief on earth, they say, why, we only, want to make peace," In the light of this verse of the Holy Quran, the editorial discusses the deeds of the previous governments and the 1978 communist coup and the role played by the people of Afghanistan in
 staging a valorous jehad. It proposes "it is the desire of the Muslim Afghan nation to establish an Islamic government based on. brotherhood, equality and discarding class privileges and •exploitation. The people of Afghanistan have the right to determine their own fate on the basis of free and Islamic elections and also the valorous mujaheddin ought to form a joint milir tary council comprised of both the Shia and Sunni mujaheddin from all over the country. The council' should also be an elected body and we should attack the last trench of the enemy which, praise to God, is already falling. For conquering the capital city of Afghanistan, . Kabul, we should undertake coordinated operations, If, God forbid, we resort to party and factional disputes, our victory will be delayed and the Islamic revolution will be put off the track, personal ambitions will prevail and at that time, the enemy will become strong and it will not be possible to compensate for the losses we make. If, God forbid, we resort to religious disputes, this will also have undesirable consequences and then regret will have no use.
 In Afghanistan, for many years, followers of two Islamic sects have lived together and they are going to live so in the future. These are the Shias and the Sunnis or the Hanafis and Jafferis, They are brothers to each other and have equal rights, Islamic justice requires that none of these ought to be. deprived of their rights and religious freedom and also, in the political field, complete justice should prevail and followers of the Jaffery sect should be allowed tc abide to the Jaffery jurisprudence in matters . of civil, law and individual and social affairs and, as the Sunni brothers in Afghanistan, are referring to Hanafi courts to solve their problems, the Jafferis should also be allowed to have their own courts. If this happens, the enemy will no longer be able to launch undesirable propaganda, and causes for divisions and
 usurpation of rights between us will be eradicated", .
Muqawemat July 19&S,
109
Vol.2, No.l
July-Sept ember, 1988
 Payam-e-Jehad
                       April-July, 1988. REPORT; Prof, Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in the organizational and educational seminars of the commanders of various fronts of Afghanistan held in Peshawar said the blood thirsty enemy was not able to shaken your iron will and determination despite all its deceits and savagery, your previous resolution has not been altered and your determination for continuing the Jehad is still intact. Neither the Geneva deceit, nor the plots hatched by Moscow puppets in Kabul and difficulties existing in. the trenches and other problems and pains, none of these, has caused your jehad to slow down its progress and speed,"
 INTERVIEW: Dr, Najibullah Lafraee, Chairman of the Political Committee of the Jamiat-&-Island, Afghanistan who is on a visit to the US, in an interview about reported Russian plan to partition Afghanistan has said in my view the consequences of partitioning Afghanistan will be very undesirable for Gorbachev and also the Russians will have little chance for a success in this connection. Therefore, I do not think the Russians.will.resort.to.such a thing."
   Other items of.the newspaper are (l) resolution of the fifth session of the supervisory council, (2) communique of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan on the occasion of the withdrawal of the Soviet aggressive forces from Afghanistan;
 (3) psychology of disunity and (4) the jehad news, •
 Payam-e-Jehad July, 1988.
 INTERVIEW; Hazrat Ayatullah Mohseni.in an interview with the BBC, 20 June said "(1) all struggling Islamic parties, whether located in FakiSr tan, Iran or inside the country, should bring about a broad unity and the seven parties mujaheddin organization in Peshawar can in no way represent the entire mujaheddin} (2) if Gordovez
 wants his mission succeed in his coalition government formula, he should drop the communist and non-Islamic elements'; (-3) members of the cabinet should all be pious and committed Muslims; (4) it is the resolute decision of the Afghan Muslims that they will in no way compromise and talk with the Kabul regime; (5) no body has the right to pardon and forgive the murderers of the nation;
 (6) unity of the Afghan tribes and our religions freedom and territorial integrity should be based on Islamic concepts; (7) we should not give the right to either a freindly or unfriendly government to interfere in our internal affairs; (8) our principal demands are independence, freedom, justice and an Islamic government and we will in no way stop fighting for these objectives."
 *   Mohammad Reza, who has spent six years and three months in communist jail,, in an interview about conditions in the prison has said, "I remember that in the third bloc of the Pul-e—Char-khi prison authorities started beating a number of prisoners in the winter of 1984 to such an extent that all of them could neither stand nor walk for a long time. We did not know what the reason for this beating was. Some time later, one other person was martyred while being tortured."
 *   The man responsible for the affairs of the Supreme Council, Hujjatul Islam wal Muslemeen Mr. Hadi, in an interview 12 July said the council supervises various dimensions of the jehad including the formation of provincial, councils, secret mujaheddin bases, ideological, military, cultural, political organizational teachings and training. One of the obvious duties of this council is to promote cooperation and coordination among the Islamic parties. An example of this has been the solving of disputes among the mujaheddin of Paghman, Maidan, Parwan and Bamian and bringing about coordination among the Islamic brotherly parties.
110
Vol.2t No.l
J uly—September t 1988           AFGHAN J[HAQ
 Enqelab-e-lslami
 Afghanistan 23 July 1988
 EDITORIAL: "The role of the valorous uprising of 20 July, 1975f in enabling us to continue the Islamic revolution". The editorial is about the 1975 uprising of the Islamic organizations against the Daoud regime. It,says that martyred HafizuLlah Afzali on the 19 July, 1975f issued order to the military branches of the Islamic movement in Panjsher and Laghman to launch their jehad on the following day. This was the time when the valorous Islamic movement, after 18 years of ideological and intellectual struggle, was entering its armed and military struggle. The following day the blossoming tree of the Islamic revolution was going to be watered by the blood of the most dear sons of Islam in Afghanistan, so it may grow and become stronger. This uprising and this epoch making event
 on the following day-20 July-did take
 place in Panjsher and laghman. It was an uprising reminiscence of the Karbala events, the Karbala of Kazrat Hussain in the 61 year after Hejrat. The Afghan Islamic uprising repeated the same kind of Islamic valour in another juncture of history, in another corner of the Islamic world, in the high mountains of brave Afghanistan ..."
 INTERVIEW: Abdul Salam Haideri, the famous Herat mujahed, before he was martyred had been interviewed by this newspaper. In the interview in a message he had said "my message to the people of Afghanistan is that they should have revolutionary patience and perseverance and never should feel tired and fatigued in their hard and difficult struggle against the Russians and their puppets, because victory is soon. Their bloodshed will not go futile and soon victory will dawn and then, under the shadow of the government of Quran, you will soon begin your Islamic life."
 Wahdat-e-lslami
                            23 July 1988 EDITORIAL: "Visiting the Ka'aba and the wisdom of sacrifice". The article, after discussing the sanctity of the holy house.of Ka'aba and the value of sacrifice, speaks about the sacrifices which the people of Afghanistan have been rendering. It writes the sacred jehad of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan urges today all .the Muslims, and especially the people of Afghanistan, to be ready for sacrifice to defeat infidelity and atheism and to achieve the freedom cf the country and the establishment of the government of Quranic justice ... While in the Islamic world, all the Muslims are offering their sacrifices to Almighty God, the mujahed and Muslim nation of Afghanistan are offering their own selves for the establishment of the sovereignty of the Quran, the freedom of the country and preservation of their honor. They are doing this for Almighty God and for earning his good pleasure".
 MESSAGE: Judge Mohammad Amin Waqad leader of the Daeea-e-Ittehad-e-Islami-e-Mujaheddin-e-Afghanistan in a message on the occasion of Eid has referred to the philosophy of the'sacrifice rendered by Prophet Ibrahim and then has addressed the mujaheddin by saying, "let us hold fast to the rope of God than to our personal interest in this sensative time. We should ignore organizational preferences, divisive moves, unfounded and futile desires and urges.
 We should come out of the restraints of party politics for the sake of Islamic sovereignty and resort only to Islam. Let us only suffice with Islam and Islamic government and, in the light of Islamic principles, should give the right of representation to all those who have participated in the rightful jehad of Afghanistan. Let us invite the representatives of all social classes of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan for the establishment of a broadbased
111
July-September, 19S8
■HMD
 council. This broadbased Islamic council can be formed from the following groups, (1) leaders of the jehad and jehad personalities; (2) prominent jehad commanders on provincial level and even on the level of sub divisions; (3) scholars and spirituals who are the moral support of the jehad; (4) heads of tribes in accordance with their proportion; (5) prominent intellectuals, political. and administrative figures who have not participated actively in the jehad but have Islamic beliefs and have not opposed the mujaheddin. The latter should have the right of membership in the council because of their professional knowledge, political prominence and experience; (6) famous Shia people who have participated in the jehad in.accordance with their proportion; (7) if» on the basis of these factors,we form a broadly based council,then we ought to select the most pious and a scholarly and mujahed person as the leader of the council.., Let us, by doing so, confirm the pledge once we had made in the house of God in Mak'kah and reject in deeds the Geneva accord. Let us, by doing so, we really show that we value the sacrifices that the nation has rendered for the establishment of a united Islamic order.11
 * Other items of this newspaper are: (l) Iran does not consider the American aggression as mere mistake; (2) the fear of Rajiv Gandhi from the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan; (3) the captured Russian soldiers and those who have defected to the mujaheddin do not want to return to their country; (4) Russian soldiers were cooly welcomed in their country.
                                                                                                                   21 July 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The benefits of Islam in the daily life" (Sakhidad Faez). The editorial speaks about the security of life in an Islamic society. It writes,* "In Islam, other than atheism and infidelity, no other sin or crime is being punished in the hell eternally. However, in return for intentional killing and murder > the Holy
                            Vol.2, No.l
 Quran has used the phrase eternal punishment ... Similarly Qesas is an Islamic principle which has great deal of value for the security of the society."
 REPORT: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in a function held on the occasion of graduation of the students of the Military University said "You are the people who have come out from the heart of revolution and that is why the task of the preservation of the gains of revolution has been entrusted upon you the youth of the country".
 MESSAGE: The Cultural Committee of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in its message on the occasion of Eid which has been written by Al-Haj Abdul Ahad Tarshi has called upon the mujaheddin, "0,You, the true followers of Mohammad*peace be upon him. 0, you, the lovers of the path of Prophet Ismail and the lovers of the nation of Prophet Ibrahim, wake up, unite, open your eyes, discard prejudices and selfishness and the desire for assuming higher posts because, otherwise, it is feared that the sacrifices rendered during the past 10 years by your mujahed and oppressed nation may go futile and the culture of slavery, infidelity and atheism are intent to conquer the nests of high flying eagles of Islam and unity. If today you do not come to yourselves, the wrath of God will come on you and our people and history will never forgive you. Don't let the fruits of this big and lengthy sacrifice fall to the enemies of Islam and to the hypocrats.
     Other items of this newspaper are: (l) the mujahed people of Afghanistan by rendering millions of sacrifices are reviving for ever the memory of the grand sacrifice offered by Prophet Ibrahim and Prophet Ismail; (2) tears of shame; (3) the victory of the Afghanistan jehad is the decline of communist ideology;
 (4) jehad news.
112
j uly-Sept ember, 1988
MM
No.l
 Al-Noor                       23 July, 1988.1
 EDITORIAL: "Who should become the leader of Afghanistan?” (By Shingal Madadyar)."The Afghans want a person to become their leader who.is following the path of God, who is to look after the orphans and widows, who is to rebuilt what has been destroyed and who has knowledge and scholarship."
 i
 REPORT: Haji Din Mohammad the Minister of Defense of the mujaheddin transitional government in an interview has said "the Cordovez plan in our view is a failure and will have no other value than prolonging the civil war and bloodshed.
 He condemned a meeting held between Cordovez and Almas Khan and a number of Koochi Afghans and said these people do not represent the mujaheddin and the refugees.”
 NEWS: One hundred and ninety three mujaheddin and refugees left for Makkah to perform the Haj.
 *  In Nangarhar the mujaheddin conquered 15 atheists posts.
 *  The Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan leader,Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales inspected jehad trenches in the larger Nangarhar,
 * Other items.of this newspaper include: (l)
 The resolution of scholars in Paktia; (2) the mujaheddin shot down an enemy helicopter; (3)
 Ay, you, Eid, whose Eid are you?
 Da Sabaoon Zairey
                                26                                July 1988 EDITORIAL: "Support for the interim government is an obligation of every Muslim”, The editorial, while hoping the consolidation and strengthening of the interim government, demands "now that Russia, despite its deadly behaviour in the eyes of. the people of the world, has been forced to leave our country shamefully, it is high time that the political organizations of jehad change their coalition into a unity for the sake of ultimate victory of Is-
 lamic revolution and realization of the aspira— tions of more than one million martyres. They should resort to practical actions in the formation and proclamation of the interim government needed by our nation and, by doing so, frustrate the intrigues of our internal and external enemies."
 ARTICIES: "Who Mr. Abdul Haq speaks for?"
 Mr. Abdul Haq,the guerrilla commander of Kabul province, is for the formation of a neutral government and .wants such, a government be formed after the withdrawal of occupying Russian forces from Afghanistan and he has rejected the interim mujaheddin government ... It might be useless to mention that Mr. Abdul Haq actually does not know what is the meanings of a neutral government. Undoubtedly a neutral government is a kind of government which is comprised of traitors and pro-westerners who are left with nothing but the name of Islam ...
 We ask Mr. Abdul Haq: "For whom are you speaking? Certainly you do not speak for your organization, because Mawlawi Khales is a great mu-jahed ... And he is not satisfied with anything else but Islamic government; and you do not speak even on behalf of your family because your brother Haji Din Mohammad who is an exemplified commander and the Minister of Defense of the transitional government of the mujaheddin, has also rejected the Cordovez plan and its examples and you certainly do not speak on behalf of Mujahed Abdul Haq, the commander of Jehad because a true and real mujahed and commander will never agree that the blood of one and a half million martyrs is. wasted and a religious-
                                      ‘V
  less, atheist, pro-western government which is enemy to Islam is formed instead of an Islamic government. Therefore, we*repeat our question:
  "Mr. Abdul Haq, idiom do you speak for?"
      Other items of .this magazine are: (l) internal difficulties of Russia; (2) events in the Islamic world; (3) and the position of world arrogance and (4) jehad news.
113
July-Sept ember, 1988            AFGHAN J(HAD                 Vol.2f  No.l
 Ariana Voice 1 August 1988
 EDITORIAL: "... While we are getting rid of one problem which is the communist regime we are
 confronting another problem-the brain drain.
 Those who have sought refuge during the past seven or eight years have gone to the Pakistani refugee office to register and then have gone to the US, Australia or other western countries after undergoing many difficulties because they were.not absorbed in the mujaheddin offices ... However, this year, when there is a strong hope for the independence of Afghanistan, we still see that people are attempting to find a way to go to foreign countries ... If all the educated and intellectual people stay abroad, who is going to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan? Perhaps they know better than we do and will say for Afghanistan to again become Afghanistan of the past will be impossible. Put I think that pre-war Afghanistan is going to be restored ... Therefore, we should all think about this issue. Until August or the end of September an interim government is going to be formed in Afghanistan' and this government should convene the loya jirgah to appoint the permanent government and there is no doubt that the Russians, too, will leave Afghanistan before the time-table. Because when the Islamic government is established and the communist government is dismantled, there will be no reason for the Russian soldiers to remain in Afghanistan. Then the reconstruction of Afghanistan will begin and we will need our educated people and specialist for the new projects. Those brains that have left Afghanistan, if do not return, how they will talk about patriotism? I think those who speak of patriotism, from now on should stop going to refugee offices. They should wait for a while to return to the country and take part in its construction." .
    Other items of this issue are: (l) Message by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani to the Muslim nation of Afghanistan; (2) Unity in diversity;
(3) the strategic value of Wakhan.
Ittehad-e-lslami
                        2                         August 1988, EDITORIAL: "The significance of sacrifice". It says, "now, once again, the days of the Eid of sacrifice have arrived. While the Muslims of the world are marking these days by offering animal sacrifices,in this wide world of Almighty God there is a people who have been sacrificing their most dear selves during the last 10 years to their Creator and for them this has been the true meaning and significance of sacrifice."
MESSAGE: Prof# Sayyaf, leader of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a message on the occasion of Eid has said "Although this.Eid, too, like previous Bids is being celebrated in the midst of blood, tears and pains, this year there is the good tidings about the big victory of the Muslims as well. God willing, we will mark and celebrate Eid by toppling the atheist communist puppet regime and formation of a grand Islamic government in its place right in Kabul."
   Other titles of the newspaper are: The life of Hazrat Arqam Bin Abi Al-Arqam,; (2) the message of sacrifice; (3) the Kampuchean Muslims and horrible crimes of communists; (L) jehad news.
Shahadat                 3 August 1988.
EDITORIAL: The editorial regrets about remarks made and positions adopted by our friends in "this victory phase" of the Afghanistan Islamic revolution and says these in no way represent the revolution which is about to succeed. It says, some times we see that an esteemed gentleman under the name of "famous" commander, without feeling any sense of responsibility vis-a-vis the ideology, sacrifice, struggle and interest of Islamic nation and Islam with utmost irresoluteness for the sake of achieving the objectives of/imperialists, starts.to speak
114
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 nonsense. Other times we see that an esteemed leader goes up on the stage and explains the policies and common stand of the seven mujaheddin organizations but ignores the revolutionary-nature of the struggle of the Afghan nation and specially he speaks contrary to the natural demands of the resolute phase of the revolution and gives way to doubts and contradictions.
 About the Cordovez plan, although the IUAM has decided that the Afghans should oppose it, this
 leader says that his organization supported and the welcomed, the plan,,,"
 REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Header of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a speech on the first day of Eid in the Nasrat Meena Grand Mosque said "The proposal put forward by Cordovez. is not his personal view. It is a plan that the big powers had given him. As far as the Hezb-e-Islami is concerned, we will in no way accept a non-elected government. No body can impose upon the Afghan nation a non-elected government."
     Other titles of the newspaper are: (l) the end of war is the beginning of a new phase in the Iranian revolution; (2) the growth of revolutionary Islamic movement in Egypt; (3) letters to the editor; (4) views and positions adopted in regard to recent events; (5) news about jehad and the world.
IVIujahed
6 August 1988,
 EDITORIAL: It is about the UN resolution No.598 and its acceptance by Iran. In the light of this, the editorial discusses the prospects of peace between the Iraq and Iran.
 REPORT: Prof, Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in his Eid sermon, while refering to important issues of the Islamic world, has said the acceptance of resolution 598 of the Security Council by the Islamic Republic of Iran is an important step towards peace and solidarity in the Islamic world."
 ARTICIES: "Immunity and the value of property"
 (By Sakhidad Faez) "... Property, money and other possessions have an important value for the sake of strengthening the Islamic society. Muslims should give paramount importance to their own honor and grandeur as well as to that of Islam and Islamic society and victory over their enemy and should never remain indifferent and apathetic about these objectives. Otherwise, they will always remain subject to enemy encroachment, they will live under colonial domination and will have a life of slavery."
    Other items of this newspaper are: (1) the culture of mohajerat or immigration; (2) the morale of Kabul communist regime is gradually weakening; (3) news about the Afghan jehad and the world.
 Al-Noor                      7 August 1988,
 EDITORIAL: :If you have prepared for our coming in, we too have prepared for your going out,"
 It says, "Do you not feel ashamed by saying that you have made preparations for the refugees to return, that you have established guest houses near border areas? How is it possible that one day you are inviting the Russians as guests and another day you are building guest houses for the refugees? May be you have been smiling about what - you have been saying. For a person who is about to drown, catches even at a straw. If you have prepared for our coming in, we, too, have prepared for your goind out. We are surely coming to our dear Afghanistan because that is where our land is and we been fed there and you should go because, the documents you gave for the sale, of this land to aliens are forged and, therefore, these aliens are shamefully on the retreat towards their country. Now, tall uSf are you entitled to be the owner of this country with your forged documents?
 REPORT: Haji Din Mohammad the Minister of Defense of the Mujaheddin interim government visited hospitals on the third day of Eid and met the mujaheddin who have been wounded in the
115
Juiy-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
trenches and told them "the days are near for the establishment of true Islamic government in Afghanistan* God willing, success and victory are waiting us,"
ART33GIES: "Afghanistan in the context of history" (By Qanet), The article discusses the growth of communism in Afghanistan and its animosity towards religion, "However, now the communists have been sitting in the mosques and have become sheikhs; they are trumpetting the NBP and asking that we should stop fratricide.
Who started fratricide? Who is busy at fratricide? Who started fratricide? Why millions of Afghans were forced to migrate?',The article then asks those in power to grab at the favorable opportunity that has come about in the Afghanistan situation",
Neda-e-Jundullaha %9&&.
REPORT: The heroic Jundullah mujaheddin of Kabul province in their operations (l) destroyed a Russian jeep 15 July, in which the chief of the battle reconnasiance brigade,» seven enemy military officers and a doctor were riding; (2) Russian and puppet, troops fought. 21 July the mur-jaheddin.in Khwaja.Miisafer, Khaldari, Khwaja latan, Baigtpot.and the Paghman desert; (3) the Jundulleh mujaheddin killed in a revolutionary . manner 3.August a captain who was a.faithful puppet of the Russians at his hope; (4) the Jundullah mujaheddin in answer.to savage enemy attacks on Paghman launched a rocket attack 1 August on the Kragha.dairi military establishments, the Kargha.8 Pivisiqn,Politechnic. and Police, .. Academy, In the Kargha Dam area, four Russian advisers were killed alongwith. 30.officers and soldiers and two of their tankers were also demolished, In. the Kargha 8 Division, 41 officers and soldiers of the puppet regime were killed. In politechnic and the Police Academy, 20 officers and soldiers were killed and some.of their buildings destroyed,"
                                  Other items of this issue.include; (l) an
introduction about the Moscow-Delhi-Kabul triangle and its futures; (.2) a summary from the speech delivered by the mujahed brother Nerum in West Germany; (3) Hazrat Abu Hanifa and (4) encircle the enemy,
Wahdat-e-lslami
                           8 August 1988,
EDITORIAL: "Islamic revolution and the rights of the people". It says,"The formation of an Islamic government acceptable to the people will only be possible when there is total cooperation and strive on the part of all the strata of the society and putting into service all the administrative and political units of jehad under the rule of a big Islamic.front. Launching separate attempts through independent political party channels will unconciously result in dependence and allowing others to interfere in the jehad affairs,,,"
INTERVIEW: Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, leader of the Wahdat-e-Islami in answer to a question by . a a group of Indonesian journalists said "We have started Qur jehad from a zero amount of weapons for meeting our obligations. through a resort' to our faith and belief without any outside help and so far this jehad has been continuing by utter reliance on our own power and by rendering sacrifices. There has been.at the same time limited cooperation by the Islamic movements and world Muslims, Now we have obtained so much weapons from the Russians and their puppet government that we are able to continue our jehad without any foreign help for many years,
    A Soviet soldier (Suleimanov Gajimurad) in an interview has said Russians came to Afghanistan in order to safeguard their borders because they knew that the establishment and consolidation of an Islamic movement in Afghanistan will also influence the Islamic regions occupied by. the' Russians, Russia does hot want. Islam and Islamic, movements to progress.
    Other items of this newspaper are: (1)
116
Jul/-September, 1988
IIM
Vol.2, No.l
Allama Arif Hussain Hussaini was martyred; (2) an article complaining about the prevailing situation in the mujaheddin. hospitals;. (3) unity and equality; (4) jehad news.
Ittehad-e-lslami
                            9                             August, 1988. EDITORIAL: "Another satanic design which will bear no result." According to recent news published in the Soviet Defense Ministry publicity organ, Red Star, the Russians and the Kabul regime have planned to form a new Department within the framework of the Ministry of Defense to stop the mujaheddin attacks on the city of Kabul, However this plan, too, will be frustrated like their other satanic designs and its results will be nothing but disgrace and shame."
REPORT: . The President of the mujaheddin interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah in a function held by the Rabita-alam-e-Islami in Peshawar said the mujaheddin interim government will replace the Kabul regime.
NEWS;. The political eseietant Chief of the Bang!, Takhar, alongwith 81 soldiers accompanying him, were captured by the mujaheddin 1 August.
*  In Herat, the mujaheddin killed 30 July SO atheist and captured alive 29 others.
*  The mujaheddin recently conquered seven enemy posts in Paghman, Kabul province.
ARTICIES: "Russians and political games" (By Engineer Abdul Wadood Khaled) "In their decaying communism school of thought, politics is subject to communist imperialist and hegemonist interest ••. One day they make one pattern of analysis about events and, some time later, they completely contradict that. One day they honor and welcome an event, another day they condemn it... In Afghanistan, too, they are following this pattern ... Brave mujaheddin, the conditions are very sensitive ... Be careful".
 Shahadat - 10 August, 1988.
 EDITORIAL; "Pretext for changing policies". It says "... Recent changes in Russia show that the Russians have come to a point to realize what is happening around them ... Being a super power no longer to them means that they are to be undefeatable ... Now, for the Russians, after the withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan preservation of a puppet government in Kabul, is neither possible nor desirable because they have experienced the bitter results of such a policy in Afghanistan in the past several years. What the Russians are now trying to achieve with the help of the Americans and under the auspicies of the UN is to stop the formation of an Islamic order in Afghanistan. If in the jehad ranks some people with their irresponsible deeds and words help the Russians and Americans directly or indirectly to achieve such an anti-Islamic and anti-people objectives in Afghanistan, undoubtedly the judgement of the Muslim people of Afghanistan and the future history about them will be no better than the judgement they have already passed on the Russian puppets", REPORT : "Recently Brother Ahmad Shah Masood,
 ■Chief of the supervisory Council of the northern provinces of Afghanistan, sent a delegation to . Peshawar to exchange views and discuss with the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan leadership matters related to unification of political positions, coordination of military plans, consolidation of the mujaheddin plans and bringing under one powerful, genuine and stable leadership all active revolutionary forces. Following this, a three member delegation of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan went to the center of the Supervisory Council of Northern Provinces. The delegation met Brother Masood in length. The talks were completely- satisfactory, and, as a result of these talks, positive result was achieved."
                                                                 Other items are: (l) government for whom?
 (2) let us fight together against the array
117
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN J[HAO                  Vol.2f No.l
of plots; (3) the darkenesses of the Reds besieged by the light of Islam and (4) news of the jehad.
Mujahed                      13 August, 1988.
EDITORIAL: “The mujahed Afghan nation on the threshold of eliminating the Russian revengeful imperialism” (By Daneshyar).
    The editorial praises “the unprecedented recent mujaheddin victories” and writes, “now that the criminal Russian army is being defeated and retreating, it is for the entire heroic and mujahed people of the country to realize the heavy responsibility which is going to be entrusted upon them after complete Russian retreat or in the course of this retreat and our people should be quiet aware about what they do. This heavy responsibility emi-nates from our task to conquere the final nests of the infidelity and atheism of the puppet Russian regime. The final battle which should result in the conquering of big cities and important centers of the country, the final battle which will liberate Afghanistan completely and all traitors meet their fate. Yes, after eliminating the revengeful Russian imperialist aggression, we should now resort to the final liberation of the country.“
REPORT: Prof, Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-^-Islami Afghanistan,' in a'meeting 4 August, in the Supervisery Council said “Shia and Sunni, Baluch and Turkman, Tadjek and Uzbek, Pashtun and Nooristani, all should take part in the administration of Afghanistan ... The most experienced and veteran revolutionaries of the world come and ask us to explain to them our experiences telling us that except by abiding to your experiences, there is no other way for the Muslim nations to redeem themselves ...
There are a number of elements here and there who, though only parasites on the mujaheddin,
want to preach the so-called Islamic-Marxism under different guises. We should stand against
 such elements without any fear whatsoever”.
    Other items in this edition are: (l) The underprivileged elements of the society in the light of history, (2) news about jehad and the world.
 Shahdat                      17 August 1988
 EDITORIAL: "The demands of revolution". "The more the Russians are nearing the completion of the withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan, the more we need to organize and expedite with resoluteness and seriousness of the movement of our Islamic revolution from all directions.Because, on the one hand,we need to coordinate the mili* tary aspects of the jehad in a way that, simultaneous with the withdrawal of Soviet forces, the hireling regime should also be toppled, and, on the other hand, we should coordinate our political, administrative and organizational affairs in such.a.way so that, parallel with the dismantling of the Najib puppet regime, we may be able to activate the administration of the
                                       7U
 country and secure law and order and bring/war to an end."
 REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Amir of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan told the Naser Bagh camp refugees before the Juma prayers 12 August “Those who are postponing the decision to hold elections are earning a bad name among the people. People have now found out that such elements did not trust their own people and were affraid of the decision of the nation”.
 .ARTICIES; “Government for whom?" (By Mohammad Zaman Mozammel). “If, in selecting a government, the Russian and American consent and advice are taken into account, then it is sure that that government will not represent the nation and, as a result, such a government will have no legality.“
 * "Oppression is the guardian of ignorance and enemy of thoughthfulness” (By Waheed Muzhdah).
 A society which intends to accept within itself
118
Vol.2, No.l
July-September, 19SS             AFGHAN JEHAD
 various political parties should also differenci-ate between ’'opposition” and "hostility"*Thoughts should be exposed to the free judgment of the society and they should go through the mechanism of criticism and opposition# But this should not entail hostility.
 Ekhlas                      19 August 1988*
 EDITORIAL; "Stands adopted towards the already proclaimed interim government of the mujaheddin", The editorial has criticized those who are "throwing stones" on the way of this "pure Islamic government"# Some leaders of the IUAM are rejecting this government because they themselves have not been selected as its head ••• Similarly, some mujaheddin commanders are also opposing this government because in the beginning they were hoping to be appointed in some of its ministerial proposal ••• And those organizations which are outside the IUAM but are branches of the Afghanistan Islamic movement, their opposition to this government is irrelevant, though it may be true •** Those Afghans who are residing in Europe and America are rejecting this government because this is an Islamic government and they are sensitive about Islam, i.e. towards real Islam. The majority of the people have expressed their support for the interim government and,
 God willing, it is taking positive and firm steps day by day towards success"#'
 REPORT; The President of the mujaheddin interim government Engineer Ahmad Shah in an interview 27 July ,in Quetta said "This interim government will hold elections inside Afghanistan in which all the Afghans will have the right to become candidates"#
 * "General Mohammad Ziaul Haq, the President of Pakistan has been martyred in an air accident.
 The plane in which the Pakistani President was flying has not crashed due to technical reasons, but the elimination of this beloved President was planned by the enemies".
 *  "The massacre of the Afghan mujaheddin in
 Zahidan is an obvious example of cruel hearts".
    "In Zahedan, Iran, during the month of August this year the Iranian Revolutionary Guards twice massacred Afghans. In the first massacre they killed 25 and in the second one they killed 30 Afghans refugees, including children, women, elderlies and the youth."
 Mujahed                   August 20, 1988.
 EDITORIAL; "A look at the new Russian plots and intrigues in Afghanistan and its latest warnings to Pakistan and Iran".
    The editorial, after discussing the latest "Soviet plots", writes "(1) The Russians are in no way ready to stop their support of their puppet regime in Kabul which protects Soviet interests. (2) the Russians, after the withdrawal,too, will continue their military and fighting role in Afghanistan as before and one can confirm this by referring to Russian limited attacks, and raids on centers and regions captured by the mujaheddin such as Wardak, Kalat, Mohammad Agha, Logar, Khanabad,Kunduz and other cities of the country."
 MESSAGE: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan on the occasion of the unexpected death of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq, President of Pakistan in a message has said "The painful incident of the martyrdom of the late General Ziaul Haq as a result of an air accident entailing the crash of his plane is a source of deep sorrow for me and the Afghan nation. Truely that his martyrdom is an irreparable loss. The Islamic world, with his martyrdom, has lost a faithful, esteemed and sympathetic leader whose life was entirely devoted to the service of Islam and Muslims."
 NEWS: Hujjat-ul-Islam Rafsanjani, the Speaker of the Iranian Majlis has resolutely turned down a Russian proposal for an end to the Iranian support of the Afghan mujaheddin and for -the recognition of the Kabul regime.
U9
                                                                              July-September, 19 88
 * The Russians are planning to relieve the hireling Najib from his post and are trying to find another appropriate hireling to succeed him,
 ARTICLES: "The Brain washing of our innocent children in Russia" (By F.D.) The article considers the sending of Afghan children to Russia a long and dangerous Russian plan, f
 * "A short look at statements by Radio Moscow" (By Sayyed Habib Shah), The writer discusses those parts of the Russian Foreign Minister statements in which he has said that, if Pakistan continues interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, the positive aspects of the Geneva accord will be eliminated and Russia will be forced to reconsider the time-table for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan",
 Neda-e-Jundullah
                          21 August 19£8.
 MESSAGE: The Jundullah agency in Kabul province in a message on the occasion of the martyrdom of General Ziaul Haq has said "the esteemed brother General Mohammad Ziaul Haq, who was not only a sincere and kind servant of the Pakistani nation but his heart was beating for the deprived and oppressed Muslims pf the world and particularly of those in Afghanistan, had continuously endeavoured for their freedom and delivery,’!
 REPORT: According to reports by the Jundullah base in Kabul province, a group of Jundullah urban guerrillas 24 July hit with rockets an enemy patrol vehicle as a result of which two officers and two soldiers were killed and two others along-with their arms and two trained dogs captured by the mujaheddin.
    On the 8th of August the mujaheddin of Jundullah base in Kabul, in a joint operation with the rest of the mujaheddin in the Shakar Dara sub division, demolished three enemy posts and captured one zequick. During the operation a nur* mber of officers and soldiers were killed and,
Vol.2f No.l
from the mujaheddin side, one mujahed brother was martyred. The mujaheddin 16 August and 21 August staged another operation in the Shakar Dara sub division as a result of which human and material casualties were inflicted on the enemy,
Ukhuwwat 22 August 1988
EDITORIAL: "The position of the peace seekers
union in the face of recent events in Afghanistan. " "The new interim government has not been recognized by all the jehad leaders as well as the mujaheddin, refugees and other oppressed people of Afghanistan and it has been created only as a name in a limited framework in accord-dance with the wishes of a few people and only on the paper. This government has no authority to an extent that, for instances its minister of defense has no power to issue even one item of arms or he does not have under his jurisdiction a soldier and its ministry of finance has no power to grant funds. Members of the interim government are all working in their own particular organizations and do not spend only one hour in the headquarters of the Islamic government, Due to these reasons, it is the duty of every Muslim and conscientious citizens of Afghanistan that, for the sake of fulfilling his religious and humanitarian responsibilities, defend his legitimate rights in accordance with the dictates of Almighty God and collectively without taking sides and form traditional jir-gahs and tell the interim government to establish such a united government and leadership to be able to achieve Islamic and national unity and eliminate individual and party activities,
If the demand of the people is not heeded, then the representatives of the nation should take necessary action about the fate and future of the country,"
ARTICLES: "The Afghanistan leadership is waiting for Islamic justice".
* When this total victory is achieved, it should mean that we are following.the Quranic
120
                                                                                                   July-^September, 1988
 and Sunnah principles strictly ..."
 * “Islamic order and our deeds”. The myth of the giant of the 20th century was broken and its real face of a monkey has been revealed",
 Mahaz                           22 August 1988,
 EDITORIAL: "The soldier of Islam has been martyred", "Martyr General Mohammad Ziaul Haq was a leader and personality of contemporary history of Islam who exerted sincere efforts for the sake of redeeming Islam, achieving the unity of the Islamic Ummah and revivaing Islamic grandeur. He not only supported our sacred jehad and the uprising of the Muslim Afghan nation at a national level but was supporting.the legitimate rights of the Afghan people at international level as well",
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani the leader of the NIF and the Executive President of the IUAM after the final visit of the special UN envoy Diego Cordovez to Islamabad and Kabul in a press conference^for the sake of clarifying the position of the NIF vis a vis the political solution of the Afghanistan problem,said 14 July,
 ’We will accept any government which is acceptable to our people ••, We are against dictatorship and it is for this reason that we are supporting the creation of an elected council,"
 MESSAGE:  Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani the leader of
 NIF and President of the IUAM, in relation to the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq, in his condolence message to the Pakistani government and nation has said "the resolute determination of General Ziaul Haq in support of the Afghan jehad and mujaheddin will remain as a memory for ever in the hearts and minds of the Muslim Afghan nation,"
 ARTICLES:  "The position of Indira.and Rajiv
 Gandhi in regard to the Afghanistan issue" (By Ghulam Hazrat Koshan), The article, in relation to the "negative role played by Indira about the Afghanistan issue says "If Rajiv wants not to further increase the deep indignation the Afghan
Vol.2f No.l
nation has about the position of the former slain Indian Prime Minister, he should stop interfering in the Afghan affairs",
Mujahed Ulus 23 August 1988
    "Latest Cordovez proposal" (By Abdul Rahman Pazhwak). " ,,, Clear]y there are several parties involved (in the Afghanistan issue). First, Russia and the mujaheddin and strugglers of Afghanistan and the Russian side has aa an annex to itself the Kabul regime, (2) there is a neutral side among the various parties and groups of Afghanistan that, despite their complete agreement for the defense and independence of Afghanistan, they have differences on a number of issues. As far as it is known, Cordovez has met with the Kabul regime, i,e, the Russian side and the government of Pakistan, The Peshawar mujaheddin organizations have refrained from meeting him. He has not met the refugees in Iran and Turkey and has not found directly their views. Furthermore it should be taken into consideration that if the Afghan jehad and struggle, from the view point of a number of people, is considered only a religious one then in the sacred religion of Islam and in a war between Muslims and atheists to remain neutral is not only not permissible but the acceptance of such a status is something impossible in the heart
and mind of a true Muslim and is tantamount to deceit and hypocricy. If such a thing is accepted it is tantamount to coming out - of the cir>-cle of Islam and going down to the depth of abjectiveness is infidelity. Then how^Cordovez ' can think of neutral people? And in a national struggle for the defense of the country and its material and moral hpnor and national interests too if some one remains neutral, he is considered a national traitor. Therefore, if Cordovez wants to hand over the Afghan affairs to national traitors, how cen such a government be formed so that it can be trusted by the majority of the people of Afghanistan, And if such people are being accepted by the aggressive Russia, is ,
121
    July-Sept ember, 1988                  HlUnilN
 this not a reason to say that such people who can be supported by all are actually the puppets of all# If by a group of neutral people it is meant, people whp are netural between the mu-jahed parties and national struggler groups, the selection of such people will be the task of the mujaheddin and national strugglers of Afghanistan and not a task to be undertaken by aliens and the UN mediator. We hope these (Afghans) themselves will be able to form just . Islamic and Afghan government on the basis of complete justice and non-discrimination among the masses and respect for the rights and freedom of every Afghan."
 Afghan."
     Other items of the newspaper are:
 *  The position of constitutionalism in the future of Afghanistan". The article, while refering to the difficulties facing the people of Afghanistan, concludes "Only a.government can solve our difficult problems at this juncture successfully which has originated from the people and relies on the people - In other words, a government based on democracy and constitutionalism.
 *  "The US should not repeat.past mistakes about Afghanistan. "(By Dr. Abdul Qayum Kochi Ahmadzai), The article has referred to the US indifferences in regard to Afghanistan in the past and says "the basic issue in the foreign policy of the present and future governments
 of the United States in relation to the Afghan ! jehad and independence should be. that the American leaders should give serious attention to the ideological, cultural and historical characteristics of Afghanistan in relation to the importance of jehad and the spirit of freedom and their hatred of infidelity and atheism. Relations between the two countries should be based on the firm foundation of friendship, understanding and respect for the freedom and national sovereignty and non-interference in the affairs of each other and the US should not repeat.past mista-
 JtHAU                        vol.2,  No,!
 Ices in this connection.
    From the point of view of the author, the mistakes committed by the US are:
 1.  A number of military analysts believe that in view of the historic evidences, wherever the Soviet Union has sent its troops, it has never cane out from that country'and it has been planning with utmost savagery to impose socialist system there against the will of the people of that country. In that case dialogue and understanding will not bear fruit about the Afghanistan dispute and the resistance of the Afghan mujaheddin should be strengthened.
 2.  A number of US Congressmen criticized the endorsement of Geneva accord by the US and described it as a sellout of the Afghanistan jehad and a negative political deal and a loss to the mujaheddin.
 3.  Had the US, with its flourishing economy and sound financial position after the World War H, paid attention to the geographical position and sound Islamic beliefs and shining record of the struggle of the Afghan people against alien aggressors,it would have stood for the crea tion and promotion of friendly relations between the two countries and would have helped in promoting the Afghan economy particularly the development of agriculture and cattle breeding and, by doing so, perhaps the situation in the region would have not deteriorated in such a manner.
 * "Short term and long term Russian plans about Afghanistan" (By senator Ghulam Nabi Chaknoor).
 * "The Geneva agreements and their consequences on Afghanistan" (By Ayeen).
Al-Noor
23 Aiigust 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "Muslim should not be afraid of Is-lam". " ... Some group* although called jehad powers, so far have not become ready to submit to Islamic law and are afraid that if Islamic law.is enforced it will prevent him from his
122
July-Sept ember, 1983
Vol.2, No.l
 pursuing his own views on the question of Par-deh, (veil), Cordovez now and then speaks about the Afghanistan issue and the only reason for this is that among us there are elements who are afraid of Islam and think that if they are not able to achieve a position under the shadow of Islam, they would be loosers, while Islamic injunctions are not harmful to any body. To lose ones head for the cause of Islam, means martyrdom, and to obey to God’s injunctions means to be in the service of God, Therefore, our Muslim brothers should make their decisions in accordance to Islamic injunctions and should not be afraid of Islam,
 NEWS s The Kandahar mujaheddin demolished 6 August 13 planes,
 *  The mujaheddin 12 August demolished two tanks and killed 11 atheists in Nangarhar.
 *  The Paktia mujaheddin shot down 2 August three atheist government planes,
 MESSAGE: The Central Committee of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan- on the occasion of the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq in a condolence and sympathy message has said, "We, too, will render sacrifices for the security and integrity of Pakistan as we have rendered sacrifice fpr the freedom of Afghanistan, It is for this reason.that, in order to take part with
 you in this sorrow by. praying for the soul of
                                        •
 the martyr President, we are also offering pur me message pf support fpr you with great raspect,"
 ARTICIES: ••The fleeing of Russians from Afghanistan brings us closer tp our goal fifty percent” (By Abdul Ahad Saadat),."The only way for reaching our final goal is to establish in Afghanistan a truly Islamic government. Unity and solidarity and gathering under a united banner and rank is an obligation of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan”,
  Sabaoon Zairey
                      v         24 August 1988,
  EDITORIAL: "Search your object in the council
a
 of ahl-e-hal wa aqd” (Council of wise people) and not in the tribal jirgahs". "These jirgahs about which rumours are being circulated and to be attended by those who are traitors to the religion of the country are to be chosen by persons without any bases in the jehad trenches. These jirgahs will not cure our problems. The cure for our problems lies in unity and solidarity of all jehad forces, constructive decisions adopted by the IUAM Supreme Council, sincere participation of all the mujaheddin organizations and well known jehad personalities for the strengthening of the interim mujaheddin government so that the grounds are paved for an election for a complete Islamic government",
 INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammad, leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, in an interview 8 July with a correspondent of Haqeeqat—el—Islam said" "It is necessary for the esteemed ulema to become awakened because they are the guardian of the honor and laws of Islam",
 ARTICIES: "The shadow of enemy pver pur victories", The article speaks about those "shameless Red Shirts who are pursuing a hostile stand against the Afghans," The article concludes:
 "God willing, the day is not far off when the mujaheddin elected government is established in Afghanistan and in Pakistan, too, the Shariat law is enforced and then these elements (Red Shirts) will to be turned away both from Afghanistan and Pakistan and in Pakistan they will be treated under the law of Shariat as hostile elements of the country and the Red Shirts will be unhappy about both circumstances".
  * "Islamic world issues and the stand taken by the world arrogance",This installment of the article discusses the Cordovez plan. It says, "the plan is serving completely the interests of world arrogance and does not render the slightest benefit to our aggrieved nation. On the \other hand, this plan is not implementable and, as the IUAM turned down the shameful Geneva
123
July-September, 1988
a
Vol.2, No.l
 agreement on behalf of the Afghan nation, it also refutes this plan and in no way it is ready to establish any other government for the people than the Islamic government.
Shahdat
24 August 1988,
 EDITORIALS ’The lesson of Karbala",\"The blood shed by the martyrs of the cause of God is never wasted. From each drop of the martyr»s blood many other mujaheddin rise and they uphold the blood stained banner of the jehad and this Caravan would eventually reach its destir-ny".
 REPORT: Leader of the Hezb-e—Islami Afghanistan! Engineer Hekmatyar, in a message on the occasion of the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq to the government and the people of Pakistan has said "the brave and prudent stand taken by General Mohammad Ziaul Haq has had rich contribution in the independence war of our nation and we pray Almighty God to put him in the rank of our martyrs",
 REPORT:  Leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghan-
 istan! Engineer Hekmatyar in a press conference 15 August said "You are witness that a great deal of publicity has been waging against me9 especially at this juncture when our revolution is reaching its goal. But I do not know what has been my fault? Whom have I oppressed?" He said "From now in Afghanistan no one else other than the mujaheddin will rule,"
ART1CIE: "The pullout of Russian troops and its consequences for the Kabul regime". The article points put to the vulnerability of the hireling regime in Kabul when Soviet troops completely withdraw. It' concludes "the regime lacks enough faithful and trustworthy forces to rely upon them and therefore, it has to surrender itself in the face of mujaheddin victory,"
Mujahed 27 August 1988
EDITORIAL: ••Honoring the Islamic martyr soldier of the Afghan jehad". It enumerates the services
 rendered by President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan and concludes, "truely the services rendered by Martyr General Ziaul Haq for the freedom of Afghanistan and other Islamic nations are not only praiswprthy but the Islamic struggle of this hero superman will be recorded for ever in the annals of Islamic movements and struggles,
 ARTICIE: "General Ziaul Haq. The martyr of jehad and the enforcement of the Shariat law"
 (By Burhanuddiri Rabbani), "General* Ziaul Haq in one of his speeches in Waziristan had said that the muhajeriri in Pakistan are our brethren and guests and if they stay here for ever one century, we are going to welcome them. Our religious responsibility will not end here. We should fight with them together and side by side for the liberation of their land. And we should fight not only for Afghanistan but for the freedom of enslaved Islamic nations on the• other side of the Qxus. This kind of courageous talk cannot be made by any other leader. It was only martyr of Islam Ziaul Haq who was shle to speak in such a courageous way.
 Neda-e-Sangar
 MESSAGE: Senior Captain Mohammad Ismail, the Amir of southwest region of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan on the occasion of the martyrdom of Ziaul Haq in a condolence message has said ••the demise of such a noble personality is felt greatly and is an irreparable loss. The trench holders of the Afghanistan jehad have become deeply sorrowful by hearing the news of his death".
 REPORT: Senior Captain Mohammad Ismail the Amir of southwest region of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan spoke in a grand mujaheddin and refugee meeting in Mashed, Iran, commemorating the martyrdom of the mujaheddin, and unfolding and unmasking enemy intrigue and a general invitation to all strata of the nation to unite further and join hands in the reconstruction of Afghanistan,
 * Dr. Abdul Hai the President of Education of. the Jamiat-e-I slami Afghanistan in a function
124
July-Sept ember, 1938
m
Vol.2, No.l
held to recite Quran on the occasion of the death of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq said "the la&e General was truely playing a very constructive role in the Afghan jehad against communism. He was playing this role not only as a leader of his nation and government but invidiually, too, he was committed to this cause and showed a great deal of faith and courage in this respect, standing fast against Russian warnings and pressures with a surprizing courage and sense of sacrifice,"
AHTICIE: "We should prepare ourselves against future plots of world arrogance". The article refers to the "enemy plots" and writes "... However the plots hatched by the enemies of Islam terrorizing the intellectual and spirituals of our great Islamic revolution will continue and they will carry on their treacherous and dangerous plans for eliminating jehad commanders and great revolutionary personalities both during the time of victory and in the aftermaths of the victory of our revolution and the sovereignty of Islam, Therefore, it is imperative for all members of.the resistance movements to adopt contingency measures with complete wisdom and thorough revolutionary cautiousness and frustrate the plots hatched by the enemies of Islam ..."
Neda-e- Haqi *                       ^
EDITORIAL: "What kind of government the people of Afghanistan want?" The editorial refers to alien encroachment in the historical movements undertaken in Islamic countries and says "in the Afghan jehad.also imperialist designs are being implemented in the same manner. If the mujaheddin, and the people endowed with political pn>-dence, do not pay proper attention to this issue and all factions of Islamic parties do not reflect tolerance and flexibility and do not attend to their main responsibilities, it is possible that another hireling regime might be established in which the blood of our 1.3
 million martyrs will be sold, our territorial integrity put in jeoperdy, our freedom and independence come to an end and the true Afghans will vacate their place to.the slave and hire-ling ones and the nation will be caught in grips of civil war and internal strife. Let us help our people and offer true answers to the demands of this aggrieved nation and, in accordance with the teachings of the Holy Quran and the Holy Prophet, Mohammad,peace be upon him, establish the kind of government for them in which neither the Satanic encroachments of the east nor of the west are allowed. Because our people want such a government and this is their hope and aspiration".
 MESSAGE: Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan on the occasion of the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq in a message has said "the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq is a great loss for the people of Pakistan. He was a distinguished statesman and a pious Muslim individual and a true servant for his people."
 REPORT: A seminar was held in on current political affairs in the cultural office of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in which a large nuipber of political figures, intellectuals, writers and poets participated.
 Islamic Government
                              27 August 19SB
 (a newspaper printed by the ILAM interim government, 1st issue).
 EDITORIAL: "The dawn of victory". The formation and proclamation of an Islamic interim government at the final phase of the victory of jehad is naturally and completely in accordance with the will and aspirations of our brave mujahed people. Because full unity and solidarity of all segments of the nation have been embodied in the formation of an interim government. This government manifests unity and correlation of all the resistance organizations and other mujaheddin
125
July-September, 1988                                  IKGIiAII JEHAD Vol,2f No.l
 ranks. This government has boosted up.prestige and political status of resistance at the international arena and resolves a number of our problems ... The Islamic interim government has been formed for the first time in our history for the preservation and safeguard of the blood stained achievements of a ten year long resistance and for the sake of the sanctity of the martyrdom of our brave people, and is staffed with knowledgeable people rising from the ranks of the society, people endowed with a mission and an iron will and resolute determination for the performance of great historic duty of the reconstruction of Afghanistan and establishment of Islamic system on the ruins of infidelity and communism",
 MESSAGE: In a message the head of the mujaheddin interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has condoled the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq and said the mujaheddin Islamic transitional government considers the martyrdom of this brave General of Islam as the dawn of victory of the resistance of the struggling nation of Afghanistan, Because martyrdoms entail victories. The mujaheddin interim Islamic government condoles the martyrdom of General Ziaul Haq to the Afghan mujahed nation, the berieyed Islamic world and particularly to the believing nation of Pakistan''^
 INTERVIEW: In an.interview with the correspondent of "The Islamic government" (journal) the head of Mujaheddin Islamic interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has said "if ah Islamic government is set up in Afghanistan, it will not mean that only Islam has been enforced, but it also means that the Satan, who wanted to conquer the world and annihilate the weak countries, is also defeated". Explaining the need for the founding of this government he has said "all the seven organizations have agreed that this government should be established and proclaimed and Immediately, upon the fall of present regime in Kabul, takeover, so Afghanis- ' tan may not face any administrative and political
                                                                                                                        126
vac cm",
OTHER TOPICS
* "Objectives and duties of the mujaheddin interim government summarized (For text see section on documents),
* "Islamic Government", Is the name of a news-; paper which will shine for the first time on the blood stained horizon of the country.
Ittehad-e-lslami
                        30 August 1988.
EDITORIAL: "The lesson of Ashura". "If in Karbala the blood of 70 persons was shed in Afghanistan the blood of 1.5 million Muslims have been shed because they refused to accept the slavery of the infidelity and communism and refused to bow to any other than the laws of God. They refused to obey a Satan and they want to have the sovereignty of the law of God over the land of God",
REPORT: Prof, Sayyaf leader of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan on the occasion of the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq, in a speech in the Hejrat Kili (village of refugees) Mosque told the mujaheddin and the refugees "General Ziaul Haq became the martyr of Islam and jehad because of his rise for the cause of jehad."
NEWS: A condolence service was held for martyr General Mohammad Ziaul Haq 26 August in the grand mosque of university.
* On the occasion of the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq Prof. Sayyaf leader of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan and Engineer Ahmad Shah President of the mujaheddin interim government have expressed their condolence to Ghulam Ishaq Khan the President of Pakistan,
Hedayat-ul-Islam ^T84
EDITORIAL: "A comparison of the responsibilities of the ulema in the beginning and the end of jehad". The editorial speaks about the historical services of the religious scholars in Afghanistan and writes "and now it is again the duty
   July-Septemberf 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol*2f No.l
 of the ulema that they should realize their religious responsibilities towards the victorious and revolutionary nation of Afghanistan with patience, steadfastness and solemnity and, in accordance with the sayings of the Holy Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, that a Muslim cannot be bitten from the same hole twice, they should not allow our nation is driven once again to the valley of adversity and bad luck".
 REPORT; Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan took part 26 August in the condolence meeting held for the martyr General Mohammad Ziaul Haq. -About 40,000 mujaheddin, refugees and ansars took part in the meeting,
 MESSAGE; Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in relation to the martyrdom of martyr General Mohammad Ziaul Haq in a condolence message has said "The martyr President was a strong bullwork of defense for the region and peace,"
 NEWS; The valorous Ghazni mujaheddin captured one enemy post 9 July in Ghazni,
 *  The Baghlan mujaheddin captured 20 Russian soldiers 1 June in Baghlan,
 *  In the Sayyed Karam sub division, Paktia, the mujaheddin captured 4 August one atheist post and set ablaze two tanks,
 Ariana Voice 1 September 1988.
  EDITORIAL: It writes about the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq "The mujahed and mohajer nation of Afghanistan lost their elder brother and the godfather and sympathetic individual of their cause. He had embraced more than three million refugees. His loss is a great loss for the nations of Pakistan, Afghanistan and the Islamic world, indeed a irreparable loss," MESSAGE: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIF in relation to the tragic martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq in a message has said the greatest and the only personality who
 supported the rightful cause of the Afghan people was Ziaul Haq and no Afghan is going to forget him until the hereafter",
 IETTER: Afghani in a letter in relation to the martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq has said "two of my young sons were martyred. However I had not been grieved so much that I am now grieved with the death of Ziaul Haq,"
 Mujahed 3 September 1988,
 EDITORIAL: "Islamic and revolutionary obligations and responsibilities in dealing with the danger signal from Moscow" (By Daneshyar). The
 editorial has pointed out to "the new Russian, intrigues and crimes" and especially mentions the pressures it is bringing on Pakistan, It also refers to the responsibility of jehad organizations and .says,"responsible elements and leaders of the Islamic parties should temporarily dissolve the separate activities of their parties and organizations for the sake of achieving complete independence of the country and unity and they should resign from their leadership posts. Such a move is not only a revolutionary and practical move but it will be tantamount to the biggest sacrifice and heroism under present circumstances for the sake of the freedom of our nation,"
 REPORT: Prof, Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan visited the refugee camps 13 August in Chitral and in a speech in the Lais Division Mosque said the uprising and victory of our nation is the biggest miracle of our contemporary time. Our revolution is not only a revolution of military jehad but we should also bring about a revolution in training our people in Islamic beliefs,"
      The mujahed brother Qazi Mohammad Ismail Tariq, the Amir of Laghman province fronts and Secretary of the Supervisory Qouncil of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan waq martyred in a covardly act and plot hatched by criminal ele-
127
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 merits on the second day of Muharram-mul-Haram (7 September).
 I
 Ittehad-e-lslami 5 September 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The good tidings of victory". It has discussed the victories of the mujaheddin in various parts of the country and concludes with the hope of a complete victory.
 INTERVIEWS! Sayyed Noorullah Quad the Interior Minister of the mujaheddin interim government in an interview with the correspondent of The Ittehad-e-Islami has said "the mujaheddin interim government cabinet meets twice a week and discusses related issues, and, according to my view, the work being done by this government is satisfactory".
    Faiz Mohammad the jehad commander of Baghlan province in answer to a question has said "I was serving as a teacher in 1978 in the Ghorband sub division of Parwan province, when I was captured by the Kabul hireling regime agents and spent five months in Baghlan province prison and, after my release, I took arms against the Kabul hireling regime and continue my jehad until now. The military responsibility of the front has been entrusted upon me. I have under my command over 700 armed mujaheddin the Sheikh Ali sub district, 600 armed mujaheddin in the Ghorband sub division and 500 armed mujahed in the Dasht-e-Shimal regions,
 ARTICIES: "The revolution on the threshold of victory" (By Engineer Abdul Wodud Khaled). "The only force which has condemned communism to annihilation and saved humanity from communist corruption has been the Islamic school. Because such a real power can only be found in the mujaheddin and strugglers of the cause of truth".
 Shahdat                    7 September 19 88
 EDITORIAL: "Weakening of jehad ranks is an ambition of our enemies". "For some time enemies of Islam from east and west have intensified their
 psychological war against our mujahed nation ... The objective of the psychological war waged by the west through its mass media is to undermine the Islamic groups who have been playing a vital role in defeating the Russians and to discredit them and underrate their activities".
 ARTICIE: "Pakistan and the Afghanistan issue after Martyr Ziaul Haq" (By Mohammad Nazir Basha-rat). "To say some thing specific and definite about the future policy of Pakistan is very difficult because so far the people at the helm of affairs of Pakistan are fully aware of and sincere to the ideological and political lines undertaken by Martyr Ziaul Haq". The article refers to the four groups that are thought to assume power in Pakistan: (1) Pakistan People’s Party which believes in bringing about a social democratic government, (2) Foremer Prime Minister Junejo’s Muslim League, (3) The Army. In this connection it says in addition to the fact that the Pakistani army is an enlightened army it is also a political army, (A) the Muslim League of Fida Mohammad Khan."
Al-Noor
 7 September 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The Geneva talks and Sadruddin Aga Khan" (By Khales), The article writes that after the failure of Geneva accord and Cordovez attempts, the imperialists gave maximum money to Sadruddin Aga Khan in the name of reconstruction so .that in this way he should help the mujahed leaders and to warn the world that war has ended in Afghanistan and that time for reconstruction has approached. But as long as the mujaheddin form an Islamic government in Afghanistan, there is no possibility of ending the war. Now, various forces are trying to betray each other in order to secure assistance from Sadruddin Aga Khan in the name of rehabilitation and thus inflict another blow to jehad. We therefore, advise the supporters of Islamic resistance, both the mujaheddin commanders and leaders, that they should not try to get a snake which is beautiful but with fatal poison".
128
July-September, 19S&             AfGHAN JEHAO                   Vol.2, No.l
 INTERVIEW: In an interview, the Nangarhar,
 chief of jehad Engineer Mahmood has said about
 10,000 armed mujaheddin of Khales organization
 are equipped with heavy and light arms ... The
 mujaheddin control more areas in Nangarhar
 than the Kabul government. He says BCffo of the
 territory is under mujaheddin control... "In
 these areas we have established many schools
 and have embarked upon and organized program to
 impart training to the children. We hope to open
 other schools as the existing schools are not
 sufficient. Perhaps, 7C$ children might have
 been brought under education and training and /
 efforts are underway to bring the remaining children under education also”.
 Ittehad-e-lslami 13 September I9&8.
 EDITORIAL: "The mujaheddin government should be strengthened". "Whenever a question has so far been asked from the esteemed leaders of the mujaheddin organizations what step they will take if the Najib government falls, which is most probable, they have always replied that the transitional government announced by the mujaheddin will take over ... But how is it be possible for that government to take over the administration of entire Afghanistan in an organized manner and smoothly all of a sudden when not even a single Ministry has so far become active ...
 INTERVIEW: In an interview, the President of the mujaheddin transitional government Engineer Ahmad Shah has told the correspondent of The Ittehad-e-Islami newspaper all administrative, political and resistance departments of the mujaheddin interim government are active."
     In an interview, the Deputy Chief of Hezb-e-Islami, Ihgineer Obaidullah told the correspondent of The Ittehad-e-Islami journal "all the resistance organizations have agreed about the mujaheddin interim government and this very government will be endorsed".
 ARTICIE: "The mujaheddin government meets our long cherished hopes."
 Shahdat 14 September I9S8.
 EDITORIAL: "The Present status of Islamic revolution and foreign postures". Comments on remarks by observers who are anticipating changes in the policy of Pakistani government towards the Afghan mujaheddin. It writes, "It is a fact that any change in the Pakistani stand against the objectives of the Islamic revolution and Muslim nation of Afghanistan will create for us problems. But although these problems might make our tasks harder and prolong our path it will not change the revolutionary pattern and resoluteness of our Islamic revolution and its gains achieved as a result of ten years long victorious war. A now that our victories are being expanded in the trenches, the revolution, too, has entered a new phase. As such, God willing, changes in the position of foreign countries will bear little adverse affect on our Islamic revolution and our present or future stand".
 ARTICIES: "From illusion to reality". "The BBC Pashtu service had an interview with a person, Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai a few days ago. He is a professor of history and anthropology in a US university and his articles on Afghanistan problem have also been published in the British press ... The summary of his views is that since the very beginning of the resistance against Soviet aggressors, entailing a flow of refugees to Pakistan, the policy of Pakistan government had been that educated and intellectual Afghans should not remain in Pakistan. What the professor wants to say is that all the educated and intellectual Afghans, who migrated to Pakistan, intended without exemption to remain with the refugees and the mujaheddin and take part in the resistance and go to the trenches but the Pakistan government sent them in groups to Us and European countries and and instead, allowed only the illiterate and ignorant to remain in Pakistan to conduct the
129
Vol.2f No.l
JuLy-Septembert 1988
 jehad. You may yourself derive conclusion, out of this,"
Mujahed
17 September I9S8.
EDITORIAL: "What is the objective of Soviet bombardments and bomb explosions in Pakistan and What should be the stand of Pakistan?” (By Daneshyar.) ”The Pakistan Government should no more have doubt about Soviet aggressive designs against itself and resort to basic contingency plans against Russia. It is really ridiculous for Pakistani government to summon the Kabul regime Charge d‘ Affaires to the Foreign Ministry for every airspace violation by the Soviet
puppet regime. Actually talks by Pakistani government with the illegal and falling Kabul regime is a sign of weakness and serves the interest of Soviet activists.in Kabul and Pakistan.”
REPORT: On his return from the war fronts, the chief of Education and Training of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Dr. Abdul Hayee, in an interview about the achievements of the Supervisory Council said work is at hand about the formation of a partisan army. He added former members of the communist party are looking for something to guarantee their personal safety and people are anxiously awaiting the dawn of victory."
          MAGAZINES
 Shafaq March-April, 1988
 ARTICIES: "A similarity of the Geneva talks with regard to the Vietnamese and Afghan issues" (By Azami). "In 1954* Geneva was witnessed to a big conference between the big powers to end the
 Vietnam war ... One of the major results of the 1954 agreement was the division of Vietnam into the northern and southern parts. Earlier the Russians and the Americans had reached an agreement on this issue ... Now the super criminals Qnce again want to use the same old weapon in regard to Afghanistan to divide this Islamic and independent nation into two parts and each one of them keep one part under its own influence. Although this has so far not happened, informed sources are warning about it. It has been three years now that rumours about the transfer of the capital of the puppet regime from Kabul to Balkh has been circulating among the public ... About holding elections, too, there are close silimarilities between two
 issues. As we remember, as a result of defective elections held in the southern cities of Indo-China,.a handful of people were sent to the constituent assembly ... Today the Russian puppet regime, in the presence of Red occupying forces, want another elections to be held in Afghanistan ... It is obvious that the new objective of the Russians for holding elections is to only deceive the public opinion and make the recognition of the Najib government parliament possible." The article also enumerates a number of other similarities between the two issues but,in conclusion,it draws attention to a major difference between the two issues. It says '.'the Vietnamese were a collection of people void of belief and culture who had lived for many years under the oppression of expansionist forces and the people of Afghanistan are endowed with belief and they have a shining history and culture and throughout centuries have always fought oppressors and infidelity, a nation which drove
130.
   July-September, 1986                        AFGHAN J[HAD Vol#2, No.j.
   mmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmHmmmmmmmmmmmmammmaaammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
 out the British.three times with utmost shame and now,after 10 years resistance, the Russians have also chosen to retreat. How is it possible to deal with these two different nations in a similar manner."
    Other items of this issue are: (1) the main reason for tension,- Marxism from fire to ashes,
 It gives an apcount of the Marxist parties in ' Afghanistan and in this issue it discusses the Setam-e-Melli and Maoists; (2) Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his anti-Islamic policies; (3) a look at the principle of counsel (4) orientia-lism and orientalists; (5) teachings from jurisprudence; (6) conquering nothing but still receiving medals. It gives an eye witness account of the 400 bed Kabul military hospital, now being expanded to a 1,000 bed hospital. It says those who are being treated in this hospital are a number of Kabul puppet regime handicaps whor due to the futile cause for which they are
   J
 injured or handicapped, will have a meaningless life in the future; (7) a revival of religion;
 (6) interviews with the mujaheddins and (9) proses and poetry on the jehad. Also in this issue a separate annex has been published listing the martyrs and tens of these martyrs have been introduced.
Neda-e-Khurasan
                             May 15t 1988. ARTICLES: "What has been the results of‘the Geneva talks?" It says, "... The withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan is the beginning of the fall of social imperialism and the victory of our mujahed nationalities against Russians and its puppets and in the future the ,US and its agents will be unable to rule over the Muslims of Afghanistan by using force,"
    "A historic and open message to the Shia groups". We swear to Almighty God that, due to the constraints of our people, we do not know
                               ■ how to speak with you and to tell you about the oppression and cruelties which our own groups
 are committing in the northern areas such as Daizangi, Daikundi, and other regions. We know that some of our leaders are deriving a one - -sided conclusion from these events. Although we are conveying the situation to some of our friends by writing to them and sending them historic messages, yet they tell us that our activities are only aimed at protecting our own interests and our plans are Maoist and they accuse some others of being feudals and American agents, etc... In short, they refuse to correct their mistakes..We all know that the nation has many complaints. We are, after all, not so much ignorant about what happens. We swear to God that we are not hatching any plot against you.
 We swear to God that we do not have the courage to come to see you because we are afraid of you and we cannot tell you the things that are in our hearts and cannot present to you our petitions. We swear to God if we fail to take advantage of this historic opportunity and do not take a common stand at the international level, we will remain slaves and you will be responsible for this,-"
 Mahaz                      April-May 1988*
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani leader of the NIF in a function for the distribution of graduation certificates to the students of Gailania Darul-Uloom in a speech 3 April said "until a transitional government based on our conditions is accepted, we will not agree with any other compromise." .
     Dr. Farouk Azam the deputy leader of the NIF in a meeting in Tsamkani said in regard to the unfair Geneva accord "until the puppet government in Afghanistan is in power, in fact, this will be tantamount to a direct Soviet intervention in Afghanistan and we are going to resolutely continue our jehad."
 ARTICIES: "Communist crimes and its filthy face" (By Mawlawi Abdul Waseh Namani). While counting communists crimes it writes, the communists (l)
131
  J uly— Sept emb er 9 19 88
 put into jail more than 100,000 scholars, spirituals and other thinkers who were followers of Islam and at the end buried most of them alive,
 (2) massacred more than 1300,000 innocent Muslims, (3) handicapped more than 2.$ million human beings, (4)widowed more than 800,000 women,
 (5) orphaned more than three million children,
 (6) destroyed 8C$ of people's properties and looted the rest, (7) forced into migration more than 5.5 million respected people to other countries, (8) forced more than three millions to leave their houses inside the country, (9) recruited forcefully and under duress children of 15 years old or more to the military service,
 (10) scattered more than five million anti-personnel mines in various parts of the country."
 * "They are learning from the Afghans" (By Haji Ghulam Hazrat Koshani.) "The Afghans have resolved from the very beginning of the history not to succumb to any alien rule. This resolution is undefeatable ... As the Afghan people defeated the classical British colonialism and became pioneers in this respect, they have also become pioneers in the toppling of new imperialism,i.e. the Kremlin dictatorship. And the people who are tinder Soviet occupation in Central Asia and East Europe, after the defeat of the Red Army in Afghanistan, are going to learn from Afghanistan.
 Al-Moaqaf (Arabic) - May 1988*
 ARTICLES: "Our stand vis a vis the Geneva accord" (By Hekmatyar) "We are declaring that we are not afraid of the conclusion of the Geneva agreement. Because we do not see any agreement or document which will force the Afghans to do something that we did not want to do. The people of the world will find out about the result of our jehad when we are going to capture our rights and preserve our freedom with our blood and force the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan unconditionally".
 REPORT: The Afghan leaders in Peshawar in a
 Vol.2, No.l
 meeting attended by the mujaheddin and the re-fugees on the Geneva agreement said "We proclaim to the world ----- whether they recognize us offi-
 cially or not or whether they are going to help
 us or not ---- that we will continue our jehad
 until we topple the atheist order in Afghanistan,
    Ghaus, an official of the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry who has fled from the cruelties of the regime and on the basis of his religious compulsions and obligations has joined the mujaheddin, has said at a press conference,"the dissentions and differences among Kabul communists have reached a stage which has forced the communist party to forego most of its previous principles. Therefore, Najib the leader of the Kabul regime went to Moscow and met there secretly with Zahir Shah and they two agreed that the Indian government should serve as a link between them and pave the way for the return of former king and formation of a coalition government in Kabul."
 Haq Pasoon April-May, 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "As a result of active diplomacy of Cordovez the Jew during the past six years finally the filthy Geneva agreement was signed between the hypocrat America, aggressive Russia and the puppet regime which is protected by the Russian tanks, the powerless Secretary General of the UN and the powerless Islamic Pakistan.
 It was signed under circumstances in which neither the right of the inheritors of Afghanistan were taken into account nor the UN law which respects the right of nations to self determination. The UN did not heed its own decisions issued for eight successive years demanding the withdrawal of Russians from Afghanistan, restoration of the territorial integrity, national independence and the right of self determination for the people of that country. But important than all these was that this harmful accord recognized Russian aggression for another nine months to further suffocate the Muslim and free-
132
                                                                                                 JuLy-September, 1988
 dom loving people of Afghanistan ••• Therefore, this futile Geneva agreement has been rejected by our mujahed nation and we do not consider ourselves in any way bound and committed to its implementation and, until complete independence and formation of an Islamic government, we do not find any other reasonable solution other than to continue our armed jehad,"
     Other items of this magazine are: (1) why are we rejecting Geneva agreement; (2) Rajiv Gandhi is afraid. Reviews the affects of the formation of Islamic government in Afghanistan on India; (3) the purpose of America for supporting our jehad; (4) praising the Iranian stand in regard to the Geneva agreement; (5) In a piece written in the form of a play, the writer has analyzed the constitution and the loya jirgah of the Kabul puppet regime; (6) the truthfulness of the jehad is apparent from its success; (7) jehad conference; (8) the shameful result of a bloody event. Discusses the Russian aggression and defeat in Afghanistan; (9) the dangerous Russian objectives in the region; (10) why Palestine has been lost? (11) Ikhwan-ul-Muslemeen in the path of Da*awat (invitation); (12) the Islamic Caliphite system; (13) the KGB, hell like institution; (14) 1.5 million martyrs and the coalition government; (15) first aid,
 Qest May ,1988,
 ARTICIES: "A lesson from the Saur Coup", It says when the communists took over in 1978 no body was thinking that this regime is going to be toppled and a power may rise from amongst the people to challenge this oppression and deliver our Muslim nation from its bloody paws. However, the will of God was something else. He wanted to see that weakened nations awaken themselves so they may become the inheritors of this earth."
     "0,You mujahed! The revolution is going to be presented and delivered to you." It says "the stormy movements of our Muslim nation-
Vol.2, No.l
alities and the victorious mujaheddin on slau-g|ht against the enemy nests have been a part of divine will in the Islamic Afghan revolution. And it is also true that we should not
            c
consider these epic making events and victories as a generosity from this group or that party,"
* "A review of recent events in regard to cor>-temporary nationalism in Afghanistan", The article explains the Setam-e-Melli and writes,
"a few decades ago their views and opinions were based on conventional nationalist ideology and, then, after the emergence of Marxist views in Afghanistan they tried to adopt socialist views but later this group also fell in the lap of the shameful eastern imperialism."
    In section devoted to women articles under the heading of "A few views about the rights of women" -and "Zaib-ul--Ghezali, the heorion of Egypt" have been presented.
Meesaq-e-Khoon
                                                                                       May June, 1988,
ARTICIES: "They have put our destiny on auction" (By Dr. Haq Shenas). It reviews the Russian aggression against Afghanistan, Moscow's failure to find a military solution and finding the Geneva conference a way for bailing out, using the west, as well as the Afghan enemies to support it in this plan. It complains from Pakistan for accep-ting the responsibility of signing this accord and from the Afghans for missing "many possibilities and waisting the political and administrative forces of jehad and creating contradiction and rivalries which have all benefitted the enemy. Due to all these factors nobody heard us even about our own fate and a historic deal was made behind closed doors and those who took part in the deal put at auction the blood of the Afghan nation. Now, if we still fail to learn from these lessons of history and spend our time and the opportunities of jehad and the Afghan nation in following contradictory policies within
B
133
July-Septembert 1980             AFGHAN J[HAD                  Vol#2f  No.l
 our own ranks and resort to selfishness, time will not be on our side and Almighty God, history and the Afghan nation will hot forgive us,"
    The magazine has also items about: (l) "The Geneva plot ,,,"; (2) The real meaning of national reconciliation and a coalition administration (3) annihilation of Pakistan is the Russian strategic objective (4) the defective Geneva accord and the mujaheddin stand; (5) the independence of our revolution and its intellectual; and cultural dimensions; (6) the structure of communist government; (7) nthe wounded bear"; (8) the condition of prisoners in the Russian labor camps; (9) principles of an Islamic government; (10) the real and basic factors for success in jehad and (11) section devoted to jehad literature.
    In this edition an apendix has been published about the biographies and pictures of a number of mujaheddin recently martyred in the Afghan jehad,
 Lawa-e-Haq June, 1988,
 EDITORIAL: "A whole world of conspiracy". It reviews "the Geneva conspiracy" and the stand adopted by the mujaheddin against ■ "this worst atheist conspiracy," It says, "our Islamic revolution's overlasting message to infidelity and its hirelings is that God will complete his light of truth even though the infidels
                                                       I
 might not like it",
 ARTICIES: "With the pioneers of the Caravan",
 An article about Prof, Ghulam Mohammad Niazi and 135 followers of the Islamic movement who were martyred in the Pul-e-Charkhi jail 29 May, 1959* "In the memory of the uprising of struggling religious scholars 25 May, 1970",
 The article reviews the historic gathering of Islamic scholars in the Pul-e-Kheshti Kabul mosque and their dispersement by the government of Zahir Shah,
 INTERVIEW: Amina Safi Afzali, the head of the "Islamic Sisters Association" in an interview has said "les, if Safi (Safiullah) is no lon-
 ger with us, his way of life and the rules he prescribed are left to us. His aspirations are alive and everlasting, as despite his martyrdom, the process of jehad in Afzali Fronts have not only been continuing but it's mujaheddin ranks have-become closer, stronger and undefeatable",
 Khaterat June, 1988,
 ARTICLES: "The blossomings,"(By Oarmor). article refers to an expression frequently used some years ago by the communists.
 The expression was "blossoming of the country." Actually, despite using such deceitful expressions, the communists brought about a total destruction of the country and eventually their fate will be the same as those of the Turkistan communists. For it has bqen written in the history books that, when Leriin overran the land of Turkistan through his unprincipled hirelings, he later gathered these same hirelings, in one.place and told them "you are such a people who handed over*your country to us. We thank you. It were you who sold out your country to us in return for money and possessions; you* committed treason some day, you might also sell us in return for money,. Those who commit treason to themselves, will also commit treason to others. Therefore, a traitor should not be left alive and should be annihilated so he may not commit treason," Following this speech, the whole band was showered with bullets and all traitors were eradicated and this to them was the meaning of "blossoming,"
     "The right to veto" (By Haqjoe). When we are talking about the right to veto, we may say that a group will resort to vetoing other's positions for two reasons, (l) it is able to use force and selfishness and (2)it is lacking sound argument and logic. You should rest assured that these super powers, with the right to veto, have no reason and argument to offer to the rest of the world and,.therefore, they resort to veto by the
134
July—September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 sheer power they enjoy ...” The article considers the right of veto countrary to Islamic principles and Afghan culture. Because, the verses of Holy Quran, the sayings of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, the unanimous views of the followers of Islam and also Islamic conjucture are to us the basis for solving our issues and to resort to veto, is tantamount to rejection of rightful majority decisions and this is against the Shariat of the Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon.him. Therefore, we should never choose another path than the one prescribed to us by the four Islamic channels because the welfare of Islamic ummah lies in following these channels.
ment is formed, it can then claim that it/had been invited by a government in which the mujaheddin had also participated, and their return to Afghanistan was completely legal. And at that time the departure of the Russians from our western borders-----Pakistan-----will be impossible.”
Hejrat
 (\Jrdu) June 1988.
Mashaal
 May-J une, 19 88.
 ARTICIES: "The Geneva accord is being violated by the Russians themselves” (By Mohammad Khalil).
 From the 15 May, when the staged Russian troops
                I*
 withdrawal began from Afghanistan, the Russians and their puppet regime have been accusing Pakistan that by helping the Afghan mujaheddin it had violated the Geneva agreement. However, the fact is that the Russians were making such claims in order to camouflage their own violations of the treaty as Pakistan had not interfered in the Afghan internal affairs either in the past or at present. Pakistan has only given refuge to the Afghans and the war in Afghanistan is only between the Russians and the Afghan mujaheddin”.
  * "Rajiv should learn a lesson from theyRussians" (Samiullah Matta Mughulkhel". "Rajiv, who has been shouting about saving Na jib, will be shown the naked sword of the mujaheddin and we tell him that India should not look on the Afghan mujaheddin as the Tamils and do not consider Afghanistan as a Sri Lanka".
   " The return of Afghan refugees " (By Malek Mohammad Sarwar). Those who are urging the
 ARTICIES* "The Kabul regime and elections” (By Mohammad Nasim Faqiri). "This is a big trick played by the Russians and their hirelings that in order to show that their government has legitimacy, they resorted to old tactics and therefore they are making attempts not only inside Afghanistan but in other countries as well to convince the people that the government of Kabul is moving towards the establishment of a legitimate government and,therefore, one should tolerate this regime .,. However the peace loving
       c>
 countries are very much aware of this deceit and know that the elections program was not only frustrated inside the country but the Kabul regime had been confronted with defeat and a big
 shame in the Internationa arena as well.          immediate return of the Afghan refugees to
 * "The establishment of an interim government in I their country, are enemies of the humanity.
 Kabul" (By Dr, Abdullah Mohsen). "In the estab- Because an immediate return of the refugees is lishment of a mixed government there are a number equivalent to sellout for nothing the hardship of inherent dangers .By putting side by side dif— I and sacrifices that they had accepted. However, ferent views in one government, tension will       I God willing, just as the Muslims at the time
 emerge and ministers belonging to communist party I Holy Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, will once again invite Russians to come into Af- I frustrated the designs of the followers of ghanistan and the Russians will move in to Kabul I Abdullah Ibe Obay in Madina, the Pakistani once more. The Russians were not able to offer nation, too, will send the Afghan refugees with any proof about the legitimacy of the Kabul gov- honor and respect to an independent Afghanistan, eminent in the past. But, in case a mixed govern-1
135
July-September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 Al- Bunyan EI-Marsoos
 .                          (Urdu) June 1988.
 CONTENTS: Prof. Sayyaf, leader of the Ittehad-
 e-Islami, in relation to the signing of the Geneva agreement in a message to Muslim brethren has said “Abiding to this agreement will be tantamount to putting a dark spot in our history and we will never be ready to put such a dark spot on the bright and shining forehead of our jehad.1'
 * “The conquering of the Jaji cantonement is a preface for the conquering of Kabul" (By Abu Rehan Siddiqui).
 * "The mujaheddin victories are continuing with great speed. The mujaheddin have brought under control Maidan-Shar the center of Wardak province and the day is not far them to control the entire country."
 * "The Geneva negotiations" (By Fakhrul Islam). "It is a Russian way that new leaders always blame things on old leaders and thus Gorbachev is blaming the old leaders for committing aggression against Afghanistan."
 * "The withdrawal of Soviet troops and attacks carried out by the mujaheddin on the Russian troops" (By Mohammad Daoud). "If, God forbid, the mujaheddin agree to a semi ceasefire or a complete ceasefire with the enemy it will not only show a lack of interest and love by the. mujaheddin for the jehad but it will also mean that they have foresaken the jehad."
 Qest                21 June I988
 EDITORIAL: It has commemorated the "bloody resurrection" in the Pul-e-Charkhi prison, 29 May, 1979.
 ARTICIES: "The Russians, while reteating, are kidnapping their communist hirelings from the cities and selling them to the mujaheddin so they may have money to buy gifts for their beloved ones. They now think no longer it is necessary to guarantee the lives and future of
 their hirelings in Afghanistan."
 * "The sick policy pursued by India in the region" (By Ibn-e-Adam). An invitation to Najib to visit India is a strong indication that the Indian Prime Minister is trying to see a pro-Russian government is established in Kabul, because such a government will not have good relations with Pakistan".
 * "The western stand towards Islam". It says "The US has no other alternative than to stand against Islam and side with the western world and Zionist State".
 * "The sensitive position of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan and consequences of our policy". It says "our historical and big Islamic revolution urges all those in charge of our political affairs and revolution not to forget the principle of working with utmost patience and contemplation".
 * "In the section devoted to women, material have appeared under the following headings:
 (1) Opinions about rights of women; (2) A look at the life and struggle of Fatima Zahra;
 (3) the tragic condition of the Russian women.
 Afghanistan World
 Press                         June 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "History repeats itself", "The retreat of Red Army from Afghanistan has been described as the miracle of the 20th Century. Truely it is the first time the communist Russia have been forced to leave a country which it has occupied."It quotes, Allama Ibn-e-Khal-doon that the Afghans have shattered the myth about the undefeatability of the Red Army. It says, "Our great ancestors in the 19th century defeated twice the British army in India".
 ARTICIES: "Holding elections in Afghanistan"
 (By Prof. Albert. A. Stahel and Paul Bucherer). ' "If we look to the past, the suppression of the Afghan society began with the signing of a four
136
 year trade agreement in July 1950* With the signing of this agreement, Afghanistan found itself obliged to export cotton seed and wool in exchange for oil, cotton textile, ginned cotton and sugar from the Soviet Union. However, the signing of a military agreement in 1956 under the supervision of KGB brought about substantial changes in the Afghan-Soviet relations"
 *  "UN Aid Coordinator urges Cooperation to rebuild Afghanistan" (By Edward Girardet). It discusses the assistance offered by the UN under the supervision of Sadruddin Agha Hian to the Afghans and says "the UN during this month has asked from the world to offer between $ 1.5 to
 2 billion for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Afghanistan.
 *  "The army of the Republic of Afghanistan" (By David C.Isby). The article discusses the Kabul army which it says is only in name. It says the chain of command in the army starts from Dr.
 Najib and goes down to the Minister of Defense and to the head of the Chief of Staff and three geographical regions (Kabul, Kandahar and Herat) and autonomous divisions. However the real power is vested with the Russian advisers who exist from the highest to the lowest levels of the command structures",
 *  "Gorbachev's Foreign Policy s'A diplomacy of decline" (By Stephen Sestanovich). Discusses' the meaning of the Gorbachev policies in the light 6f Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan and, in this connection, describes the Soviet policy as a diplomatic defeat. All tactics undertaken by the Russians in regard to their policies in Afghanistan have failed.
 *  "Afghanistan after the Moscow summit" (By
 Shabbir Hussain). It discusses a Soviet Foreign » *
 Minister Shevardnadze's statement in which he has accused Pakistan and the US of violating 'the Geneva accord and has warned that the Soviet Union might slow down the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
 * Other articles in this issue are? (1) "As Russian retreats" (translated from The Economist) (2) Afghanistan after the withdrawal of Soviet troops (By Jacques Baumgarther), (3) "U.S. study of Soviet performance in Afghan cites poor morale" (By Bernard E. Trainor).
 Qest                                July 1988..
 EDITORIAL: "Cordovez again in the region"? Discusses the Cordovez plan and says "The Muslim revolutionaries who have been fighting for more than 10 years in hot trenches against world atheism know very well the ugly faces of the loya jirgah and the neutral government. Therefore, there is no room for the plan worked out by Mr, Cordovez and his Eastern and Western supporters".
 ARTICIES: "World Imperialist intrigues cannot prevent the formation of Islamic government."
 The article condemns the activities undertaken by Cordovez and his supporters,
 * "Exporting revolution". The. article, after an introduction, condemns the policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran trying to export its revolution and writes "Iranian authorities should know the consequences of such a policy and have another look at their approach to issues like that of Afghanistan. It should stop imposing itself on other nations and sincerely cooperate for the success of Islamic revolution side by side with genuine Islamic organizations".
 INTERVIEW: In the section devoted to women, the magazine has an interview with Fatima Yasser, the President of the Islamic Organization of Women. In relations to women and voting she has said "This is a fact that half of the society is comprised of women and the remaining half is also, brought up and nourished by women and, therefore, it is obvious that women should have a right in determining the fate of the society. In the present conditions of our society minds are still . not prepared for the attainment of the rights of women. However, this does not mean that the
 J uly-September t 1988
Vol.2, No.l
137
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2f  No.l
 society( shpuld forego these rights for ever,
 Islam h$s given this right to women and our statement in this respect is based on the Quranic verses and other authentic texts,'*
 Afghanistan World
 Press                    May 1988.
 ARTICIES: "The Afghans can solve their own difficulties" (By Cordovez). In regard to the solving of the Afghan issue it says, "This task can be accomplished if the process of consultations is widened between the mujaheddin so that other groups of the Afghan nation are also included... Commanders of the jehad to be contacted and consulted and their views are of value. Consultations should also be held with political and nonpolitical leaders who. are right now not members of the alliance and also with the elders of the refugees. Distinguished Afghan personalities whether they are high ranking officials of the previous regimes or important exiled personalities should also be made part bf this process. It is indeed important that the party which is right now in power in Afghanistan and was formed in 1965, arid is an organized body, should not remain neutral in the political arena of Afghanistan. A large number of Afghans are bf the opinion that the former Afghan monarch can also play a role in this issue. The traditional approach of the Afghans for reaching to a decision has been to hold a loya jirgah. This is an obvious step to be taken afterwards. Of course, under present circumstances it will not be possible to resort to other Afghan traditions",
 * "Illegal massacre, and tortures" (By Amnesty
 International), "If the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan takes place as anticipated in the Geneva accord, those in charge of affairs in Kabul, will be responsible to investigate the illegal killings and tortures which have taken place fn the past and to try those who have been responsible for these acts, so that in the future such illegal conduct does
 not take place. Amnesty International has sent letters to the Afghan arid Soviet authorities in which these issues have been explained in detail."
 " Leader prepares Soviets for exit from Kabul",
 (By Martin Sieff), It has analysed and discussed the readiness of Gorbachev for withdrawing Russian troops from Afghanistan.
 " Air of uncertainty in Kabul recalls Dying Regime of Thieu, Sotnoza" (By David B.Ottaway).
 It discusses the optimistic and pessimistic views that have been given about the Geneva agreement.
 " USSR experiences in conflict with Muslims"
 (By Marie Broxup and Chantal Lemercier), It discusses Russian battles with the Muslims on the other side of the Gxus and then with the
                                                                                                       ' 1
 Afghans Muslims and make comparison of the two,
 " Peace agreement signed in Geneva" (By Ma Guang, Zhang Zhiian). The article refers to the pledges undertaken in the treaty and the weak points bf the treaty and writes in conclusion, "the people of the world are waiting that the participants in the Geneva accords will respect its provisions and hold discussions on the issues not yet resolved and restore the neutral status of Afghanistan and help bring peace and reconstruction in that country,
 Meesaq-e-Khoon
                                                                                                July 1988,
 ARTICIES: "Traditional lies and deceitful traditions" (Mohammad Nasim Faqiri). The Afghan-Russian friendship slogan has been one of the traditional lies of governments and Russian hirelings. Similarly the loya jirgah has been one of the traditional lies and a vivid example of a deceitful traditions in our country. Because no world historian has said that the loya jirgah has served as a historical tradition of our people before the last 150 years. During the past 150 years governments have been using such gatherings for legitimizing their own decisions and actions.
138
July-September, 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
However, local and tribal jirgahs have been completely different from loya jirgahs. But local jirgahs also have not been a traditional institution of the Afghans. They have been particular to the Pashtun sides in eastern and southern border regions of our country and even in Pashtun areas the jirgahs are not universal. The jirgahs held by Haji Mir Wais Hotaki and Ahmad Shah Baba, given as the first examples of these loya jirgah^ were also tribal and local in nature. In these representatives of the entire country in the context of the present day jirgahs had not participated",                             *
* "History repeats itself" (By Al-Haj Nangyal). "The Afghans once again demonstrated that the secret of victory does not lie in arms and material might but it is in the faith, belief and resolute determination. Yes, history once again referred to the past and was repeated.
It is about a dark face and desparate heart who sent its troops despite knowing historical facts that, three times, British imperialism had to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan. Today the Russian aggressive forces are being withdrawn in the same manner from Afghanistan after 10 years of fighting."
s
 with mines and defuse them with intruments that should be put at our disposal. Otherwise, for many years to come, Afghanistan will be a non-secure, and dangerous place to live in.
 *  "Afghanistan: Is peace on the doorstep?" (By Shabbir Hussain). It says, that the reason for not including the formation of an interim government in Afghanistan in the Geneva accord was that it would have deferred the withdrawal of Soviet forces from the country, However, this opinion has now been rejected by Cordovez".
 *  "A war should never have happened" (By Sallie Wise). Has said that majority of the Soviet people have been unhappy and opposed to the Russian war in Afghanistan. It has quoted one Arminian architect as saying "There is no excuse for the Soviet involvement ment in Afghanistan. The Afghanistan war should not have happened, to begin with".
 " The policy of pacification" (By Oliver Roy).
 The Soviet option in Afghanistan has three dimensions: Military action in the literary sense; Russification of the urban youth in the long run and pacifying the country side by resorting to political tactics. The writer in this part has especifically discussed the third dimension.
 "Hasan Sharq, grand child of the Jews and the Son of KGB" (By Mohammad Irkam Andaishmand).
 The article refers to the spies who have been working for’the Russian in secret or in open and, in this connection, it has particularly talked about Hasan Sharq and describes him as a veteran KGB spy and an obedient Russian slave.
Afghanistan World
Press
July 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "Carpet and toy mines". In the wake of Soviet forced withdrawal from our country, we v find out non-military regions of the countryside, forests, caravan paths, muhajerin routes and vast areas of our country have been carpetted with millions of mines.We should prepare a scrutinized and detailed map of areas which have been scattered 1
" Gandhi faults Islamic rule" (By Elaine Sciolino)
" Shame in Afghanistan" (By Jim Hoagland adopted from the Washington Post.)
Lawa-e-Haq July, 1988.
EDITORIAL: Is about the philosophy of sacrifice
in Islam - a tradition left to Muslims by
Prophet Ibrahim. In this connection the editorial reviews the sacrifices rendered by the Afghan nation during their current war with the Russians. ARTICIES: The interests of Cordovez with loya jirgah". It has shad light on what it calls the negative precedence of the loya jirgah and concludes, "we are now calling on Mr, Cordovez to adhere to the same proclamation which he made after Geneva plot and leave the question
139
July-September, 1988

 of the formation of a government to the1 people of Afghanistan and, for serving 'the cause i, r j of the world arrogance,should no longer throw j stones on the path’ Of the aspirations’ Of this
                                               <
 .blood stained nation, ,          j: >   >   /■ j
                                                                                                                         i
 *  Another article is about the first anniVeri j sary of the martyrdom of Safiullah Afzali of1 j Herat. It throws light on his life and Strug- ! gle and Calls him a chosen one of the Almighty {
 G6d«                            ' *•' ii,v' : : I
 *  Martyr Hafizullah Afzali, The article has been written on the occasion Of the 13th anniversary of the martyrdom of Hafizullah Afzali, j He was martyred when he was Only 26 years old ; and he fought valourously for the cabbe Of , Almighty God.1 Similarly, in this issue a nuhi- j ber of other martyrs belonging to the Martyr " ;
; Afzali fronts have been introduced.        1 j
 Jehad                          July, 1988.    |
      "The Geneva agreement, jits consequences." j "Big powers imposed 14 April, 1988, a shame- j ful agreement on the people of Afghanistan.
 What has not been mentioned in the agreement is the basic rights of the people of Afghanis- ; tan ... But what has been agreed upon is con- ; tinued Russian and othey related powers inter-j
 Vention in the 'Afghanistan issue:and translation
                                               |
 of their own greed and expectations.*." .   - j
 *  An article dbOut bravery and honesty of ( 1
 the associates and followers of Prophet Moha-. j mmad, peace be upon him. Those introduced ■ > |
 are Nasiba Bent-e—Ka;*ab, Umm-er-Khalei, Apqma i j oin Zaid, .Abdullah bin, Omay, and a number of, , j other high esteemed associates of the Prophet j of Islam,.               r.: -m j           .i; |
 *  The gains of our jehad in the militaryn j ' field. It is a roundup of the jehad news
    * ) T'X c        '’j\: s'.1. I ; .1 i !’' . ‘v's'-r't!*, i
 which lists the mujaheddin attacks, victories ;
 and, arms and other supplies captured by them j
 during October, 1987.             H ,       , '
Kh ate rat
 July,,19$8.
 o      •v.ui-.-.reiq
  ARTIOJUS: "The mujaheddin government"' (By’Hash-emi); The mujaheddin' ll erim goverrirhent; has the duty' to uphold the Word of GOd,; free fthe couriti-ry pave the ’ way1 fbr the honorable return Of the refugees to the -country and' hold free elections. The interim government cannot fulfil -this1 important task until the jehad commanders do not Support itj on the one hand, and, on the other aj hand,1 leaders1 of the mujaheddin organisations or the council which represents the state' do not put all their financial, economic, human-and Li intellectual power behind this government, Be-? cause the leaders have given this government , a mandate to liberate the country , and pave the ground, for. free elections to .choose our. leadership. Their success will ,be the.success of the leaders of the jehad and their, failure will fye jthe failure of these leader?." t . f
 Letter by Abul' Fazel.. The .letter, jhaSi discussed items which had appeared in the April-May editions of/ the journal and says} ’.‘in thatr' ;h.r issue a number Of dtems; had appear^.under > the heading, of the mujaheddin government , end a;mur-jahed of true cause. All of the items were (Pro-
 perly written and justified.. However you had forgotton one thing; . while ^ach (jehad organ- r ization has chosen two., re^es^atives. for the
  interim government, no one has been chosen
      ‘ « if) -V.•  .a.;. rU*r.W0ffH C■)!•-.' "101 $n.b5J20W
  from the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan"..
   v.i vrj , :      ,tx          exrfl ns. -bus
  Scientific Awakening
  '•.r,YV.! unzAnnU     tv’ bfW July^AugUat' I988.
 ARTIGIES: »,.. And Ziaul Haq also made us to cry". Ihe martyrdom of General Mohammad Ziaul Haq has been discussed. It says rtwe;wbd'maurn .the. death of General,, Mohairanad ?iaul martyr with ,a caravan of tears, and-, sighs cpq?i-der his martyrdom a great.,loss [pp the Islamic; qnd, peaceloving ^wqrld’’• _..;fJR# y;,e£).10^
;   ' "Let us  strengthen  Islamistah"  (By SdyyediB
                                                                                   ; ‘Abdul jamil Murad); Has1 welcomed ^0'’ formation of the mujaheddin interim gbvernhieht1 geld* has b
  1A0
J uly-Sept emb efr, v 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
 aiakediitacabinetit'oaccelerateltaWork.’It' says the Muslim mujaheddin and' youth will'1 folldw this government with one voice ...The youth also wants that, after the establishment of the mujaheddin government, the Islamic coun-r tries , join 14s in. one platform; and, rby forming = a strong.ponfedration, convert this region into Islamistan.,"^., ^ ^ ... 0i,:; (<:)    ,,c
 ANNOUNCEMENT t }"Break the chains"; It is the1 ,,v 7''
 title- of s 'ai film now produced about the Afghan- jehad. The filin on the jehad, Islam,
 knowledge and .reforms arid shows the Islamic courage of the Afghan mujaheddin and the downfall of atheism and communism. The scenario has been written by . Abdul Qahhar Khan and will soon be offered to movie houses in Pashtu, Urdu and English languages.        .... ........
 Shahadat -e- J awana n
  (MARTYRDOM OF THE YOUTH) - August 1988.
 CONTMTS: ''T^ie path followed by the youth" (By Sayyed Ghulam Uddin Aseer),
    cmo's: vJ i&'sO'vii'iC i.’i-V xot!
 * "Yes, Breaking the idol, rising against Sata-
 nic rule, changing a helpless social order, reforming the society and seeking justice, sacrifice and valourism are duties and obligations of the youth".
 *   "Chains! are-td be broken" (By Mohed Talddt). "All Muslim brethren and Educated Muslim' youth should create an atmosphere in which pious and
              QOftC-'OVftifJ -'nVJ. ! r>‘U:' competent members of all Islamic organizations
 meet together and know each other, reach understanding and debate,the following issues If
     *ir 1;..>, :t I.1'j . 'J >;.W.' i. '■ ^ 'i S. ■*'''1 '
 materialists are fighting each other because
 they are in the want of worldly things, why are
                        ..iv( hi .)■:■■■ U
 we, who are engaged in worshipping God, fight each other? If we have a dispute, we should make a decibidn about it in the presence 6f Almighty1 ijrdk arid 'pht an end to factionalism, deceit, ? .accusations, backbiting and animosity so the chains of disunity may be broken",
 *   ’>My message to the. Muslims". It is the text
 of a message by Mawlana MaUdoudi: "People want to see and witness the manifestation of truth in our daily life. The people of the world Want to see the truth with their eyes arid they do riot want to'only hear aborit it."
 *f The revolution of Islamic movements depend On the hardwork by committed youth". The article considers as important having a strong determination and hope for the future and not’ succumbing to despair. It write, "it is a part of Muslim belief that, by relying on the power and force of the Almighty God, man should not consider himself helpless in undertaking any assignment in the cause of truth".
 Al-Fitwa
 September 1988.
 EDITORIAL: "The Al-Fitwa magazine, published by the, ulema of Afghanistan mujaheddin is a. religious and professional magazine. It will publish articles about the aspirations and achievements of the Board of ulema. Its objectives are: (l) reporting about the activities of'the ulema, spirituals, and religious leaders, (2) answering in the form of verdicts questions forwarded by the mujaheddin and muhajerin on matters related to jurisprudence, (3) reporting contacts by members of the Board with the Pakistani tilema and political figures, (4) Publishing items about the activities of the Board about jehad, mujaheddin and refugee issues",
 ARTICLES :r MNeed for the establishment of a Board Qf ulema of the Afghanistan mujaheddin, its objectives and.Qrganization.," ><Now that issues < related to Afghan have become, sensitive and full of danger and £he enemies of Islam are resorting to tricks ••• a number of sensitive ulema, after successive meetings in the Sunaheri Mosque of Peshawar, reached the conclusion that a board of ulema of the Afghanistan mujaheddin comprised of elected and influential individual of all the jehad organizations should be formed. The Board should meet at least once a week and adopt unani-
141
July-Sept ember, 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
 raous and joint decisions. They met with the leaders of the seven party alliance and, as a result, two representatives from each group were sent to the board. Contacts were established with leaders of the seven party alliance and,as a first step, two ulema were introduced by each organization making altogether 14. They are to represent the rest of the ulema from each organization and later seven more were introduced by the jehad organizations and now the commission has 21 members.
 * "Accomplishments of the Board", It has explai-
ned the meetings held by the members of the board with the Afghan and Pakistani ulema and has published verdict by the Pakistani ulema about the Afghanistan jehad.
" The principles of issuing verdict". "Enquiry and verdict". A Question’s has been asked about (1) the goods and material which the mujaheddin capture in the war, (2) those that are handed over to them without conducting the war and (3) items given to them as a grant or gift. Also the article has answered a question about abolution and washing that is not necessary to be given to a martyre.
             IDENTIFICATION OF NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICAIS QUOTED
 Name of                             Ttype of
 Publication Publisher   Editor     Publication 4dchpes$
 Afghanistan in Afghan Jehad the World Press. Works Center
 Ariana voice    not mentioned,
                 Independent:
 Arman-e-Mujar- Islamic Alliance bed              of Afghanistan
                 Mujaheddin under the leadership of Rafiullah Moazzen
 Al-Bunyanul
 Marsoos
 Da Jehad Ghag Nangarhar provincial Council.
  a,
 Db Haq Pasoon Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan
  Da Saboon Editorial Board Zairey
 EldiLas         not mentioned,
                 Independent
 Enqelab—e- Is-  Jamiat—e—Island,
  lami Afghan-   Afghanistan
  istan
 Prof. Sayyed Moham- Periodical mad Yusuf Elmi
 Abdul Ghaffar Gudaz Journal not mentioned         Journal
                      Urdu
                      Magazine
 Mawlawi Abdul
 Hamid Faqiri
 Murad            '
 not mentioned      Periodical
 Mojaddedi
 Mawlawi Zahedi     Journal
 Ahmadzai
 Abdul Hamid Salek Journal
 Po0, Box 417 GFO, Peshawar, Peshawar
 P.0. Box 1279 Rawalpindi, Pakistan
 P.0. Box 903 University Town Peshawar, Pakistan
 P.0. Box.467, Peshawar, Pakistan.
 Address not mentioned
P.O.Box 467, Peshawar, Pakistan
 P.0. Box 408, GFO,
 Peshawar, Pakistan. BartakaljShaheen Town, St.No. 10 (II97) Peshawar, Pakistan
 P*0. Box 159 Tehran, Iran
142
July-Sept ember , 1988           AIGHAN JEHAD                 Vol.2f  No.l
Name of                      Type of     
Publication Publisher Editor Publication 
Al-Fitwa
Hedayat-ul-. Islam .
  Board of Afghan Ulema
  i
Harkat-e-Enqelab- Ghulam Hasan Journal
e-Islam! Afghanis- Mirzai
tan
 Address not mentioned.
 P.O. Box 1232, Peshawar, Pakistan
Ittehad-e- ■ Islam!
Ittehad-e-Islami Mohammad Ibrahim Journal Afghanistan        Praishan
P.O. Box 467, Peshawar, Pakistan
Jabha-e-Jehad       NLF               not mentioned     Journal
Jehad               Publicity  organ of                 Journal
                    the Islamic command of Wardak and Ghazni mujaheddin
 P.O. Box 377 Sader, Peshawar, Pakistan
 P.O, Box 849y University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan.
Khaterat
Lawa-e-Haq
Under the supervi-                                  Address not mentioned,
sion of council of mujahed and refugee youth
Martyr Hafizullah not mentioned Periodical. Afzali Front
P.O. Box 521 Peshawar, Pakistan (or)
P.O. Box 91375/5371 Mashhad, Iran (qr)
P.O. Box 95715/55 Tqrbat-e-
Jam, Iran
Mahaz            NLF                  not mentioned Journal    P.O. Box 542 Warsak Road,    
                                                               Kababian, Peshawar, Pakistan 
Mahaz            NLF                  not mentioned Periodical P.O. .Box 542 Warsak Road,   
                                                               Kababian, Peshawar, Pakistan 
Mashaal          Cultural Committee   Sayyed Abdul- Urdu       P.O. Box 345, Peshawar,      
                 of Jamiat-e-Islami   *lah/Abdul    Magazine   Pakistan.                    
                 Afghanistan.         Habib Hamdard                                         
•Al-Mawqef       Hezb-e-Islami                       Monthly   GPO Box 294, Peshawar,       
                 (Helonatyar)                       magazine   Pakistan.                    
Meesaq-e-Khooni* J amiat---e---Islami F.Fazel       Periodical P.O. Box 1106 Peshawar,.     
                 Afghanistan                                   Pakistan                     
Mujahed ,        Jamiat-e-Islami      A. Nangyal    Journal    P.O. Box 1107 Peshawar,      
                 Afghanistan                                   Pakistan                     
143
JuLyr^^>t^r,i 1988
     V '-                        icj i.i
 Name of Publication
er

 Type of                            .to  mb
                                                                                                         ' ^oJcd'B^iXda
 Mujahed Ulus       Information,Center Mohammad Has- Journal .mr|« i Idili:''i^iS(Aous .Plass 3A^>'
         Rb^noxJ iun aae-tobA                                        ' * "                       ^
                    of Afghan Mujahed san Ulusmal                        0552 jOSIO)Norway
fiz.iKhl&ri
 ta6^'Ghul«^^n                '<^-<apN6t‘3«^i5aled,
 Haider                      -slnarfslA tintf.*!-#
 ,,U.r..
 Nairoo-e-Iman Jamiat-e-Islarai
        j-vowBJ-iBv/il           South^-x.rr/,K:;i/i-c
                   West^rjiv §#<?tor.                      sr
                Quettay Baluchistan,
to' ] .i.:vir, o,! •• •!.•/■ i              •.-;••   f'U.i•: -■■
                XU'bh.i 0:>.O0’'' X               Xl.-T. I > •:
N£>£?-S ^ii^ij^lJ\,(Wtural hot; mentioned10 ^                                                          P.0. Box' ^6b Sadd^;Jp^sHawary’’"■
lah                      Centerjj; x^.;^                                                         Pakistan
                                                                                                     hi r.:.dw‘i, c ,.  ' _   ,    hefteo
                   tan,
 Nida-e-Khurasan Publicity organ of the Islamic cultu-1      r viTI&m rai11 coimcii^of Af-
Neda-e^aq ,l 3 r r ; ^fgpkaW6^Bhqelab- Shujauddin Journal . ” P,d, ‘Box"!^ Saddar Peshawar1,
       ,,.iadsi::XiOi ; ..e»I^lami,;Afghanis-, Khaddam          ,J•‘uiinwo*         jX'J
                                                                    jurnrir) bu.c riLsJxseM Xo
                                                                            Pid^B^j333, Quetta, B&luchist'8ii«                  .
                                                                      C V',f ;.(>:! 3J'id 'XS.bOi i Ci'&'tfiJfittK
                                                                     aij Ironuox Xo noxy ghanistan.
                                                                    ay.bns hyabj^rfn
Neda-e-Sangar Agency for South- Naimatullah                                   P,0, $<Skjj'X Peshawar, Pakistan
                                                                            ,! «Pi©,iBok't45V*A66 , Peshawar, gbsiirkeM iVKc\f:^^?ta»^Khales)                 •                         Pakistan.
                                                                             300 Eye Street, N.E.# 209, Washington, PC 20002
                                                                             GFO Box 337t Peshawar,
                                                                                     XIK               svsdaM
                       west Region              Taeebi                       , ,,         ■....t
            .•AiMiAfi.riyyb xotf *CV-(    Jyo tlxxob'l          i^cauJrt^n; -ion ba.!j.,ub.t.A.an 1
 Al-Noor                  .Hez^^Is^gpii        not    mentioned    Journal
 Peyam-e-J ehad
              etV^yaS^f
                          i i Uv3 •->
 Payara-e-Jehad   Harakat-e-I slami                  A, Karar Journal
      ..tutoU                          UwA hw-Um,* ioe<
   nr. jVf.A^l i.bVi/AdU'.i'i' ytri.’ '.•'A;,..I;. :•
 F*»»^P^£*                              v . bono^m ion
                   Harakat-e-Islami
   rmdcxbisH   firfB rdBolii.i;
                   Afghanistan (Mohseni)
         ■/TfiWBiiR&-T , r Xc Xo3 ,.0UXL JJ IXi'U —.Jlfi >dA  V ‘au .i.flflUpiJ l-H“L0 J Ll./ <J
         V V     w-Lx"      ~__
 Pakistan. 4
P.0, Bo^jp, GPO, Peshawar, Pakistan.
 sblIM!
 Qest
 § Vv -WW. , 1 W w A        ••• •«.’•••
 “*• ““ticmed,               a>gl«eer Sa^ed Periodical P.O. Box U73, GPO, Peahawar,
 Independent                Paelullati . .it                    ISBIfSiRiU-
                             Kabuli
 Nfih n                                         mentioned   Journal    ili^X^ax  ^>4, Saddar^y’4'J/-
                 . Independarb l :a'•"                                 P^si^fii^,'1 -Pakistau.
 Scientific ^ ^ q Carter fo^5 Educatioiv-Lo upfcr mentioned,, v;Jpurnal in-oiT^mpoE&Cyi Adciresss'i.^oNaisa^^ Awakening         al & Cultural Programs                               BagUj .G.PiO. Peshawar,Pakistan
 Shahadat :     q ^g^b^g^Is^aipi Afghan-? rIlqhammad Na?|P.c: Jojimal .imajPiO^      Universit^^fTbwn
                    istaft,. (Helqnatyar) Bashar at                      Peshawar^Pakistan.
r July-Sept ember f 1988                     : mNJID - -                                      “ ' Vo l • 2 t N o i-l - q 
                                                              qb' ArLfi'^n'OMjvL MM1 J* O ‘HA JUb'S.;.)'? 1 '! J.:?..’ 1 
Name of                                      - •' M : •■!,, d o of'd: A *. -'Type of                              ■' 1 1 
L, Publication -- Publisher                  Editor -Publication                                                     ' 1 
                                                                                     Address -...... ...... .........J   
                                                                                     Address npi mentioned.              
                                                                                     r;v:4 obi Irn M'i);]                
Shahadat-,e- Affiliated with ;                                   • :0, Oi ORW (MOOS® 4 'P\. >.»* k * ;. -i ,rt;s4#-V     
Jawaiian !j] r ’ || The Shaha,dat. \. ;'i :s                        IqV'O M|Sf blMMO m K bM.tM 'p vd q:                  
Shafaq 1 Hezb-e-Islami ktgi                  ian- Mohanunad Maa- Periodical          P.0. Sox 3il Saddar, Peshawar,      
                       an
nied Journal fa P.Ow -Bpx 1229, Peshawar, Pakistan
    Ukhuwat
                     Independent
    Wahdat-e- • • Itteha^Islanu               Qaai   Mohammad M'«i MMOPiOOBox 268, Peshawar,
               ! . - ?■.< :;of ntujaheddinr-^- r,:. Waqad* j.j~fjnq r -r:ipq         ~nj .>•: jix rnrxT
                     Afghanistan.
                                                                        o:i otcMcxI bar* rl.fj.n! se.Lh//oB
         06 :",noj^*1vfi *•                        1 V'-1 5c-MfrvJ.dnq obiomoA foedA • •! >ciA v>j .bo.jjelbas'iT
                                     jV,..i:Asoj jins rteqBiq lo o^is.iTtiB.vbs LMMiosaq bne josqmi erfj Rweiiro.??
                                 MAjfcJi mi anaAMMioo am mjieigs®
      ■ <j > iti: lor?           MbA Tv.  no cdejryoc-eA aoi:!1 «.t cvnl %d bedelIdoq ,;:iJ.A. r>aso■>.»:-.**/ vd haci-£.Xemj'tT•
                                                                      4s.'■'M.Pji-t Am :;<:A:.;AV) j b$ard:>.eol iviiUGlfel no suitere
                                                 ■ oo! ; • ■ ?:     iMM)  M   o -m u: o bo;- Mto® MmoO' ■   ;■';?) rhir'd
                                 omit yr-iaiiMMo; mo
  -A; d;j. .:K) O.fcC'icU'SX / M tfy.i M.V .-I:-/
 LiJVjV/or •!;»-«M.i
                                                                                                                                          om-MM nj ,A ; f:,.;i<l! ’io .(:0>j
       HimmMi say?. MKaoMatM
           S-t-?>/'n:!.!-o|; A'iV'-i •:.? j.(.• ' odd 'A.o nc-r.ihu.oof-.
    binlaii oau ;• 1 LA pifonA v;d LiMEMavoi?
                                                                                                            MoqMf do ,;8f!yi jr.,’3
    ■TtM'iA                e?1A ardklcpra
a oat                    iiTiJxm itrsmjr
"i/i bfyd?,i.i.di(q $.UA pan.®A v;d b^yh-J^mnl'
MOOS HOT 8MM
                              MM 51 H MO
        ,.eos;oq bo fOao’ .Mo®®', .ix.a-McrM r rf.> >-\                   . >. m ,io>J&trral- yd tvnte.tSdiKf •;MA*. A” rnoiijuh
           M-MS.I 0 .pnOOOI':! 3 M'X.M'.i. );0 Vi-3 fV  , • ,0 •. , i\ ....      A '.root'. So V • • r-O.jV/:!■':> ; !
                                                     W>s I wmi MAWMSMA Sffi
   hadci.i-oAoq • A ssrA'i•<<> lio-Jiiii. -'j'-vr!' aide La ffe.DVB v-rl bei/qflvv.) ; 'A:!<ri.-'    S^od-iyA
                                                            ..•''• i;.'V I'aHO!. u. iOM'-:' iOMOq i.i\ li’TO.) fi -.VrijirffOO Tvn;f
      , rf:hisJ    ?:bio»r;vviii!    oxiO-ofsl ‘i.o aoiliMiM     boonfsio'' ecid* v;o ooAoxd'io n»v.or. 1-o of'oi-.'.ti,>.t j\ .
                                         MM oast oo Ai'y bo o qai. .a.fb ■ el11 n^nixo-ofA lo ?-uJOiet?.s^qnii ai;d duOfiO
                         {mm) MTZimwu am                                                    am
      ;ao/’STMoM aonM-MMsM; ii.ooo'j.A </i>' nertsr.lfJx/cj .;.U.saf.«UBt fuvVi boo-'M lorn jnlboj iModott tC’f.o^.fuA ■ erio qoiMuA; ob ;ten:ny:xi$tk J.c eoxm onnlo-iH boo Id or!;)- .i.s/o.alb.o-.M'b sAiioq owd id n\: 4     AM?
                                                                      145
July-Sept ember, 1988 AFGHAN JEHAD                 Vol.2, No.l
      BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
                 FAITH AND WAYS TO STRENGTHEN THAT (DARI)
    Translated by Abdul Ahad Ashrati; published by Islamic Invitation Association; 1988; 44 pages Studies faith and factors to strengthen it.
                     IMPACT OF PRAYER AND FASTING ON THE MUSLIM'S HIE
    Translated by Abdul Ahad Ashrati; published by Islamic Invitation Association;I988; 60 pages. Reviews the impact and practical advantages of prayer and fasting.
                              OBEDIENCE AND COMPLIANCE IN ISLAM
    Translated by Farouq Ali; published by Invitation Association of Khaterat journal in its series on Islamic teachings; 1988; 44 pages.
    Studies the conditions and manner of obedience in Islam.
                              NECESSITY OF SOVEREIGNTY IN ISLAM
    Translated by Farouq Ali; published by the Khaterat journal in its. series on Islamic teachings; 1988; 26 pages.
    Explains the qualifications of Amir and the insitution of Emarat in Islam.
              HONESTY AND ABILITYs TWO BASIC QUALIFICATIONS FOR LEADERSHIP
    Translated by Farouq Ali; published by Invitation Association of the Khaterat journal; 1988;
53 pages.
                 LAWS FOR SOCIAL EVOLUTION IN ISLAM
Authors ,,AoAoH; published by Invitation Association of the Khaterat journal; 1988; 98 pages.
    Studies aspects of social evolution from the point of view of Islamic economic laws.
                                    THE AMERICAN WHOM I SAW
    Author: Martyr Sayyed Qutb ; compiled by Salah ul Khaledi;, Translated by F.Fazel; published by Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; I988; 73 pages.
    A collection of seven articles by the renowned thinker of Islamic movement, Sayyed Qutb , about his impressions of American life-during a visit to the US.
             RED IMPERIALISM AND AFGHANISTAN (URDU)
              • Authors: Babrak Lodhi and Moosa Khan Jalalazai; published by Afghan Resistance Reference;
           1988; 122 pages.lt is in two parts.Part-I is about the blood stained face of Afghanistan during the
                                                     1A&
July-Septemberf 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2f No.l
last decade and Russian crimes and Part—II offers information about the Kabul regime espoinage organization "KHAD".
                      FIVE MARTYRS FROM ONE TRENCH
     Compiled and published by Jamiat-e—Islami Afghanistan, cultural office of Badakhshan; 1988; 24 pages.
     It contains biographies of five martyrs from Badakhshan. They are: Mohammad Adeeb, Mohammad Wafa, Abdul Qayyum, Mohammad Naeem and Mohammad Anwar.
                            THE MARTYRS BLOOD WILL BEAR FRUITS (URDU)
     Author: Babrak Lodhi; published by Afghan Jehad Reference; 1988; 35 pages.
     The pamphelet derives the conclusion that the sacrifices by the martyrs will result in the freedom and independence of Afghanistan.
                                           THE SPIRIT OF RESISTANCE
                                (Collection from the Poems of Ghamgin, Third Edition)
     Eoet: Ghamgin; Published by Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Cultural office, 1987; 106 pages. Includes poetry on resistance.
                                                        FIOCK
     Author: Emaduddin Khalil; Translated by F.Fazel; published by F.Fazel; 1988; 24 pages.
     A play in one act about a meeting attended by communists but as a result of miss fires, they are frightened and fled away.
                                                THE GENEVA ACCORD
     Translated by Prof* Dr. Elmi; published by Translation Bureau of Works on Afghanistan Resistance; 1988; 25 pages in Dari, 18 pages English,
     English text of the Geneva accord and As Dari translation.
                               ISLAMIC UPRISING IN CHAK AND DIEMIRDAD
     Author: Mohammad Zubair Shafiqi; published by Education and Training section of Chak sub division; I988; 133 pages.
     Studies the popular uprising against communist government in Chak sub division and Diemirdad sub district, Wardak province.
                                              DISSENDENT IN RUSSIA
     Translated by Abdul Karim Moheb; published by WAFA; 1988; 115 pages;
           , *>
     Contents; Elimination of opponents and opposition since Khrushchev; heritage political culture of the Tzarist Russia,Russian backwardness ideas and realities,censorship, real causes for punishment, judicial threats, hard labor camps, political psychological ailments.
                                             A FEW TEAR DROPS
                                         (in Memory of Late Ustad Khalili)
     Author: Mohammad Hanif Hanif; 1988; 99 pages.
                                           147
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol*2,  No.l
                          An bird's eye view on the life and ideas of late Ustad Khalili and four elegies in his memory*
                                             PETALS OF KNOWLEDGE
     Compiled by Abdul Latif Rehaee; published by Cultural Committee of the Jamiat—e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 22 pages*
     A collection from the books containing witty themes*
                           THREE INTERVIEWS WITH (MILAM MOHAMMAD ARIANFUR
     Published by J amiat—e~I slami Afghanistan; 19188; 51 pages. Text of the interviews with Ghulam Mohammad Arianpurf the general Amir of resistance, Keshim, Badakhshan about resistance and its mode; collected from material already published*
                           THREE DANGERS TO THE FUTURE OF AFGHANISTAN
     Authors'Mawlana Rahat Gul; published by Center of Islamic Sciences of Pakistan; 1987; 22 pages*
     Studies the dangers which the Russian education, Christian education and Wahabi education pose to the Afghans,
                          TWO VERSES FROM SHAIDA
     Compiled by M*Y* Shahbaz; published by the Jamiat-^-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 50 pages.
     Contains the poetical statements of the late Ghulam Destgir Shaida delivered in 1969 when he was deputy from Maimana at the House of the People in Afghanistan*
                         MIGRATION AND RESISTANCE
                                        (IN THE LIGHT OF THE HISTORY OF ISLAM)'
     Compiled by Al-Haj Kemal Shinwari; published by NIF; 1988; 244 pages.
     It has studied seeking refugee and resistance from an Islam point of view and has narrated: the history of migration and jehad by the Holy Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him.
                            AFGHANISTAN ON FIRE
     Translated by senior Captain Sayyed Mohammad Mustafa; published by Translation Bureau of Afghan Resistance; 1988pl54 pages*
     Contains interviews a,nd letters from the deserting Russian soldiers and negative criticism by the Russian people of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan*
                            A IOOK AT CRIMES COMMITTED BY ZAHIR SHAH
     Author: Not mentioned; publisher: not known; year of publication: not written; 24 pages*
     It portraits what it calls Zahir Shah's enemity to Islam and his desire for friendship with Russia* .
                            TWO SPEECHES OF GHUIAM MOHAMMAD ARIANFUR
     published by: Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 73 pages (second edition) Contains the texts of two speeches by Ghulam Mohammad Arianpur in connection with the Birtn Anniversary of Haz— rat Mohammad,peace be upon him, and on the invasion of Afghanistan by the Russian army 27 December, 1979.
                                        148
July-September, 1988
Vol.2t No.l
                                               HUMORS AND CARTOONS
     A publication of the Unity of the Mujaheddin of Afghanistan; 1988; 20 pages.
     Humors and cartoons about Russians and communists,
                                        TRUTHFUL WORD AND TRUTHFUL MAN
     Authors Mohammad Hanif Hanif; March-April, 1988; 62 pages.
     Studies the life of the first Calipha of Islam, Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq and the Quranic verses about him have been quoted,
                       EXCERPTS FROM THE INTERVIEW OF MAWLAWI NASRULLAH MANSOOR
     Published by: Cultural Couhcil of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1987; 124 pages.
     Contains the text of interviews and statements by Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor about the Soviet stand, ceasefire, political solution and Geneva accords, unity of mujaheddin, and those who are not members of the IUAM and other topical issues,
                           BOMBS AND GRIEVANCES
     Poet: Mohammad Aref Gharwal; published by NIF; 1988; 12 pages.
     It is the second collection of resistance poetry by the poet 1983-1987,
                           MARTYR MOHAMMAD NAB I
     Compiled and published by The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan (Amarat-e-Jehad-e-Badakhshan)
 1988; 27 pages.
     It contains articles about Martyr Mohammad Nabi and his biography,
                      AFGHANISTAN AND THE BORDER
                          (A HISTORICAL REVIEW)
     Author: Prof, Abdul Hayee; Published by: Haji Faqir Mohammad and Sons, University Town, Peshawar; I988; 456 pages.
     Throws light on the history of Afghanistan since Ahmad Shah Baba and explains the history of Afghan border in that context,
                                             MARTYR DR. MAIRAJUDDIN
     Published by: Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan 21 pages.
     Contains articles on the Martyr Mairajuddin, his biography and his photographs,
                                                PROMINENT DICTATES
     Author’: Imam Muqaddasi; Translated by: Mawlawi Zahedi Ahmadzai; published by: The Ekhlas journal; 1988; 548 pages. Contents: matters on abolution, prayer, funeral, Zakat, fasting, haj, dealings, Nikah, Divorce, abuses, Qisas, Hudood, resistance,
                                          UNDER THE SHADOWS OF KHYBER
      Poet: Ustad Khalili; published by: Masood Khalili; 1987; 172 pages.
     Contains verses about the difficulties of the Afghan people during their war with communists
                                           149
Vol.2f No.l
July-September, 1968             AFGHAN JEHAD
               Mourning the martyrdom of a great man from Hussain's dynasty
     Compiled and published by: Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan} 1988; 47 pages.
     It is in the memory of Martyr Abdul Hayee Shaida, martyr poet of the Islamic revolution and Jehad Amir of the Badakhshan fronts. It contains the story of his struggle and his biography,
                            FROM AN OBSOLETE REGIME TO A IEGAL GOVERNMENT
     Author: Sayyed Mohammad Khairkhwa; published by: Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Mashed; 1987} 60 pages.
     Contents: Political aspect of social life and legal and political terminologies, the puppet regime, hireling Khalq party, Soviet aggression, Russian defeat and world wide disgrace,
                                   OF POLITICS AND POLITICAL SYSTEMS
     Translated by Mohammad Nasim Faqiri; publisher not mentioned; 1987 ; 80 pages.
     Studies political systems from an Islam point of view,
                                    FIRST SOVIET AGGRESSION AGAINST AFGHANISTAN
     Compiled by Ustad Khalilullah Khalili; published by Jamiat—e-Islami Afghanistan, Teheran; 1987; 57 pages.
     Narrates the first Soviet aggression on Mazar^e-Sharif in 1929*
                                  A FEW TEARS ON THE TOM3 OF TAUJT
     Compiled and published by the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan; April 1988; 67 pages,
     A number of writers have condoled the martyrdom of Ustad Taloot, jehad Amir of Laghman, Also his biography.
        HIGHLIGHT OF THE LIFE OF MAWIANA SAYYED ABUL AALA MAWDUDI#
               HIS STRUGGIE FOR THE ISLAMIC INVITATION.
     Author: Mohammad Nasim Faqiri; Publisher: Not mentioned: 1987; 44 pages.
     Studies the life sketch of Islamic leader of Pakistan, Mawlana Sayyed Abul Aala Mawdoudi,
                                             LESSONS FROM ISLAM
     It is a part of the book of Sayyed Abul Aala Mawdoudi 'Basics of Islam" • Published by the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Teheran; 1987 ; 75 pages.
     It contains material information on faith and obedience.
                                           GIFT OF RESISTANCE
     Poet: M. Ghausuddin Mustamand; Published by the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 59 pages. A collection of Mustamand's resistance poetry.
        INTERVIEW OF BROTHER HEKMATYAR, LEADER OF HEZB-E-ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN WITH TURKISH JOURNALIST MAHSUD.
     Published by* the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1987; 78 pages,
                 1 150
  JuLy-September, 1988 |||||| J|||J|[J    Vol*2f No«l
CHRONOLOGY OF AFGHAN
EVENTS , NON-MILITARY
            July—September July 1
* The Iranian; Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati has once again reiterated his government's stand that the mujaheddin should have an important role in the next government in Afghanistan
                                              (VOADS).
* Addressing the Soviet Communist Party special Congress in Moscow, the Commander of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan said the Soviet troops had gone to Afghanistan for the defense of the people and for the performance of their duty* No body should be allowed to affront the memory of the soldiers who laid their lives for this purpose (BBCFS)*
* An American newspaper has said the Pakistan Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan, who is one of the authors of the Geneva accord oh Afghanistan, has agreed on the return of the former Afghan King with some conditions. He has said if the Afghans convene a loya Jirga and openly demand the return of Zahir Shah, Pakistan will not create any obstacles (VOAPS).
* In an interview with The Muslim, the IUAM President Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said "our people want an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The term fundamentalist is not a proper one because every Muslim is a fundamentalist" (MIM).
* The Pashtun Students Federation (PSF) has charged the present government for indulging the country in bloodshed by launching' direct attacks on Wardak and Kandahar provinces of Afghanistan bordering Chaman, Baluchistan, and other areas (MIM).
* The Soviet Women's Committee, deeply concerned about the fate of Soviet soldiers still missing in Afghan war, has asked the Democratic Women Association of Pakistan to use its good offices in getting the soldiers released, thought to have been being held as captives by the Afghan mujaheddin in Pakistan (MIM).
 * Agha Shahi the former Foreign Minister of Pakistan said 30 June in Islamabad he does not see a coalition government of the mujaheddin and Dr. Najibullah possible in Kabul because "the passions unleashed by 10 years of bitter internecine conflict has doomed the chances of such a government"
                                                                                  *         (MIM).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
*   Talking to the representatives of the tribes from Khost, Paktia, President Najibullah of Afghanistan pointed out that Pakistan does not want an end to bloodshed in Afghanistan. He hoped that ultimately Pakistan will adhere to the Geneva accords as a result of the UN efforts (RMDS).
*   The UN Secretary General's Special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez has said the formation
                                         151
    July-Septemberf 1980                   AfGHANJIHAD                        Vol.2, No.l
 of a government based on representation from larger sections of the Afghan people is a task which should be performed by the people of Afghanistan themselves. He added we should help the Afghans to achieve this objective. But we should not seek to do it for them (RA).
                                                2
 *  The VOA correspondent reports from Islamabad that since the Soviets began the withdrawal of thei: troops from Afghanistan six week ago, the mujaheddin have captured more than 100 posts and about
 25  centers and sub divisions (VOADS).
 *  One of the representatives at the Soviet Communist Party conference in Moscow, the Commander of Soviet troops in Afghanistan said that the Soviet troops were invited by a legal government and they had gone to Afghanistan for the defense of children and women (BBCFS).
 *  The UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez held discussions 2 July with the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan on the implementation of the Geneva accord.
 *  A Radio Pakistan reporter says the two sides praised the stand taken by them in regard to the Afghan issue (RPDS),
 *  A spokesman for UNACAR, Sadruddiu Aga Khan has said most of the mines were planted by the Kabul. regime forces and a map of areas planted with mines has not been provided. Most of them are made of plastic and cannot be located with metallic instruments, he said (RH)S).
 ■ * The UN mediator on Afghanistan has said plans put forward by the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin opposing it about the formation of an interim government was not practical and a permanent gqvem-ment out to be established by a loya jirgah of all Afghan tribes (VOAPS)
 *  The Council of Islamic Alliance of Afghanistan announced at a press conference in Teheran that they would continue their armed struggle until the present government in Kabul is toppled and an Islamic government is installed (MIM).
 *  The UN Secretary General's special representative on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez said he has received letters from some prominent Afghan refugee leaders in Pakistan who a1*6 looking forward to resolve their problem, PTV reported in Islamabad 1 July (MIM).
 *  Hie commander of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, General Boris Gromov has told a news conference in Moscow that all Soviet troops based in Afghan provinces bordering Pakistan have now returned home. The General also said the Soviet Union was leaving behind no military hardware for the Kabul . armed forces but arms supplies were being provided to the regime on the basis of Soviet long term agreements with Afghanistan (PT).
 * Speaking at the Soviet Communist party conference in Moscow, the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev said during war in Afghanistan, the Soviet troops have gained new political and moral experiences
                                                                                                                               (NVJT).
                                              NEWS FBDM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  A delegation of the Executive Committee of Moscqw city arrived 1 July in Kabul to take necessary decisions for eliminating the transportation problems of Kabul city. The delegation held talks 2 July with the Kabul Mayor on the subject (RA).
                                               3
 *  Speaking at Katcha Garhi refugee camp, Peshawar, the UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez .asked .the Afghan refugees to seek a permanent and acceptable so-
                                         152
J uly-September, 19 88
 Vol*2, No.l
 lution to the Afghanistan problem through their traditional style* He said the future of Afghanistan will be determined by the people of Afghanistan themselves (RFDS),
 *  Ahmad Shah,who has been proposed by the IUAM to be the President of the interim government , says the objective of Cordovez mission is that a coalition government composed of guerrillas and Afghan communists be established. However this proposal has already been rejected (BBCFS).
 *  The UN Secretary General’s special representative on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez called on Pakis-; tani Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan 2 July in Islamabad. (FT).
 *  Diego Cordovez, UN Special envoy on Afghanistan, has indicated that there are more or less 2,00Q minefields left by the withdrawing Soviet forces in Afghanistan. Talking to a group of .newsmen informally 2 July in Islamabad, the UN envoy said he would discuss the question of minefields,., re- .. patriation of prisoners, implementation of the Geneva accords and future of. Afghanistan with the . . authorities during his current visit to the region (PT).
 * The UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez called on President Ziaul Haq 2 July in Islamabad*. During the meeting they expressed satisfaction at the implementation of the Geneva accords and reviewed the situation in Afghanistan, in. connection with the implementation of the Geneva agreement it was hoped that -the. conditions of peace would return to Afghanistan. -very soon so that over three million Afghan refugees, living in Pakistan, .would be able to return .. home with safety and honor (PT)*. ....
 * In a press st at orient President of the Islami Tanz eem-e-Zanan-e-Afghanist an, Fatima Yasser has described as shameful, the accusations levelled by the: Soviet. Women Organization that the mujaheddin had inflicted cruelties on the. Soviets (PT)*. ..
 *  Denmark will contribute towards the UN fund, set. up for the settlement of the Afghan refugees
 after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the Chief of Denmark Brnbassy in Islamabad, Jorgen Abraham said 2 July in Islamabad .(.PT),. .
 *  The representatives of. the various organizations in lahore. made 2 July an appeal to’ the UN special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego, Cordovez to use hi;s good offices to release Soviet soldiers held captive by Afghan mujaheddin during the war (MIM)..
 *  Over the years of war in Afghanistan Soviet field engineers have saved the lives of 19,000 Afghan civilians, said Col. Nefyodov, an expert of the engineer service of the Soviet military con-. tingent. That was the exact number of detected and defused mines which the mujaheddin had planted . on the roads and in villages, city streets and administrative buildings and apartment houses, he.. . said (MIM).
 *  The UN Secretary General * s special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez has said he is ready to help the Afghan people in the implementation Of Geneva accord. According to BBC,.his new proposals have astonished some Afghan elements .and the parties to .the accord. He. said the Afghan issue can be solved with perseverance. He indicated that an interim government can be formed by convening a loya jirgah in Which no side will feel annihilated nor any one would feel high handedness. But this proposal has been turned down by four fundamentalist Afghan mujaheddin organization ,(JG).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  In a reply message to the libyan leader, CqI, Gaddafi, the Afghan President Najibullah has said
 Pakistan has not been observing the commitments of Geneva accord and armed intervention not only
                                          153
 #
   July-Sept ember t 1986               JIMIjjHflB________________—
 continues in Afghanistan from Pakistan but has been further intensified and we hope Libya will help in inducing Pakistan to observe the accord for the establishment of peace and ending tension in the region (RA).
                                            4
 *  The UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordoves held discussions 4. July with the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan in Islamabad on Geneva accords and its implementation (RPDS).
 *  A UNIAG investigation team visited 28-30 June North Waziristan Agency for investigation into the Kabul regime complaints (RPDS).
 *  The new UN High Commissioner for refugees met 4 .July the Punjab Governor, Makhdoom Sajjad Hussain Qureshi in Lahore. He expressed thanks to the government and the people of the Punjab for cooperation with the world organization in the performance of its duties in connection with the Afghan refugees (RPDS).
 *  Talking to „the Afghan refugees in Pakistan, the UN Secretary General’s special envoy, Diego Cordovez pointed out that the transitional government formed by the Afghan opponents does not enjoy the support of the people. This issue can be resolved unanimously through a loya jirgah
                                                                                           (HMDS).
 *  UN special envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez has said a loya jirgah should be convened to set up a new government in Afghanistan. He added if the loya jirgah could establish the future ' government in Afghanistan, the entire nation, would be satisfied and will accept it (VOAPS).
 *  Diego Cordovez, the UN’s special envoy on Afghanistan urged Afghan refugees at Peshawar’s Kat-cha Garhi camp to take advantage of the historic opportunity opening before them as a result of Soviet troops withdrawal to use their own traditions to work for peace (MIM).
 *  Diego Cordovez the UN Special envoy on Afghanistan issue did not meet leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin in Peshawar where he had come for a day’s stay 3 July (MIM).
 * The pace of withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan has slowed down, reports VOA (MIM).
 *  Afghan mujaheddin have captured more than 100 military garrisons and out-posts and about 25 towns during the last six weeks since the Soviet troops withdrawal began from Afghanistan, reports VOA (MIM).
 *  The Ambassador, of the Arab Republic of Egypt to Pakistan, Mr. Heba distributed 3 July a donation of 120 tents and 5,440 blankets among the most deserving Afghan refugees at the Katcha Garhi Camp(PT).
  *  ’’Afghanistan for Afghans” "It is in fact in the best interest of every one that Afghans are able1 in. Mr. Gorbachev’s words to ’Chart their own destiny*. This can be the only conclusion in an unbiased review of the post-Geneva accord situation (Editorial, PT).
  * It is apparent that a government formed through the loya jirgah. would be quite different from the Government under Najib’s formula of NRP and there would be no concept of the upper . hand of the communist elements. As such we perceive that all the concerned parties should meditate on the proposal for the establishment of a broadbased government in Afghanistan through a real re-
                                          154
   July-Septembetf, 1988                  IBM MU                             Vol.2,  No.l
presentative loya jirgah (Editorial,JG).
                                               news from communist sources
* Afghanistan stand on the formation of a broadbased coalition government was explained 4 July to the Kabul based foreign Press attaches and journalists at a function held under the auspices of the Foreign Ministry publication center (RA).
           : :                               .5 ..
*   The (Soviet Union has announced it would pardon the Soviet soldiers who had defected during the eighth year of war in Afghanistan (VOADS).
*   The sources of. Afghan resistance in Peshawar have said three Afghan mujaheddin leaders have recently participated in the war on fronts inside, the country. The source said these three leaders have joined the im^aheddin fighting units near Kabul, Mohammad Agha, Logar, Jalalabad city and its suburbs and near Jaji,,Paktia (VOADS)* ...
*   UN Secretary General•s special envoy, Diego Cordovez has stressed that the Afghans themselves will take any decision to determine their fate without foreign intervention. He said the world community wants to witness peace in Afghanistan (RPDS).
*   In his meeting with President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan, the Ambassador of Singapore in Islamabad expressed support to the Pakistan stand on the Afghan issue. The Pakistan President also appreciated the support :Qf Singapore to the stand of Pakistan On the issue (HPDSK ..
*   Western diplomats reported last week some guerrilla groups of Jamiat-erlslami’s famous commander Ahmad Shah Masud have recently gone to Paghman, west of Kabul (VOAPS).
*   The IUAM has announced the decision not to meet UN Secretary General*.s special envoy on Afghanistan! Diego Cordovez (MLM).
 *  An official of French Ponmign Ministry, Jean Michael met the IUAM President, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailarti in PSshawar and discussed with him the situation prevailing inside Afghanistan. He assured that Francs would continue its assignee to the Afghan refugees (PT).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOUBCES
 *  The Afghanistan Foreign Ministry has confirmed the necessity for the formation of an interim government with the participation of all the Afghan forces. It has been said in the communique that £he transitional government set up in PeShawar does hot enjoy the support of the Afghan people (HMDS),
 d* The Supreme Council of Ministers met 5 July and made the following decisions: Two agreements between the Academy of Sciences of Afghanistan and friendly countries were approved;, an agreement on equipment for the exploration of providing gas; merger of Customs Department with Finance Ministry;. continuation of the functioning of Central Bank under the Banking law of. Afghanistan to the Finance Minister (RA).                              '<0
 *  On his arrival at the Kabul airport, the UN Secretary General*s special envoy, Diego Cordovez .
 told newsmen that problems about Afghanistan should be solved by the Afghans themselves. He said having very rich and valuable traditions throughout the history, the Afghans can solve their internal crisis by themselves very well (RA)*.,             m
   July-September, 1988                    AFGHAN  JEHAD                        Vol.2,  No.l
 *  In a communique Bakhtar News Agency condemned the downing of an Iranian passenger aircraft by the US in the Persian Gulf and has also criticized the US arms supplies to Afghan mujaheddin
 and has said it is a clear US intervention in the internal affairs of Afgnanistan which paves the way for interference and terrorism at an international level (RA).
 *. Sheikh Ahmad Zababa, the Grand Mufti of Yemen Arab Republic, currently on an official and friend-
                                                                      /
 ly visit to Afghanistan,told 5 July local and foreign journalists in the Foreign Ministry, "I found the Republic of Afghanistan an Islamic country where all Islamic Commandments and traditions are observed in a proper manner and consider it as my duty to communicate these realities to the Muslim people of the world particularly to the Arab countries’* (RA).
 *  The head of the Information Department of the Soviet Foreign Ministry, Genadi Gerasimov at a press conference 4 July in Moscow said a band of 350 persons of the Islamic Society of Afghanistan entered Kunar province from Pakistan borders. These persons might be used for a unit of 1,000 men.
 He said a large quantity of equipment, including rockets have been transported recently to Kapisa, Uruzgan and Khost from Pakistan (RA).
                                                 6
 *  Sibghatullah Mojaddedi, leader of the NLF, in an interview with ;the VQG has said, even .if we do not receive any help, .we will continue our struggle as we have resolved that until the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and the downfall of the communist regime we will continue our war and struggle (VOGDS).
 *  The Soviet Government has refuted reports of bombardment of the Maidan Shahr of War dak last week by Soviet forces (BBCFS).
 *  TASS says as a result of the explosion of a vehicle, carrying bomb in Kabul city, seven people have been killed and more than 20 injured (BBCFS).
 *  There is a four three split in the IUAM on whether to see Diego Cordovez or not. Three leaders are in favor of meeting the UN envoy while four are against (MIM).
 *  The Pishin levies (rural police) have arrested an Afghan alleged saboteur Tor Jan and recovered an Afghan Khalqi, ID Card, maps and other secret documents from his possession near Saran 5 July
                                                                                           (FT)..
 *  A military commander Ibrahim Fida was captured while 22 puppet troops were killed or injured during the operation carried out by the mujaheddin in the northern Takhar and Baghlan in the fourth week of.,,June (PT,).
  *  UN Seeretary General's Special envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez called on the US Amba-s ssador in Islamabad, Arnold Raphel, 4 July and discussed with him matters related to the implementation of Geneva accords (PT).,
  *  Abdul Rahim Mando.khel, the Acting Chairman of the Pakhtunkhwa NAP, fears escalation of civil war in Afghanistan and its. fail-out in Pakistan if the Geneva accord was not implemented in letter «uid spirit (IN).
                                                . . NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *  Najibullah leader of the Kabul regime met 6 July with the leadership delegation of the "toiling”
                                                            156
July-September# 1986
Vol.2f No.l
 people of Afghanistan about the NRP) and developments related to the Geneva agreement (HA) •
 *  Najibullah leader of the Kabul regime met with Mufti Azam of the Yemen Republic-about the NRP, the Geneva accords and their voilation by the government of Pakistan (RA).
 *  Abdul Wakil the Foreign Minister of the Kabul regime met 6 July the UR special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez and discussed with him the Geneva accords. He urged Diego Cordovez to bring pressure on Pakistan to observe the provision of the accords (RA).
                                                7
 *  The Izvestja. quoting X Soviet Foreign Ministry official,, says the Soviet Foreign Ministry has proposed the exchange of Afghan mujaheddin in Kabul jails with Soviet soldiers imprisoned by the Afghan mujaheddin (RPDS).
 *  The office of Afghan mujaheddin in London in a news conference two days ago asked the world to withdraw their recognition of the Kabul regime and, instead* recognize the IUAM transitional government as the official representative of the Afghan people (BBCFS). .
 *  Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan of the UNAIG has gone to Moscow. According to Tass Aga Khan has said, in his opinion, Moscow can render a big amount of help to Afghanistan (VOAPS).
 *  The election commission, constituted by the IUAM, has announced holding of elections to 310 seat future Afghan parliament within next 105 days on proportionate basis (MIM)..
                                               NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  The President of India and the President of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet Andrei GromyKO in Kremlin have expressed anxiety over the support which Pakistan renders for the Afghan mujaheddin and its violation of the Geneva accord (RMDS).
 *  According to news from Kabul, President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan in a meeting with the leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin has told them that,after the complete withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghan^ istan, they ought to take control of the government in Afghanistan in six days time and establish an Islamic government (HMDS).
 *  Najibullah leader of the Kabul government in his meeting with UN envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cor-
 dovez in Kabul said that the mujaheddin had intensified their activities after the signing .of the Geneva accord and this has been a matter of concern for his government (RA).. .           v
 *  Najibullah leader of the Kabul government in a speech to members of the. Parliament has said no patriotic Afghan will allow the territory inherited to him from his ancestors to be sold (RA). .
 *  Mahboobullah Koshani the Deputy Prime Minister has gone at the head of an Afghan delegation to Prague to participate in the 42nd COMECON Session (RA).
 *  A protocol on direct cooperation in production fields between the Moscow city department of general transport and the Ministry of Afghan Transport was signed in Kabul 7 July (RA).
                                                8
 * Officials of the World Aid Program in Rome, say they wjill provide more than 15 Million dollars , for immediate help to Afghan refugees in Pakistan. According .to them so far there are nQ signs, to show that the refugees in Pakistan are ready to return to their country (BBCFS)..
                                                   157
    July-September, 1988                     AFGHAN JIHAD                          Vol.2f No.l
 *   Diego Cordovez, the UN Special envoy on Afghanistan, told newsmen, 8 July in Islamabad that he was satisfied with the process of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *   Reuter news agency reports from Rome that the World Food; Program has announced it will provide $ 15.4 million to Afghan refugees for emergency food assistance in Pakistan (RPDS),
 *   The NWFP refugee commissioner, in a meeting held in Peshawar 7 July for providing welfare.assist tance to the Afghan refugees, urged all international world organizations, which are stationed in Peshawar, they should adopt a joint strategy for the Afghan refugees during their return to Afghanistan (RPDS),
 *   Commander Pahlwan of the NIF, who participated in operations for the capture of Lalpur, Nangar-har, said about the loya jirga proposed by Diego Cordovez the UN envoy on Afghanistan "We will follow the decision of our elders provided it is in accordance with the commandments of the Shariat”
                                                                                                                  . (VOADS)..
 *   Abdul Zaher, a Jaroiat-e-Islami Afghanistan comander in Nangarhar, vdiile expressing his views on convening loya jirgah inside Afghanistan as proposed by UN special envoy on Afghanistan, said, if the jirgah was supported by the true representatives of the mujaheddin andleaders of their organizations, we will too go along with it (VOADS).
 *  The. Soviet Union is persistently working for the release of all Soviet pOW'S in Afghanistan,
 First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs,. Yuli Vorontsov told a meeting of the, active members of
 .the Soviet peace movement with high ranking Soviet diplomats 6 July (MIM).
 *  The UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez met Afghan Foreign Minis-
 ter Abdul Wakil in Kabul. 6 July and briefed him about the results of his visit to .Pakistan and Iran, reported Radio Kabul (EN), .                                          .  ;.v;•• -...
 *  Although the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan is well under way, peace is far fran being
 close at hand in that tormented land (Editorial, IN).           ..         ,  •         .
 *  UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez held talks in Islama-
 bad with the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan about the outcome of his visit to Kabul this week (BBCFS).                   •                       .  . ,
 *   TASS reports the Soviet Union has earmarked more than $ 300 millions as assistance for the repatriation of the Afghan refugees and resettlement after the Afghanistan war (BBCFS), ..7>
 *   Marshal Akhromeyev of the Soviet Union says the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan is taking place according to the timetable. He says, after the Soviet troops withdrawal, the present Kabul government will be able to defend itself (VOADS).
 *   In a meeting in Moscow with the UNACAR, Sadruddin Aga Khan, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze said his country has earmarked $505 million as assistance for the return of Afghan refugees and another $ ,100 million for reconstruction of Afghanistan (RPDS),
 *  UN Special envoy for Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez has put forth proposals for the settle- s
 ment of Afghanistan problem. He has said the.present Soviet backed government in Kabul should quit early in September and a neutral interim government should take over (BBCFS).           ; f  - • i
                                                            158
J uly-Sept ember # 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 *  TASS has held the mujaheddin responsible for an attack on Zarghm Shahr, Logar and has accused them pf.’ killing /»0 civilians with poisonous gas. TASS has also accused the Pakistani advisers of taking films of the rebels so as to depict that the Soviets have carried out the massacre (BBCFS).
 *  The US observers say the Kabul government soldiers have demonstrated that they are not in a position to control the territory under Kabul government administration. But the officials in the US Defense Department believe the Soviet troops pullout is irreversible (VOADS).
 *  Diego .Cordovez the UN special envoy on Afghanistan returned to Islamabad S July after two day stay in the Afghan capital. He met the Afghan President Najibullah and an important Soviet General during his stay in Kabul (MIM).
 *  The situation in Afghanistan has been described tense and complicated by the head of the Kabul regime Dr. Najibullah while addressing the Parliament in Kabul (MIM).
 *  Talking 8 July to newsmen in Islamabad, the UN special envoy on Afghanistan issue y Diego Cordovez said the Geneva accord was being satisfactorily implemented (IN).
          .... , ,, , v , ,                  NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES -
 *  Brigadier, Mangal Chief of the Afghan Security forces in an interview with a correspondent of The Comsomol Pravda. has said, fallowing Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin have been unable to reach a consensus on their strategy. He said armed intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan continues and the situation is becoming complicated (RMDS).
 * The PDpA*s Politburo held a session 9 July and approved the following matters: resolution about
   .11 • I- . > : • . -I i ' ■’ • '• ' ' ' • ' • ” '
 the functioning of the PDPA parliamentary group in the National Council, resolution about the evaluation of the Kabul government report in the NAM Foreign Ministers coordination session about disarmament in Havana and the evaluation of a report by the Kabul regime delegation about the intema-tiohal meeting in Berlin on nuclear free zones (RA).
 *  On the proposal of the Council of Ministers of the Kabul government and approval by the Kabul regime leader Najib, Ahmad Bashir Royagar and Mohammad Kabir have been appointed as Minister of Information and Culture and Chairmen of Afghanistan Bank respectively (RA).
 *  Under a protocol signed recently between Badakhshan province, and Mountainous Autonomous Badakh-shan Province of the Soviet Tadjekistan, the Soviet province will provide considerable quantity of ;■ foodstuff and other essential commodities during the current year to the Badakhshan province. Fur-thermqre grants are to be offered to this Afghan province in other fields as well (RA).,
 *  The cpnmander pf Soviet troops in Afghanistan,, General; Boris. Gromov,, in an interview with The v Krasnayas Zvezda has said Soviet forces have left eastern and south eastern parts of Afghanistan
                                                                                          (VOADS).
 * The New York Times has quoted the UN Secretary General*s special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez, saying a new interim government comprised of a groqp of Afghans void of having all links with political grouping and completely neutral should be formed in Afghanistan. The people serving in the interim government should , not seek portfolios in the future government. The main assignment of this interim government, Cordovez said, would be to convene a traditional loya jirgah (VOADS).
                                                159
   J lily—Sept ember, 1963                  AFGHAN J[HAD                       Vol.2f No.l
 *  Before leaving for NY 10 July, the UN Secretary General* s special envoy on Afghanistan said in Islamabad*in addition to the topics of his own agenda, he has also held talks with the Pakistan President Ziaul Haq on other prominent issues as well. He has urged the adoption of his proposal by the Afghan people for the formation of a NRP government in Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *  The commander of Soviet forces in Afghanistan General Boris Gramov has once again accused Pakistan of violating the Geneva accords. He said efforts are under way to find out the Soviet soldiers who are missing in the war in Afghanistan (BBCFS).
 *  It was decided 10 July at a session of the IUAM in Peshawar that an IUAM delegation should immediately proceed to Iran for talks with the refugees and mujaheddin living in Iran for holding elec- , tions, convening an elected council, as well as issues related to mujaheddin’s transitional government. and for seeking cooperation for the consolidation of unity among the mujaheddin ranks (VOAPS).
 *  The UN Secretary General’s special envoy Diego Cordovez, who is credited with evolving an otherwise impossible agreement for withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan, on 9 July moved a step forward and suggested the induction of a broadbased government to ensure peace and rehabilitation of that war torn country and have the Geneva accords fully implemented in letter and spirit (PT).
 *  The UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez paid a farewell call on President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan 9 July in Islamabad and discussed with him the. implementation of the Geneva accord and the progress of efforts towards the establishment of a broadbased government, in Afghanistan (PT).
 *  Diego Cordovez, the UN Special envoy on Afghanistan has categorically said that there was no suspension in withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan and it was proceeding in accordance with the plan (PT)..
 *  In an interview 9 July with the BBC in Islamabad, a leader of the Afghan mujaheddin» Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said a government which enjoys the. support of Afghans and is not based on .the present system should be formed in Afghanistan (PT).
 *  Afghanistan's President Najibullah says his government wants peace but accused the rebels (mujaheddin) of intensifying their attacks since the April 14th Geneva accords. During a Kabul, meeting with visiting UN Special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez, Najibullah said peace must be achieved through negotiations (MIM).
 *  The mujaheddin have been most unhelpful by refusing to meet Cordovez when he was in Pakistan. A Karachi newspaper has reported that the refusal dismayed Cordovez, as it should have. If the mujaheddin are not even prepared to talk to him, then they are saying that they are not interested in a political settlement at all. It should be hoped that this position would be modified when Cordovez returns to Islamabad from Kabul (The Khaleej Times,, quoted by MIM).
 *  Any policy adopted about Afghanistan should first of all take into consideration the internal security of Pakistan. Any other policy will be nothing but an exqerci.se in adventure (Safees Siddiqui in JG).
                                               NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOUBCES .
  *  In an interview with The Krasnayas Zvezda. the commander of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan, . Boris Gromov has said, while Soviet troops are withdrawing from Afghanistan,the armed Afghan mujaheddin attacks on the Afghanistan territory are increasing and the Pakistani side is not inclined
                                        160
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 to observe the contents of the Geneva accord (RMDS).
 * In a communique on the conclusion of the 19th nationwide conference of the Soviet Communist Party, leftist parties of the democratic block in Kabul have said the conference showed how the Leninist party,which manifest people's interest, continuously conducts purges to purify its rank and develops the revolutionary theory. It is equipping all its members and the entire society with an understand*-; ing of the new horizens (RA).
 *  The national women council, in a message to the social circles of the Pakistani, women, has asked that the Pakistani women should extend help in ending the war in Afghanistan and stopping interference in Afghanistan by Pakistan. It has been urged that Pakistani women should exert pressure on their government to implement and observe the Geneva accord (RA).
 *  The UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez has said a Soviet military representative has told him in Kabul that,in their drive to sweap mines in Afghanistan, Soviet soldiers have discovered and defused more than 10 million mines and explosives by the end of May (RA).
                                                11
 *     The UN special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez says when the Soviet Union, according to
 its own program,withdraws half of its forces from Afghanistan in mid August, fighting between various factions would further escalate (BBCFS).         .
 *  Quoting diplomatic sources, The Washington Times reports,.from the beginning of the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Afghan refugees in Pakistan have not been willing to return to areas where mines have been planted and have now been vacated by the Soviet troops. Instead, another large number of Afghans are taking refugee in Pakistan (VOADS),
 * Western observers say recent indications by the commander of Soviet troops in Afghanistan,
 General Boris Gramov and the allegations levelled by the Soviet press against Pakistan of violations of the Geneva accord, might be an attempt to pave the way for delaying Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (VOADS).                                         -
 *  The Soviet military commander in Afghanistan, General Boris Gromov said 10 July, the Soviet Union could change the time-table for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan if outside interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs continued, the B13C reported (MIM).
 *  The UN special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez has said President Ziaul. Haq fully Supports his efforts to promote broadbased government in Afghanistan and they both agree that this is a matter for the Afghans to decide, Pakistan Television reported 9 July (MIM), .
 *  The interim government of the Afghan mujaheddin has totally rejected the UN proposal for the establishment of a national government for peace and reconstruction of Afghanistan from September 1 and a simultaneous cease-fire with the Kabul government (MIM).
 *  The 1.1 day shuttle of the UN Secretary General’s special envoy on Afghanistan,,J3iego Cordovez to Islamabad and Kabul, appears to have resulted in some heart-searching by the relevant “Circles tp establish an early peace in Afghanistan (Shabbir Hussain in FT).
 * Replying to a question in an interview over a US television network, the Soviet Army’s Chief of
                                           161
July-SeDtember. 1988           AftlDJlN JfHllIl                7ol.2f No.l
 General Staff, Marshal Sergi Akhromeyev said he believed that the present Kabul regime will be able to survive and defend itself after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.. But he added "that another aspect of the situation was also there: the present Kabul regime would not be able to provide peace to the Afghan people (DN).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  TASS says military and political situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated due to escalation in mujaheddin activities and,. only in two days, 150 civilians have been killed or injured (RMDS)..
 *  Deputy Prime Minister of the Kabul regime, Mahboobullah Koshani, held talks 10 July in Prague with the Czechoslovak Minister for Fuel and Energy on expansion of economic cooperation between the two countries. (RA).
 *  The Permanent Commission of the Council of Ministers of the Kabul government, in its session 10 July, approved 23 projects proposed by the national enterpreneur with a maximum investment of Afs. 397 millions (RA).
 *  The Commerce Minister of Kabul regime, Mohammad Khan Jalalar, held talks 11 July with the Soviet Deputy Premier in Moscow on expansion of trade and economic cooperation between the two. countries
                                                                                          (RA).
 *  Agreements for the purchase of equipment for the natural gas mines of Yateem Taq and the delivery of equipment for isolating sulpher from the Jarquduq mine have been signed between the Afghan Ministry of Mines and the Soviet Union in Kabul (RA).
                                                12
 *  Before his departure for Saudi Arabia, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan* Bahebzada Yaqub Khan said 12 July in Karachi Pakistan and Saudi Arabia have identical views, cm setting up a broadbased government in Afghanistan for a speedy implementation of the Geneva accord (REDS).
 *  The UN Special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez said in Geneva the warring factions have given clear assurance that they would honor the Geneva accord. He has said that the objective of his plan for setting up a neutral government in Kabul is to remove the present political deadlock
                                                                                          (RPDS).
 * Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, leader of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, has rejected a proposal by the UN Special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez on the solution of Afghanistan problem and accused him of having biased views against the Afghan mujaheddin. He said the. UN efforts are directed to prevent Islam and the Muslims from assuming power in Afghanistan (BBCFS). .
 *  Western diplomats report from Islamabad that they have witnessed indications that the mujaheddin have established contacts with the lower officials of. the Kabul regime assuring them of amnesty if they cooperate with the mujaheddin. Experts say if such contacts are established,, it shows the mujaheddin have embarked upon important political measures which might cause a speedy fall to the Kabul regime (VOADS).
 *  The Christian ^ience^bi1it0r, £U3A) vnitb 13 July it is novr time the US policy c>n Afghanistan be. changed and the US focused ori the future and played an active and direct role ‘in efforts such as reconstruction of Afghanistan and the structure of the new government in Kabul (VOADS)..
 Kabul (VOADS).
                                          162
July-Sept ember, 1988            AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 *  Mujaheddin sources quote eye witness, report from Kabul, Minister of Interior of the Kabul regime, Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoi handcuffed boarding a Soviet plane. There are contradictory reports about his departure to the Soviet Union, Other reports say he has gone to the Soviet Union for a meeting with a Soviet woman, or for participation in an advan<Jfe course or for an attempt by Soviet officials to induce him to cooperate with the Najib government (VOADS).
 *  Talking 11 July to The Muslim in Islamabad, President of the Mujaheddin interim government Engineer Ahmad Shah rejected the UN proposal for a cease-fire and formation of a neutral government in Kabul. He said the proposal, instead of being fruitful to the Afghan issue, will harm it (VQAPS).
 *  In an interview,the President of the mujaheddin interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has said there is nothing to ban us from providing education to women. We are only opposed to co-education,
 he said. Moreover if women are educated in accordance with Islamic rules about hejabf observing Islami< manner of dress) we are not opposed to it (VOAPS).
 *  Pakistani. Foreign Minister Sahebaada Yaqub Khan» concluded 11 July a two day visit to Saudi Arabia where he discussed with Saudi officials the situation in Afghanistan(PT),
 *  The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan ’leader, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, 11 July termed as baseless and unfounded the report of Joining of Ahmad Shah Masood in the communist dominated coalition government of Kabul (PT).
 *  The Khyber Agency political officials have foiled an attempt to smuggle millions of Afghan currency into Pakistan for distribution among the Afghan agents and have arrested an Afghan spy in this connection (JG),
 *  "The plait for peace and reconstruction is as workable as it is desired to make it, but at the same time^it is also the finest solution available in the circumstances which holds promise of bringing peace to Afghanistan and hope for the war weary people. It is sad if there are leaders who still fervently believe that violence remains the only answer for seemingly unsolvable problems. The testimony of the hunan history shows that wars only lead to more wars and more problems. The same can be said of Afghanistan problem .... Let peace be given an opportunity (Editorial, MIM).
 *  "What motivates India's Afghan policy?",It say, "the latest writings in the Indian press confirm what most of us have always believed: India's national policies are shaped primarily by a hatred of Pakistan" (Ghani Eirabi in MIM).
 *  The UN special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez expressed concern at "the very serious political impasse" in Afghanistan. On the basis of nvmerous conversations with the people who spoke in terms of military confrontation, Diego Cordovez believed the country was entering "very very dangerous period" (MIM).
                                      NEWS .FROM TO COMMUNIST. SOURCES
 *  The Kabul regime UN envoy, in a letter to the UN Secretary General,. has pointed .out that the Pakistan President intentionally'.wants to disrupt Geneva accord on Afghanistan- and is. ;patrqnizing •
 plans for toppling the Kabul. Govemnent by’ the mujaheddin (BMDS).., ...
                                           163
July-September, 1988
Vol.2f No,l
 *  In an interview, Dr. Hasan Sharq the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime says the Pakistan ruling circles are exploiting the miseries of the Afghan people for their own interest. He has said the US government is simply rendering lip service to a peaceful solution of Afghanistan problem and practically continues its arms supplies through Pal^-stan territory to the mujaheddin (RA).
                                               13
 *    On his return to Pakistan from a three day visit to Saudi Arabia, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan said Pakistan and Saudi Arabia have agreed that formation of a coalition government in Afghanistan will ensure the implementation of the Geneva accords (VOADS).
 *  Quoting French sources, AFP has said France will double its share in the UN fund for the rehabilitation of Afghan refugees in Afghanistan following their return in safety. This assistance will . reach the tune of $ 16.4 million during the next IS months (RPDS).
 *  About the situation in Afghanistan The New York Times, wrote 13 July although the mujaheddin have so far not been able to permanently capture populous centers, the Afghan war will enter a decisive phase in winter this year after the pullout of the major portion of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan (VOADS).
 *  The -UNACAR Aga Khan told a press conference in Paris, nine western countries,, including England, have so far expressed their willingness to contribute $ 50 million to help the rehabilitation of Afghan refugees (BBCFS).
 *  In its session 13 July, the IUAM resolved to hold direct talks with the Russians about the Soviet POW's (VOAPS).
 *  The Soviet Union has officially complained to the US and Pakistan that Pakistan is violating the provisions of the Geneva accord. Quoting the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Yuli Vorontsov, TASS says if violations continued, it would entail drastic consequences for Pakistan. He gave no further explanations (VOAPS).
 *  Hujjatul Islam Sayyed Mohammad Hadi, representative of Harakat-e-Islami of Mohsini, has said at a press conference the government formed by the seven parties in Peshawar is onesided. We have established contacts with the commanders of the other organizations inside Afghanistan and we have invited them to a gathering scheduled to be held in the last week of July inside Afghanistan
  the gathering discussions mil be held on the formation of a government in Afghanistan (VOAPS),
 *  Harkat-e-Islami Afghanistan of Ayatullah Mohsini group has rejected the interim government of the Afghan mujaheddin and also criticized the UN mediator, Diego Cordovez efforts for the establishment of a national government for peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan (MIM). *
  *  Both the PDPA and the mujaheddin must give a little way to make a settlement possible. Otherwise the Oordovez plan, while looking good on paper, will do nothing to prevent intensified strife and chaos from raging in Afghanistan. It is good thing that Cordovez has been able to report President Zia*s backing for the plan. Ways must now be found to translate this into firm action and it must b* matched by appropriate responses from Kabul and Moscow. It is surely time for concerted move to draw the curtains on the Afghanistan tragedy (Editorial, DN).
  *  The ANA correspondents in their despatches have revealed that fighting in Afghanistan has gained
                                                 164
   July-September, 1988                AFGHAN JEHAD                    Vol.2,  No.l
 momentum and the Afghan mujaheddin have embarked on a "mopping up" operation against the Kabul regime puppet troops in many places (PT).
                                                  NEWS 1R0M COMMUNIST SOURCES
 * An opposition leader in Pakistan, Haji Ghulam Billore has.said Pakistan is planning to impose the aggression of its forces in the guise of the groups of the opposition forces of Afghanistan (mujaheddin) on that country (HMDS).
 *  In accordance with instrument-III of the Geneva accord and a protocol concluded between the Kabul government and the UN High Commission in Geneva, an office of the UN High Commission was officially opened 13 July in Kabul. The office has been set up for extending facilities for the returnees and their rehabilitation in the country (RA).
 *  The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov has verbally told the US Ambassador to the Soviet Union that the Soviet Union and Kabul regime can present undeniable documents that, following the conclusion of Geneva accord, Pakistan has not only not stopped its interferences in the internal affairs of Afghanistan but has intensified it (RA).
                                               14
 *    Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan said 14 July in the Senate he is further intensifying his efforts to effectively retaliate anti-Pakistan foreign propaganda particularly, in refuting recent accusations in connection with the violation of Geneva accord and nuclear issue (RPDS),
 *  Present IUAM President, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani has regretted that the IUAM has resolved to reject the proposals put forward by the UN mediator for the establishment of peace. He hoped that the leaders of all other guerrilla groups would also change their view on this matter (BBCFS).
 *  Leaders of seven resistance groups of Afghanistan have recently expressed willingness in Peshawar to directly exchange views with the Soviet Union about the Soviet POW's on humanitarian considerations (TOGDS).
 *  The IUAM President Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani says his organization is in favor of a meeting with the UN Secretary General's special envoy because a political solution will halt the war and reduce casualties during coming months (TOADS).
 * Afghan intruding aircraft have dropped several pamphlets and hand bills in the surrounding areas of Afghan refugee camps in Kurram Agency, requesting them for repatriation (MIM).
 * A protest rally, held in Karachi 13 July, by Pukhtunkhwa Milli Ittehad urged the UN to advise Pakistan, and the US to stop interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan (-PT).
 *  Er^gineer 3.G. Abid of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has said there are no differences among the mujaheddin groups and such rumours are aimed at foiling attempts for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan (JG).
                                             NEWS FROM THE COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *  A decree dated 1$ July about the appointment of Mohammad Zaher Zadran son of Noor Mohammad Shah as Senator has been approved (RA).
  *  A protocol on direct cooperation between Kabul and Moscow cities on laying electric bus lines in Kabul city was concluded 14 July in the Kabul municipality (RA).
                                                     165
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2f No.l
                                              15
 *  Hie mujaheddin commanders and eye witness reports have rejected a Soviet claim that Russian forces have swept the one third of mines planted in Afghanistan (VOADS).
 *  As the Soviet army units go north, huge Soviet truck convoys continue to roll down the southbound lanes of main highway from the USSR into Kabul, reliable reports reaching Iondon said (PT).
 *  Speaking to newsmen 13 July in Karachi, the representative of Kezb-e-Islami Engineer, S.P. Abid disclosed that the Soviet troops withdrawing from Afghanistan had been previously selling their goods but now they are selling the Afghan soldiers and the agents of KHAD to the mujaheddin. One Afghan soldier is being sold for Afs. 1,000. The price of a KHAD agent is more than that. The mujaheddin pay Afs. 5|000 to the Russian soldiers for one KHAD agent. All these transactions take place through the agents (NWT).
 *  According to foreign sources, convoys carrying arms and ammunition have been sent recently to a mraber of provinces of Afghanistan from abroad and the participation of Pakistani troops in war activities against the Afghanistan army continues. For example, a group of Pakistani troops has taken part recently in battles in Gardez (HMDS).
                                              16
 *  Abdul Haq a mujaheddin commanders who was recently invited by the UN Secretary General to NY has proposed a cease-fire plan and a political, solution for the Afghanistan problem (BBCFS).,
 *  Six Soviet troops, who had been fighting in Afghanistan and have sought asylum in the US, talked 15 July to newsmen in NY. They criticised the recent Soviet offer of amnesty for Soviet troops who have defected in the Afghan war (VOADS).
 *  A VOA correspondent from Islamabad reports most military experts express doubt if a single mine out of about five million mines scattered throughout Afghanistan have been swept or defused (VOADS).
 *  The IUAM has rejected the formation of an interim government in Afghanistan proposed by UN mediator, Diego Cordovez (VOGDS).
 *  Quoting the US government sources, The Washington Post, writes the quantity of arms sent to Afghanistan from the Pakistani borders has considerably been reduced during the last one month. The sources report that supply of anti-aircraft Stinger rockets and mortars has virtually been stopped
                                                                                      (VOADS).
 *  Reuter says the Indian Prime Minister, presently visiting Spain, has said India is worried lest a fundamentalist Islamic government is set up in Afghanistan. He has said religion and politics should be kept apart (VOADS),
 *  The Afghanistan resistance sources in Peshawar say the Kabul regime Ambassador in Poland, General Abdul Qader has been sacked on charges of. dishonesty and is presently under surveillence by the Kabul officials. He has been removed from the membership of the communist party as well (VOADS).
 * A Saudi industrialist delegation visited 15 July an Afghan refugee camp in Katcha Garhi, Peshawar
                                                                                      (RPDS).
                                          166
   July-September, 1988                    AfGHANJEHAD                         Vol*2t  No.l
 *  The Economiat has reported that out of $ 119,000 millions asked by UNAGAR Sadruddin Aga Khan part of a UN program for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, only $ AO millions have so far been pledged
                                                                                                                   (BBCFS).
 *  A former Deputy Prime Minister of Afghanistan, Sayyed Shamsuddin Majrooh, has said in Peshawar about the proposal put forth by the UN Secretary General's special envoy Diego Cordovez for the establishment of a neutral government and convening a loya jirgah in Afghanistan, that the envoy's proposals contain positive aspects. But the fact is that the future is linked with the decision
 of the Afghan people. He said that he favored the view that there is no harm in meeting Cordovez and that the mujaheddin leaders should sit with him and apprise themselves of his views (VOAPS)
 *  The huge number of landmines laid by the retreating Soviet-Kabul troops and Afghan mujaheddin may cause more death than the estimated one million Afghans already killed during the past 10 years of war if they are not defused. Mine defusing operation is a very difficult task as it involves a complicated process of tracing minefields, and even after they are-located, it is impossible to detect plastic mines (MEM).
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin pilgrims delegation led by Mohammad Yasser, Minister of Culture and Guidance for the Afghan mujaheddin interim government, was formally invited to the annual Ka'aba Ghusl (annual washing and cleaning of the House of Allah) 14 July by the Saudi government (PT).
 *  In West Germany a relief agency is sending EM 200,000 worth of aid to Afghanistan to finance agricultural developnent and supplies of medical equipment (PT).
 *  Supporters of six student organizations staged a demonstration outside the newspapers offices 15 July in protest against a scheduled visit to the NED University campus (an engineering university Karachi) by Engineer Ahmad Shah, head of the interim government of Afghanistan 16 July (EN) .
 * The mujaheddin missiles attacks on Kabul are not aimed to capture the Afghan capital, rather its objective is to harass and fear in order to demoralize the government and the masses, reports BBC .
                                                                                                                        (nwt).
                                    NEWS FROM THE COMMUNIST SOURCES * A press conference, with the participation of local and. foreign journalists, was convened 16 July in the Foreign Ministry, Kabul, in connection with the mujaheddin's rocket attack on Kabul city
                                                                                   (RA).
                                 17
 * Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan said 1.7 July at the Senate session that Pakistan was not creating any hinderance in the implementation of the Geneva accord (RPDS).
 * The US State Department says the US continues its assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin. In a statement, a spokesman, confirmed that US assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin will continue as long as the Soviet Union continues its aid to the Kabul regime (VOADS).
 *  The head of the Kabul government, Najibullah has said the mujaheddin have escalated their attacks on Kabul city with the arms and ammunition supplied to them by Pakistan. He said he would adopt important retaliatory measures (VOADS).
 * The VOA correspondent reports from Peshawar that a number of Afghan refugees, mujaheddin and
                                                167
   July-September, 19SB                                   AFGHAN JEHAD Vol.2, No.l
 national leaders held a meeting 15 July in Tall, Pakistan, to expressed their support to the recent proposal by Diego Cordovez in connection with setting up a neutral government in Afghanistan. They have said, under the present circumstances, the former King Mohammad Zahir Shah should take over the affairs of the country through a traditional loya jirga (VOADS).
 *  In an interview, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani said, according to reports a week before, the Russians have slowed down the withdrawal of their troopsrhave also brought in modem arms to Afghanistan and are taking part in air raids and even the Russian infantry has also directly participated in the battles (VOADS).
 *  In an interview in Peshawar, US expert on Afghanistan, Prof. Louis Dupree said the US is firm on its commitments to support the Afghan mujaheddin and there has been no change in a decision that, as long as the Soviet Union continues its aid to its puppet government in Kabul, the US would continue military aid to the Afghan mujaheddin (VOADS).
 *  President Najibullah of Kabul regime says he might impose martial law in Kabul and other cities in order to combat the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 *  The ANP Chief Khan Abdul Wali Khan, who was originally flying back to Pakistan from London 24 July, would now be proceeding to Kabul within a day or two (MIM).
 *  The head of the mujaheddin interim government. Engineer Ahmad Shah declared 16 July in Karachi that a provisional Afghan government would be established in the "liberated territories" within next two months (MIM).
 *  The TIP Chief, Asghar Khan has said in a statement that Afghanistan was one of the poorest countries of the world which needed maximum attention and aid for development and rehabilitation (MIM).
 *  Time is running out to restore Afghanistan to; its past position. This probably explains "hastening of things" by Cordovez. He has asked for setting up of a neutral government by September 30, 1988 and convening of loya. jirga by 30 March, 1989. All this looks hardly possible, but a miracle has to be produced if the situation is to be saved in Afghanistan ... Mr. Cordovez was right when he said
 that "traditions will serve the Afghans well". It is hoped that they --- the  mujaheddin, Dr. Najib
 and his men, the exiled elements and intellectuals - - will pick up Cordovez's message before it is too late (Khaled Akhtar in MIM).
 *  Sri Lanka is almost certain to support Afghanistan's admission to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) when the Foreign Ministers of the member countries meet in Kathmandu 11 August (MIM),
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin-have captured Barodi, some 40 KM east.of Kabul, after two weeks of heavy operation against the Kabul forces, reports Radio Jeddah (IN).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 * In a statement over television, Najibullah head of the Kabul regime has said Pakistan is violating
 the Geneva accord by its armed support to the mujaheddin. He said, after the beginning of the Soviet troops withdrawal, 130 persons --- mostly  civilians - - have been killed in the capital of Afghan-
 istan (RMDS).
 *  Mohammad Hasan Sharq the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime met 17 July a* number of national traders who are participating in a nationwide traders conference and explained the importance of the
                                                168
    July-September, 1988                   AFGHAN JIHAD                       Vol.2,   No.l
 conference and their role in the NRP (RA).                                      \'l
 *  Commerce Minister Mohanjnad Khan Jalalar explained 17 July to a number of local and foreign traders the Kabul regime policy for the promotion of trade and the participation of the national traders in the implementation of NRP (RA).
 *  A plan for cooperation between Kabul government and Czechoslovakia film production for 1988-1990
 was signed 16.July in Czechoslovakia (RA).         •
 *  The Constitution Council met 16 July in the National Assembly and discussed the conformity of the law of National Assembly with the constitution (RA).
 *  In a message to the central council of the trade unions of Kabul regime, the Graphite Workers* Federation of India has expressed their solidarity with the NRP and the Geneva accord (RA).
 * Under the spring cultivation plan this year in "the Kabul Block", 2,157 hectars of land - - more than the last year-was cultivated and the total area under cultivation this years is 21,167 hectars (RA).
 *  As a part of direct cooperation between Kulyab province of the Tadzhikistan Republic of the USSR and Takhar province, technical equipment worth 31jA00 rubels have reached the center of Takhar province (RA).
                                               18
 *  The Kuwaiti Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and special envoy of Kuwaiti Amir met 17 July President Ziaul Haq in Rawalpindi and discussed developments in Afghanistan issue after the signing of Geneva accord (RPDS)
 *  Saudi Arabia, in collaboration with the Islamic Development Bank (IEB), will send 14 planes carrying sacrificial meat for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan (RPDS).
 *  The NLF leader, Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has said his party agrees to an amicable solution of the social and political problems and thus it supports Cordovezf s proposals including the convening of a loya jirga (BBCFS).
 *  TASS reports from Kabul that the Kabul government has declared the Eid-ul-Adha days as days for peace and cease-fire and has said the mujaheddin by laying down their arms can return to celebrate the Bid among their families (BBCFS).
 *  A representatives of Mawlawi Haqqani, the commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) in Paktia has said reports about sending a representative to meet the UN mediator Diego Cordovez during his recent visit to Pakistan are totally baseless (BBCFS).
 *  The IUAM in Peshawar in a statement on mujaheddin’s stand in connection with explosions in big Afghan cities has said they are not carried out by the mujaheddin. It says it is a part of the well planned conspiracies of the Kabul regime. These explosions are mostly attributed to differences in the Kabul communist party (VOADS).
 *  The US said 17 July that Afghan mujaheddin fighting the Soviet-backed Kabul troops were well supplied to carry on their struggle (MIM).
 *  Commander Abdul Haq has warned that the failure of the mujaheddin interim government and UN
                                           169 .
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 efforts for a national government for peace and reconstruction of Afghanistan will have dangerous consequences for Afghanistan (MIM).
 *  Pakistan*s ability to render assistance towards the repatriation of POWs depends on its ability, which is at best limited, to persuade the more militant among the mujaheddin to adopt a more human-atarian attitude towards ah issue, which any one bellegerant in a war is tempted to use as leverage to extract concessions from the other. Repatriation of POWs would also depend on the ability of the Soviets to persuade the Kabul government to deal similarly with mujaheddin POWs held in Kabul prisons (Aileen Qaisar in Mild),
 *  Two Afghan refugees were killed and two others injured as a bomb of high potency went off in a truck outside the tentage village of Manda, near Shabqadar, AO km from Peshawar 15 July (PT),
 *  Speaking 17 July at the Senate, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan has said, by spoiling the situation through violations of Pakistan borders, the Kabul administration plans to get the Soviet troops withdrawal decision changed so as to have an opportunity for improving its position (JG),
 * "Aid to Afghan mujaheddin----why one sided halt?" Assistance to Afghan mujaheddin should only
 stop when all Soviet troops are withdrawn and the Kabul puppet troops also do not have the backing of Soviet forces. Only in that way there can be a hope for settling the issue on a dialogue table instead of battle-field (Editorial, NWT),
                                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  The first conference of the Kabul regime national tracers was inaugurated 18 July at a function in Kabul to promote the role of national traders in the implementation of NRP and to further improve their participation in the regime's endeavours with specific foundings for boosting up the country's national economy (RA).
 *  A US State Department spokesman has recently confirmed the continued supply of arms to the Afghan mujaheddin. The Kabul regime Foreign Ministry has described the statement by the responsible official in Washington as an act against the Geneva accord and adds, with such statements, in fact, the US
 States Department spokeman seeks to incite Pakistan against the Geneva accord (RA),
                                                19
 *  The conference of .Pakistan ambassadors abroad,.which currently continues in Islamabad, evaluated various aspects of the foreign policy of that country particularly the situation after the Geneva accord and the state of affairs in the region (RPDS).
 *  The World Food Program (WFP) has announced the first instalment of emergency food aid worth $ 15 million for Afghanistan, The aid is in response to an appeal by the UN Secretary General's economic and humanitarian aid program to Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *  The Minister for reconstruction in the mujaheddin interim government, Dr, Farouq Azam says his Ministry will help those people who are in urgent need for aid. He has said the refugees will be provided living quarters in their own villages and if this was not possible, they will be rehabilitated in the liberated areas.
 * Leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Burhanuddin Rabbani said in Peshawar after the signing of Geneva accord, the supplies of arms and equipment from Pakistan has been slowed down, Rabbani said arm supplies have not been cut but there has been a lull in it (VOAPS).
                                           170
   JuXy-Septemberf 1988             AfGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  President Najibullah of Kabul regime awarded 19 July badges of Red Flag, the People*s Friendship, and medals of sacrifice and merit certificates to a number of doctors and other health personnel (RA) .
 *  In a letter addressed to the people of Zabul province, President Najibullah of the Kabul regime has expressed thanks for the defense of Kalat city (RA.),
                                               20
 *     Leader of the Jamiat-&-Islami Afghanistan, Burhariuddin Rabbani has' rejected reconciliation with the present Kabul government saying the best solution to the Afghanistan problem is that the Soviet Union should hold direct talks with the Afghan resistance leaders and recognize them as a real power in Afghanistan (BBCFS),
 *  The US government spokesman has said the US assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin will continue until they achieve their right of self-determination (RPDS).
 *  The Italian' Foreign Ministry announced Italy will provide $ 14 million for the return of Afghan refugees to their country under the UN program (RPDS), .
 *  The Wall Street Journal, 20 July, wrote the UN proposal for the solution of the Afghan problem can be acceptable to all the concerned parties. The newspaper describes the proposal made by Cordovez for setting up an interim government in Afghanistan as surprizing from a diplomatic point of view. Because it says that Kabul regime is not in a position to unite the country and the Afghans need a government which may really represents them (VOADS).
 *  Defense Minister of the IUAM interim government, Din Mohammad says mines are still intact in areas where the Soviet had spread or planted than. He said the Russians themselves do not know about the number of mines they have planted and they themselves are also being blown up by the mines laid down by them. How can they, then, claim there are only a few minefields in the country? (VOAPS).
 *  The US 18 July defended its policy of continuing arms supplies to the Afghan mujaheddin saying the Soviet Union was still providing weapons to the government in Kabul (MIM).
 *  The situation in Afghanistan in the post-Geneva period dominated proceedings on the second day of the four day envoys* conference in Islamabad 19 July (MIM).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  The UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez said he believes in restoration of peace in Afghanistan and obstacles in the implementation of Geneva accord will be removed but needs time (RMDS).
                                                                      *
 *  Big demonstrations were staged in Karachi, Pakistan, against Pakistan's violations of the Geneva accord. The demonstrators were carrying slogans in favor of the NRP in Afghanistan (RMDS).
 * The Zabihullah Martyre School, built with the cooperation of the Central Committee of the Youth organization of the Kabul regime and Soviet assistance in Dehsabz, Kabul, was inaugurated 20 July(RA)
 *  A source of the Kabul regime Council of Ministers reported that in its 20 July session the Council approved the reopening of Engineering College in Kabul University. Similarly the Council of Ministers approved the merger of the Faculty of State Cadres with the Institute of Social Sciences (RA).
 v * An agreement on cooperation between the Afghan Film of the Kabul regime and the Czechoslovakia
                                            171
Juljr-Septemberf 1988              AfCHAN JEHAD                           Vol.2f No.l
 Film was signed recently in Prague. Similarly, the Kabul regime Minister for Information and Culture, Ahmad Bashir Royagar held discussions 18 July with the Czechoslovak First Deputy Minister of Information and Culture on bilateral cooperation and cultural relations between the two countries and exchange of cultural delegations (RA).
 *  Twenty five flats were handed over 20 July in Macrorian to 25 families belonging to those injured for the cause of the Saur Coup (RA).
 *  The 44th anniversary of the victory of people of Poland against Hitlar* s fascism was marked 20 July in Kabul (RA).
                                              21
 *  The UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez has said hindrances in the implementation of Geneva accords can be removed. He said establishment of peace in Afghan-, istan is possible (RPDS).
 *  In an interview with the US national public radio, the UN Special envoy on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez said the solution of Afghanistan issue is heading well and I am surprized as to why the press has forgotten the fact that the UN General Assembly had been adopting resolutions every year on Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan which itself carried prominent bearing in the solution of the issue (VOAPS).
 *  President of the IUAM interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai has said the mujaheddin do not believe in a government in exile nor they have made any plan for it. In an interview in the third issue of The Jehad Digest, he said we do not plan to establish a government in exile. He said, after completing their cabinet, the mujaheddin will set up a government inside Afghanistan (JG).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  On the proposal.of Council of Ministers of the Kabul regime, the President of the regime issued a decree for the creation of a new province, of Noorjstan (RA).
 *  Foundation stone of a health clinic has been laid in Torkham, Nangarhar, for providing maximum health services for the returning refugees (RA).
 *  Repairs and revival of the Jabal-us-Seraj Cement Factory which had begun earlier, has been completed 21 July at the cost of Afs. 200 million from the Czech credit. The factory has been activated (RA)
 *  In a letter addressed to the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil has said 75 persons were killed in recent days in mujaheddin attacks on Kabul city and supply of arms to the Afghan mujaheddin inside Afghanistan continues from Pakistan (RMDS).
 * The Peace, Friendship and Splidarity Organization of Afghanistan, in a communique, has condemned firings carried by the mujaheddin on Kabul, city (RMDS).
                                              22
 *     UNACAR Sadruddin Aga Khan says 13 Western countries have so far agreed to contribute $ 300 million as aid to Afghanistan. He said even the Soviet Union has shown readiness to extend assistance for the rehabilitation of Afghan refugees (BBCFS).
 *  Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan of Pakistan has said, during his forth-coming visit to the Soviet Union, he will hold talks on the post Geneva developments (RPDS).
                                          172
Vol*2, No.l
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD
 *  A source of the resistance forces says mujaheddin commanders believe without defusing mines planted by the communists in the surrounding areas of Tor Ghar, Nangarhar, and Kabul-Jalalabad highway9 life in those regions, even with the establishment of an Islamic government, will not be possible
                                                                                         (VOADS).
 *  Khan Abdul Wali Khan, Chief of ANP arrived in Kabul 20 July and held talks with Dr* Najibullah, the head of the Afghan government (DN),
 *  French cameraman, Alian Guillo who has been visiting Afghanistan every year since I960 and was in detention in Kabul for nine months in 1987-88, has said the Kabul administration is worried that oh the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the present regime itself will be shattered (JG)«
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  Following the Kabul regime announcement about the visit of armed mujaheddin to their families and relatives during the Eid holidays, a commission was formed 22 July in Badakhshan province to welcome the armed mujaheddin (RA)«
                                               23
 *     TASS reported Soviet government officials have hoped Iran will extend positive assistance in the repatriation of Soviet troops presently held by the mujaheddin (BBCFS),
 *  In a statement the leader of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has rejected the recent proposal of the UN mediator Diego Cordovez, about the solution of Afghanistan issue* He has said, "we announce with confidence that we do not consider Cordovez as a mediator and we will not
                                                                                                                         4
 be willing to accept his proposal about the solution of Afghanistan problem in the future* Cordovez intends to instal the supporters of Soviet Union and the West in power he said (VOADS).
 *  Talking to foreign newsmen in Rawalpindi, President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan has said he has received information from very authentic sources that, in order to combat the increased danger from the mujaheddin, the Soviet Union is now strengthening its forces in Kabul and has despatched 10,000 —
 12,000 new troops to Kabul (BBCFS).
 *  At least 99 persons were killed and a big quantity of arms and ammunition was recovered during six separate operations of the Afghan government forces against mujaheddin in Afghanistan, reports Radio Kabul 22 July (M1M)*
                                               NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  Secretary of the Party committee of Zabul province has refuted Western claims that Kalat, Zabul, has been captured by the mujaheddin (RMDS),
 *  In an interview with TASS, the Kabul regime Interior Minister, Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoi has saic
 95$ Afghan refugees want to return home* So far, 160,000 have returned from Pakistan, Iran and other countries. He said convoys of military hardware for mujaheddin are still coming into Afghanistan from Pakistan (RMDS).               "■' *
 *  Under decree 494» the leader of Kabul regime, Najibullah allowed the formation of "The Movement for the Solidarity of the Heroes of the People of Afghanistan" (RA).
 *  An extraordinary plenum of the Central Committee of the Toilers Organization of Afghanistan was
                                                           173
Vol»2y No.l
July^September, 1983             Af&HAN JtHAD
 held 22 July in Kabul city in which resolutions were adopted about the NRP and ending the war and bloodshed in the country (RA),
 *  Upon the request of the inhabitants of Kabul city to the city's Mayor, a number of elders of Shakardara sub division went to that sub division to meet with the mujaheddin (RA).
                                               24
 *     In an interview with The Washington Post, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Viladimir Petrovsky has once again repeated his country1s claim that Pakistan continues interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and thus it is.violating the Geneva accorc3s (VOADS),
 *  The correspondent of The New York Times in the Soviet Union reports, in a recent evaluation of situation in Afghanistan published in the Soviet press, a Soviet prominent analyst says, after the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Afghan army cannot be relied upon for the preservation of power (VOADS).
 *  The correspondent of The Washington Post reports from the Soviet Union that,.according to a statement by the Soviet Foreign Ministry, Soviet troops withdrawal.from Afghanistan continues as scheduled and 23,000 troops have so far been withdrawn from Afghanistan (VOADS).
 *  Before his departure for the US, Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan said 24 July his talks with the US officials will focus on regional issues and post Geneva accord developments (RFDS).
 *  A spokesman for the US State Department has said the US has put pressure on the Soviet Union to adhere to the Geneva accord about the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan (RFDS),
 *  Quoting informed sources The Far East Economic Review, says both Kabul and Moscow have given a hint to Cordovez to pursue his new initiative about the solution of Afghanistan issue and according to the reports, Najibullah is now seriously contemplating on the Cordovez's proposal (VOAPS).
 *  A spokesman for the lis State Department says there, are contradictory reports suggesting that the Soviet Union has slowed down the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan and that it has brought in more troops into Afghanistan (VOAPS).
 *  Six persons were reportedly killed and others injured in Chaman as a result of shelling by Afghan artillery from across the PakistanrAfghanistan borders 23 July (EN).
 *  President Ziaul Haq said 23 July relationship between Pakistan and the US was not dependent on the situation in Afghanistan as it was based on long standing convergence of mutual interests (PT).
 *  A powerful bomb exploded on rooftop of an Afghan refugee medical center in Jamrood Road Peshawar 23 July seriously damaging the building and shattering the window panes (PT).
 *  Leader of Kabul regime Najibullah had decided to resign 20 July but he agreed to withdraw his resignation because of pressure from the Soviet advisers and Aslam Watanjar. This was reported 23 July by ANA, quoting sources from Kabul (JG).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  In a statement the leader of Kabul regime, Najibullah has Said his regime built 2,000 mosques during the last 10 years. He claimed the mujaheddin have destroyed 339 mosques in Afghanistan (RMDS).
 * In an interview with TASS, Marshal Segei Akhamov said the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanis-
                                         174
    July-September, 1988                  AFGHAN JEHAD.                     Vol.2, No,l
 tan continues* He denied the reports that Soviet Union has suspended the withdrawal of its troops.
 He also refuted a Pakistani claim that the Soviet Union has sent in another 3.0,000 troops into Afghanistan (PMDS).
 *   High level delegations from the ministries of Defense, Interior and WAD visited the hospitals of .the armed forces, scouts and WAD and offered Eid greetings to the patients (RA).
 *  Weidoming the Kabul regime recent communique about the visit of mujaheddin to their relatives and families during the Eid holidays, the mujaheddin offered 24 July prayers in the company of their brethren, relatives and compatriots in grand mosques of Balkh. Takharistan and Kunduz (RA),
                                              25
 *     The first plane carrying sacrificial meat from Saudi Arabia for the Afghan refugees arrived 25 July in Peshawar (RPDS).
 *  After occupying a number of sub divisional headquarters in Ghazni and Kabul provinces, a 200 km •stretch of Kabul-Kandahar highway between Ghazni and Kalat Ghilzai has come under the jurisdiction of mujaheddin (PT).
 *  Officials in Kurram Agency have captured 50 missiles which were being transported from Afghanistan to Punjab for subversive activities (NWT).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  More than 5,000 persons who have been living in Pakistan, Iran and West Germany for some time, have returned during the last three months to the country in the suburbs of Kandahar province (RA)*
 *  The Frontier Post, has recently written in a meeting with the Afghan refugees in Quetta, Mohammad Ibrahim Gailani, known as Pir Gailani, a spiritual from Afghanistan has said a peace jirgah should be convened for the solution of Afghanistan problem. The participants unanimously endorsed the convening of such a jirgah (RA).
 * The Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan has gone to the US for the purchase of arms.
             He has also said situation in Afghanistan will be the main issue of discussions in Washington (RA),
                                              26
 *     The US State Department says there are no indications that the Soviet Union would have despatched new troops to Afghanistan (VOADS).
 *  In his address to the pilgrims, Saudi King Fahd hailed the struggle of the Afghan people against the Soviet invasion, of their country and said the Afghan people will soon reap the harvest of their struggle (VOADS).
 *  About the rights of the women in the future mujaheddin Islamic society, the NLF leader, Sebghat-Ullah Mojaddedi has said women in Islam enjoy many rights and religion and ideology have allowed much rights to the women. Women have greatly participated in our jehad and will be allowed to remain active in the framework of Islamic Shariat provisions (VOAPS).
 *  In an interview, a former member of the House of the People, Haji Hussain Maqsoodi has said a way for the solution of the Afghanistan problem will be to establish a representative council of those who have participated in the jehad should form an interim government keeping in view the rights of all nationalities of Afghanistan (BBCPS),
                                        175
* The AMRC says commanders of all the organizations have met under the chairmanship of Mawlawi Arsa-lan Rahmani in Paktika and endorsed the mujaheddin interim government. In a resolution, adopted at that meeting, the formation of a coalition government with the Kabul communist regime was rejected. The commanders al^o said the Geneva accord is not acceptable to them and they are not bound to it
                                                   ’NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
                                                                                               (VOAPS).
 * In a message to the UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil has complained about the mujaheddin rocket attacks on Kabul city. The message has urged that violations of the Geneva accords be stopped and attacks against the people of Kabul should not be reoperated (RMDS).
 *  Leader of the Kabul regime, Najibullah received 26 July in the Foreign Ministry a number of aimed opponents who in the light of Kabul regime communique, had come to Kabul to celebrate Eid holiday with their relatives, and friends (RA).
 *  In an interview with the correspondent of Moscow Television, Director in the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry, Mohammad Farooq Karmand refuted a recent statement by President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan that Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan has been halted (RA).
 * In accordance with a Kabul regime communique in connection with the visit of mujaheddin to their relatives and friends, COO armed men met their relatives and friends during Eid holiday in Herat province while a'number of others also met their relatives in Faryab province (RA).
 * Under a protocol of cooperation between the Kabul regime trade unions and the Vocational Unions all over the Soviet Union, 800 children of the workers and toiling people from the capital and provinces of the country left 26 July for recreation camps in the Soviet Central Asian Republics (RA).
 * In a commentary, TASS reported out of 115,000 Soviet troops, in Afghanistan, more than 35*000 have returned to their country after performing their duties in Afghanistan and presently there are no Soviet troops in 19 provinces of Afghanistan (RA).
                                            27
 *    Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan, who is currently visiting Washington, met members of the US Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs last night and discussed with them latest situation in Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *  China has asked the Soviet Union to continue the implementation of program for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan as envisaged in the Geneva accord (RPDS).
 *  Western diplomats say leader of the Kabul regime Najibullah has now resorted to meet the elders of areas surrounding the Kabul city. He wants to urge the elders to prevail upon the mujaheddin for ending rocket attacks on Kabul city (VOADS).
 *  The Washington Times, 27 July has reported that the Federal Republic of Germany has reduced the number of its embassy staff in Kabul to a minimum extent (VOADS).
             t
                                                 REPORTS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  Speaking to the mujaheddin who had come to their wards during Eid days, the leader of Kabul regime Najibullah said the mujaheddin should exercise prudence and should stop what he called the useless
                                          176
   July-September, 1988            AfGHAN J[HAD                   Vol.2, No.l
war against the Afghans (HMDS).
 *  Under Presidential Decree 495, permission has been granted for the formation of a new political organization,tIttehadia-e-Ansarullahn (RA)•
 *  Mohammad Sarwar Mangal, who is currently visiting the Soviet Union at the head of a delegation, held talks with the Soviet deputy prime minister on trade and economic topics (RA).
 * A protocol of friendship and cooperation between the Kabul regime National Front and National Front of Angola was signed 26 July in Moscow. The Kabul regime Ambassador in Moscow, Mohammadullah Safi told newsmen the objective is to exchange experiences and information in the field of NRP (RA).
 *  Three hundred Afghan children left 27 July for a three months rest in the Soviet Central Asian Republics (RA).
                                               28
 *  Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan, who is currently visiting the US, said Pakistan is committed to the Geneva accords on Afghanistan without sacrificing the interests of the mujaheddin
                                                                                            (RPDS).
 *  A Pakistani Embassy official in London, Kar^m Elahi has said allegations by the Soviet Ambassador in London that Pakistan was continuing arms supplies to the Afghan mujaheddin, are totally baseless
                                                                                           (bbcfs) .
 *  The US Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci says his country has adopted a positive stand with the support of its allies in connection with the disputes in Afghanistan, Angola and Kampuchea. He said reforms in the Soviet Union is not an immenent factor in movement for ending these disputes (VQADS).
 *  Mujaheddin, arriving in Quetta from Zahedan, Iran, have said a group of Iranian revolutionary guards opened fire 23 July on Afghan refugees living in tents in a part of Zahedan city, killing a number of them. Persons killed are reported to include a number of children and women (VQADS).
 *  The Newsweek. (USA), quoting its correspondent who has travelled to Kunar inside Afghanistan with the mujaheddin, says the calamity of desertions from the Kabul army is seriously facing the Kabul communist regime and the morale of its soldiers is now at its lowest (VQADS).
 * Quoting a source, The Frontier Post writes Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has stopped fighting the Kabul regime troops. The daily adds Masood had decided to end the war against the Kabul regime from the first of this month and to establish indirect contact with that regime. A spokesman for the Jamiat—e-Islami organization, Masood Khalili says these reports are no more than rumours. He said there is no reason for Masood to establish contacts with a government which is very week and about to fall (VQAPS).
 *  An Afghan refugee woman was killed and several children were injured, two of them seriously, when Afghan artillery fired at the Asgharo refugee camp in the lower Kurram Agency 27 July (MIM).
 * Two persons are reported to have been injured following the shelling of Afghan artillery from across the border over Chaman city and its outskirts during the Eid holidays (MIM).
 *  The US State Department spokesman, Charless Rendman has said that 15 August will be the first test of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, reports VOA (MIM).
 * Indian military, political and economic advisers have reached Kabul to replace the outgoing Soviet
                                          177
   July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol,2f No.l
political advisers (NWT).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  At a press conference 27 July, in Moscow, Deputy Premier of Kabul regime, Mohammad Sarwar Mangal said Kabul regime and the Soviet Union have signed an agreement on Geological surveys for oil and gas (RA),
 *  The UN Economic and Social ‘Bureau" in Geneva, has adopted 22 July a resolution in connection with the activities of the international community and Afghanistan for the reconstruction of economy, refugee repatriation and rehabilitation in the country (RA),
                                               29
 *   A spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry has said his country might be prepared to enter a dialogue with the Afghan mujaheddin in connection with the release of Soviet prisoners of war held by the mujaheddin (VOADS),
 *  The US has asked the Soviet Union to provide the map of the minefields showing the places where mines had been planted during its seven years military occupation of Afghanistan. The US officials say the Afghan refugees returning to their country should be trained in defusing mines (VOADS).
 * The UNACAR, Sadruddin Aga Khan says efforts have since been started to sweap mines from Afghanistan but the Russians, the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin have so far not provided him maps of the minefields (VOADS),
 *  In an interview in Washington, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan has said he has held talks with the US Secretary of State, George Shultz on the implementation of Geneva accords.
 They also discussed the need for setting up an interim or transitional government acceptable to the majority of Afghan people particularly the mujaheddin (RPDS),
 *  The US Senate has asked the government to appoint a high level representative for the Afghan mujaheddin (RPDS),
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze has refuted a statement made by a Soviet General that, following the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the present Kabul government will fall to the mujaheddin. A spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry said the general had been giving his personal views (RPDS),
 *  The Soviet backed Kabul regime leader, Najibullah has reportedly expressed his intention to resign if the chaotic situation in the country could not improve in 15 days (MIM).
 *  Three Afghan refugees, belonging to the same family, were killed 28 July by rival refugees in Akora Khattak refugee camp (MIM),
 * Increased mujaheddin attacks on Kabul have made the NATO allies discuss whether to start pulling diplomatic personnel out of Afghan capital, a West German Foreign Ministry official said 27 July (PT)
 *  Soviet troops withdrawal has been completed in 18 provinces of Afghanistan. Quoting a Regiment commander of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan, Radio Moscow reported that withdrawal has become difficult in Badakhshan province as there are 500 minefields which are yet to be swept (JG).
 * The Leader of Jamiat—e-Islami Afghanistan, Prof, Burhanuddin Rabbani has reiterated that the Af—
                                         178
July-Sept ember 9 19 SB
 Vol.2# No.l
ghan mujaheddin will continue their Jehad until the complete withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the establishment of ah Islamic government in Afghanistan (NWT)'.
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
*   At a press conference in Moscow in connection with rocket attacks on Kabul and other cities of Afghanistanf a representative of the Soviet Foreign Ministry said these attacks are carried out by persons hot interested in the solution of the Afghanistan problem (RMDS),
*   Addressing the Indian Parliament,Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi spoke of the role of his country in the normalization of situation in Afghanistan, and ending the Iran-Iraq war (RA).
                                              30
*     Western diplomats in Pakistan say in view of the increased mujaheddin attacks on Kabul, diploma tic missions of a number of western countries have reduced the number of their personnel in that city
                                                                                                                (VOADS).
*   The UNACAR, Sadruddin Aga Khan said there is a group of experts in Afghanistan to offer consultation for defusing mines and solving the difficulties in that context (RPDS).
 #  A spokesman' for the British Foreign Ministry saj.d 30 July in London that the government has decided to recall 45 family members of British citizens by next week from Afghanistan. The spokesman said the measure has been taken due to escalation of war in Afghanistan (RPDS).
 #  The British government has advis.ed its citizens in Afghanistan to leave" the country* s capital because of'inappropriate security conditions (BBCFS).
 # The US government officials say perhaps there might be 3-5 million mine-fields in Afghanistan.
 They have said it is difficult to investigate to know how many mines have been planted in the countryside. Because most of the explosive devices have been dropped from helicopters instead of planting them on ground (VOADS),
 *  The President of the Mujaheddin interim government. Engineer Ahmad Shah at a press conference 28 July in Quetta said resistance by the people of Afghanistan has been the real factor in the Soviet decision to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, not the international pressure. He added, throughout the Jehad 1*500 planes and 12,000 guns have been destroyed by the mujaheddin. He estimated Soviet
 casualties including troops and officers as 60,000 (VOADS).
                              „ *
 *  The Director of the Political committee of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Dr. Najibullah Laf-rayee has said in Washington residential areas in Kabuli and other places are being hit by the Russians with rockets but -then they are attributed to the mujaheddin. By doing so, he said, the Russian*, hope to diminish people* s sympathy for the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 *  Head of the mujaheddiii interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has said setting up a government in Afghanistan is the right,of the people of Afghanistan only. Addressing a press conference in Quetta, he said the interim government will be shifted inside Afghanistan within four months (JG).
 *  The IUAM President Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani met 29 July the British Prime Minister Thatcher in London for 45 minutes. In the meeting they discussed issues related to the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan and the future government in that country (NWT).
                                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 * In an interview in Washington, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan described as baseless the
                                          179
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2,
No.l
 statements of the Pakistani authorities saying that instead of withdrawing its forces from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has brought in fresh troops (RMDS).
 *  The Secretary PDPA Central Committee of the Kabul regime, Najamuddin Kawiani, currently visiting Cuba, has met the secretary of the Cuban Communist party and apprised him of the NRP and the Geneva accords (RA).
 *  The Iranian Charge d* Affaires in Kabul was summoned in the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry and was asked to provide necessary clarifications about the killing of a number of Afghan refugees in the outskirts of Zahidan (RA).
 *  In heavy shelling 17 July by the Pakistani militia on Bish and Mohammad Saeed posts, damages were caused to those posts. Kabul regime summoned 30 July the Charge df Affaires of Pakistan Embassy in Kabul and a strong worded protest note was delivered to him (RA)*
                                               31
 *     The Islamabad government has reported that Soviet—Kabul forces attacked Baghar near Afghanistan borders killing 27 persons and injuring 25 others (VOGDS).
 *  In an interview with the UPI, the US Under Secretary of State Michael Armacost has said the Afghan mujaheddin are presently in control of 80$ territory of Afghanistan and are capturing huge quantities of arms following the withdrawal of Soviet troops (VOADS).
 *  The Washington Post, writes, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani said 25 July in Peshawar that Mujaheddin attacks on Afghanistan cause delay in the Soviet troops withdrawal from that country. He added, if the Soviets are really withdrawing and do not create problems in the areas which they are vacating, they, will not be hurt. They should be given the opportunity to withdraw (VOADS),
 *  Prime Minister Dr. Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime said decision to evacuate the families of the diplomats from Kabul has been taken under influence of the anti-Afghan propaganda in Pakistan.
                                                                                         (BBCFS).
 *  Pakistan Justice Minister Vlasim Sajjad assured 31 July the Senate that Pakistan has been sincerely adhering to it its commitments in the framework of Geneva accord and will remain committed to it in future as well (RPDS),
                                                                  »
 *  The commander of Ittehad-o-Islami organization in Logar, Teacher Tor said the present war in Afghanistan is not a war for power. It is a war of belief and faith. He said the Afghanistan problem will be solved on the hot trenches and no government other than the mujaheddin government is acceptable (VOAPS)•
 *  The University of Nebraska Omaha*s Afghanistan Program has received six million dollars to expand its educational efforts in refugee camps in neighboring Pakistan, the US State Department announced
                                                                                             (PT).
 *  The Kabul regime leader, Dr. Najibullah has claimed that half of.the Soviet troops in his country have already left as per Geneva accords, reports AIR (PT).
 *  The relatives of an ANP activist late Haji Mushtaq have accused the Afghan mujaheddin of murdering him (Haji Mushtaq) whilei he was on his way back from Kabul (EN).
                                          180
   July-September, 1988                AICHAN JfHAD                     Vol.2, No.l
                                                August
                                            1
*  At a press conference in Rawalpindi, leader of Fezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said attacks on the Soviet military units would accelerate their withdrawal from Afghanistan.
He also says rocket attacks on military positions in Kabul- should be further intensified (BBCFS).
*  pie Afghan mujaheddin intend to hand over.two Soviet FOWs to the UN. Hie IUAM President, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani described it as the goodwill gesture on the part of the mujaheddin (VOGDS).
*  The Afghan mujaheddin sources have said 30 Afghan refugees have recently been killed by the Iranian revolutionary guards in a refugee camp near Zahedan. The sources have described reason for the clash as refusal of Afghan refugee women for medical checkup by the Iranian male doctors (VOGDS).
*  UNACAR, Sadruddin Aga Khan says the UN programs enjoy political and financial support of the UN member countries. He, at the same time, stressed neutrality in the distribution of these assistances
                                                                                 (VOADS).
*  The BBC correspondent reports from Islamabad that a Norwegian woman working as a news correspondent and an official for an Afghan aid organization who had entered Afghanistan alongwith 11 mujaheddin of Harakat-e-Islami, with six others was killed when their vehicle hit a mine inside Afghanistan near Pakistan border (BBCFS).
*  Speaking 1 August at a jirgah of Afghan refugees in Miranshah, north Waziristan, Minister for Tourism, Culture and Sports, Malik Faridullah Khan assured the Afghan refugees that Pakistan government will continue supporting them until their, return to the country in honor (RPDS).
*  The New York Times', carried 31 July an article in connection with an interview of the former Afghan King, Zahir Shah, who had said "I am a patriotic? Afghan and it is my aspiration to go to my land and to render whatever service I can for peace and rehabilitation of my country” (VOAPS).
•* Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami described UN Special envoy Diego Cordovez's proposal for a neutral government in Kabul ^s ’’super powers sponsored" design to save the total collapse of the Kabul regime and, therefore, unacceptable to the mujaheddin (HIM).
*  Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said the issue of the future government in Afghanistan can ei-either be solved through just and impartial elections or through continued war until the fall of the present administration in Kabul (JG).
                                            NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES:
*  Six thousand four hundred seven persons had gone this year to perform Haj. Two hundred eighty of them arrived 1 August in Kabul after performing the Haj (RA).
*  A peace jirgah of the Kabul regime was held 1 August in Kabul city in connection with the implementation of the NRP and improvement of peace and security in the wards of Kabul city (RA).
*  The Cuban National day was marked 1 August at a function by the Afghan—Cuba Association (RA).
                                            2
*  A famous mujaheddin commander, Abdul Haq, in a message addressed to the Kabul citizens, has refu-
                                        181
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol#2, No.l
ted the allegations that the mujaheddin would have rocketted the civilian population or had killed the civilians (VOADS).
*   The Washington Times, reports the IUAM President, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani has said the resistance ie ready to take measures to stop attacks on Soviet troops while withdrawing from Afghanistan, with the condition that the Soviet military intervention in the form of support for the Kabul regime is also stopped (VOADS).
*  The New York Times, writes the UN mediator on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez has resigned from
the office of Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations and has been appointed as Foreign Minister of his country, Ecuador. He has said he would continue his role as UN envoy in Pakistan and Afghanistan (VOADS).                v
*   In their meeting in NY, the Foreign Ministers of Pakistan and Iran have said the people of Afghanistan should themselve take a decision in accordance with the aspirations of the Afghan people about their future (RPDS).
* In an interview, the UN Secretary General's Special envoy on Afghanistan problem, Diego Cordovez has said Moscow has reaffirmed its decision to withdraw half of its troops from Afghanistan by the middle of August (RPDS).
*   The FRG Minister for Economic Affairs in an interview to the VOG has said, his country would extend all possible assistance in the rehabilitation of Afghan people in their country (JG).
                                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
*   The leader of Kabul regime, Najibullah held talks 1 August, with a delegation of the Union of intellectuals and prominent social figures of the regime on the NRP, establishment of overall peace
and ending of bloodshed (RA),
*  On the basis of decree 284, Sayyed Assadullah Hussaini was nominated as Senator (RA),
*   The Kabul regime cabinet in its meeting 2 August decided that the 11 items of the Soviet interest free aid should be distributed through coupon shops. The meeting also decided that all government offices should reduce their petroleum expenses by 30ft with effect from 6 August (RA),
*   A number of party activists of the PDPA, Kabul, voluntarily approached the military cornmissione-rate in District-2 of Kabul and, after recording their names, proceeded for military service (RA).
*   At the invitation of the Kabul regime Ministry of Religious Affairs, the Chief of Al-Azhar University, Sayyed Nazir Hussain arrived 2 August in Kabul at the head of a delegation (RA).
*   A prominent Soviet General says the Kabul regime army is capable enough to defend the country against the mujaheddin after the Soviet troops pullout from Afghanistan (VOADS).
*   Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan arrived in Moscow for talks with the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze on the Geneva accords and matters pertaining to the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (VOADS),
*   The Krasnayas Zvezda (Soviet Union), has denied the participation of Soviet troops in fightings in the outskirts of Kabul (VOGDS).
                                        182
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2#  No.l
 *  Leader of Kabul regime Najibullah has recently allowed the functioning of two political parties - -"Fidayan-e-Afghanistan" and "Ansarullah" in Kabul (VOGDS).
 *  Pakistan says the Afghan Air Force (AAF) has bombdrded inside the Pakistani territory killing eight persons and wounding 16 others. Similarly, in heavy shelling by the Kabul regime artillery on Chaman city, two persons were injured. Pakistan has lodged a strong protest with the Kabul government against these•violations (VQADS),
 *  While explaining the foreign policy of the government, the Foreign Minister of the mujaheddin interim government, Qazi Najibullah has said neutrality and non-alignment is the traditional policy of Afghanistan and the mujaheddin interim government will also not depart from that policy and would pursue it. (VOAPS).
 *  UN mediator, Diego Cordovez says his plan for a "national government for peace and reconstruction" is gaining ground in Afghanistan and Pakistan, (PT).
 *  The mujaheddin, led by Prof. Sayyaf have contradicted a news item published in a Peshawar English daily that Haji Mushtaq Ahmad, a noted Pakistani businessman was killed by the Afghan mujaheddin belonging to Sayyaf*s group on Jalalabad-Kabul highway on 26 June (PT).
                *
 *  According to western diplomats, about AO Indian families reached Kabul from Jalalabad last week. Quoting the Indian businessmen, the diplomats have said Jalalabad city has been ruined from economic point of view (NWT).
                                                    NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  The representative of the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Economic relations said in Moscow that Soviet contribution constitutes 80$ of the entire foreign assistance to.Afghanistan. Last year the Soviet Union offer $550 millions economic aid to Afghanistan (HMDS)..
 *  According to reports, infiltration of foreign military advisers in Afghanistan in the ranks of Afghan mujaheddin is being intensified (RMDS),
 *  Some of the party workers voluntarily approached the military commissionerates. in Kabul and, after registering their names, proceeded to the Special Guard units for military service (RA).
 *  A spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry said 2 August in Moscow the Afghan mujaheddin are strengthening their fighting personnel as a result of arms supplies by Pakistan and the Pakistani officials have continued to allow the activities of Afghan mujaheddin in Pakistan and they are openly ignoring the contents of the Geneva accords (RA).
                                                               4
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze has accused Pakistan of supporting world terrorism by continued support to the Afghan mujaheddin (BBCFS).
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze has arrived in Kabul on a "purposeful visit" as TASS described it (BBCFS).
 *  Quoting British diplomats in Kabul, a correspondent of The Independent (London) writes Western diplomats, who have left Kabul included only four British personnel as they were not much needed there
                                                                                             (BBCFS)..
 * The French Foreign Ministry says, in view of the escalated mujaheddin rocket attacks on Kabul, the
                                                        103

 number of French Bnbassy personnel in Kabul has been reduced to 20 (VOADS).
 *  Quoting a doctor, travellers coming from Kabul say 150 Kabul regime injured soldiers have been admitted 1-3 August in the 400 Bed Military Hospital of Kabul (VOAPS),
 *  Although nearly 30,000 out of 115,000 Soviet troops have returned from Afghanistan but fierce fighting continues between the Soviet-backed Kabul troops and the mujaheddin. VQA*3 correspondent who has recently returned after a two months stay in Afghanistan and Pakistan after directly witnessing the Afghan war has reported (MIM).
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin commander, Abdul Salam Hydari and his companion Agha Mohammad were killed-
 3  July near the Iranian-Afghan border when their horses stepped over a land mine (PT).                      ,
                                    NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES .                                            ji
 *  In a meeting 3 August with the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahebzada ‘laqub Khan in Moscow, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze said Pakistan is violating the Geneva accords (RMDS).
 *  Permanent representative of Afghanistan at the UN Shah Mohammad Dost met recently the Charge d*
 Affaires of Italy. In the meeting the Italian Charge d* Affaires expressed his country*s willingness to extend assistance for the rehabilitation of Afghan refugees through the UN (RA).
                                                 5
 *  The Soviet Union says, by completely evacuating from Kandahar and other places, its contingents have withdrawn from Southern Afghanistan and have assigned the defense of those areas to the Kabul regime forces. Soviet troops are presently withdrawing from Kunduz, northern Afghanistan (BBCFS).
 *  In an interview the IUAM leader Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said the mujaheddin exert their maximum to hit the targets where the enemy military units are deployed in Kabul# He said we should give an opportunity to the Soviet troops who want to pullout from Afghanistan (BBCFS) 0
                                                                                                                            I
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze has begun his talks with the officials of the Kabul regime on the implementation of Geneva accords under which the Soviet troops are pulling out of Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *  The Charge d» Affaires of the Kabul regime Bnbassy in Islamabad was summoned tp the Foreign Ministry and refuted the Kabul regime claims that Pakistan military forces have fired 16 July on two Kabul regime posts with heavy arms in Kandahar and described these allegations unfounded (RPDS).
 *  Quoting The Krasnayas Zvezda. The Washington Times writes a new department - - "Guards" - - has been set up in the Kabul regime armed forces for the defense of Kabul city. According to the news-paper, most of the members of the new department are civilian volunteers including women, peasants
 and the youth (VOADS).                                                                                   ,   I
 *  Soviet daily The Krasnayas Zvezda says on the completion of the Soviet troops withdrawal from
 Kandahar, there will remain no Soviet soldier in southern Afghanistan. It says The Kabul regime for-         j
 ces will take up the assignment for defending those areas (VOAPS),
 *  Thirty Afghans have bean killed and 37 injured and 88 arrested after exchange of fire between then and Iranian border guards near Zahedan, according to a report received 4 August (MIM) •
 *  The ANP Vice President Begum Nasira Wali has said the Afghan refugees will not be allowed to influ
184
ence the forthcoming elections 16 November (JG).
                                                  NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *  .In his meeting with the Pakistan Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan, the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze has expressed regret and concern that Pakistani leaders are supporting the Afghan mujaheddin which tantamounts to a violation of Geneva accord (RMDS).
     *  The Kabul regime Prime Minister, Mohammad Hasan Sharq held talks 5 Augus-', with the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze in Kabul on bilateral issues. Later the Soviet Foreign Minister extended an invitation to Dr, Hasan Sharq to visit the Soviet Union (RA),
    ' * The Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil held talks 5 August with the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze on the Geneva accord and present world situation (RA),
                                                      6
     *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze and the head of Kabul regime, Najibullah discussed in their meeting in Kabul Pakistan’s role in the Afghanistan issue (VOGDS),
     *  Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan once again reiterated Pakistan’s commitment to the Geneva accord and stressed the need for setting up ah interim government acceptable to all Afghans (RPDS),
     *  An Afghan mujaheddin leader, Judge Mohammad Amin Waqad says when all the organizations are foregone and an Islamic council is formed by all sections of Afghanistan which should be named as Founding Council or Jehad Leadership Council, then we will gain the capability for determining the fate. of the people of Afghanistan. Subsequently that council should form an Islamic government, he said, otherwise, our fate will be decided by the two super powers (VOADS),
     *  A spokesman for the Pakistan Defense Ministry -confirmed that a Kabul regime bomber aircraft, which had intruded 10 miles into the Pakistan airspace, was shot down 4 August by a Pakistan patrol aircraft in Miranshah (RPDS).
     *  Pakistan has refuted Soviet criticism about the violation of the Geneva accords. Foreign Minister
     Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan told newsmen in Islamabad that Pakistan remains committed to the Geneva accords but it has never pledged it would not support the Afghan mujaheddin (BBCFS).
     *  Not a single Afghan refugee from Baluchistan has gone back home so far since the signing of Geneva accords on Afghanistan. This was stated by the Commissioner of the Afghan refugees for Baluchistan, Malik Mohammad Omar while talking to APP in Quetta (PT).
     *  The Soviet Union has announced it has completed the withdrawal of its troops from Kandahar and the rest of southern Afghanistan. The territory and administration in that area have been handed over to Afghan government troops, TASS said (DN).
*
A transformer of WAPDA was destroyed and a civilian killed in Afghan artillery shelling on Chaman
                                                                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
(JG).
      *  Prominent representatives of the people of Balabaloak, Farah, have said they are determined to pave the way for ending bloodshed in Afghanistan (RMDS).
      *  Vice Presidents and Chairmen of the Senate, Speaker of the House of People, the Interior Minister
                                      I
      and Chief of the Army Staff of the Kabul regime held 6 August separate meetings with the Soviet
                                                         185
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN J[HAD                  Vol,2, No.l
 Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze on the NRP and political situation in the country. Similarly, a number of governors and military commanders of the regime also met the Soviet Foreign Minister
                                                                                             (HA),
 *  Fifty foreign journalists, including western journalists, arrived 6 August in Kabul for reporting the implementation of the Geneva accords and recent socio-political developments in Afghanistan (RA),
 *  Prime Minister Mohammad Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime held talks 6 August with the Soviet Deputy Premier on expansion of economic and technical cooperations between the Kabul regime and the Soviet Union (RA),
 *  The Iranian Charge d* Affaires in Kabul was summoned to the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry 6 August and protest was made against the murder of 30 Afghan refugees by the Revolutionary Guards 23 July in the outskirts of Zahidan (RA),
 *  A grand function was recently held at the Soviet military base in Kandahar mark the successful performance of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan who are now returning to their country (RA),
                                                 7
 *  According to the UN sources, Soviet troops have speeded up their withdrawal from Afghanistan, According to the Geneva accords, the Soviet Union should withdraw 50,000 of its troops from Afghanistan by 15 August (RPDS).
 *  Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan has declared that it is the large number of violations by the Afghan regime forces of Pakistan»s territory and the subversive activities carried out within Pakistan by agents of the Afghan secret service, KHAD, which amount to a'^anifest example of international terrorism" (PT),
                                   • NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  The volume of imports and exports between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan during the last 10 years has increased by four times and presently goods worth $600 million is exchanged between the two countries annually (HMDS),
 *  Secretaries of the Kabul communist party, Saleh Mohammad Zairey and Sultan Ali Keshtmand and Secretary of the Revolutionary organization of the Toilers of Afghanistan, Mahbubullah Koshani met-7 August the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze in Kabul (RA),
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze visited 7 August the Janglak Factory, He also
 met the private enterpreneurs on matters related to trade between the Kabul regime and the USSR (RA),
 *  The Secretary of Kabul Communist Party, Najamuddin Kawiani, currently visiting Nicaragua, met recently the leader of Sandinist Front and the President of that country and apprised him of the NRP, implementation of Geneva accord and its violations by Pakistan (RA),
 *  The Kabul regime religious scholars and spirituals condemned the assassination of Allama Sayyed Arif Husain Hussaini, a Shia leader in Pakistan (RA),
                                                 8
 *  The BBC correspondent reports from Islamabad a Kabul regime MIG-19 jet aircraft has landed in the Pakistan border town of Parachinar and it is said that the two persons on board have requested
                                          186

July-September, 1988
 Vol.2f No.l
      —■» .............. ■ ■ ..............................—'       ■■■■■■ ■ - ■
      asylum (BBCFS).
      *  The BBC correspondent reports from Islamabad that a hand granade went off 8 August in the outskirts of Peshawar city killing two young men. One of them was an Afghan refugee while the other was a Pakistani. (BBCFS).
      *  The Soviet and Kabul regime Foreign Ministers accused 7 August Pakistan of supporting the Afghan mujaheddin. In a Joint communique on the conclusion of Soviet Foreign Minister*s visit to Kabul, they accused Pakistan of supporting the'mujaheddin (VOADS).
     *   A’UN Committee working on Human rights, in a report recently says in a number of countries, including Afghanistan, the boys of less than 15 years are coercively inducted to the military service
                                                                                              (VOADS).
     * An international non-government conference on Afghanistan will be opened 24 August in Jakarta. Indonesian News Agency ANTARA said about 100 representatives from 20 countries will participate in the conference (RFDS).
     *   The Hindustan Times, says if Pakistan did not abandon its support to the mujaheddin, the Soviet' Union might ask the UN Security Council to deploy a peace force on the Pak-Afghan borders (VOAPS).
     *   The NWFP Chief Minister, Lt. General, (retired) Fazla Haq, has stressed the need for the establishment of a government in Afghanistan acceptable to all sections of the people and said the formation of such a government would pave the way for safe and honorable return of the Afghan refugees (PT).
                                                    * , ' / ' . ■
     *   The admission of Afghanistan into the seven nation SAARC is expected to dominate a SAARC ministerial meeting scheduled next week in Kathmandu (PT).
     *   Former paratroopers at a reunion in central Moscow, some apparently from the Afghan war veterans, fought drunken street brawls, stripped off their medals and tried to march on the Red Square, TASS reported Sunday (PT).
                                                  NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *   In'a joint communique issued at the conclusion of the Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze*s visit to Kabul, it has been said if Pakistan did not abandon its interference in the internal affair of Afghanistan, the Soviet Union and Kabul regime will take necessary measures (HMDS).
     *   In a press conference in. Kabul Soviet officials have said no Soviet troops will remain in 25 provinces of Afghanistan in the near future and the process of Soviet troops pullout will be completed within the fixed period (RMDS).
     *’■' Leader of the Kabul regime Najibullah held talks 8 August in Kabul with religious scholars,
     ' spirituals, intellectuals and representatives of Kabul city on ending war, and bloodshed, establishment of peace and security and adoption of practical measures for satisfactory defense of Kabul city (RA),
     *   The Charge d* Affaires of Pakistan Embassy in Kabul was summoned to the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry and a strong worded protest not,e was handed over'to him against the violation of Afghan air space by a Pakistani plane (RA).
     *  The First Leutinent Ali Madad,a pilot of the Kabul regime who was captured by the mujaheddin in
    July-September, 1988             AfGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
  Paktia province and was subsequently shifted to Miranshah,' has escaped from the prison of the mujaheddin groups and joined his concerned unit (RA).
                                                  9
  * President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan said 9 August in Lahore^ according to -fresh reports, Soviet troop's withdrawal from Afghanistan is going on as scheduled and he is satisfied with the Soviet troops pullout (RPDS).
  *  A two day seminar on."the future of Afghanistan" concluded 9 August in Karachi. President of- the World Muslim Congress (Moota'mar-e-Alam-e~Islami) who presided over the seminar urged the mujaheddin to step their efforts up to, redeem unitedly their heavy responsibilities and forgive those who were mistaken in the consolidation of unity among the people and country of Afghanistan (RPDS),
  *  Three fighter aircraft of the .Kabul- regime violated 4 A'ugust the Pakistani, airspace and dropped seven bombs in Razmak, Kurrarn Agency, killing four Afghan refugees and setting three tents ablaze.
  In this connection a strong worded protest note was delivered 8 August to the Kabul regime Charge d» Affaires in Islamabad (RPDS).            ■
  *  Pakistani officials say they have arrested a Russian pilot when, his aircraft intruded 4 August into Pakistan airspace and was ,shot down. The Pilot,after having parachuted in the NWFP, was arrested and shifted to Islamaoad (VOAPS),
  *  Foreign Minister of the mujaheddin interim government, Judge Najibullah says our Islamic government is based on Islamic ideologies and, the rights of women will be restored in accordance with the Quran arid .Islam, keeping in view the working capacity of the women folk. He added' that we. do not deny the rights of women but we allow those rights which have been vested in them fcy Islam suiting-their nature and physiogronomy (VOAPS).
  *  A Soviet made MIG-21 jet fighter flown by two Afghan pilots, made a dramatic -landing at Parachinar airport in Kurrarn Agency 8 August. The pilots surrendered to the Pakistan authorities (MIM).
  *  Two persons, including an Afghan refugee, were killed when an explosive device planted on the roadside in Darmangi village on Warsak road near Peshawar went off 8 August (HIM).
  *  The Soviet Union has no plans to launch major troops offensives in Afghanistan, a spokesman for the Soviet Enbassy in Kabul said 7 August (PT).
  *  The IUAM expressed 7 August its deep shock and grief on the martyrdom of Allama Sayyed.Arif Hussain Al-Hussaini (PT).
  *  Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze returned Moscow 7 August after a three day visit to Kabul where he pledged long-term economic aid to Afghanistan after Soviet troops pullout (PT).
  *  Asif Qayum, provincial Information Secretary of NPP, has criticized construction of Afghan refugee commissiqnerate at a time when the Soviet troops pullout from Afghanistan is in progress and Pakistan has pledged noninterference in that country's affairs (DN).
  *  The Times of India has warned if the UN was not allowed to deploy its troops in Afghanistan, President Zia of Pakistan will succeed in setting up a government of fundamentalists in Kabul (JG).
                                       NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *  The Moscow radio correspondent reports that more than 10,000 persons have returned to Kandahar
                                        188
        July-September, 1988             AfGHAN JEHAD                 Vol.#2 , No.-l
during the last one year (RMDS).
      *  The cabinet met 9 August and adopted decisions on the following issues: extension of coupon for another six months to the bereaved families of the Kabul regime workers; construction of a 300 bed hospital with the Indian aid in Kabul city and allotment of land in Pul-e~Charkhi for the construction of private factories (RA).
      *  Gifts were distributed among scouts and officers of the Kabul regime who have vindicated enthusiasm against the opposition forces in Chahar Asiab sub division (RA),
      *  The 8th anniversary of the martyrdom of Pashtun struggler, Nazir Abbasi was marked 9 August in a function at Kabul University (RA),
                                                    10
      *     At the conclusion of his trip to Afghanistan, the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze has said the solution of Afghanistan is going ahead completely in accordance with the Geneva accords. He said half of the Soviet troops will be withdrawn from Afghanistan by 15 August (RPDS),
      *  Canada will provide $1,5 millions to the ICRC for humantarian and rein ef operations for the '
      Afghan refugees (RPDS),
      *  The IUAM has asked Iran to probe into the massacre of 30 Afghan refugees by the Revolutionary Guards near Zahedan and punish the culprits. (BBCFS).
      *  The Kabul regime leader, Najibullah has alleged that the activities of the Afghan mujaheddin have disrupted the distribution of essential commodities. He said economic difficulties are unavoidable but he denied that Kabul and other cities are faced with food shortage (BBCFS).
      *  The IUAM has expressed profound grief and anguish on the assassination of a Pakistani Shia leader Allama Arif Hussain Hussaini and has described his death as a painful incident. The IUAM has also said Allama Hussaini was among the strong defenders of the Afghan jehad and with his death the jehad has lost a prominent supporter (VOAPS).
      *  The two pilots of an Afghan MIG-19 aircraft who landed their plane in Parachinar are reported to be avoiding to provide necessary particulars to the local administration and are insisting to meet high officials (NYJT).
      *  About 23,000 Kabul regime troops and policemen defected from military service during the last four months (PT).
      *  The Kabul regime has arrested some elders of Kabul city who were accused of disseminating the news that the Soviets were firing rockets on Kabul city (PT).
      * The ANA said 9 August its correspondents in various parts of Afghanistan have reported intensified, operations by Afghan mujaheddin against the Kabul army. The agency said the strength of Kabul forces in the capital has declined considerably and, in order to make up the deficiency, the regime has started forcing into service boy3 of 13-14 years (PT).
      *  Severe rains in North Waziristan Agency and in adjoining areas of Afghanistan swept away 8 August
      arms and ammunition stored in a Hezb-e-Islami base at Zhawar across the border (MIM).
                                     ’ NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
                    y                                 .
      - * The Pravda writes following Soviet troops pullout from Kandahar the Pakistan based mujaheddin
                                                 189
Jtily-September, 1988           IlflSIlJIN JIHAD                    Vol.2f No.l
 leadership announced they plan to establish their transitional government in Kandahar. For this purpose, the mujaheddin groups are being despatched to that city from Pakistan and foreign advisers are also included among the armed groups (RMDS).
 *  The Kabul regime leader Najibullah visited 10 August posts belonging to Kabul security belt, in Qargha and gave necessary directives to the officers for strengthening the posts (RMDS).
 *  A protocol for the supply of the medical requirements and medicines by the Afghan Red Crescent Society to the hospital of Medical Sciences Academy was signed 10 August (RA).
                                         ' 11 '
 *     Foreign Minister,. Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan says his country is strongly opposed to the request of Kabul regime for membership in the SAARC. India, on the other hand urges the regime should be allowed membership in that Council (VOADS).
 *  The speaker of the Iranian assembly, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani says the Soviet Union had offered to reduce arms supplies to Iraq if Iran supported the. Soyiet backed regime in Kabul (VOADS). ,
 * TASS says the Soviet troops have withdrawn from 19 out of 30 provinces of Afghanistan (VOADS).
 * TASS reported that the Joint Soviet-Kabul space flight will take place 28 August (VOADS).
 *  The AMRC in Peshawar has estimated that about 17,000 troops and 6,000 securitymen have defected during the last four months and most of them have joined the mujaheddin. Defections from the Kabul regime army has also been confirmed by the Kabul regime leader Najibullah (VOAPS).
 *  The ANP President Khan Abdul Wali Khan has said by continuing arms supplies to the Afghan mujaheddin, the US wants to establish a puppet government in Afghanistan like the government in Pakistan (JG).
                                     NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  The first phase of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan has been completed. Moscow Radio reports from Kabul that the Soviet troops deployed in three southren provinces of Afghanistan have now crossed the borders (RMDS).
 *  The third session of the Supreme Islamic Advisery Council of the Kabul regime was convened 11 August in Kabul..in the meeting duties were entrusted to the concerned officials-to make necessary preparations for holding an Islamic conference (RA). -
 *  The first council of tribes and nationalities was convened. In the meeting leader of the Kabul regime Najibullah said the council is composed of the noble nationalities of the country and it has the responsibility for exerting all efforts and capabilities in ending war in the country (RA).
 *  The Council for coordinating unity among the Kabul regime leftist democrat parties held a sess-
 ion 10 August in Kabul. After a thorough analysis of.the present situation in the country, the meeting stressed the need for the consolidation of maximum solidarity and strengthening unity of the leftist democrats (RA).                                                                      '  -
 *  The Committee on solidarity of Kabul regime with the people of Palestine was established 11 August in the framework of the Peace and Friendship and Solidarity Organization of the Kabul regime
                             , . '                                                       .(RA)*
                                            190
        July-September, 1983                   AfGHAN JEHAD                        Vol*2,  No.l
     *  The Faryab local television station was inaugurated 11 Ahgust and began its programs (RA).
     *     The BBC correspondent reports.from Islamabad two former Soviet soldiers who joined the mujaheddin during their service in Afghanistan, have told the Red Cross Society that they do.not want to return to the Soviet Union nor they want to seek asylum (BBCFS),
     *  Speaking 11 August at the SAABC Foreign Ministers conference in Kathmandu the Pakistan Foreign Minister said•his.country is fully committed to the implementation of the Geneva accords for the solution of Afghanistan problem (VOIDS).
     *  Foreign Ministers of the South Asian countries currently meeting in Kathmandu, have approved regulations which practically ban Afghanistan’s admission in the SAARC (VOADS).
     * An IUAM spokesman has said there was a general resentment in the Kabul regime \armed forces due to lack of confidence in the regime because of its anti-Islamic and pro-Russian policies (PT)•
                                                  NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *  Speaking at the recent session of the Kabul regime Islamic Advisery Council, the Kabul regime leader urged members of that Council to make use of the credibility and influence of the spirituals for ending the war and. restoring of peace in the country (RMDS).
     *  Foreign journalists, accompanied by local newsmen, visited 12 August the MG IA in Hairatan port
                                                                                              (RA).
     *  The Kabul regime lodged 12 August a strong protest with the' Pakistan Charge d* Affaires in Kabul against Pakistan’s violation of Afghan airspace. Similarly, Kabul regime officials described as baseless Pakistan’s claim that three Afghan aircraft bombed Razmak in Waziristan, Pakistan (RA). .
                                                   13               ;
     *  The Independent (London) reports while a Soviet.military convoy was returning to their country, from Afghanistan, the local people were showing diversified reaction. Some people were waving their hands, some were paying military salute with the closed fists but a large number of Afghans were picking up dust from the earth and throwing it on the withdrawing Soviet contingents (BBCFS). •
     *  The BBC local correspondent reports from Quetta that in a resolution 12 August about 300 prominent figures, of jehad including religious scholars, spirituals, tribal elders and jehad commanders belonging to southwestern provinces of Afghanistan endorsed the recent proposal of Cordovez in connection with the solution of the Afghanistan problem (VOADS).
     *  Sabahuddin. KuShkaki of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance says for setting up an interim government, we should avoid raising divisive issues like the issue of the former King, lpya jirgah, or holding elections under present circumstances. For the establishment of an interim government, use should be made of prominent commanders inside the country, and a number of officials who have close cooperation with the mujaheddin ranks or. have been living in Afghanistan but did not ... extend direct cooperation to the Kabul regime and enjoyed reputation as Muslims. These people should elect a person from amongst themselves as head of the state merely for carrying ceremonial functions of a head of state. (BBCPS).
                                                             191.
July-September, I98&
Vol.2# No.l
     *   A prominent member of the NLF, Hamed Karazi says the Afghan war is not an anti-ideological war nor it is a war of Islam against infidelity. He added that anti-Soviet war is waged to safeguard the national identity of Afghanistan. This war is a national liberation war (BBCPS).
     *   In an interview 10 July to a panel of editors and senior correspondents of NPT (National Press ■ . Trust) papers in Islamabad, President Mohammad Ziaul Haq of Pakistan said:
        -  Pakistan has not committed any violation of Geneva accord; Kabul regime’s complaints have been found baseless by the UN goodwill mission team,
        -  Afghan mujaheddin are not signatories to the Geneva accord and are not bound by it,
        -  By imposing negative symmetry, Russia has accepted the fact of continuing resistance by the mujaheddin in Afghanistan,
        - Pakistan can have no control over fighting inside Afghanistan,
        - Soviet Union has decided to leave practically all their equipment with. Kabul,
        -    At this stage of the game, India has no business to interfere with what goes on about the \ solution of the Afghan issue while for eight years it remained quiet and did not raise a
            little finger at what Russia had been doing with the Afghans.
        - Najib government cannot resist the pressure from the mujaheddin and it' is bound to fall,
        - Till a new government is installed in Afghanistan acceptable to all sections, Afghan refugees will not return to their homes,
        -  The Soviet Union has started withdrawing physically but mentally they want to stay back in Afghanistan,
        -  Soviet Union has, through the mouth of Rajiv Gandhi, raised the slogan that they cannot accept a fundamentalist regime in Kabul,
        -  Russia wants to have somebody, with Indian help, who could head the Afghan government and play
            the same role as was played before 1979»            •
                                                           *
        -  Afghanistan will need massive help from the world community for its reconstruction, what is being given to Afghanistan is marginal as compared to what USA and' Europe gave to West Germany.
        -  On 29th May, when the Junejo government was dismissed, the Afghan process had already started and therefore Afghanistan could not have been the real cause for the removal of Junejo government and dissolution of the assembly.
        -  AMRCtquoting a source of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), says' the mujaheddin of Qiyam-e-Haq front,
            captured Brigadier Mohammad Yousuf, popularly known as Shah Wali, a member of the Revolutionary Council, and Mohammad Qayum, Coordinator of KHAD-5, Mohammad Ehsan and Abdul Qadir commanders of the Maidan military post during an ambush at Qala-e-Kashmiri mountain in Maidan, War-dak. (PT),                                                                  -
      * Siddiqullah the brother of Najibullah, the leader of Kabul regime who defected to the mujaheddin some time back, has reached Pakistan and will address a press conference in Peshawar, 15 August
                                                                                                  (MIM).
                                                  NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *  First phase of the process of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan will conclude. 14 August,
                                                   192
Vol*2f No.l
J uly-Sept ember, 1988
           Fifty % of the Soviet limited contingents, comprising about 50,000 persons, have pulled out or are in the process of withdrawing (RMDS).
           *  A meeting was held 12 August in Moscow to commemorate the 69th anniversary of the regaining of the independence of Afghanistan (RMDS),
           *  Vice President of the Kabul regime and Chairman of National Front, Abdul Rahim Hathef held talks 12 August with the Vice President of the Soviet Presidium on NRP and Geneva accords in Moscow (RA).
           *  In mujaheddin’s ground-to-ground rocket fires 13 August on Gardez city, 13 persons were killed and 12 others injured (RA).
                                                         14
           *    The Kabul regime Chief of Army Staff, General Shahnawaz Tani has said, simultaneous with the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, fighting between the Kabul regime forces and the Afghan mujaheddin continues and has further been intensified. In an interview with the newspaper of the Soviet armed forces, he has said the situation, particularly in seven provinces bordering Pakistan, is serious (BBCFS).
           * Siddiqullah the brother of the Kabul regime leader, Najibullah who has just come to Peshawar from Panjshir, has said there is no possibility of compromise between the Afghanistan resistance forces and the communists and the resistance movement is raising the slogan not to lay down arms until the victory of Islamic movement and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, He added there is no understanding or coalition under consideration between the resistance groups with the communists (BBCFS),
           *  In a statement at a seminar on ’’Political System and settlement of the Afghanistan issue” in the George Town University, U.S., a former Afghan diplomat, Mohammad Siddiq Farhang has said politically the Afghanistan issue cannot be settled until the people participate in the administration of the country. After the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the entire- Afghan nation should take part in determining the fate of the country (VOADS).
           *  The Commander of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in Kandahar Abdul Sattar Afghan Meskeen says they will not accept any government which is not acceptable to the people of Afghanistan. The government announced by the Peshawar based IUAM is not acceptable to the majority of the commanders, he said.However we accept the Cordevez proposal which may establish an Islamic government through loya jirgah in Afghanistan (VOAPS).
           *  ’’Whether a negotiated solution can be found (about Afghanistan) is an open question. The road to an Afghan peace, it seems is still paved with formiddable difficulties. The war could drag on for quite some time yet.” (Maleeha Lodhi in MIM),
           *  The security staff of the Afghan refugee department foiled a dangerous plan to' create havoc in the Afghan refugee camp in Tal and arrested two Afghan terrorists (JG),
           *    In an interview to a NWT panel, President General Ziaul Haq of Pakistan said there is no possibility for the return of Afghan refugees by the end of this year. When a broadbased government by the people of Afghanistan acceptable to all is formed after the completion of the Soviet troops pullout from Afghanistan, the Afghan refugees will return to their country with a speed that is
July-September9 19 8S                                  AFGHAN JEHAD Vol.2f No.l
     unimaginable (NWT).
                                                  NEWS PROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *     The Soviet Union has announced that it has completed 14 August the first phase of the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan. At present no Soviet soldiers are left in the eastern, northeastern and south eastern provinces of Afghanistan (RMDS),
     *  Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of Kabul regime left 14 August, Kabul for Oslo,Helsinki and Budapest, He arrived in Finland via Moscow. Later he will attend an international conference in Oslo on refugee affairs, African and world refugees, and then, at the invitation of Hungarian Foreign Minister, he will proceed to that country (RA).
                                                    15
     *     Siddiqullah, the brother of the head of Kabul, regime, who 11 months ago defected to the mujaheddin and arrived last week in Pakistan told a press conference 15 August in Peshawar the Islamic government envisaged by the people of Afghanistan will soon replace the mercenary regime in Kabul and the survival of ruling regime will be impossible (RPBS).
     *     Kabul regime has openly refuted the statement of 'the commander of Soviet troops in Afghanistan about the fall of Kunduz city to the mujaheddin. First indication of the contradictory statements of the two side3 appeared when at a press conference in Kabul the President of Kabul regime said the city was still in the control of the Kabul regime armed forces (BBCFS).
     *■ The Commander of Soviet troops in Afghanistan Boris Gramov said 15 August Kunduz city fell to the mujaheddin after one week from the withdrawal of Soviet troops from that city. The BBC correspondent says these contradictory and controversial statements reflected differences between the Kabul regime arid the Soviets or it was an indication of Kabul regime*s displeasure over the present Soviet policy (BBCFS),
     *  The correspondent of The Independent (.London), in a report from Herat while commenting the role of mujaheddin commander Ismail Khan, writes he has agreed with the Russians not to interfere in the process of their withdrawal and they too should abandon attacking the mujaheddin (BBCFS).
     *  Commander of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan, General Gramov, at a press conference in Kabul hinted that the Soviets will directly contact the mujaheddin to exchange POWs (VOADS).
     *  Quoting Western diplomats The New York Times reports the Soviets have complained that the Kabul regime, terrified and harassed from the strength of the mujaheddin, has been endeavoring to halt the process of the Soviet troops withdrawal (VOADS).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *     Tbs Kabul regime says, in case intervention, in the internal affairs of Afghanistan continues the regime and the Soviet Union with a complete mutual, understanding will reach necessary conclusions about the, issue and will specify their steps suiting the requirements of the situation (RA).
     *     The Kabul regime Ministry of Border Affairs held a function in Kabul for offering condolence to the deceased Malik Wali Khan Kukikhel, a tribal elder of Pakistan (RA).' .
     *     At a press conference 14 August in Moscow, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil said if Pakistan continued violations of the Geneva accord, the Kabul regime and the Soviet Union win *
                                                              194
         July-September, 1938             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
take necessary measures (RA),
        * Under a Kabul regime Presidential decree, Prof, Guldad was appointed as the Chief of the Academy of Sciences (RA).
                                                     16
        *     Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, incharge of the UN humanitarian and economic assistance for Afghanistan, after arriving 15 August in Islamabad, began 16 August talks about-the return of Afghan refugees to their country. Meanwhile he has been discussing the program about defusing mine scattered throughout Afghanistan (RPDS),
        *     Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, an Afghan mujaheddin leader has said in Islamabad the Soviet Minister of Foreign Affairs, during his recent visit to Kabul, has put.the names of Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoy, the Minister of Interior, Gen, Abdul Qadir the former Minister of Defence of the Kabul regime and Dr. Mohammad Yousuf a former Prime Minister,as candidates to replace the present Kabul regime leader Najibullah (BBCFS).
        *     Leader of the Kabul communist regime, Najibullah has said in recent military operations in four Afghan provinces, including the one for conquering Kunduz, Pakistani para-military troop have taken part (BBCFS) •
        *     A spokesman of the US department of State has said Washington is of the opinion that the process of the pullout of Soviet forces from Afghanistan has been accelerated (VOAPS).
        *  Siddiqullah Rahi younger brother of Dr, Najibullah, who defected to mujaheddin 11 months ago, has alleged that Dr. Najib "poisoned” their 60 years old ailing father while he was hospitalized for diabetic treatment only because he objected to his ideas. (MIM).
        *     IUAM Chairman Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani has reminded that the option of the armed struggle will always remain open for the mujaheddin unless the Soviet Union redress its gross violations and its dire effects-(MIM),
        *     A new US study says 10-16 million mines are hidden in Afghanistan posing dangers that could delay the return of Afghan refugees (MIM),
                                              NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
        *     Najibullah, President of the Kabul regime, in relation to the completion of the first phase of the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan, said 15 August the withdrawal of Soviet forces to their country will also take place in the future in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva agreement (HMDS).
        *     The second consultative technical board of the Kabul city in a meeting 16 August approved the blue-prints of a building complex for the Chambers of Commerce to be completed with an expenditure of Afs, 2 billion (RA).
        *     The agreement for the appointment of Jailani Bakhtari which was sought from the government of Democratic Republic of Germany has been received recently (RA),
                                                     17
        *     The UN Secretary General Perez de-Cuellar has said the Soviet Union is going to withdraw its
                                                          195
July-September, 1988              AFGHANJIHAQ                  Vol.2f  No.l '
        forces from Afghanistan in accordance with the timetable set forth in the Geneva accord (RPDS).
        *     Svtraya Rahi, the wife of Kabul regime leader's brother, in an interview has praised the principled position of the Pakistani government vis-a-vis^ the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees (RPDS).
        *     A correspondent of The Guardian (London) in a article from Kabul, evaluating the impact of rocket attacks on Kabul city, says outside the city, the people are of the opinion that the attacks are carried by the mujaheddin to weaken the regime. However, most Kabul residents think that they are carried by the Russians to discredit the mujaheddin (BBCFS).
        *     Pakistani authorities have, handed over a Soviet captured pilot to Soviet authorities. The plane flown by the pilot was shot down by Pakistani fighters ten days ago and its pilot captured (BBCFS).,
        *     Genadi Gerasimov the Deputy Soviet Foreign Minister has reaffirmed in Moscow that half of the
        Soviet forces have withdrawn from Afghanistan, However, the withdrawal of the rest of these forces . will not take place until November although the Soviets army will not participate in military operations (BBCFS),                                                                    .
        *     The UN officials said 13 countries have so far promised to contribute $95 millions-as human-tarian assistance to Afghanistan (VOAPS),
        *     About the activities of the mujaheddin interim government, the IUAM President Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said in Quetta unless the interim government secures the vote of confidence from the ■ people's representatives, it -cannot carry out any activity. And we are looking for setting up an elected council .(VOAPS),
        *     Eight Afghan planes dropped 15 bombs in the border areas of Chitral 15 August injuring a person and causing minor property damages (MIM),
        *     President Reagan 15 August cited the start of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan as one of his major achievements (PT).
                                             NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
        *     The Soviet Central Committee and the Council of Ministers has sent a message of congratulations to the Kabul regime leaders on the 69th anniversary of the Afghan independence (RMDS).
        *     On the proposal of the Kabul regime Council of Ministers Lt, General Shahnawaz Tani has been appointed as Defense Minister and Major General Mohammad Asef as Chief of Army Staff of the Kabul regime (RA),
        *     A group of journalists who are presently visiting Kunduz province, visited 17 August the areas which have been destroyed or damaged in mujaheddin attacks (RA),
         *    Minister for Rural Development of the Kabul regime, Mohammad Asef Zahir met 17 August the Chief of UNDP in Kabul, In the meeting willingness was expressed for assistance to the Ministry of Rural Development (RA),
                                                        18
         *    In a statement about the death of President General Mohammad Ziaul Haq of Pakistan, the US President Reagan said President Zia believed in the freedom of Afghanistan and he boldly accepted
                                                196
July-September, 1988                               flffiHMi.IfHflll                                 Vol.2,    Ko.l
       in Pakistan millions of Afghans who fled due to ruthless war and he has been providing assistance for the mujaheddin (VOADS).
       *     The British Prim« Minister, Margaret Thatcher says President Ziaul Haq had gained world appreciation due to his support to the people of Afghanistan and his death has happened at a very sensa-tive time (BBCFS).
       *     Leader of Hezb—e—Island., Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales ha3 expressed sympathy and condolence and has expressed sorrow on the death of President Ziaul Haq (RPDS).
       *     Acting President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan has said there will be no change in the foreign policy of Pakistan after the death of President Ziaul Haq (BBCFS).
       *     Secretary NLF of Afghanistan, Br. Zabihullah Mojaddedi has said he hopes that the mujaheddin activities will continue in present form but considers the death of Ziaul Haq as a great loss(BBCFS)
       *  . In an interview, the head of the publicity and Culture Department of .the Hezb-e-Islami, Del joe Hussaini has said the possible affect of President Ziaul Haq* s death on the future of Afghanistan resistance movement cannot yet be evaluated (BBCFS).
       *     Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime said in Helsinki he hopes the future leaders
       of Pakistan will honor the Geneva accords on Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (VOADS).
         \
       *     Leader of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf said the President of Pakistan was an honorable and praisworthy personality not only for Pakistan but he was a mujahed soldier and servant to the entire Muslim ummah (VOADS).
       *     The US Secretary of State, George Shultz said 17 August General Ziaul Haq stood firm for the freedom of Afghanistan. President Zia died but, by virtue of his endeavours, the candle of the freedom of Afghans is alive, he said. (VOAPS).
       *     The US State Department has urged the -Soviet Union to accelerate its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. The US State Department spokesman has said the US does not see any reasons that the Soviet Union cannot pullout all of its forces from Afghanistan by the end of 1988 (VOAPS).
                                               i                        .                          '
       *     It is essential to maintain unity and solidarity in the mujaheddin ranks and, at the same time, threats from Soviet Union, India and Kabul regime to Pakistan should also be taken notice of. In this connection the most effective role should be played by freedom loving countries of the world and the UN offices, because a minor negligence can engulf this issue in new complications and implications (JG,editorial)*
       *     Head of the Information Department in the Soviet Foreign Ministry, Genadi Gerasimov has said the Soviet Union will not tolerate any efforts to sabotage the Geneva accords (NWT).
       *     Commander Khalid Zubaid of the Harakat-e-Islami claimed in Multan 17 August we have defeated a super power in Afghanistan and we would continue our struggle unless the Soviet Union pulls out
      , its entire army from Afghanistan (EN).
                                             NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
       *     The Kabul regime leader, Najibullah expressed sorrow on the Bahawalpur incident 17 August
      , and congratulated Ghulam Ishaq Khan on the assumption of the office of Acting President of Pakistan^
                                                                                                       (HA).
                                                 197
   July-September, 1988                   AIGHAN JEHAD                      Vol*2f No.l
   *    The Council of Ministers of the Kabul regime met 18 August in connection with the Bahawalpur incident and discussed the impact of that incident in the region (RA),
   *    In an interview with TASS, Prime Minister Mohammad Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime said in the new circumstance emerging out of the withdrawal of half of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the last pretext of the Afghan mujaheddin for the continuation of war has also vanished (RMDS),
   *    The Kabul regime and Soviet astronauts proceeded 18 August to the space center for final exercise of the joint space flight which is scheduled to take place 30 August (RA),
                                               19
   *    The BBC diplomatic correspondent says although the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime do not openly say but it should be hoped the death of Ziaui Haq will soften Pakistani stand on the Afghanistan issue (BBCFS).
   *  . Siddiqullah the younger brother of the Kabul regime leader Najibullah has defected to the US and the US has granted asylum to him and members of his family under very tight security conditions
                          .   .                                                         (VOADS).
   *    On behalf of the IUAM, its Chairman Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani in a statement on the death of President Ziaui Haq, has said General Ziaui Haq has left a history in his personality which would be a bright source of inspiration for the future generations of Pakistan and its Islamic government
        . •                                                                              (VOADS).
   *    The mujaheddin sources have said the Kandahar governor asked 15 August a number of citizens to go to the mujaheddin in Mahallajat and impress upon them to accept peace offer of the Kabul regime (VOADS),
   *    Engineer Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan on the occasion of the Bahawalpur airplane tragedy, in a statement 18 August in Islamabad said the Afghan nation has lost a staunch and a brave supporter who had a very significant role in the Afghan jehad (PT).
   *    "We have been orphaned by General Ziaui Haq*s death, '^commented a young Afghan refugee in Peshawar city. He said "Zia provided us shelter, took care of our needs and fought and begged on our behalf all.over the world" (MIM reporter),
   *    The Kabul regime aircraft violated 18 August Pakistan*s airspace over Pishin and dropped bombs. No casualties are reported in the incident (NWT),
                                    NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
   *    In a statement about the settlement of situation around Afghanistan, the UN Secretary General*s envoy Diego Cordovez said only the people of Afghanistan can take a decision about the means and ways for a political solution. He expressed confidence that all the political forces of Afghanistan will realize their responsibility and act for an early solution of the issue (RA).
                                               20
   *    The US Secretary of State, George Shultz,who came to Pakistan to attend the funeral ceremonies of General Ziaui Haq, said President Ziaui Haq was a strong supporters of the Afghans and a champion of their cause (RPDS).
July-Sept ember, 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
       *    The BBC correspondent reports from Islamabad the late President Ziaul Haq has officially been given the name of Shaheed. The name has been given to him because he called himself a soldier of Islam and had played a great role in support of the Afghan mujaheddin war.
       *    In his meeting with the US Secretary of State George Shultz, the President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan reiterated to continue Pakistani commitment to support the Afghans in their freedom struggle (RPDS).
       *    Speaking at a press conference in Washington, the Kabul Regime Najibullah's brother, Siddiq-ullah has anticipated that the present Kabul regime will vanish within a few months (BBCPS).
       *    People coming from Kabul to Peshawar say when news of the death of Pakistan President Ziaul Haq reached Kabul, the Khalqi and Parchami military officers in several units fired light and heavy weapons in pleasure and raised slogans (VOAPS),
       *    In the wake of events in Pakistan, the US State Department 18 August urged the Soviet Union to
       withdraw the remaining of its troops from Afghanistan by the end of this year, six weeks ahead of the deadline set in the UN mediated Geneva accord signed in April (MIM).           ’
       *    Describing President Mohammad Ziaul Haq as a great friend, the US Secretary of State, George Shultz, has said it was through his efforts and the sacrifices of the mujaheddin that the Soviet troops exit from Afghanistan have been made possible (PT),
       *    A US State Department spokesman Said in Washington 18 August that Washington had indications that Moscow was still supplying Kabul with arms and ammunition (Ml).
       *    In the IUAM, session,presided over by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, in connection with the death of President Ziaul Haq, it was decided that when the mujaheddin conquer Kabul, the name of Pul-e-Khesh-ti mosque in Kabul will be named after the name of Shaheed Ziaul Haq (JG).
                                          NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES,
       *    The Chairman of Senate of the Kabul regime, Dr. Mahmood Habibi and Speaker of the House of the People, Dr. Khalil Ahmad Abawi exchanged views 20 August with the high level delegation of the Supreme Council of Peace and Solidarity of Ghana in Kabul on matters of mutual interests (RA).
       *    In an editorial 19 August, The Kuwait Times, asked the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin to observe ceasefire like Iran and Iraq (RA).
                                                      21
       *    In an interview 21 Aiigust, the Acting President, of Pakistan said the Afghan refugees will be treated, as esteemed guests, on the basis of humantarianism and Islamic brotherhood (RPDS).
       *    The U£> Ambassador in the Soviet Union recently held talks with the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov in Moscow on the Geneva accord and Soviet troops pullout from Afghanistan (RPDS).
       *    Siddiqullah Rahi, the brother of the Kabul regime leader said in Washington if members of the Kabul regime have really a conscience and their conscience is not dead, they should peacefully hand
                                                  199
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2, No.l
 over political power to the people of Afghanistan and they should pack their baggages and leave Afghanistan* He says only in that way bloodshed can end in Afghanistan (VOAPS).
 *     The VOA correspondent reports from Peshawar there is an apprehension among the mujaheddin and the refugees that the UN aid and assistance offered by the world communist for the reconstruction of Afghanistan and rehabilitation of refugees may be abused. The mujaheddin have said, while the Najib regime has now been weakened, the UN aid and economic assistance from the world countries may result in strengthening this shaking regime (VOAPS).
 *     Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a leader of the IUAM has said the Pakistan government has assured Afghan leaders there will be no change in Pakistani foreign policy with regard to the Afghan problem (UN).
 *     It has reliably been learnt that the Kabul regime intellegence service KHAD is planning to send 150 terrorists to Pakistan for subversive activities while 50 Afghan young girls are to be sent to Pakistan for espoinage* A young Afghan girl spy has been reported arrested on Pak-Afghan border, Torkham (JG).
                                    NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *     A Bulgarian daily has said, 'with the signing of Geneva accords, no change is visible in the stand of Pakistan and the spring boards of the Afghan mujaheddin have not been removed from the Pakistani soil (RMDS)*
 *     The first session of the Presidium of the Afghan-Ghana Friendship association convened 21 August in Kabul and a work plan for the association for 1989 was approved (RA),
 *     A meeting of the Kabul regime Tribes Council was convened 21 August in Kabul discussions were held on NRP and Geneva accord (RA),
 *     According to the BBC, the new President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan has said he is trying, to convince the Afghan mujaheddin to agree on the establishment of a broadr-based government in Afghanistan (RA)*
                                                22
 *     In a report, the US State Department has accused the Kabul regime of involvement in a nuriber of terrorist activities during the last year. The US State Department has said such terrorist activities increased 7$ during 1987. The object has been to prevent the Pakistan government from supporting the Afghan mujaheddin (BBCFS).
 *     TASS says Pakistani troops have been engaged in fighting inside Afghanistan. Pakistan has not reacted to these claims (BBCFS).
 *     In an interview, head of the NIF Secretariat, Col. Mohammad Ayub Aseel has said the Soviet Union should never be trusted. He said in the past, too, the Russians had said that they were withdrawing their troops from Afghanistan while they brought in fresh forces or they have been claiming that they have Vacated totally an area while it had been proved that their troops were still present yet reacted to these claims (BBCFS).
 *     In a meeting with Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan in Islamabad recently the US Secretary of State, George Shultz once again reiterated that there would be no change in the US
                                         200
       July-Sept ember, 1988            AFGHAN J[HAD                  Vol.2, No*l
      policy towards Afghanistan and assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin (VOAPS).
      *    In a communique to jehad commanders, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmat-yar has said, despite the martyrdom of President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan which is a matter of profound grief, we trust in Almighty God and any event, how serious , cannot weaken our morale and cannot hinder our success because Almighty God is with us. He is the greatest supporter and protector of all (VOAPS).
      *    The Kabul regime in its hot pursuit will resort to subversion in Pakistan, specially in NWFP and Baluchistan, in a bid to shake the confidence of the people in their government, said the Chief Minister of NWFP Fazle Haq (DN).
      *    Engineer Ahmad Shah, the head of the proposed mujaheddin interim government has said, the martyrdom of President Ziaul Haq has given a new impetus to the Afghan jehad and the Afghan freedom fighters will now fight with a renewed spirit (DN).
      *    The Afghanistan Study Group of the World Muslim Congress has appealed to the international community especially to the Islamic countries, for maximum help in the post-war reconstruction of Afghanistan (DN).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *    The Pravda, (Moscow) has given a crushing blow to the attempts of the Western press which has been accusing the Soviet and Kabul regime officials of involvement in the crash of plane carrying President Ziaul Haq of Pakistan (RMDS). >
      *    A delegation of the World Peace Organization, led by its Secretary General, arrived 22 August in Kabul at the invitation of Kabul regime to evaluate.the process of the Geneva accord (RA).
      *    At a press conference, Acting President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan reiterated Pakistani .
      loyalty to the Geneva accord. He said Pakistan will endeavor to facilitate bringing the Afghans close to each other (RA).                                                                         •
                                                    23
      *    A UN Observer team in Pakistan and Afghanistan visited recently north Waziristan, Pakistan to look into the Kabul regime complaints in Pakistan-Afghan borders and bombardments of Pakistani territory by the Kabul regime aircraft (RPDS).
      *    A BBC commentator writes, the death of Pakistani President Ziaul Haq and assumption of power by a civilian government and Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan might cause a change in US policy towards Pakistan and its unconditional assistance to Pakistan (BBCFS).
      *    The Acting President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan has said Pakistani policy towards Afghanistan will not change (VOADS).
      *    Radio Pakistan reported, in a Pakistani cabinet meeting, it was resolved that Pakistan* s present policy towards Afghanistan will continue and the government will continue its humantarian assistance to the refugees (BBCPS).
      *    The President of the IUAM proposed interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has vowed that Afghan mujaheddin would avenge the killing of President Ziaul Haq and his companions (MIM) •
                                             201
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
  *    A commander of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Qazi Mohammad Ismail along with other three mujaheddin was killed by the enemy forces in Afghanistan last week (MIM).
  *    Chairman of Afghan Islamic Press, Mohammad Yaqub Sharafat now in Nangarhar has reported that every one in Afghanistan looked aggrieved on the news of the martyrdom of General Ziaul Haq ( JG).
                                     NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *    Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdui Wakil held discussions 22 August with his Swedish counterpart on bilateral matters and promotion of relations between Kabul regime and Sweden and he apprised the Swedish Foreign Minister of the implementation of the NRP, and the Geneva accord (RA).
                                              24
  *    Reports from Pakistan say 11 Afghan refugees were killed when their vehicle hit a mine in the south east of Parachinar (BBCFS).
  *    The Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Genadi Gerasimov has denied that any body was killed last week in a fire breakout at a Kabul regime arms depot. The Soviet spokesman confirmed that an explosion took place 11 August in Kilagai, Baghlan (VOAPS).
  *    In an interview about the interim mujaheddin government, former Afghan Minister for Information and Culture, Sabahuddin Kushkaki said "I think the commanders and the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan should have a share in the government because they are the people who have waged the jehad and can guarantee peace and security in the country" (VOAPS)
  *    The mujaheddin sources say the Kabul regime troops launched 21 August artillery and rocket attacks on the Pakistani military installations in Landi Kotal, Khyber agency killing three Pakistani soldiers and injuring four others. Two Pakistani military vehicles have also been destroyed while some buildings in the area were damaged (VOAPS).
  *    Vice President Hathef of Kabul regime may succeed Najib as the Afghan President, western diplomatic sources said 23 August amidst rumors/that a hospital in Kabul was overflowing with the wounded (MIM).
  *    Under a well planned program, the trained Kabul regime agents are engaged in subversive activities in Parachinar, Bangash and Tirah areas (JG).
  *    In a report published in the US it has been said that the Afghan terrorists carried out 127 subversive activities during the last]year in Pakistan (NWT).
                                     NEWS PROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *    Speaking at an International conference in Norway, on the condition of refugees, returnees and the displaced people,the Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil hoped by realizing realities, the new Pakistani leadership will help promote relations between the two countries in the light of the Geneva accords and by paving the way for the return of Afghan refugees and establishing peace in the region(RA). •
                                               25
   * Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime says the regime of that country has commit—
                                          202
JuLy-September, 1986            AfGHAN JIHAD                        Vol.2, No.l
      ted mistakes which has resulted in prolonging the war in Afghanistan (BBCFS).
      *     A correspondent of The Independent (London), who recently returned from Kabul,says there
      are about three million mines in Afghanistan which have been planted around important military bases. Mines have also been planted in routes between Pakistan and Afghanistan (BBCFS).         .
      *  ' According to VOA from Islamabad, a Norwegian correspondent has been killed in a mine explosion in Afghanistan. The correspondent,an official of the Norwegian hmmantarian assistance,is the fifth western newsman killed in Afghanistan since the Soviet invasion of- Afghanistan (VOADS).
      *     Radio Moscow says it is not easy for the Kabul regime forces to face the mujaheddin attacks. The radio said the mujaheddin have strong armed groups that cannot be ignored (RPDS).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *     The UN Secretary General has confirmed that the Soviet Union is seriously redeeming its commitments in the Geneva accords (HMDS).
      *     Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of Kabul regime met 24 August the Foreign Minister of Mozambique and the Interior Minister of Ghana in Oslo, the capital of Norway.(RA).
      *     Repair and transport workshops of the Department of Technical Services of the Water and Energy Ministry of the Kabul regime were inaugurated 25 August in the Industrial Parks of Pul-e-Charkhi (RA).
      *     At the invitation of the peace organization of the Kabul regime, a Japanese delegation led by the Executive Director of the Japanese National Institute of Political Research arrived 25 August in Kabul (RA).
                                                    26
      *     Reports say, 1,400 Afghan refugee families, most of whom recently extemed from Iran and others fleeing,entered Pakistan.They are currently in Robat and facing famine and starvation (VOADS),
      *     Two Soviet helicopters, apparently astray landed at Tre Mangal of Kurram Agency near Pakistan-Afghan border 25 August. Assistant Political Agent, Sher Azam Khan said the six pjJLots of the copters - - three Soviets, two Afghans and an "Indian' - - were taken into custody. (MIM).
      *     Reports from Afghanistan say more provincial capitals than at any time in the past nine years of war are now under the mujaheddin siege, says VOA (MIM).
      *     The IUAM leaders said 25 August in Rawalpindi that Shaheed Pakistani President General Mohammad Ziaul Haq was a great warrior not only in the liberation war of Afghanistan but for the unity and triumph of the entire Muslim ummah and added they would wage a relentless struggle to achieve his mission (MIM).
      *     Khaled Al-Quka, a leader of the Islamic Resistance movement in the occupied Arab territories, told a press conference in Kuwait recently that "the Palestinians are following the foot-steps of their Afghan brothers and are holding in high esteem the victory of the Afghan resistance movement"
                                                                                                (FT).
      *     The Jamat-e-Ahl-e-Sunnat Pakistan has appealed to President Ghulam Ishaq Khan to continue supporting the Afghan mujaheddin as they were fighting not only for the liberation of their homeland
                                                203
July-September, 1988
Vol •2, No.l
  but also for the existence of Pakistan (PT).
  *     The Amir of JI, Senator, Qazi Hussain Ahmad, appreciating the role played by Shaheed President Mohammad Ziaul Haq in the Afghan issue said the late President, who had a strong stand on the Afghan issue,,continued his support to Afghan mujaheddin till his death (PT).
                                      NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *     Soviet officials have said during the current year 11,000 US, Belgium and Italian and British made mines were discovered and defused by the Soviet personnel in Afghanistan (RMDS).
  *     A high level Kabul regime delegation, ]ed by the Communication Minister Mohammad Aslam Watan-jar, left Kabul 26 August for the Soviet Union to attend the ceremonies of the joint Soviet-Afghan space flight (RA).
  *     Vice President of the Kabul regime, Abdul Hameed Mohtat met with the visiting Executive Director of the National Institute of Political Research of Japan who is leading a delegation of the Japa-nese-Afghan Friendship Society. The two exchanged views on the promotion of relations between the Kabul regime and Japan (RA).
  *     A world peace council delegation led by its Secretary General met 26 August with the politi-. cal adviser of the UNIAG in Kabul and discussed the working system and the supervision of UNIAG (RA)
  *     Bamian elders approached the government officials' in connection with the implementation of the NRP and asked for declaring their area a neutral zone. In order to provide a coalition administration the Kabul regime military units have temporarily changed their military positions and the issue
  will be considered in the near future by a special jirgah (RA).
  *     Seven residential buildings have been built at a total cost of Afs. seven million from the government budget for homeless officers in the Kandahar airport. The residential quarters were recently handed over to the officers (RA).
                                                27
  *     A commander of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami in Kandahar Abdul Sattar Meskeen Afghan, now in Peshawar says vie are in favor of, setting up an Islamic, government of Hanafi denomination because in Afghanistan that denomination is in the majority. He said some people want to introduce Wahabi or other sects in Afghanistan but we wall struggle against them until they are driven out from the country (VOADS).
  *     Reports from Afghanistan say the people in Azad Kunar, Paktia, Logar, Laghman and Nangarhar offered funeral prayers in absentia and held Holy Quran recitation and Fateha sessions on the death of Martyred Ziaul Haq, the late President of Pakistan (RPDS).
  *     President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan, addressing 26 August the nation reaffinned Pakistanis commitment to strive for a lasting solution of the Afghan issue, in line with’Pakistani principled position and Geneva accord. Pakistan would also fulfill its obligation to continue to look after Afghan refugees until a peaceful atmosphere, conducive to their return in safety and honor, had been created (m).
  *     The government of Pakistan rejected a Kabul regime protest alleging that 4 August a reconnaisa-nce Pakistani aircraft entered 30km inside Afghanistan in Shiltan, Kunar and, after flying over
                                         20k
   July-Sept ember, 1988                  Ilf CHAN JIHAD                     Vol.2f  No.l
    Sarkani, flew back into Pakistan (MIM).
    *     Quranic recitation session was held for the departed soul of Shaheed President Mohammad Ziaul Haq, and other army officers of the Bahawalpur aircrash incident under the auspices of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan at Jaluzai refugee camp about 30km from Peshawar (PT).
                                       NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
    *     The Second session of the House of the People was opened in Kabul 27 August, In his inaugural address, President Najibullah of the Kabul regime spoke about the NRP (RA).
    *     A high level delegation of the World Peace Organization held a meeting 27 August with the high ranking officials of the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Endowments, In the meeting, the delegation was apprised of the services rendered by that Ministry in religious affairs (RA),
    *     In a statement, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan said his government is trying for a final solution of the situation around Afghanistan in accordance with Geneva accord (RA),
                                                  28
    *     Speaking at the Kabul regime Parliament, President Najibullah accused the military officers of .
    corruption and indifference. He leveled these allegations following recent increased mujaheddin attacks (RPDS).                                                                             .
    *     A White House spokesman said the US is trying to defuse the mines planted all over Afghanistan, He said these mines, planted by the Russians, have posed a great danger to the refugees and are a hindrance in their return to the country (RPDS),
    *     The correspondent of The New York Times reports from Kabul many diilomats say about 1,000 mujaheddin have entered Kabul city to launch attacks after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Kabul
    *     India and Afghanistan are to sign a business agreement next week to boost private sector trade, it was announced 27 August in New Delhi (PT).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
    *     The first national seminar on language and environment was opened 26 August in Kabul (RA),
    *     The Kabul regime Commerce Minister, Mohammad Khan Jalallar held talks 26 August in Kabul with the Executive Director of the National Institute of Political Research of Japan on Afghaiv-Japan bilateral cooperation (RA).
    *     The Kabul regime Minister for reconstruction and rural development, Mohammad Asef Tahir met 26 August the Incharge of UNDP office and representative of World Food Program in Kabul and held talks on the anticipated UN projects to be carried within the framework of that Ministry (RA).
                                                  29
    *     According to a report from the Soviet Baikonur orbiting space station, Kazakhistan, a space craft ”Soyuz TM-6 capsule” carrying Soviet and Afghan cosmonauts was launched into the space
                                                                                        (VOGDS). <
    *     A seven member delegation of the Afghan mujaheddin met 29 August the NWFP Chief Minister, Fazle-e-Haq in Peshawar, The Chief Minister told the delegation that the government policy towards Afghanistan problem will not change (RPDS).
                                             205
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
  *    Under the auspices of the Ittehad-e-Islami-e-Mujaheddin Afghanistan a gathering was held 29 August in Quetta, Baluchistan to condole and pray for the soul of the late President of Pakistan, Shaheed General Mohammad Ziaul Haq. Speaking on the occasion, Senator Fazl-e-Agha said the Pakistan government will continue its support to the Afghan Muslims until their return to the country in safety (RPDS).
  *    The Washington Post writes the death of President Ziaul Haq is not only an individuals woeful incident, but it also carries a great strategic importance. The planner who paved the way for the worst defeat- inflicted on the Russians in war with the Afghan mujaheddin is no longer there (VOAPS)
  *    Asghar Khan, President TIP, has said it was important for Pakistan to adhere strictly to the terms of the Geneva accord so that an early return of the Afghan refugees to their country can be facilitated (MIM).
  *    Five persons sustained injuries when an unidentified person hurled two bombs in the house of an Afghan refugee in Miranshah, North Waziristan Agency, 27 August (KIM).
  *    The IUAM supreme council met 27 August in Peshawar to discuss the draft election laws for
  the forthcoming-elections to be held in the refugee camps and in the liberated areas inside Afghanistan (MIM).                       •'                                         ■
  *    A prominent member of the US Senate, Senator Gordon Humphrey, has said that after President Mohammad Ziaul Haq* s tragic death, the US policy about Afghanistan, aimed at achieving Afghanistan freedom and right to self determination of the people of that country will not changed (PT).
  *    The Washington Post has disclosed 10 days before the death of President Ziaul Haq, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov told the US Ambassador in Moscow that if President Ziaul Haq did not abandon his support to the Afghan mujaheddin the Russians will teach him a lesson (JG).
                                      NEWS FBOM COMMUNIST SOURCES
  *    TASS correspondent says political and military situation in Afghanistan has during the last few days been complicated and disturbed. He adds despatch of convoys carrying arms and military hardware for the Afghan mujaheddin inside Afghanistan continues from Pakistan (HMDS).
  *    After a friendly and official visit to Hungary, Finland and Norway, Foreign Minister Abdul ..Wakil of Kabul regime returned 29 August to Kabul (RA).
                                                30
  *    The Pakistani police says,as a result of a bomb explosion in a passenger train 50 kilometers from Peshawar city, 30 August three persons were killed and 13 injured (VOADS).
  *    The New York Times, quoting its reporter from Kabul, says the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime has emphasized to Pakistan and the US to support the repeated demand of his government for a coalition between the moderate resistance leaders and the ruling Soviet supported leaders of the Kabul regime.(VOADS).
  *    According to an annual report of the US Department of State on world terrorism, the Kabul regime is first in supporting terrorist attacks. The report says KHAD agents have been trained in the Soviet Union (VOADS).
  *    The President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan says Pakistan will continue to support the late
                                          206
Zia ul Haq policies in regard to a strong support of the Afghan mujaheddin (VOADS).
     * Kabul Radio reports leader of the Kabul regime Najibullah has ordered government troops to halt their military operations against the mujaheddin during the joint Soviet-Afghan space flight
                                                                                            (BBCPS).
     *     The Christain Science Monitor has said President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan has hoped the Afghans would accept a broadly based government so as to end the Afghan war.
     *     The Chairman of Senate, Syed Fazal Agha has said Pakistani principled stand on Afghanistan initiated by Shaheed President Zia—ul—Haq would be pursued with greater vitality by the present government till the advent of an independent, Islamic and democratic government in Afghanistan
                                                                                                (PT).
     *     An Afghan alliance group, led by former Afghan Deputy Prime Minister Shamsuddin Majrooh, rejected the proposed interim government of mujaheddin and the plan of holding elections for alliance's Shoora inside Afghanistan (Dawn).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *     Solidarity Day with the Pashtoons and Baluchis was celebrated in Kabul and the provinces and the Kabul regime leader Najibattendedthe function held in Kabul (RA).
     *     Mohammad Khan June jo the former Prime Minister of Pakistan has said in Islamabad he supports unconditional implementation of the Geneva accord (RA).
                                                   31
     *     A former Rector of Kabul University Prof, Abdul Slam Azimi in an interview in-relation to the damages inflicted to Afghan education during the past ten years, has said right now in Afghanistan the intellectual resources have completely vanished and Afghanistan has been deprived from education for about two generations (VOAPS).
     *     The Kabul regime is faced with shortage of troops after desertion of 1,200 soldiers and 800 casualties at the hands of mujaheddin during the last four months. In order to make up the shortage, the Kabul regime is coercively conscripting the students of 11 and 12 class in the mill-tary service (JG).
     *     According to reports from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has not only slowed down the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, but it has again deployed its military units in some parts Of Afghanistan, from where it had pulled out the troops at the beginning (JG).
                                                NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
     *     The trial of a number of former officials of the Wardak province, accused of collaborating with the mujaheddin and abrupting law and order situation in the province, ended 31 August. Thq court sentenced six persons to terms in proportion to their crimes (RA).
     *     Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime met with leaders of the Shinwar tribes and spoke with them about the realization of the NRP (RA).
     *     Abdul Ahad, the Kabul regime astronaut and researcher, in a message sent from the outer-space to the Kabul regime leader, has said the borders and mujaheddin actions are all something
                                                   207
       July-September, 1988          Ilf CHAN JIHAD                  Vol• 2, No*l
     to really watch from the space (RA).
     *      Abdul Hamid Mohtat, the Vice President of the Kabul Regime, in an interview with The New York Times 31 August, gave explanations about the political and military situation and prospects for the political and economic development of the regime (RA).
     *      The Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil, in a note to the UN Secretary General, has proposed a meeting between the foreign ministers of the Kabul regime, Pakistan, the Soviet Union and the US to review the implementation of the provisions of the Geneva accords (RA),
     *      The New York Times said 31 August the Soviets have launched such projects in Afghanistan which are aimed at joining the economy of northern Afghanistan with that of the Soviet Central Asia (VOADS).
     *      The Economist (London) says Pakistan President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who is an old friend of Sahibzada Yaqub Khan will delegate most decision making power on Afghanistan to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (VOADS).
     *      The Washington Times says the Soviet Union, in order to prevent the fall of its puppet regime, is trying through Najibullah to attract some of the elements in the Afghan resistance to the Kabul regime (VOADS).
     *      TASS says leaders of the Kabul communist party met with six other political parties in Kabul September 1 to work out a joint strategy for achieving peace in Afghanistan, The Kabul regime leader Najibullah has said he is ready to be flexible in order to achieve peace and reach an accord
     with all opposition elements (BBCFS).                                       .
           \ ^
     *      The Financial Times (London) says the Afghan mujaheddin are preferring to conquer Kandahar
     through political means rather than military. However, the fundamentalists believe if the moderates capture the city, they might establish their own form of government there and pave the way for the return of ex-Monarch Zahir Shah (BBCFS),
     *      The American State Department has made it clear that the Soviet Union admits that its bombers have used Soviet bases to attack mujaheddin position in the city of Kunduz (BBCFS),
     *      Five Kabul regime aircrafts, while, violating the Pakistani airspace, intruded 80 kilometres inside Pakistan bombing areas in Warsak near Peshawar killing one person and injuring 11, The Kabul regime Charge d' Affaires has been presented with a strong worded protest in this connection
                                                                                                (RPDS).
     *      The Washington Post, quoting Afghan and diplomatic sources, says the US has brought about an important change in its policy of arms delivery to the resistance. The American arms and military assistance are being delivered directly to the mujaheddin commanders inside Afghanistan and not handed over to resistances organization in Peshawar, The significance of this shift is to boost the importance of local commanders while the Soviet Union is withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan (VOAPS)•
                                             208
                                     \ '
* The US 30 August brushed aside Kabul* Frime Minister*^ call for the US and Pakistan to support a coalition government in Afghanistan saying the Afghans must determine their own future (Dawn)*
                                            NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
         *    The Washington Posts says now the US is sending its arms directly to the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan (RMDS).
         *    A friendship delegation from the Federal Republic of Germany has arrived in Kabul at the invitation of the Peace, Solidarity and Friendship Organization of the Kabul regime (RA).
                                                        2
         *   The US has described the Kabul regime air raid3 on the Pakistan territory as an act of aggression and an open violation of the Geneva accord for ending the Afghanistan war. The US State Depart-tment says it will take.up the matter with the Soviet Union at the UN (VOADS),
         *   The Kabul regime Interior Minister, Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoi has said, after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, Afghan armed forces would be able to alone safeguard the gains of the revolution (BBCFS).
         .* The US Under Secretary of State, Michael Armacost held talks with his Soviet counterpart, Yuli Vorontsov in Moscow on finalization of the Geneva accords about Afghanistan (RPDS),
         *   Two experts on demining have arrived in Pakistan to show Afghan refugees how to detect and deactivate mines, PTV reported 31 August (PT).
         *   Pakistan Ambassador in US, Jamshed Marker has negated the impression among some circles that Pakistan had opposed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan so as to get maximum aid from the US. He said Pakistan*s opposition was based on priciples (JG).
         *   A fierce armed clash took place between the tribesmen and the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan on the procurement of arms. In the combat, 40 tribesmen were killed while 150 tribesmen were also captured by the mujaheddin and 40 of them have been handed over to the government (JG),
                                               NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES.
         *   According to a report, 47 rockets were fired 1 September by the mujaheddin on Kabul city as a result of which nine persons were killed and 21 others injured (RMDS).
                                                        3
         *   At a press conference 3 September, following his two day talks with the Soviet Deputy Forei gn Minister, Yuli Vorontsov, in Moscow, the US Under Secretary of State, Michael Armacost said his country hopes that the Soviet Union will complete its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan by 15 February, 1989. He also expressed hope that the pullout of Soviet troops from Afghanistan might be completed by the end of this year (VOADS),
         *   Pakistan has described as merely a propaganda measure the Kabul regime recent proposal for a separate UN conference on the implementation of Geneva accords, Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokesman said 3 September in Islamabad the objective of putting forth such a proposal is an attempt to get the regime recognized at an international level (RPDS).
                                                        209
       July-September# 1988                   AfpHAN J[HAD                       Vol.2,  No.l
    *   At a big gathering in Miranshah, the Afghan refugees and mujaheddin said we give the status of the martyr of Jehad-e-Afghaniatan to late President Ziaul Haq (NWT),
                              NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOU ICES
    *   The ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, in a statement about the necessity of ending interferes nee in the affairs of Kabul regime, said in Karachi that supplying aid to the Afghan mujaheddin is against the interests of Pakistan and it only serves the US international strategy (RMDS).
    *   President Najibullah of Kabul regime received 3 September Khaled Saeed the correspondent of The Mellat (London), of Pakistan People*s Party for an interview and gave replied his questions(RA).
    *   In an interview to The Izvestia (Moscow) Prime Minister Mohammad Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime has said the success of NRP is the most significant objective of his government. We have
    decided not to spare any effort in the achievement of this objective. He said our government is of a coalition type and IS Ministers including himself (Jo not have any link with the party (RA).
                                                   4
    *   The NWFP Chief Minister, Fazl-e-Haq visited 3 September, Shabqadar, Peshawar, That village was subjected 1 September to bombardment by the Kabul regime aircraft (RPDS).
    *   On the third day of his visit to New Delhi, Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime met Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Indian government has not given any further details of the topics of the talks and has said that discussions were held on matters of mutual interest of the two countries (VOADS).
    *   A military spokesman of the Ittehad-e—Islami organization says the mujaheddin shot down last month 33 jet and transport planes and helicopters at various places in the country (VOAPS).
    *   The inspection team of the UNIAG visited the village near Shabqadar in Charsadda district,
    NWFP, hours after bombardment by five Afghan aircraft had left one killed and a number of others injured* (PT),
    *   Khan Abdul Wali Khan, President of ANP, has defended the anti-Pakistan policies of the Soviet Union and Afghanistan by justifying the recent bombing by Afghan planes 40 miles inside Pakistan territory (PT),
    *   The JI Chief Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad has said, if after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the west or the Russians attempt to install a third person in Afghanistan, Pakistan should not involve itself in such a conspiracy (JG),
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
    * On behalf of President Najib of Kabul regime a message of sympathy has been sent to the Bangladesh President Hussain Mohammad Ershad on recent tragedy caused by the cyclones in that country
                                                                                            (RA).
                                                   5
    *   Pakistani officials say eight Soviet made war planes crossed over the Afghanistan borders into Pakistan and bombarded two villages in Dir, 20 km deep into the Pakistan territory as a result of which a school boy was killed and eight others injured (VOADS).
                                             210
                                         I                             '.                           ,
* The US 30 August brushed aside Kabul' Frime Minister1^ call for the US and Pakistan to support a coalition government in Afghanistan, saying the Afghans must determine their own future (Dawn)*
                                            NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
        *     The Washington Posts says now the US is sending its arms directly to the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan (RMDS).
        *     A friendship delegation from the Federal Republic of Germany has ar/ived in Kabul at the invitation of the Peace, Solidarity and Friendship Organization of the Kabul regime (RA).
                                                        2
        *   The US has described the Kabul regime air raids on the Pakistan territory as an act of aggression and an open violation of the Geneva accord for endipg the Afghanistan war. The US State Department says it will take up the matter with the Soviet Union at the UN (VOADS),
        *   The Kabul regime Interior Minister, Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoi has said, after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, Afghan armed forces would be able to alone safeguard the gains of the revolution (BBCFS),
        .* The US Under Secretary of State, Michael Armacost held talks with his Soviet counterpart, Yvili Vorontsov in Moscow on finalization of the Geneva accords about Afghanistan (RPDS).
        *   Two experts on demining have arrived in Pakistan to show Afghan refugees how to detect and deactivate mines, PTV reported 31 August (PT).
        *   Pakistan Ambassador in US, Jamshed Marker has negated the impression among some circles that Pakistan had opposed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan so as to get maximum aid from the US. He said Pakistan*s opposition was based on priciples (JG).
        *   A fierce armed clash took place between the tribesmen and the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan on the procurement of arms. In the combat, /+0 tribesmen were killed while 150 tribesmen were also captured by the mujaheddin and AO of them have been handed over to the government (JG).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES.
        *   According to a report, 47 rockets were fired 1 September by the mujaheddin on Kabul city as a result of which nine persons were killed and 21 others injured (RMDS).
                                                        3
        *   At a press conference 3 September, following his two day talks with the Soviet Deputy Forei gn Minister, Yuli Vorontsov, in Moscow, the US Under Secretary of State, Michael Armacost said his country hopes that the Soviet Union will complete its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan by 15 February, 19#9* He also expressed hope that the pullout of Soviet troops from Afghanistan might be completed by the end of this year (VOADS).
        *   Pakistan has described as merely a propaganda measure the Kabul regime recent proposal for a separate UN conference on the implementation of Geneva accords. Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokesman said 3 September in Islamabad the objective of putting forth such a proposal is an attempt to get the regime recognized at an international level (RPDS).
                                                       209
       July-September, I988                   AfGHflN JEHAD                      Vol.2,  No.l
    *   At a big gathering in Miranshah, the Afghan refugees and mujaheddin said we give the status of the martyr of Jehad-e-Afghanistan to late President Ziaul Haq (NWT).
                              NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
    *   The ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, in a statement about the. necessity of ending interferes nee in the affairs of Kabul regime, said in Karachi that supplying aid to the Afghan mujaheddin is against the interests of Pakistan and it only serves the US international strategy (RMDS).
    *   President Najibullah of Kabul regime received 3 September Khaled Saeed the correspondent of The Mellat (London), of Pakistan People's Party for an interview and gave replied his questions(RA).
    *   In an interview to The Izvestia (Moscow) Prime Minister Mohammad Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime has said the success of NRP is the most significant objective of his government. We have
    decided not to spare any effort in the achievement of this objective. He said our government is of a coalition type and 18 Ministers including himself do not have any link with the party (RA).
                                                   4
    *   The NWFP Chief Minister, Fazl-e-Haq visited 3 September, Shabqadar, Peshawar. That village was subjected 1 September to bombardment by the Kabul regime aircraft (RPDS).
    *   On the third day of his visit to New Delhi, Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime met Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Indian government has not given any further details of the topics of the talks and has said that discussions were held on matters of mutual interest of the two countries (VOADS).
    *   A military spokesman of the Ittehad-e-Islami organization says the mujaheddin shot down last month 53 jet and transport planes and helicopters at various places in the country (VOAPS).
    *   The inspection team of the UN1AG visited the village near Shabqadar in Charsadda district,
    NWFP, hours after bombardment by five Afghan aircraft had left one killed and a number of others injured* (PT).
    *   Khan Abdul Wali Khan, President of ANP, has defended the anti-Pakistan policies of the Soviet Union and Afghanistan by justifying the recent bombing by Afghan planes 10 miles inside Pakistan territory (PT).
    *   The JI Chief Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad has said, if after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the west or the Russians attempt to install a third person in Afghanistan, Pakistan should not involve itself in such a conspiracy (JG).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOJRCES
    *   On behalf of President Najib of Kabul regime a message of sympathy has been sent to the Bangladesh President Hussain Mohammad Ershad on recent tragedy caused by the cyclones in that country
                                                                                            (RA).
                                                   5
    *   Pakistani officials say eight Soviet made war planes crossed over the Afghanistan borders into Pakistan and bombarded two villages in Dir, 20 km deep into the Pakistan territory as a result of which a school boy was killed and eight others injured (VOADS).
                                             210
Jill y-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
         *   Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan said j.n Islamabad that the series of Kabul regime aggressions were clear violation of the spirit and letter of the Geneva accord and Pakistan has taken these violations very seriously. He said it is upto the world people to see as to which side is resorting to crimes against the innocent people including women and children (RPDS),
         *   A report of The Washington Times, despatched by its correspondent from Islamabad, says a public opinion survey has indicated;that although Pakistan’s assistance and support to the Afghan mujaheddin have increased Pakistan’s social and economic difficulties and have resulted in revengeful attacks from the Soviet Union and Kabul against Pakistan regime, a large majority of the Pakistani people is-in favor of continued assistance and support to the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
         *   The AMEC says large number of people have shifted to Kabul from the countryside' bringing the K&bul population to a record light. It says many people have been rendered homeless,Thousands of families from Nangarhar, Kandahar, Balkh and Kalat have arrived in Kabul and, because of the shortage of houses^ most of them have erected tents in Dasht-e-Barchi and Siah Sang (VOAPS),
                              • •                                                            ‘ . . * \ -
         *  A Yugoslovian Muslim who. spent six months with the Afghan mujaheddin inside Afghanistan has
         said the Kabul regime would be toppled in the next six months (MJM).
         *   It appears from the Russian attitude that there will be further harsh anti-Pakistan moves to harass Pakistan and get the Afghan issue settled according to Moscow’s own option. In this perspective, while the armed forces of the country ought to remain ever alert,the people should also exhibit unity and solidarity and only in that way we can foil the plots hatched by Russia and Kabul agents (NWT, editorial).
         *   Until each and every Soviet soldier has pulled out of Afghanistan, the Afghan people have the opportunity to determine their own future and the objective of struggle for the reinstatement of
         an independent and free Afghanistan is achieved, the entire world should be cautious against oppression and unjustice, so that the Kabul puppet regime may not deceive anyone through its deceitful tactics (JG, editorial),                              . .• '
                                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
         * Vice President Abdul Hamid Mohtat of the Kabul regime left 4 September for the People’s Democratic Republic of Korea to attend the 40th anniversary of the Korean national day, (RA).
                                                         6 :
         ■ - . * * ‘
         *   Officials say at the four day NAM conference* opening 7 September, in. Nicosia Pakistan will take up in the meeting continued violations of Geneva accord and bombardment; of its territory by the Kabul regime,(RPDS).
         *   Western diplomats in Pakistan say the Kabul regime has been rounding up young boys from the streets for recruiting them in the military service (VOADS).
         *   The Washington Times writes early 1980; eight years ago the Benazir party, was in favor of political reconciliation with the Soviet installed regime in Kabul but now in the recent past it has changed its previous posture (VOAPS).
         *  A school boy was killed and six others, including a housewife, sustained injuries 5 September
           Jul/-September, 1988                  AIGHAN JEHAD                       Vol*2,  No.l
        *   Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan said in Islamabad that the series of Kabul regime aggressions were clear violation of the spirit and letter of the Geneva accord and Pakistan has taken these violations very seriously. He said it is upto the world people to see as to which side is resorting to crimes against the innocent people including women and children (RPDS),
        *   A report of The Washington Times, despatched by its correspondent from Islamabad, says a public opinion survey has indicated-that although Pakistan*s assistance and support to the Afgjhan mujaheddin have increased Pakistan's social and economic difficulties and have resulted in revengeful attacks from the Soviet Union and Kabul against Pakistan regime, a large majority of the Pakistani people is-in favor of continued assistance and support to the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
        *   The AMRC says large number of people have shifted to Kabul from the countryside* bringing the Kabul population to a record light* It says many people have been rendered homeless*Thousands of families from Nangarhar, Kandahar, Balkh and Kalat have arrived in Kabul and, because of the shortage of houses, most of them have erected tents in Dasht—e-Barchi and Siah Sang (VOAPS).
                                      * ... -
        *   A Yugoslavian Muslim who. spent six months with the Afghan mujaheddin inside Afghanistan has
        said the Kabul regime would be toppled in the next six months (MIM).
        *   It appears from the Russian attitude that there will be further harsh anti-Pakistan moves to harass Pakistan and get the Afghan issue settled according to Moscow's own option* In this perspective, while the armed forces of the country ought to remain ever alert,the people should also exhibit unity and solidarity and only in that way we can foil the plots hatched by Russia and Kabul
        agents (NWT, editorial).
        *   Until each and every Soviet soldier has pulled out of Afghanistan, the Afghan people have the opportunity to determine their own future and the objective of struggle for the reinstatement of an independent and free Afghanistan is achieved, the entire world should be cautious against oppression and unjustice, so that the Kabul puppet regime may not deceive anyone through its deceitful tactics (JG, editorial).
                                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
         *   Vice President Abdul Hamid Mohtat of the Kabul regime left 4 September for the People's Democratic Republic of Korea to attend the 40th anniversary of the Korean national day. (RA).       ’
                                                            ’; 6
         *   Officials say at the four day NAM conference, opening 7 September, in. Nicosia Pakistan will take up in the meeting continued violations of Geneva accord and bombardment' of its territory by the Kabul regime ,(RPDS).
         *   Western diplomats in Pakistan say the Kabul regime has .been rounding up young boys from the streets for recruiting them in the military service (VQADS).
         *   The Washington Times writes early 19SO; eight years ago the Benazir party was in favor of political reconciliation with the Soviet installed regime in.Kabul but now in the recent past it has changed its previous posture (VOAPS),
                A school boy was killed and six others, including a housewife, sustained injuries 5 September
                                           2ll
*
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN JIHAD                  Vol.2f No.l
       when several Afghan bombers dropped at least seven bombs near Dogai village located far way from Pak-Afghan border in Dir District (MIM).
       *   The Afghan regime leader, Najibullah has said he has decided to keep and expand contacts with the armed opposition, Bakhtar said 4 September (PT).
       *   The Islamic Association of Afghan Students (IAAS) has denied ANP President Wali Khan's accusations that Pakistan army was involved in fighting in Afghanistan (PT).
                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
       *   At a press conference in Moscow, the Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman, Ginadi Gerasimov said his country supports the Kabul regime proposal for a meeting of Foreign Ministers which signed Geneva agreement on Afghanistan, He said, Pakistan's refusal to attend such a conference, tanta-mounts to violations of Geneva accords (RMDS).
       *   TASS says, the joint Soviet-Afghan space scientific and research activity has concluded (RA),
       *   The Kabul regime cabinet has expressed sympathy on the losses caused due to floods in Bangladesh and announced a donation of $10,000 as a token of sympathy with the people of that country
                                                                                                (RA).
       *   Secretary of Pakistan Embassy in Kabul was summoned 6 September in the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry, The Ministry turned down Pakistan's allegation saying Afghan aircraft had bombarded areas in Dir, Pakistan (RA),
                                                            7
       *   The US has condemned .the Kabul regime air raid on Pakistan which is reported to have killed two and injured 10 (VOADS).
       *   The Soviet Union has rejected allegations by Pakistan that a number of its planes from Afghan-istan had bombed a village in Pakistan (VOADS).
       *   • A spokesman for the Pakistan Air Force has said the Pakistani planes had a dbg fight with a number of intruding Kabul regime planes shooting down one of them (BBCFS) •
       *   The Charge d' Affaires of Kabul regime Embassy in Islamabad was summoned to the Pakistan Foreign Ministry and a protest note was, handed over to him gainst recent tank fires by the Kabul regime forces in Cham an area on Pakistani targets (BBCFS),
       *   In its issue 7 September, The Christian Science Monitor has quoted at the US officials as saying the Russians appear to have resorted to a more active strategy in Afghanistan and the bombing of Pakistani .territory is a part of Soviet military and diplomatic pressures on Pakistan aimed at strengthening the Kabul regime (VOADS).
       *   The Pakistan Defense Ministry informed 7 September the Senate the government is planning to procure a sophisticated radar system to intercept Kabul regime aggressive planes (RPDS),
       *   Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says five Kabul regime pilots, who surrendered to the mujaheddin commander, Abdul Haq reached 29 August Peshawar (VOAPS).
                                           NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
       *   Deputy Prime Minister Sayyed Amanuddin Amin of the Kabul regime held meeting 7 September with
    July-September, 1988                   AFGHAN  JEHAD                       Vol.2f No.l
 Geneva accord violations by the Kabul regime are totally unfounded (BBCFS).
 *   The NAM Foreign Ministers conference in Nicosia have agreed on the demand for a comprehensive solution and security of Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *   Foreign Minister of Equador and UN mediator in the solution of Afghanistan problem, Diego Cordo-vez plans to meet the Foreign Ministers of Pakistan and Kabul regime in Nicosia to review the implementation of Geneva accord (RFDS).
 *   The US Secretary of State, George Shultz is to meet later this year the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze in Washington to discuss the Afghanistan issue and arms control (RPDS).
 * Representatives of the Afghan refugees from 28 provinces of Afghanistan visited 9 September the gravesite of Martyr General Ziaul Haq, the late President of Pakistan Islamabad t,o lay floral wreath and offer prayers (RPDS).
 *   China strongly condemned 8 September the intrusion of Afghan planes in Pakistan*s airspace and territory (MIM),
 *   Islami Jamiat—e-Tulaba will celebrate the independence week of Afghanistan all over the country from September, 17 (MIM).
 *   Pakistan will have to continue its support to the Afghan cause as it cannot afford a policy change at this stage, says Gulbuddin Hekmatyar leader of Hezb-&-Islami (MIM), .
 *   If the Soviet Union wants the war in Afghanistan not escalate, it should end the "symmetry'* agreement with the US and decide that no side supports its allies. Only in that way the Geneva accords will be implemented in its true spirit and a solution to the Afghanistan problem can be hopedo Otherwise,if the Kabul regime continued its aggressive attitude, Pakistan will be fully Justified to retaliate (JG, editorial).
                                    NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *   Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime held 8 Separate meetings with the Foreign. Ministers of Argentina, Malta, Uganda, Cuba, and Yemen Arab Republic and Secretary General of the Foreign Ministry of Greece, and Political Chief of PIG, Farouq Qaddumi in Nicosia, He explained to them issues related to the implementation of the Geneva accords and their violations by Pakistan (RA),
 *   The Kabul regime Defense Ministry has refuted Western claims that a Kabul regime aircraft was shot down 27 August inside Pakistan. The Ministry described the report unfounded (RA).
 *   The US and Pakistan are responsible for the massacre of 16 passengers of aircraft N-32 shot down by a stinger near Kunduz (RA).
                                                                10
 *     In a unanimous resolution, the US Senate has said that Martyr General Ziaul Haq the late President of Pakistan was a real friend of the US who played effective role in promoting stability in the region. He had gained great respect among the Americans for lookings after millions of the Afghan refugees (RPDS).
 *    The NWFP Chief Minister, Fazl-e-Haq said the objective of bombarding Pakistan's territory is
                                        214
      to pressure Islamabad to stop its principled stand on Afghanistan dispute. He said Pakistan* would not yield to Such erroneous tactics (RPDS)•
      *     Pakistani officials said, in-an explosion 10 September at a Peshawar bazar 15 persons were wounded, Pakistan has held the Kabul regime activists as responsible for the explosion (VOADS).
      *     The IUAM has expressed its profound sorrow and grief over the sad demise of Mawlana Abdul Haq, a prominent religious scholar (MIM).
      *     The political officials of Parachinar, Kurram Agency have arrested four KHAD agents with powerful bombs and foiled the heinous designs of killing scores of persons in explosions (JG),
                                                NEWS PROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *     Speaking at the NAM Foreign Ministers1 conference in Nicosia, Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime has said Pakistan has so far. committed 430 violations of the Geneva accord
                                                                                         (HMDS),
      *     Under a decree, the Kabul regime President Najibullah has approved the ranks of Major General to Brigadier General Mohammad Ismail Noori, and Brigadier General Abdul Ahad Razmanda and the rank of Brigadier General to Col, Mohammad Hasan Hoshiar as well as state medals. They were 1 killed in an air crash recently (HA),
      *     Dead bodies of those killed in a plane N—32’ hit by the mujaheddin rocket fire near Kunduz were laid to rest 10 September in Martyrs Heights (Tapa-e-Shuhada) with military honors (RA),
                                                     11
      *     The NAM Foreign Ministers* conference concluded 11 September in Nicosia after approving a final document in which the setting up of a broadbased government for a comprehensive peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue has been urged (RPDS).
      *     Representative of the UNHCR in Islamabad held talks 11 September with the NWFP Governpr, Amir. Gulistan Janjua to discuss matters about the humantarian assistance to the Afghan refugees (RPDS),
      *     A French parliamentary delegation, headed by Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs committee of the French National Assembly, met 11 September the Pakistani Federal Minister, Aslam Khattak in Islamabad, The delegation has strongly condemned the Kabul regime aggressions on the Pakistan territory causing losses in men and material (RPDS).'
      *     ’ Two bomb explosions took place during the last 24 hours in Peshawar,Pakistan, which,according to Pakistani officials,.injured at least five persons (BBCFS).
      *     The renowned commander of Kandahar, Mulla Malang says "I do not agree with the view that if assistance is provided directly to the mujaheddin, it will be useful. Because, in this, way, parallel forces'will emerge in Afghanistan and it will be difficult to bring them under one leadership. The assistance provided to commanders should be given to the mujaheddin leaders and should be routed to mujaheddin through a united leadership (VOAPS),
      *     After capturing twp KHAD officers the mujaheddin executed them (NWT).
      *     Haji Mohammad Ashfaq involved in subversive activities in Punjab and NWFP was arrested at the
                                                    21$
July-Sept ember, 1988           AFGHAN JEHAD                  Vol*2, No.l
 Islamabad International airport. He is reported to be a KHAD agent who had organized a group of terrorist. (NWT).
                                                           A '
                                  NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES •
 *     More than 250 persons have been killed during the last one and a half year in bomb explosions in Peshawar city (RMDS).
 *     Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime met 10' September the Cypriot President in Nicosia and apprised him of the Geneva accords, recent developments in the country and the situation around Afghanistan and NRP (RA).
 *     The Charge d' Affaires of the Pakistan Bnbassy in Kabul was summoned 11 September at the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry and Islamabad’s claim about bombing of Dir region and heavy shelling on Chaman were rejected (RA).
 *    The UN rapporteur on Human Rights 'Felix Ermacora arrived 11 September in Kabul to prepare
 a report on the human rights in Afghanistan and held talk3 with the deputy minister of Kabul regime Foreign Ministry on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan (RA).
                                               12
 A member of the French National Assembly currently visiting Pakistan, visited 12 September Afghan refugee camps in Katcha Garhi Peshawar. He said France will continue to support on international level the struggle of Afghan people (RPDS).
 *, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqoob Khan of Pakistan said 12 September in Islamabad the NAM Foreign Ministers’ conference in Nicosia has stressed that peaceful situation should be created for honorable return of the Afghan refugees. Similarly special emphasis has been laid on the formation of a broadbased government in Afghanistan (RPDS).
 *     Pakistani officials say six Kabul regime aircraft violated 12 September the Pakistan airspace in Nawagai, NWFP, to bombard the Pakistani territory. Two of them were reported hit by the Pakistani aircraft rockets and shot down. Efforts are underway to find out the skelton of the two planes.
                              NEWS FROM C0MMIN1ST SOURCES.
 *     A Kabul regime General, Mohammad Ayub Mansoor says the Afghan mujaheddin are planning to expand the war of mines inside Kabul and other cities of Afghanistan (RMDS).
 *     The Kabul regime House of the People decided 12 September to upgrade Shindand sub division to a commissionerate and the Dahana-e-Ghori,*district, Baghlan, to a sub division (RA).
 *     The permanent eeranission of the- Kabul regime Council of Ministers approved 12 September 11 private enterprize projects with a total initial investment of Afs. 751 million (RA).
 *     Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of the Kabul regime, currently visiting Nicosia, met 11 September separately with the Fpreign Ministers of.Democratic Yemen, Syria and Nepal jn Nicosia. In his meetings he apprised the minister of the NRP and implementation of the Geneva accords (RA),
 *     The agreement for the appointment of Noor Mohammad Khurrami as the Kabul Ambassador in Eheopia,who will also serve as non-resident Ambassador in Tanzania, called for from the government of that country, has been received (RA).
                                        216
July-September, 1988             AFGHAN J(HAD                  Vol.2f No.l
       *     The UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Prof. Felix Ermacora met 12 September the Kabul regime Minister for Islamic Affairs. He also visited the Pul-e-Charkhi prison (RA).
                                                     13
       *     The present IUAM President, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani says the first phase of the work for the formation of a Ccouncil of mujaheddin and refugees has been completed and the elections law will be submitted to the Supreme Council of the IUAM which, as far as I know, will approve it (VOADS).
       *     In its second session 13 September the Pakistan Emergency Council reviewed the law and order situation in the country and repent developments in Afghanistan (RPDS).
       *     Former US Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger says, -unlike the Americans in Vietnam, the Soviet Union will not abandon its designs in Afghanistan after its troops withdrawal and Moscow will increase pressure on Pakistan (PT).
       *     . The Vice Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of French National Assembly Jean Francois Deniau accompanied by another French parliamentarian and the French Ambassador to Pakistan, Henry Servent called on' President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 12 September. During the meeting they exchanged views on latest developments in Afghanistan besides matters of bilateral interest
                                                                                                               (FT). ' ;;
       *     Pakistan wants a comprehensive solution of the Afghan issue. So long as the Kabul regime and its supporter power, Russia do not realize the need for the solution, this issue will not be solved, nor a hope for the establishment of a durable peace in south Asia can be materialized (JG, editorial).
                                         NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
       *’ Vice President of the Kabul regime and Chairman of the National Front, Abdul Rahim Hathef met 13 September the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Prof. Felix Ermacora and his entourage in Kabul. In the meeting he gave information on the functions and working of the National Front and its achievements and other issues of interest (RA).
       *     The council of ministers decided 13. September to issue coupens to the civilians and military retired personnel in capital and the provinces from. 23 September, 1988.
       *     The UN Special rapporteur on Human Rights, Felix Ermacora met 13 September the first Director of WAD of the Kabul regime in Kabul. In the meeting he was apprised of establishment of peace in Afghanistan and Pakistani violations of the Geneva accord as well as adherence to the human rights in Afghanistan (RA).
                                                     14             •
       *     The Afghan mujaheddin sources said in Quetta the Kabul communist officials have directed their men in Kalat and Tarinkot to vacate those cities and proceed to Kandahar (VOADS).
       *     The UN mediator on Afghanistan, Diego Cordovez briefed 13 September the UN Secretary General in NY about the outcome of his talks with the Foreign Ministers of Pakistan and the Kabul regime during, the NAM Foreign Ministers conference in Nicosia (RPDS).
       *     A special group of the UNIAG visited 7—12 September Zhob, Baluchistan, to look into the Kabul
                                                     217
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
   regime allegations against Pakistan about the Geneva accord violations (RPDS).
   *     Former Prime Minister Mohammad Yousuf was tipped 13 September to replace Najibullah a£ the Afghan President, western diplomatic sources said (MIM).
   *     Talking to The Jang. the Kabul regime Counselor in Peshawar Gul Aqa said the government is holding control over all regions of Afghanistan (JG).
                                       NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
   *     In a series of meetings, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Felix Ermacora met 14 September the speaker of the House of the People, President of the Senate and Deputy Justice Minister of the Kabul regime and held talks on the functioning of Parliament and Laws enacted by the Kabul regime (RA).
   *     A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry of the Kabul regime rejected claims by the Pakistani officials that Kabul regime aircraft violated 12 September the Pakistan air space in Nawagai and that Pakistan claim that two Kabul planes were shot down was described as unfounded (RA).
   *     In a protest note addressed to the leaders of the US and Pakistan, the youth of Kabul city
   have urged them to adhere to their commitments in the Geneva accords (RA).
       %
   *     The Pakistan Foreign Ministry says the Kabul regime has committed 295 land violations and 92 air violations since the enforcement of Geneva accord till 31st August (RPDS).
   * A spokesman for the Pakistan Foreign Ministry has said there is no Soviet prisoner in Pakistan and if there was any found, he will immediately be repatriated to Soviet officials (RPDS).
   * Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, who had gone to Kandahar, to evaluate the jehad situation in that province said in Quetta 99 parts of Kandahar have been liberated and are under the mujaheddin control. There is strong unity among the mujaheddin in Kandahar while the city was about to fall. He says he held talks with the mujaheddin and their commanders. He said, instead of attacking the city of Kandahar and the areas in its vicinity,we should capture the Kandahar Airport and cut off links between the Airport and the Kandahar city. Now the Kabul regime carries out supplies only by air (VOAPS).
   * -The Hezb-e—Islami leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar says an elected council is necessary along with the interim government. If this council dannot be formed and hindrances are created in its way, it is natural that the interim government will lose its credibility before the people. I now insist on the elections. I consider it necessary for the interim government and without that the interim government will lose its confidence (VOAPS).
   *     Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani has been elected as the new Chairman of the IUAM, reports Teheran
   Radio (PT).                                                           •   .
   *     Another batch of 21 Afghan soldiers defected and crossed over to Baluchistan via Chaman (PT).
   *  . The Kabul regime has abolished the national reconciliation commission set up 20 months ago in an attempt to integrate the opposition forces into the country's communist society, reports VOG
                             >       NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES                            (DN).
   *     The Chief of Air Staff and Air Defense Command of the Kabul regime, General Abdul Qadir
                                           218
         July-September, 19SB        ' , AFGHAN JEHAD.                             Vol.2, No.l
       described as incorrect reports about shooting down of three Kabul regime aircraft recently by Pakistan inside that country (RA).
                                                    16
       *    A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan has refuted the denial of the Kabul regime about the violation of Pakistani airspace early this month# He said Pakistan possesses films showing that three Kabul regime aircraft entered 7 and 12 September the Pakistan airspace and were hit with rocket fires by the Pakistani planes (VOADS),
       *    A spokesman for the Pakistan Foreign Ministry refuted 15 September in Islamabad the Kabul regime allegations that Pakistani artillery had taken part in the recent mujaheddin attack on Spin Boldak (VOADS).
       *    At a press conference 15 September in NY, the UN Special envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego
       Cordovez asked for convening a loya jirgah of the Afghan people. He said he is concerned over the situation that the Afghan were not availing themselves of the opportunity for the restoration of peace in their country (VOADS).                           !     <
       *    The AMRC reports that having realized the inability of the Kabul regime to resist the mujaheddin after the Soviet troops pullout from Afghanistan, communists are now worried about their safety. Communist party and government officials are trying to proceed to the Soviet Union and other east bloc countries on the pretext of education, etc. (VOADS).
       *    Pakistan Ambassador to the Soviet Union Abdul Sattar held talks 15 September with the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze On the implementation of Geneva accords oh Afghanistan (RPDS),
       *    At a press conference 15 September jp the UN Headquarters the UN representative on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez said he has prepared a list of 30 Afghans from inside and outside Afghanistan who might possibly form an interim government and a gathering of tribal leaders will be held 1 March, This will be at a time when all Soviet forces have left Afghanistan (VOAPS).
       *    Afghanistan will be the most important issue on Sahebzada Yaqub Khan»s agenda when he addresses the UN General’Assembly 28 September in NY (MIM).
       *    Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, head of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has reiterated that 'only unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, end of present Kabul regime and installation of provisional government in Kabul could solve the Afghan issue (PT).
       *    It should be hoped that the Pakistan proposal at the UN General Assembly session in the third week of September will, like in the past usher overwhelming' support of the World community.
       But effective implementation of resolution will only be possible when Russia and the Kabul. regime also exhibit goodwill gestures. The leaders of Afghan refugees and mujaheddin should also consolidate unity among their ranks because differences among them can also become a hindrance which will not be in their interest (JG-Editorial).
       *    Support was expressed 16 September to the Afghan jehad against Soviet invasion ai? the grand gathering of the Chehlum rites of Allama Sayyed Arif Hussain Hussain in Rawalpindi (NWT).
                                           NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
       *    The UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Prof. Felix Ermacora currently visiting Afghanis-
                                                  219
    July-Septembery 19B8                                         AfGHAN JEHAO Vol.2, No.l
 tan, visited 16 September Jauzjan (RA).
 *    The Kabul regime Ministry for the Returnees Affairs has said more than 150,850 persons have returned to the country from abroad since proclamation of NRP until the third week of August (RA).
                                              17
 *    Leader of It.tehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, of the UruZgan mujaheddin Assadullah Nawabi, at a press conference in Alizai refugee camp, near Quetta said, under the present circumstances, the refugees, support the views and decision of the UN Secretary General*s special envoy, Cordovez, who has been exerting efforts for the last six years and it is hoped that after his decision, the Afghan nation will determine their fate by themselves (VOADS),
 *    Federal Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Wasim Sajjad arrived in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the head of a Senate delegation. Before his departure, 17 September he said in Islamabad efforts will be made to reflect the views of Pakistan on the Afghan issue at the international conference and to gain support on it (RPDS).
                                   NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *    Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev said signing of Geneva accords on Afghanistan has really made headway in one of the most acute chaotic situations in Asia (RMBS),
 *    Prime Minister Mohammad Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime held talks 17 September in Kabul with the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Prof, Felix Ermacora on the human rights situation in Afghanistan in the light of the NRP and the Geneva accords (RA).
 *    Ten kilograms of explosives was seized in a vehicle 16 September by the security officials in Herat. The persons carrying the explosives were arrested (RA).
                                              18
 *    A spokesman for the Pakistan Foreign Ministry in Islamabad said the UNIAG team visited the border areas in the Kurram Agency, They also visited the refugee camps in Sadda and Warsak and talked to the refugees there. The refugees told the team that Pakistan has never hindered their return to Afghanistan (RPDS),
 *    Prime Minister Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime, currently on a visit to Soviet Union, met high ranking officials of the three Soviet republics bordering Afghanistan* TASS did not give details of the talks held in Doshanba, capital of Tadjekistan (VOADS).
 *    Deputy Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Ubaidullah Seerat has said so long as long as a single alien troop is present on the Afghan soil and until an Islamic government is established there, our jehad will continue (JG),
 *    Radio Moscow in its Persian broadcast said the mujaheddin attacked Kabul, Jalalabad and Gardez cities 17 September killing six persons (PT).
                                  NEWS FROM'THE COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *  • President Najibullah of the Kabul regime met 18 September the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights, Prof. Felix Ermacora in Kabul and held discussions on the observance of human rights in Afghanistan, implementation of NRP and Geneva accords (RA),
                                         220
         July-September, 1988              AfGHAN JEHAD                   Vol.2, Np.l
      wmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmBmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmmmm
      *    The correspondent of TASS reports that Pakistan has supplied apparatus like ground-to-ground rocket launchers to three mujaheddin groups (RA).
                                               19
      *    Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan proceeded 19 September to NY and said he will introduce a resolution at the UN General Assembly 43rd session about the solution of Afghanistan issue, Geneva accords and the formation'of a broadbased government in Kabul (RPDS).
      *    Senior Minister, Aslam Khattak disclosed 18 September that the Soviet Ambassador in Pakistan had given him an ’’ultimatum to change” his stance on Afghanistan issue or be ready to face dire consequences (MIM).
      *    Hezb-e-Islami Chief Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said in Quetta 18 September that Afghan mujaheddin would fight out Soviet forces to the last and free Wakhan corridore from them (PT).
      *    Gulbuddin Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami has said the Afghan mujaheddin have liberated 80 Tehsils of Afghanistan and 200 other places' (PT).
                                      NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *    Soviet Prime Minister Nicolai Ryzhkov and Prime Minister Hasan Sharq of the Kabul regime held first round of talks in Kremlin on situation in Afghanistan and bilateral cooperation (RMDS).
      *    Two Germans who had entered Afghanistan with the mujaheddin were arrested recently by the security forces of the country in Ghazni province (RA).
                                               20
      *    Prime Minister Mohammad Hasan Sharq met 20 September Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Moscow. (V0ADS).
      *    The Washington Post 20 September wrote prisoners of war between the Afghan mujaheddin and Soviet Union might possibly emerge as an eminent issue in the solution of Afghanistan problem, although the International Red Cross Organization has lost its confidence with the Afghan mujaheddin on this issue (V0ADS),
      *    In a message to the Pakistani leader, President Reagan has emphasized the need for continued bilateral consultations and cooperation for the security of Pakistan and ending the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan (RPDS).
      *    The head of Afghan transitional Islamic mujaheddin government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has said the Diego Cordovez plan and his claim that he is holding a list of 30 impartial people for an interim government in Afghanistan is a direct interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan
                                                                                   (MIM).
      *    In a letter to The Muslim (Islamabad) 20 September the Soviet Ambassador in Pakistan rejected a claim by Senior Minister of Pakistan Aslam Khattak that he' has threatened Pakistan of dire consequences if it failed to change its present stand. Later Aslam Khattak said he had received such letter from the Soviet Qnbassy Charge d* Affaires (DN).
                                    21
Pakistan envoy at the UN, Sardar Shahnawaz has described the Geneva accord on Afghanistan as
                                    221
*
     July-Sept ember, 1988                                 AFGHAN J[HflD Vol.2f No.l
 a great triumph of the UN (RPDS),
   *     The Soviet Union and Afghanistan signed 20 September a long term economic cooperation program to help rebuild the war-tom Afghanistan TASS said (PT).
   *     The Indian Ambassador in Pakistan Shulandra Kumar Singh has said whosoever may rule in Afghanistan, India will always have good relations with that country (NWT).
   *     The Chief of the Islami Jamiat**e~Talaba, Amir A1 Azeem in Peshawar said the Geneva accord was reached keeping in view the Russian and American interest but the Afghan mujaheddin will continue their jehad until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan(NWT).
                                     NEWS FROM THE COMMUNIST SOURCES
                                                                                     \
   *     Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev met 20 September the Kabul regime Prime Minister in Moscow* They reached the concensus that there exist possibilities for the implementation of NEP (RMDS).
   *     Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has said the current visit of Hasan Sharq to Moscow is taking place at a time when the process of the political solution of Afghanistan problem is in a decisive and a sensitive phase (RA).
   *     Hasan Sharq in Moscow said 20 September our people fully realize that despite some adverse claims, the Soviet Union has been desirous of durable and equal friendship with all the people of of Afghanistan irrespective of their political inclinations and internal situation of Afghanistan and supports a strong, free, independent and non-aligned Afghanistan (RA).
                                                                             (
   *     In his meeting 20 September with Hasan Sharq in Moscow, the Soviet Prime Minister, Nicolai Ryzhkov said Soviet people stand by the people of Afghanistan in their struggle for the restoration of peaceful life and rebuilding their war tom economy (RA).
                                                  22
   *     Political Chief of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Mohammad Ishaq, who is visiting Washington, has said in the US Congress even after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin will need stinger rockets and mine sweeping equipment (VOADS),
   *     Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan has hoped that the UN General Assembly will make further headway in the solution of Afghanistan problem and all other issues (RPDS).
   *     UNACAR, Sadruddin Aga Khan has said he has so far received only $ 97 million out of the sum of more than one billion dollars aid envisaged for the 18 month program of the reconstruction of Afghanistan. He hoped another 500 million dollars will be collected by the end of the year (RPDS).
   *     The US is developing a pilot program to train Afghans to remove mines from agricultural fields inside Afghanistan as part of a gigantic UN efforts to help the repatriation and rehabilitation of five million Afghan refugees (PT).
   *     A Kabul regime officer in Rishkhor division alongwith 15 soldiers joined the mujaheddin 15 September after killing the captain of his unit (PT).
   *     The Kabul radio has admitted the mujaheddin's activities in eight provinces -- Kunduz,
   Takhar, Kabul, Logar, Zabul, Kandahar, Helmand, and Herat during the last three weeks (PT).
   *     At a press conference 21 September, leader of the JUP, Shah Ahmad Noorani has said his party
                                           222
          July-September, 1988                  AFGHANJEHAO                         Vol.2,  No.l
        still adhere to its stand on direct talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan and elections under the UN supervision for the establishment of a government based on Islamic democracy and social justice in Afghanistan (JG).
        *    Afghan mujaheddin claim to have shot down two communist helicopters in Balkh and Paktia
                                                                                            (RPDS).
        *    The military school of Balkh province was inaugurated 22 September in Dasht-e-Shadian,
        Mazar-e-Sharif (RA).                                      '
                                                    23
        *    A spokesman for the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry has accused Pakistan of hindering the visit of UN observers to the places where ammunition dumps and training centers of the Afghanistan resistance are reported to be situated. The spokesman of the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry alleged that Pakistan directs the Afghan refugees to flee the UN observers (VOADS).
        *    Pakistan says 16 aircraft of the Kabul regime intruded 23 September several kilometers deep into the Pakistan airspace and bombarded two villages in Dir killing five and injuring five others
                               •                                                           (VOADS).
        *    A report on Afghanistan released 23 September in Geneva, says the rural areas in Afghanistan are full of mines, undefused bombs, explosive bombs, etc. (RPDS).
        *    The civil war has left Afghanistan as "one of the poorest, least developed countries" in the world and turned almost half its population into displaced refugees, according to a UN report released 22 September (PT).
        *    Thirty seven families from Lokman village near Kabul arrived in Pakistan 22 September, escaping heavy fighting in the Chardehi district (PT).
        *    The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin have tightened the siege Gardez and
        . they say they have shot down 19 September two helicopters north of Gardez . and killed a number of government officials. The say they shot down another four planes late last week in Kandahar airport in a rocket attack (BBCPS).
                                         NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES                 v
        *    In a joint communique issued at the conclusion of a visit by Hasan Sharq, the Kabul regime Prime Minister, to Moscow,Soviet and Kabul regime officials once again reiterated their adherence to the Geneva accords (HMDS).
        *    The Paktia military school was inaugurated 23 September in Gardez, Paktia (RA).
                                                    24
        *    TASS has refuted the mujaheddin claim of conquering Paghman. However, Radio Kabul confirmed 22 September that fighting was going between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces for the control of Paghman (VOADS).
        *    Pakistani officials delivered 23 September a strong worded protest note to the Kabul regime Charge d* Affaires in Islamabad against attacks on the Pakistan ^ territory by the Kabul regime aircraft. In bombardments by the Kabul regime aircraft five persons have been killed and five others
                                                 223
     July-Septemberf 1988                   AfGHAN JEHAD                       Vol#2f No.l
   injured in Dir (RPDS).
                                      NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
   *     The Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil left 24 September for New York at the head of a delegation for participation in the 43rd session of the UN General Assembly (RA).
   *     The Herat military school was inaugurated 23 September afresh in Herat (RA)*
   *     Pakistan Charge d* Affaires in Kabul was summoned 24 September to the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry and refuted the Pakistani officials claim that a Kabul regime aircraft h$ve been shot down* The source says in order to substantiate their baseless and unfounded claims, Pakistani officials have asked leaders of the seven Afghan mujaheddin parties to collect the Skeltons of the already shot down planes from inside Afghanistan and bring them to Pakistan*(RA)*
                                                25
   *     Pakistani officials say in a bomb explosion 25 September in a bus at a bus stand in Peshawar city, eight persons were injured (BBCFS).
   *     In a statement in Peshawar, the NWFP Chief Minister, General (Retd) Fazl-e-Haq has condemned the bombardment of Dir area by the Kabul regime aircraft causing losses in men and material and injuring a number of innocent people (RPDS).
   *     The US Vice President, George Bush has hailed the courageous stand of Pakistan towards the Afghanistan issue. He said the US will play its role in the preservation of peace in the region (RPDS). .
   *     The Commander of Hezb-e-Isl'ami (Khalesj in Kabul, Abdul Haq says when the Soviet Union began the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, some observers anticipated changes in tactics for defending the security of Kabul city, but at present, 20,000 to 22,000 Soviet troops, deployed
   in Kabul, are defending the city. Even now decision for attacks on the mujaheddin positions in the outskirts of Kabul city is taken by the Soviets he said (VOAPS).      •
   *     The Prime Minister of the Afghan Islamic interim government, Engineer Ahmad Shah has urged
          •                                           I                        ,
   the UN Secretary General to grant official recognition to the interim government as the sole representative of the Afghan refugees and mujaheddin and the entire Afghan nation and thus to pave the way for its legal membership to the body, according to Afghan news agency (PT).
       i                                                                               ■
   *     The US Counsul General in Quetta, Joseph Malrose, has said America is satisfied with the phased withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, but is deeply concerned over increased Afghan air attacks on Pakistan (PT).
                                                 NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
   *     At a briefing 25 September in the Foreign Ministry in the presence of a number of Ambassadors and Charge d* Affaires in Kabul, the Kabul regime Commerce Minister, Mohammad Khan Jalallar said during the visit of Kabul regime delegation recently to Moscow, talks were held in principle about a number of projects and Soviet financial aid the details of which will be made public afterwards
                        '                                                                    (RA).
   *     The Pakistani Charge d* Affaires in Kabul was summoned 25 September to the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry and a protest note was handed over to him against the violation of Afghan air
                                          224
         JuLy-September, 19##                 AIGHJIN  JIHilO ____________________ Vol*2, No.l
      space by two Pakistani planes (RA).
                                                   26
      *     In his address at the UN General Assembly, the US President, Ronald Reagan has advised the Soviet Union to pullout its entire forces from Afghanistan at the earliest so as to enable the people of Afghanistan to once again determine their future without foreign interference (VOADS).
      *     Pakistani officials say in bombardments by six planes of Kabul regime in Parachinar,Kurram Agency, six persons were killed and seven injured. Pakistan has strongly protested against the attacks (BBCFS).
      *     Eight Afghan mujaheddin were wounded when an explosive device placed in a jeep went off in the border village of Tre Mangal, Kurram Agency, 25 September (MIM).
      *     Khalqi leader Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoy and Defense Minister Shahnawaz Tani decided to stage a coup against Najib and the Parchamis 9 September but were prevented by the Soviets who summoned them to Moscow 11 September (MIM).
                                         NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *     A'two day seminar on the Geneva accords and its implementation concluded 25 September in New Delhi,Vice President Abdul Rahim of the Kabul regime told the seminar that Pakistan and the US were violating the Geneva agreement and arms supply to the mujaheddin groups continue (RA).
      *     At a press conference, the Kabul regime Ambassador in New Delhi Samad Azhar said through their unfounded allegations, Pakistani officials now want to hide their violations of the Geneva accords and continue interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan (RA).
      *     In their heavy shelling 26 September on 9th district of Kabul city, the mujaheddin killed seven persons and injured IS others while a vehicle was also set ablaze (RA).
                                                   27
      *     The 'US has rejected a Soviet proposal for a conference of four countries which signed the Geneva accord on Afghanistan in April (VOADS).
      *     A car bomb went off 26 September in Kabul killing two persons. According to a report, the bomb was placed in a jeep carrying Soviet officials in Macrorian, Kabul (VOADS).
      *     Western diplomats stationed in Islamabad say Kabul citizens complain of the shortage of foodstuff and intensified mujaheddin pressure (VOADS).
      *. The Washington Times wrote 27 September the US State Department has asked the mujaheddin not to attack Soviet troops withdrawing from Afghanistan, lest it may delay the Soviet troops pullout from Afghanistan by 15 February 1989•
                                         NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
      *     The Soviet.Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnaze met 26 September in NY the Foreign Minister of Ecuadore and UN Secretary General's special' envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez to discuss'a solution for the Afghanistan issue. The Soviet side expressed profound concern over the use of Pakistani territory for carrying hostile activities against Afghanistan (RA).
                                                225
     July-September, 1988                 AfCHIlN JEHAD                    Vol,2, No.l
                                              28
   *     Pakistan has accused the Kabul regime of 100 violations of the Geneva accords. Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan at the UN General Assembly said the Soviet backed regime in Kabul has carried out enormous air raids and subversive activities against Pakistan (VQADS).
   *     After his address 26 September to the UN General Assembly,, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze told newsmen the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan has been deferred.
                                              29
   *     The US State Department has confirmed that it is making efforts so that the Afghanistan resistance forces desist from attacing the retreating Soviet troops (VOADS).
   *     At a press conference, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has said the personal envoy of the UN Secretary General on the Afghan issue has consciously or uncomsciously been paving the way for creating conditions of continued war in the name of peace in Afghanistan. He said Afghanistan is our country and we have rendered sacrifices for its freedom. We are a free, wise and diligent people. Why
   the UN does not listen to us (VOADS).
   *     Japan has announced a grant of $ 60 million aid to the Afghan refugees through the UN (BBCFS)
   *     Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan held talks 28 September with the Soviet Foreign Minister, Shevardnadze on the solution of the Afghanistan issue. He said' they have reach a concensus on a resolution about Afghanistan to be tabled at the UN General Assembly(RPDS).
                                              NEWS FROM COMMUNIST SOURCES
   *     The Soviet Union has proposed a meeting of permanent members of the UN Security Council to discuss the implementation of Geneva accord on Afghanistan (RMDS).
   *     The ^ subjects who had entered Afghanistan illegally alongwith the Afghan mujaheddin and had indulged in subversive activities in Ghazni province have recently been arrested by the armed forces of the country and are presently under interrogation (RA).
                                              30
   *     Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Gulbuddiq Hekmatyar has expressed profound sorrow and grief over the civilian casualties as a result of recent rocket attacks on the city.
   He has said the target of those rocket fires has so far been Russian centers. Hekmatyar has said the responsibility lies on the Russians and their cruel hirelings as they have started the war and bloodshed and are continuing it (VOADS).
   *     A Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman in the UN criticized 29 September, the UN peace forces in Afghanistan and said its forces are not properly executing their duties (VOADS).
   *     Foreign Ministers of five permanent member countries of the UN Security Council have begun discussion on the Afghanistan issue. The meeting was called by the UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar (RPDS).
                                            226
July-September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 CHRONOLOGY OF AFGHAN
 EVENTS , MILITARY
                       July - September
For more Military Chronology see Page 287.
                     Badkhshan , July
  16  The Afghanistan resistance sources report the mujaheddin have recently demolished a Kabul regime helicopter in Badakhshan (RPDS).
  23s°viet troops have started their withdrawal from Badakhshan and first unit of Soviet troops reached 22 July Russia from Badakhshan (NWT).
  24   At least 400 civilians were killed and large scale destruction to property was reported as Afghan fighter planes heavily bombed Argu of Faizabad, Badakhshan, during the last week (PT).
                                 September
  2  Hezl>«e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin have captured Keshim sub division of Badakhshan province* The Commander of the communist troops in the area, who had already established contact with the mujaheddin, alongwith 000 soldiers, militiamen, the officials, of KHAD and scouts joined 1 September the mujaheddin. Keshim sub division has now been liberated and is under mujaheddin control. The commander has also brought six tanks in working order and 12 light and heavy arms to the mujaheddin (VOAPS),
  16  Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan has reported that the mujaheddin attacked 31 August Keshim military cantonement,Badakhshan. and, after a day long battle, captured 1 September the cantonement,
  In the battle about 360 troops and officers were killed and a number of others were captured by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also seized 15 combatant and non-combatant vehicles alongwith arms, ammunition and foodstuff* In the battle 29 mujaheddin were martyred and 25 others injured. Report adds that it has been for the second time since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan that the military cantonement of Keshim has been captured by the mujaheddin (VOADS).
  20  The mujaheddin sources say they have shot down during the last week a Kabul regime aircraft in Kundut, a helicopter near Faizabad, Badakhshan and a fighter plane in Paghman, Kabul province
                                                           fnpnffT
                          Badghis.-M'
  3  According to resistance sources, in an attack,, the mujaheddin caused serious damages to a security post in Murghab, Badghis, destroying a tanker and killing five Kabul regime soldiers. The mujaheddin have seized a huge quantity of arms and captured, two soldier (RPDS).
  5 xhe resistance sources report from Quetta the mujaheddin captured 1 July Qades sub-division, Badghis, 75 km from Soviet borders* The mujaheddin say all communist troops in the center and civilian employees were captured and a huge quantity of arms-and ammunition were also seized by the
                                            227
   July-September, 1988             flfGHIIflJEHAD                Vol.2f No.l
 mujaheddin (VQADS).
 0 Harkat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan says' that the mujaheddin 3 duly, as a result of an attack on militia force near Qala-E-Nau of Badhis killed 12 militia and injured another seven. Further, 78 people from the army were, captured by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin ai^e reported to have captured 300 items of arms and a truck. During the operation eight mujaheddin were.killed and 13 of them injured (VOADS).
                                             August
 1 The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin destroyed 1 July two Kabul regime posts in Moqor region, Badghis province. In the attack 40 militiamen and soldiers of the regime were killed and 180 pieces of arms were seized by the mujaheddin. Similarly, 70 families of those areas who have been cooperating with the Kabul regime, joined the mujaheddin with their arms (V0APS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin launched 9 July a major offensive on the center of Qadis sub division, Badghis as a result of which 18 Kabul troops were killed and 30 items of arms were captured. In the battle, which lasted seven days and five nights, four mujaheddin were also killed and four others injured (V0APS).
20
 Harkat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan reports that the mujaheddin attacked 15 July the security posts in Qadez, Badghis, and,, in the battle lasting till 24 July, the mujaheddin captured five posts (V0APS).                                                                .
                 Baghlan
Q Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported that the mujaheddin set ablaze 28 June a Kabul regime truck of AFS0TAR company between Shahr-e-Naw and Shahr-e-Kuhna, Baghlan (VOADS).
10  Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says in an attack 6 July on a post in Shahr-e-Naw, Baghlan, the mujaheddin captured four militiamen (VOAPS)..
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports the mujaheddin hit 6 July a Soviet tank in Jar Khushk, Zara Khar; Baghlan. In the attack four Soviets were killed and four kilashinkovs were also seized by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also attacked the militiamen in the center of Baghlan province. The militiamen fled and their arms were captured by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 17   The AMRC reported that a traveller from Baghlan, who has just arrived in Peshawar, says the Soviets sold 17 May in Baghlan 12 officers and four militiamen to the mujaheddin for a very nominal amount (VOADS).                         .
 10The Afghan mujaheddin in their attacks in Baghlan city have inflicted heavy losses in.men and material to Kabul troops and captured eight Kabul troops, reports radio Teheran (PT).
  21  Explosives planted in a girls school in central Baghlan was recently discovered and defused (RA).
                                                August
  2  a report of the Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says in their attack 19 July on a Kabul regime military convoy two kms from Naw Shar, Baghlan, the mujaheddin killed or injured 12 Kabul soldiers and demolished three tanks. Similarly, the mujaheddin captured 1 August two militiamen in the center of
                                        228
    July-September, 1988 _____________
       1                      "         ~      :                         -        -it.
 Baghlan (VOAPS).
 * The Afghanistan Islamic Movement Organization says in their attack 30 June on the Kabul regime posts at eighth road in Industrial Baghlan, the mujaheddin killed two soldiers and captured an officer and a tank (VOAPS).
 *   The NIF says the mujaheddin attacked 5 July the Chashma-e-Sher post, Baghlan. In the attack the mujaheddin captured seven troops with their arms. Similarly, in an attack 4 July on the Ghori Cement Office in Pul-e-Khumri the mujaheddin captured four armed militiamen. The mujaheddin also captured the Kabul post and seized 2$ pieces of arms (VOAPS).
 7   The Afghanistan resistance sources reported that in their recent attacks on Industrial Baghlan, the mujaheddin killed 12 Kabul regime troops deployed on the security posts and captured two heavy guns, two machine guns and five rifles. Similarly the mujaheddin1 killed /|0 Kabul regime soldiers and captured 12 others in Khanjan (RPDS).
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported that the mujaheddin attacked 20 July the Kabul regime troops
 in Khenjan, Baghlan, and captured two officers and 12 troops; 14 items of arms and some military equipment were also seized.Also in an attack 9 July on the center of Khenjan the mujaheddin killed two communists of the regime and injured another (VOAPS).                    %
 *   The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says in an attack 9 July near Pul-e-Khumri city,' Baghlan, the mujaheddin captured two. officers with their arms (VOAPS).
    According to mujaheddin sources, the mujaheddin attacked recently a Kabul regime fuel convoy in Salang Tunnel, Baghlan, as a result of which 20 oil tankers were eliminated. It is said about 100 tons of oil was destroyed (RPDS).                                                    *
 12   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 6 August the Kabul regime posts in Opian village in Baghlan province. In the attack the mujaheddin captured 20 militiamen with the militia Brigade Commander while four others were killed and the mujaheddin also seized 22 items of arms
                                                                                        (VOAPS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports government militia stationed in Sangi and Chacha villages, Baghlan joined with their arms 6 August the mujaheddin. Similarly, in a battle 3 August between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime.forces, in Khenjan, 10 Kabul troops four mujaheddin were killed
                                                                                      (VOAPS).
 IK
  | D Western diplomats and Afghan mujaheddin sources in Pakistan say a military depot of Soviet main base in Kailagai, Baghlan, has exploded and hundreds of Soviet military and non military personnel have been killed, six helicopters, tens of tanks as well as other military equipment demolished (BBCFS).
  21    Hezh-e~Islami (Hekmatyar) reported, in an attack IS August, the mujaheddin destroyed uwo security posts near the center of Baghlan killing 12 militiamen (V0ADS).
  23    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin shot down 20 August a Kabul regime reconnaisance plane near the center of Baghlan. Similarly in their attack the same day, the mujaheddin killed 2$ Soviet troops in the old city of Baghlan (VOAPS),
  28    Hezb—e—Islami (Hekmatyar) reports the mujaheddin captured 26 August a Kabul regime post in Dahana-e-Ghori, Baghlan (VOAPS).
                                            229
    J\jly-Septembert 1988            AfGUAN JEHAD                 Vol.2# No.l
                                           September
    Radio Pakistan says the mujaheddin have recently killed 20 Kabul regime troops near Baghlan, northern Afghanistan (BBCFS).
 6 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says, in their attacks 2 September the mujaheddin destroyed two posts in the center of Baghlan, killing three militiamen and capturing eight alive. In the battle, the 1 mujaheddin captured 31 items of arms and a wireless set (VOAPS).
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports the mujaheddin fired 55 rocket’s 1 September on a Soviet base in Baghlan city inficting heavy casualties on the Soviet forces* Details of casualties could not be ascertained (VOAPS).
 *   The Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 29 August a Soviet bases in Doshakh and Charmaghzak Baghlan, demolishing 15 Soviet transport vehicles and tanks and capturing a truck load of arms and ammunition (VOAPS).
 *    Resistance sources say the mujaheddin killed 30 August two Soviet officers and eight soldiers in Doshakh, Baghlan (VOAPS).
 *    The mujaheddin sources claim l\Q Kabul regime troops and their commander, carrying their arms with them, joined 30 August the Baghlan mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 18     Resistance sources say the mujaheddin demolished 12-13 September 20 oil tankers and a number of military vehicles of the Communist regime in Salang, Baghlan. (RPDS).
 22    The Afghanistan resistance sources have reported in their recent attack in Nahrin, Baghlan, the mujaheddin killed 30 troops, destroyed two tanks four armored vehicles and three communists posts (RPDS).
 24     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin captured 16 September a Kabul regime post on the Pul-e-Khumri-Mazar-e-Sharif Highway, Baghlan killing or injuring three militiamen. The rest fled away and the mujaheddin seized a sizeable quantity of arms (VOAPS).
               Balkh August
 ^ JrThe Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin fired rockets on Soviet base troops in Rubat. In the attack, a Soviet helicopter, two tanks and three military trucks and an ammunition depot were demolished, Nineteen Soviet troops, including an officer, were killed and seven others injured (VOAPS).
                                            September
 4   The ANS reports the mujaheddin hit with rockets 24 August the Kabul regime Deh Dadi airport, Balkh, demolishing one aircraft and killing 25 soldiers (VOAPS).
 13    The Ittehad-e-Islami says, in an ambush late August on the Karez-e-Kalan post, Mazar-e-Sharif, the mujaheddin captured five armed troops. The mujaheddin also hit the same day with rockets the Arab Mazari post killing about 20 Kabul regime troops and capturing three others alive (VOAPS).
 *     The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 21 August the Shadian Tangi posts in Balkh, setting a tank and a truck ablaze. The mujaheddin hit 25 August a number of Kabul regime posts in Maramal and eliminated four posts (VOAPS).
 *    The resistance sources said the mujaheddin captured a post in Charbolak, Balkh, killing six
                                          230
                                                                                   J uly-Sept emb er, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
Bamian
 Kabul regime troops and capturing 14 others alive with their arms. Two mujaheddin were injured
                       (VOAPS).
 , July
 | QHezb-^-l3la»i (Heknatyar) says that the mujaheddin captured 9 July a big post in the center of Bamian killing or injuring 25 Kabul troops and capturing 20 others while another 15 voluntarily joined the mujaheddin (VOAPS),.
 12.^ reP01’^        Hezb—e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) says the mujaheddin have captured during the last
 tWo months 30 security posts of the Kabul regime in Bamian. Similarly, in ah attack on the center of Bamian province, the mujaheddin captured, after an attack on the center, of the province, a big communist post and killed or injured 25 troops (VQADS).
 18    . Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan (Mohseni) says, in an attack 1 July on the center of Bamian province, the mujaheddin captured two posts and shot down two helicopters and a jet aircraft (VOADS).
 19    The Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan reported that the mujaheddin launched attacks 7 and 8 July on posts around Bamian destroying eight military posts, killing 55 soldiers and militiamen and injuring more than 100 others. The mujaheddin also captured 20 soldiers and militiamen. The center of Bamian is still reported under the mujaheddin's siege (VOAPS).
                                            August
 7 ‘the Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the center of Bamian province Is still tinder the mujaheddin siege. The mujaheddin started their attacks 1 July on the center and fighting continues.
 The source says the mujaheddin have so far shot down a Kabul regime helicopter and a jet aircraft and have captured two posts. In the combats, 46 soldiers and militiamen were killed, 20 others injun-red and 15 captured by the mujaheddin. Also, 20 civilians and eight mujaheddin have been killed and four others injured in the operations (VOAPS).
 17     The NIF' reports the center of Bamian province has been under mujaheddin attacks for the last •40 days. The source says more than 100 Kabul regime soldiers, militiamen and officers have been killed so far while a number of others have been captured alive. Similarly five regime aircraft have been shot down which included three jet aircraft and two helicopters. The center of Bamian is yet under mujaheddin siege (VOAPS).
 19     Resistance sources reported fierce fighting continued 9-14 August between the mujaheddin and the Kabul forces in the center of Bamian province. The report says in the battle, the mujaheddin set ablaze a big grain godown and captured a post built for the safety of that godown. In the attack, four communist regime officers and soldiers were killed while 15 other with tier arms surrendered to the mujaheddin and the mujaheddin also shot down a helicopter. (VOAPS),
 * Quoting the mujaheddin sources, the ANS says the mujaheddin have shot down 14 August two Soviet jet aircraft in Bamian province (VOAPS),
 26    Western diplomats in Islamabad say, following the evacuation of Bamian by the Kabul regime troops last week, the mujaheddin have now captured that city. The mujaheddin say in a three day battle, large number Kabul troops were killed (VQADS).
 28     TASS said 27 August Afghan government forces had withdrawn from central Bamian under pressure from the mujaheddin (MIM).
                                           231
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 0 Ittehad-e-Islaxni Afghanistan has reported that after capturing Bamian city, the mujaheddin captured 76 vehicles, 20 jeeps and 2,000 items of heavy and light arms as well as 700 troops, militiamen and other officials of the Kabul regime. They also killed 350 Kabul troops. Prom mujaheddin side v60 were killed and 150 in jured (VOADS).
 _ I ________________t. July
 R The KIP says the mujaheddin captured 17 June a government post in Andkhoy, Faryab. Fourteen government soldiers were killed or injured in the operation. The mujaheddin. also . in their attack captured two vehicles. Two mujaheddin were reported killed and 6 more injured (VOAPS).
 26 The NIP office says in attacks 4 July on the security posts in the center of Faryab, the' mujaheddin killed 20 troops and captured eight others with their arms and ammunition. From the mujaheddin side, 11 were killed and 23 others injured. Report says the mujaheddin have also seized two trucks
                                                                                  (VOAPS).
                                                   August
 2  The NIP says the mujaheddin attacked 12 July a Kabul regime military convoy on its way to Faryab from Dawlatabad killing or injuring 20 Kabul soldiers and destroying four vehicles with, all the persons on board. The mujaheddin also seized two trucks loaded with foodstuff and medicines (VOAPS),
 *  The NIF says the mujaheddin attacked, a number of posts in Qaisar, Faryab, as a result of which 25 troops joined the mujaheddin. Seven of them also possessed weapons (VOAPS).
 ^^The NIF office says the Kabul regime hit 21 July with rockets and heavy shelling Deh Saeedan, Qala-e-Imam Saheb, Ahmad and Baluch villages, in Faryab. as a result of which 24 civilians were killed and 40 others injured. The Kabul regime troops launched the attack in retaliation to the mujaheddin attack 20 July on the Faryab center. In the attack more than 100 Kabul troops were killed or injured and a helicopter shot down, about 10 military and non-military vehicles were demolished (VOAPS).
 *  The NIP says Soviet-Kabul forces attacked 23 July the mujaheddin centers in Cheechlaku of Qaisar, Faryab, killing one mujahed and injuring a number of others. The report says in the battle four Soviet troops and' eight Kabul soldiers were killed and six others injured (VOAPS),
 heddin in Archi^Faryab (VOAPS)
 *  The NIP reported a militia commander and 10 militiamen with their arms joined 29 July the muja-
 _________________July
 10 The resistance sources have said, in an attack recently on a Kabul military convoy in Farah, the mujaheddin killed or injured 35 Kabul soldiers and captured 11 others (RPDS).
 *  According to a report* eight mujaheddin were killed and six others injured recently in Jowain sub-division, Farah (RA).
 2^The mujaheddin have liberated four villages beside capturing some military posts of Soviet-Afghan troops in Farah province at the beginning of this week (PT), .
 20Resistance sources say prominent mujaheddin commander Abdul Qayum Shuja was martyred when his vehicle hit a mine 23 July.In the incident another mujahed was also martyred and eight others injured
                                                                                                          (VOAPS).
                                          232
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 £ Hezb-e-Ialami (Khales) says the mujaheddin attacked 28 August the Kabul regime posts in Pusht-e-Road, Farah,as a result of which five posts were captured and six others posts were sieged and the fitting still continues. In the combat, an armored personnel carrier with all the persons on board was demolished and 11 militiamen were killed (VOADS).
 13    The Afghanistan resistance sources report from Quetta that the Afghan mujaheddin launched joint attack on communist forces posts in Balablook, Far ah, and fighting continued until 7 September. In the clashes, 15 security posts were demolished and a Kabul regime helicopter was shot down, 21 militiamen were captured by the mujaheddin, 40 communist troops were killed and 20 others injured. From the mujaheddin side eight were killed and 13 others injured (VOADS).
 * The Jamiat—^-Island Afghanistan says, in the mujaheddin attack 8 September, on the Kabul regime posts in Jowain sub division, Farah, 13 Kabul regime personnel, including the political Deputy Chief of security forces were killed while two mujaheddin were killed and four others injured
                                                                                         (VOADS).
 15    Radio Kabul reported 14 September that more than 70 mujaheddin were killed in Farah. Local commander of the mujaheddin reported from inside Afghanistan that more than 00 Kabul regime troops were killed in Farah. The Farah mujaheddin have said they shot down a -MIG aircraft and a helicopter (BBCFS).
 16    The Afghanistan resistance sources say in the mujaheddin recent attack in Pul—&-Sangi, Farah, 27 Kabul regime troops were killed and four tanks demolished (RPDS).
 17 The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in their recent attack near the center of Farah, the mujaheddin killed or injured 18 Kabul regime troops. In the attack an ammunition dump was eliminated while a number of Kabul regime military installations and the military base were destroyed
                                                                                           (RPDS).
 23    The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in an attack 16 September, on Pusht-e-road, Farah, the mujaheddin captured a post. In the attack, 35 Kabul militiamen were killed and three tanks fell to the mujaheddin. A number of militiamen fled and 18 items of aims were seized by the mujaheddin. Similarly, the mujaheddin attacked 6 September a communist convoy between Delaram and Farah road as a result of which two tanks were demolished and their crew killed or injured (VOADS).
         Ghazni , July
 S   According .to Afghan resistance sources, the mujaheddin attacked 26 June on a post in Moqor,
 Ghazni, killing eight Kabul soldiers and capturing 25 (RPDS).....
 * In an aimed clash with the government troops, Fazl-ur-Rahman, the general commander of the iHezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) was killed in Ghazni (RA).
 0   The Afghan mujaheddin have shot down one Kabul regime fighter aircraft in Ghazni province (JG).
 ^ Qln a heavy arms attack 9 July by mujaheddin on .Ghazni city, a child was killed, 11 injured and a building gutted (RA)*
 ^2: Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin have again occupied. Moqor, Ghazni. The mujaheddin launched their attack for the capture, of Moqor 9 July. During their operation they also captu-
                                                                                    july-September, I98S
 Vol.2, No.l
  red 12 tanks and two trucks (RFDS),
  * The Afghanistan resistance sources have said the mujaheddin attacked 11 July, in Qarabagh regime forces heading towards Ghazni. In the attack, 19 tanks and armored personnel carriers and eight other vehicles were demolished while two armored vehicles were captured by the myjaheddin
                                                                                           (VOAPS).
  Ilj According to Afghan resistance sources, after several days siege and fighting, cantonments of Moqor in Ghazni and Shah joey in Zabul fell 9 July to the mujaheddin. According to the report, during three days fighting the mujaheddin killed 74 communist troops while another 99 soldiers joined the mujaheddin. Seven tanks and six trucks, carrying arms and ammunition and a jeep, were demolished and three heavy guns and three heavy machine guns with 113 rifles were captured by the mujaheddin, Soviet troops were airlifted to Ghazni and the KHAD forces were forced to flee Kalat. Kalat has also been sieged by the mujaheddin (TOADS),
  * The Afghanistan resistance sources said in an attack 11 July on Kabul regime forces in Qarabagh, Ghazni, • the mujaheddin demolished 12 tanks and armored- vehicles and seized two armored personnel carriers (VOADS),
  * Hezb-e—Islami (Khal.es) reports that the mujaheddin-, carried heavy gun and rocket attacks 6—7 July on Balahissar, 14 Division, airbase and building of the Kabul regime in Ghazni province, killing or injuring 50 soldiers including a high ranking officer, A Kabul regime helicopter gunship was also reported damaged (VOADS),
  14   The resistance sources said in an ambush on a Soviet-Kabul military convoy in Qarabagh, Ghazni, the mujaheddin captured Soviet troops. Number ef the Soviet troops captured has not been mentioned in the report. Qarabagh has been under mujaheddin control since 25 June (VOADS),
  19   The Office of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 29 June the Kabul regime troops near Gailan, Ghazni, destroying two tanks and a vehicle. The source says four Kabul troops and an officer joined 24 June the mujaheddin in Moqor (VQAPS).
   20    The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says, in their attack 25 June, the mujaheddin captured 40 troops a and an officer of Kabul regime in Moqor, Ghazni (VOADS).
   * Harakat-e-Enqelab—^-Islami says the mujaheddin shot down 14 July a Kabul r'egime jet. aircraft in Qara Bag)*,. Ghazni (VOAPS),
   20The Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin captured 16 July the Ramak sub district, Ghazni, and inflicted losses in men and material to the supporters of the Kabul regime (VOAPS),
                                             August
  2   Hezb-e-Islemi (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin have captured Ramak sub district of Ghazni province. The mujaheddin have demolished six posts in the outskirts of the sub district as well as three vehicles and tanks and two ammunition dumps. In the battle 30 soldiers and militiamen were killed or injured and 12 others captured by the mujaheddin while 23 items of arms were also seized (VOAPS).
  JJ According to Afghan mujaheddin sources in Pakistan, the mujaheddin recently shot down a Soviet plane in Ghazni killing the pilot and other crewmen (RPPS).
  12^e Afghanistan resistance sources say, in a recent attack, the mujaheddin demolished four Kabul regime posts in Sholgar, Ghazni. At least seven Kabul troops were killed, an arms and ammunition
                                                   234
July-S^pt ember, 1988
Vol.2f No.l
 23    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has reported that the Helmand mujaheddin, captured 20 September the Hazar Juft svb division. In the operation to capture the sub division, 30 militiamen were killed and three military trucks were demolished. From the mujaheddin side six persons were killed and many injured (VOADS).
 26 Jaroiat—e—Islam! Afghanistan reports five security posts in Gereshk, Helmand, fell 6 September to the mujaheddin while another three posts also were captured 14 September by the mujaheddin after fierce fighting. The source said 75$ of the Gereshk sub division, including the Kandahar Herat Highway in Gereshk, is under the mujaheddin control (VOADS).                     .                 1
Herat July
 19    According to a Teheran Radio report, the mujaheddin have captured a Kabul regime espoinage center in Herat and arrested three persons (RPDS)*
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have captured the headquarters of Soviet forces in Herat province, killing a group of Kabul troops and wounding many others, reports radio Teheran (PT).
 25    Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan reports from Quetta in mujaheddin attacks 19 and 20 July, 15 Kabul regime men joined the mujaheddin in Herat. The mujaheddin also eliminated six posts in Shindand, He^ rat killing 35 troops including seven officers while two officers surrendered to the mujaheddin. A Soviet aircraft was also reported shot down by the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 28 Resistance sources in Quetta have said the mujaheddin ambushed 18 July four Soviet officers who had gone to a spring for washing in Zer-e-Koh area, Shindand, Herat. One officer was killed and three others were captured (VOAPS).                     '
 30 1116 Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the militia commander General in Robat Sangi, Herat, Arbab Abdul Ghani was killed in a clash with the Kabul regime soldiers. Five other militiamen were also killed in the battle (VOAPS).
 * The office ,of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says in their attack on Gozara sub division, Herat, last week, the mujaheddin captured a large area and also seized 42 items of arms. They also captured two high ranking official'"of the communist party. From mujaheddin side, two persons were killed
                                                                           (VOAPS).
                                                August
 11  ae Afghan mujaheddin sources said a Soviet officer was exchanged 1 August with 12 mujaheddin who were detained by the Communist regime in Shindand, Herat, Another two Soviet POWs are still with the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 12   Resistance sources say in their attacks during third week of July on the second and third security belt of Herat city, the mujaheddin killed 12 militiamen and injured a number of others while a truck and a jeep were also demolished (VOADS).
13
 The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in an attack 26 July', on a Kabul regime logistic convoy heading towards Salma Dam in Obi Herat, the mujaheddin killed an unknown number of government men and destroyed a truck with its goods. Similarly, the mujaheddin killed 23 July a communist officer in Herat city and seized his arms (VOADS)..
                 A motorized Brigade of the Soviet contingents left Mir Daoud, Herat for Soviet Union (RA).
                                                       237
 July-September, 1983
 Vol.2, No.l
                                        September
 4  The Office of the Jamiat-e-Ialami Afghanistan reports that Afzali Front mujaheddin attack-ed 25 August the Kabul regime militia in Kushk, Herat, as a result of which 10 Kabul troops were killed and 65 others joined the mujaheddin with their arms. In the battle, one mujahed was killed and eight injured. The source adds, fierce combat was fought 29 August between the mujaheddin and the Kabul troops in the same region as a result of which lk militiamen were killed (VOAPS).
 0 Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan reported fierce fighting in the last fortnight in Ghorian and the Herat—Islam Qala Highway as a result of which a number of Kabul regime tanks were destroyed and
 their crewmen killed. The source says the mujaheddin heavy shelling and rocket attacks continue on the Kabul regime positions in Herat (BBCFS).
10
 Hezb-6-Islami (Khales) reported that the mujaheddin attacked 7 September Shindand sub division, Herat and, during fighting, a helicopter gunship and a jet bomber were shot down and their crewmen killed. Details of losses and casualties inflicted on the Kabul regime are not yet available, From the mujaheddin side, six were killed and nine others injured (VOADS).
 14    The President of the Council of Religious Scholars and Spirituals of Herat, Nesar Ahmad Sahebzada was killed 13 September by the mujaheddin (RA).
 18    The Afghan mujaheddin claim they recently shot down a communist jet fighter . aircraft near Shindand, Herat (RPDS).
 19    The Afghanistan resistance sources in Quetta say in a mujaheddin attack 5 September on Kar-rukh, Herat, a platoon of AO militiamen of the Kabul regime joined the mujaheddin. In the attack 10 Kabul regime soldiers are reported killed and 500 items of light and heavy arms were seized (VOADS)
 24    Jamiat—e—Islami Afghanistan reported that the Kabul regime activists took positions 2Q September on the road leading to Ghorian and Zindajan Herat and attacked the vehicle carrying Senior Captain Mohammad Ismail Khan. Two mujaheddin were killed but Ismail Khan himself escapedunhurt. Meanwhile in the ensuing combat the mujaheddin killed four KHAD officials and captured 10 others
                                                                                                                      ■ (VOADS).
 *     Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan reports that the Herat mujaheddin have been attacking for the last two weeks posts in the Aurang sub division and have captured an armoured personnel carrier, . two trucks and a number of arms. Five Kabul regime'men were captured by the mujaheddin (VOADS),
 *     Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan has reported in their recent attacks on the Herat Cement factory and other areas in Herat city, the mujaheddin demolished a tank and killed six Russians and captured their arms. Similarly, in clashes between the mujaheddin and communists in Oba, Pashtun Zar—' ghun and Ghorian five tanks and a vehicle were destroyed and 60 communists were killed. From the mujaheddin side, six were killed and nine injured (VOADS). '
 26    Jamiat®-e-Islami Afghanistan reported in the mujaheddin attacks 23 September on the posts of Herat security belt, four tanks were demolished and 48 Kabul troops were killed or injured. The mujaheddin also carried out operation the same day on posts operated by the militia commander Amer Sayyed Ahmad Khan in Murghab, capturing 10 militiamen with their arms. Communists casualties are not known (VOADS).
 July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 * Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says in an attack 24 September on the Kabul regime forces in Sarbanha-e-Herat, the mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and killed their crewmen (VOADS).
                                                     , July
 0 Resistance sources says 30 government soldiers have been killed or injured 26 June In Aqcha sub- , division of Jauzjan (VOAPS). ,
 *  The NIF says fighting took place between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces in Aqcha,
 , Jauzjan, after a government soldier attempted to defect to the mujaheddin with his arms. Thirty malitiamen are reported killed or injured and one .government tank and a truck were demolished
                                                                          (VOADS).
 *  The Afghan resistance sources say the mujaheddin captured the Khawaja Doka military post 22 Jurie. One military officer and 5 milatiamen are reported killed during the fighting (VOAPS).
 26   The office of NIF says the mujaheddin attacked 8 July the Soviet residential quarters near the gas pipeline in Shebarghan, Jauzjan, killing about 45 Soviets (VOAPS).
 27   Reports reaching from Jauzjan say a Kabul regime military convoy of 15 tanks was recently wiped
 out by the mujaheddin (BBCFS).  *
                                               August
 2 The NIF office says the mujaheddin eliminated a Kabul regime vehicle in a mine blast near pipeline on the double road in Shiberghan, Jauzjan (VOAPS).
 0 The NIF says the mujaheddin attacked 11 July the i*fegime security posts in the center of Sar-e-Pul, capturing nine posts. From the mujaheddin side, six were killed and four injured. In the attacks, the mujaheddin captured light and heavy arms, a truck and a huge quantity of foodstuff (VOAPS).
                                           September
 ^ Resistance sources report the mujaheddin recently captured 10 villages in the Jauzjan (RPDS).
 ,                                          Kabul,
    The mujaheddin shot down 29 June a Kabul regime helicopter gunship with a stinger missile in Paghman, Kabul city (PT).
 0 Resistance sources say the mujaheddin have recently shot down a fighter aircraft of the communist regime in Paghman, Kabul province (RPDS)..
 0 According to Radio Australia, the Afghan mujaheddin captured last week 4 Kabul regime military posts in Paghman (RPDS).
 *  As a result of rocket fired by the mujaheddin on the Qala-E-Moosa, Shahr-e-Nau, Taimani and Shah Ara of Kabul city by the mujaheddin seven persons have been killed and 19 injured (RA).
 "Jl Resistance sources say the Afghan mujaheddin have expelled during the past two weeks Kabul regime soldiers from 14 Military posts in areas only 10 kilometers away from the center of Kabul city(RPDS)
 *  As a result of explosion of a bomb in a vehicle one of our compatriots was killed and two were injured (RA).
 0 Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan reports that the mujaheddin in a two day attack 5-6 July
July-September, 19 88
Vol*2, No.l
 on Kabul regime posts, in Sarobi-Kebul highway* have killed 90 and captured 13 militiamen,. Four mujaheddin have been injured in the operation (VOADS,), "
 *   The Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan reports that the mujaheddin in an operation 16 June on Kabul regime posts in the Pashaie valley of Paghmai}, Kabul province, captured two posts and killed 9 regime officers. They also captured one officer and 9 soldiers (VOADS).
 *  The NLP says the mujaheddin killed 28 June four communists in Paghman, Kabul province (VOADS),
 *   The HLF says the mujaheddin hit 4 July government military centers in Qargah, Shosh Darak, Bagh-e-Daoud, Polytechnic and Khairkhana, Similarly, the mujaheddin, on the same day, hit. a Jet aircraft which crashed in Qargha (VOAPS),
 *  The NLP says the mujaheddin in their attack on the government posts in Paracha, Paghman have
 recovered large quantities of arms (VOADS),                                                        ,
                            QHezb-e-Islami office says the mujaheddin exploded a car bomb 8 July near the Russians' medical
 clinic and the Central military hospital in Kabul, injuring 15 persons (VOAPS),
 *   The ANS says the mujaheddin hit 8 July with rockets the city of Kabul, No report was available ■ about the casualties (VOAPS).
 *   The resistance sources said the mujaheddin blasted 6 July with mine a military vehicle between Qargha and Zarshahkh, Kabul (VOAPS).
 *  Hezb-e-X.slami (Khales) says the mujaheddin have captured during the last two months 30 posts in
 Paghman (VOAPS). .     .
     Reports from Islamabad say in an explosion 8 July near the Soviet hospital in Kabul, a number' of persons have been killed. It has been said that in the explosion 20 Soviet patients were killed and a .large number of others injured. It is the third bomb explosion in Kabul during the last two days
                                                                                                                     (VOAPS).
 12    Diplomatic sources in Islamabad say the mujaheddin have intensified their activities in Kabul and a report has reached about 15 rocket attacks, and two bomb explosions in Kabul city during the last one week, A western diplomat has said the mujaheddin have now consolidated their positions
  10  kms south and west of Kabul (BBCFS).
  13    Quoting diplomatic sources, AFP has reported three military posts, which constituted a part of the Kabul regime defense line in Kabul, have been captured by the mujaheddin. During the last three weeks of fightings more than 20 Kabul soldiers have also been killed (RPDS).
  *  The ANS says a heavy explosion took place 6 July in the central hall of the Kabul regime Republic Palace killing a large number of communist -party members including Soviet officers. The explosion was said to be the strongest ever carried in Kabul city (VOAPS).
  *  A big bomb explosion rocked, the jam packed central conference hall of the Presidential Palace
  6  July, An Afghan airoy Brigadier, incharge of the security of the hall, is responsible for the devastating blast. Moments after the explosion, which left a number of top Red Army officers and officials, of the Kabul regime and members of the Afghan communist party* s youth front dead or wounded, the pro mujaheddin Khalqi Brigadier escaped to Tarakhel, in the outskirts of Kabul city along-with about two hundred heavily armed soldiers and officers of Afghan aimy and Joined a mujaheddin commander, ANS said 12 July (PT), .
                                         240
    July-Sept ember, 1988                 AFGHAN il[HM|                       Vol.2,  No.l
 ^/^Resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 13 July, a convoy heading from Kabul to Jalalabad between Mahipar and Sarobi killing or injuring about 18 soldiers. They also demolished a tank and an armored personnel carrier (VOAPS).
 *  The NIF office says the mujaheddin attacked 6 July posts located in Khurd Kabul. In the attacks,
 60 Kabul regime soldiers and officers were killed or injured, while an ammunition depot, two tanks, a number of heavy arms and four posts were demolished and more than 50 pieces of arms and a wireless set were seized by the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were killed in the attack (VOAPS),
 *   According to Western diplomatic sources, the mujaheddin have stepped up their activities in Kabul during the past one week, reports BBC (PT).
 15^ BBC correspondent reports from Islamabad the mujaheddin have narrowed their positions around Kabul during recent weeks. Recent attack shows that the mujaheddin have got a sufficient number of rockets. According to the mujaheddin reports, they are in a position to easily infiltrate into Kabul (BBCFS).
 *   TASS says 20 rockets hit 15 July mpming the city of Kabul. In the mujaheddin attack, at least 20 persons were killed and 34 others injured (VOADS).
 * Reports reaching the ANA confirm the mujaheddin continue to speed up operations towards the capital (Kabul) while the Kabul puppet regime troops suffer agonizing and demoralizing defeat after defeat as they flee from unrelenting mujaheddin attacks (PT).
 ^ 0More than 100 rockets have been fired at Kabul in the past month as mujaheddin stepped up their attacks on the Afghan capital, TASS reported 17 July (PT),
 19 TASS says at least eight persons have killed in the mujaheddin* s rocket attack on Kabul city
                                                                                             (VOGDS).
  *  Western diplomats in Pakistan say the mujaheddin- have completely sieged the 700 men military cantonment of Paghman. They have said 1 supply and reinforcement routes to that cantonment have been cut off. (VOADS).
  * Fifteen persons were killed and 23 injured 19 July as a result of "reactive" missiles fired on eighth, 10 and 11th districts of Kabul city (RA).
  20   TASS has said, in a mujaheddin rocket fire 19 July on Kabul city, at least eight persons were killed and nine injured (VOADS).
  * Western diplomats say the Kabul regime WAD officials clashed last week with a small group of mujaheddin in Kabul.By distributing a night letter,the mujaheddin have alerted the Kabul citizens to
 ,escalate their activities during holidays by not attending offices (BBCFS).
  * According to a VOA report, the mujaheddin have recently sieged a 700 men military division of the Kabul regime west of Kabul city. Despatch of supplies -and reinforcement has been cut off. Similarly the mujaheddin have captured 14 military posts in the suburbs of Kabul city (RPDS).
  * The Hezb-e-Islami and NIF say the mujaheddin attacked 15 July the Kabul regime posts in Khurd Kabul and captured nine posts, killing 15 troops and capturing 21 others. Three mujaheddin were also killed. Reports say the mujaheddin also hit with heavy weapons 19 July the Kabul apartment buildings quarters (VOAPS).
                                          241
                                                                                        Sept ember | 19 S3
Vol.2, No.l
 *  Sher'Aqa, the representative of the Kochis of Kunar province at the Hquse of the People was killed
 by the mujaheddin.(RA).                                                        *
 22The commander, of Kabul mujaheddin Abdul Haq says the mujaheddin attacked 17 July the Kabul regime military art civil installations capturing eight posts in Ainak,near Kabul. In the attacks, four soldiers were killed and 17 captured by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 *    The Afghanistan resistance sources report, after capturing 14 security posts in Bagranti and Chakari, last week, the mujaheddin captwed another four posts in Khak-e-Jabbar (RPDS), •
 23    Western diplomats have said mujaheddin*s attacks on Kabul city have increased* The mujaheddin are now reported deployed at 10 km south, southeast and west of Kabul city. The mujaheddin leaders have indicated the mujaheddin activities will gain further momentum in coming weeks (BBCFS),
     ‘  ■             ,                                           a        '     1 ■
 *    According to Afghanistan resistance sources, in a recent battle between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Paghman, Kabul, 90 Kabul soldiers were killed and six tanks with seven communist armored vehicles eliminated (RPDS)*,
 24    TASS says about 10 persons were killed 24 July in a mujaheddin rocket attack on Kabul city
                                                                                              (BBCFS)
 *  'Hie Kabul regime has asked the l)N to check mujaheddin rocket attacks on Kabul city (VOAPS),
 *    TASS says the mujaheddin have escalated attacks on Kabul city and have fired 23 July 'four rockets on Kabul; Details of the losses caused in these attacks has so far not been reported (VOAPS).
 *  Mujaheddin sources have said 75 persons have been killed in mujaheddin rocket. attacks on Kabul
  city in the last six weeks.. Four persons were killed 23 July in mujaheddin rocket attacks in Jalalabad city (VOAPS).       .
  25^eP°rts by the Hezb-e-Islami (KhgJ.es) say the mujaheddin fired rockets 15 July on the Kabul regime unit-4 and Unit-15 in Kabul killing eight Kabul troops and capturing seven others. In the attack four heavy guns of the Kabul regime were demolished and 27 pieces of arms and three wireless sets were . also seized by the mujaheddin. From mujaheddin side three were killed and seven others injured (VOAPS)
  *   The Hezb-^-Islami (Khales) says in an attack 15 July on Khak-e-Jabbar, Kabul, the mujaheddin demolished three militia posts and captured four soldiers and an officer (VOAPS).
  *   According to AMRC, the mujaheddin killed 8 July a Soviet adviser in Chicken Street, near Interior Ministry, Kabul and took away his Jeep (VOAPS).
  *   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says in ari operation 6 July, in Mir Bacha Kot, Kabul, the mujaheddin demolished three militia posts and a number of militiamen joined the mujaheddin with their arms
                                                                                            (VOAPS).
  *   The Office of the Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin attacked with rockets, 13 July,radar center and godown .posts in Mir Bacha Kot, Kabul, killing an officer and capturing two Khalq party members and an officer (VOAPS),
 , * The NIF office says the mujaheddin attacked 16 July on five security posts in Deh Sabz, Kabul, killing eight Kabul troops and causing heavy losses in material (VOAPS).
  *   In 10 missiles fires 24 July on Kabul city by mujaheddin, 10 persons including four children were
                                                 242
July-September, 19##
Vol.2# No.l
 killed and 18 others wounded (HMDS).
 26k*™ diplomats say the mujaheddin forces have carried out the most intensive and the longest rocket attacks on Kabul city. They said, a total 170 rockets hit last week the city (VOADS).
 27    Western diplomats in Pakistan say Soviet-Kabul troops have strengthened their positions east of Kabul city* The measure is reported to have been adopted following a series of mujaheddin rocket attacks on Kabul city (BBCFS).
 *  According to western diplomats, most Afghans believe that the Russians too have been launching rocket attacks on Kabul. Eye witness reports say recently Soviet artillery units have carried heavy shelling on the heights of Kbh-e-Asmaee under an impression that the mujaheddin are deployed there. Twenty people were arrested 17 July on charges of protesting against the Soviet heavy shelling in their neighbourhood (VOADS).
 *  According to Western diplomats in Islamabad, Soviet—Kabul troops have broken the siege of a military division near Paghman. Latest reports say Kabul-Paghman highway still remains blocked (BBCFS).
 *  Two kilograms of explosives which were placed by the mujaheddin in a bus in Pul-e-Mahmood Khan, Kabul, was discovered and defused by the security officials before explosion (RA).
 28westem diplomats in Pakistan have said in the mujaheddin rocket attacks on Kabul airport four aircraft were demolished. Three rockets hit three districts in Kabul city killing five persons (VOADS)
 *  Mujaheddin guns fell silent in Paghman, west of Kabul 24 July after two weeks of heavy fighting with Soviet-Kabul troops, western diplomatic sources said 27 July, reports DPA (DN).
 29    The resistance sources say mujaheddin have launched attacks on the offices and posts in Paghman near Kabul. In the attacks, two posts of the regime were eliminated (VOAPS).
 *  The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin demolished 23 July a Kabul regime security post in Pul-e-Charkhi, Kabul, killing or injuring six Kabul regime soldiers and capturing four others. In the attack, the mujaheddin destroyed a tank and a jeep (VOAPS).
 *  The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) says the mujaheddin hit with heavy gun fires 24 July military targets and the Soviets residential areas in Kabul. The shells landed in the homes of the embassy personnel, airport and the Macrorian area. Details of the losses have not so far been available. The mujaheddin also attacked 25 July the Qargha military installations (VOAPS).
 *  The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin captured 16 July Sardar Beg Post, Kabul province. In the attack one person was killed and other personnel of the post with their arms joined the mujaheddin (VOAPS),
 * Reports reaching from Kabul say the mujaheddin fired at a Soviet troops truck in Khairkhana, Kabul killing or wounding six Soviet troops* Similarly a tank and a truck of the Kabul regime were blasted in a mine explosion 22 July on Kabul-Paghman road (VOAPS).
   * Resistance sources said in a recent mujaheddin attack on a Kabul regime convoy in Jadlak, Kabul province eight troops were killed and 10 others injured (RPDS),
 30Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reported that the mujaheddin attacked 24 July with 122mm guns on the Kabul city. (VOAPS).
 *  Thousands of Afghan mujaheddin have been sieging Paghman for the last two weeks cutting supply line
                                                 243
   July-September, 1988
 to that area (JG).
 *  The control of Kabul airport has been given to the military in the face of increased mujaheddin attacks. According to VOG, tanks have been deployed at the airport (NWT).
 *  In an operation by the security forces, groups of thieves were arrested in second, eight and tenth district of Kabul (RA).
 31 The commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Abdul Haq reported that Paghman is still under siege of the mujaheddin and the report about the breach of siege is incorrect. He added the sub divisional center and Pachak Brigade in Paghman are still under the mujaheddin siege. Two tanks and two trucks of the regime were demolished and 15 soldiers killed and the forces have been defeated on the Kargha side (VOAPS).
 *  Heab-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin have captured Murghgiran post in Chahardehi, Mashokh-el, Lalandar of Kabul province. The mujaheddin have also killed or injured 12 Kabul regime troops 24 July in Chashma-e-Bulbul, Paghman (VOAPS).
                                                     August
 ^ Western diplomats in Pakistan say Soviet-Kabul troops are making preparations for a fresh.offensive against the mujaheddin who are attacking Kabul with rockets (VOADS),
 *  Western diplomats report that Soviet forces are preparing to counter the extensive mujaheddin activities in Kabul sector. It has been added in the report that more Soviet troops have been deployed since 29 July in the western part of Kabul city (VOGDS).
 *  The mujaheddin sources in Islamabad say the mujaheddin shot down 29 July an aircraft in Paghman region (VOAPS).
 *  Quoting a communist official of the Kabul regime, Western diplomats say the Soviet troops in collaboration with the Kabul regime forces are preparing for a major offensive on the mujaheddin positions in north west, west and south of Kabul city (VOAPS).
 *  Soviet troops have taken over the defense of Kabul airport after a spate of resistance rocket attacks in which four aircraft were destroyed and 17 people killed, Western diplomats said in Kabul
                                                                                      (MIM).
 *  A group of mujaheddin was wiped out recently by the Kabul regime armed forces in Paghman region, Kabul (HMDS).
  *  Twenty two kg. explosives, placed in the outskirts of Bagrami, Kabul, and which the mujaheddin planned to transport to Kabul city, was discovered and defused by the security forces (RA).
 2  Western diplomats say, fpllowing several days bombing and heavy shelling in Paghman, Kabul, province, Soviet-Kabul forces have now resorted to land offensive. Reports say the offensive has faced stiff resistance (BBCFS).
  *  Western diplomats say Soviet military units, deployed in Baghlan province, have marched towards Kabul to reinforce the Kabul contingents (VOADS).
  3  The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 24 July on Khwaja Rawash airport, Kabul, demolishing four aircraft (VOAPS).
  *  The Kabul regime says it has seized about 1,000 rockets near Kabul which were brought in for
                                               244
attacks on Kabul (BBCFS).
    TASS says a vehicle, carrying explosives, exploded 4 August in a Kabul bazar killing three and injuring nine (VOADS).
 *   The NLF says Kabul regime forces, accompanied by some 300 vehicles, launched attack 30 July on the mujaheddin positions in Khak-e-Jabbar, Kabul province. The Soviet troops also took part in the attack. Fighting still continues but there is no report about losses (VOAPS),.
 *   The resistance sources say the mujaheddin demolished a vehicle of electric plan with four person on board in Naghloo factory, Kabul (VOAPS).
 *   Badges and medals were awarded 4 August to the junior officers who had rendered merritorious services against the mujaheddin in Khak-e-Jabbar, Kabul (RA),
 *   A number of ground to ground rockets placed by the mujaheddin in the outskirts of Paghman were discovered and defused by the Kabul regime security forces (RA),
 0 Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the Kabul regime Air Force and artillery have been bombing since 16 July the mujaheddin centers in Paghman and many people have left their homes. The report.says about 64 civilians have been killed 20 July and 26 July in bombings by the regime in Paghman (VOAPS).
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reports a bus, full of passengers was hit 20 July by the regime heavy shelling in Chandal Bayee bazar, Paghman, killing four women and two children and injuring seven women with two men (VOAPS),
 ^ A Soviet military commander in Afghanistan has said some Soviet military units will start pullout 9 August from Kabul (BBCFS),
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 29 July a Kabul regime post near Kabul airport killing four soldiers and capturing four pieces of arms (VOAPS).
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported, in an attack 26 July on a Kabul regime post in Qarabagh,
 Kabul, the mujaheddin seized 10 items of arms and demolished the post (VOAPS),
 *  The AMEC says in a mujaheddin rocket attack 29 July on Kabul city 40 Soviet troops were killed
                                                                                            (VOAPS).
 0 The first group of Soviet troops scheduled to pullout from Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, left 8 August that city for the Soviet Union. The pullout has taken place only one week before the deadline for the completion of the withdrawal of the 50$ of Soviet troops from Afghanistan (BBCFS),
 *   Soviet troops are extending the defense ring around Kabul to prevent further missile attacks by the Afghan mujaheddin, diplomatic sources said in Kabul 7 August (PT).
 *  In accordance with the Geneva agreement, the Soviet troops withdrawal began 8 August from Kabul city (RA).
                                 ' •                I
   0 The Soviet military sources report from Kabul that a group of 500 Soviet soldiers with 100 military vehicles left Kabul for the Soviet borders. Western sources estimate the number of Soviet troops in Kabul between 20,000 to 22,000 (VOGDS).
   * Defense Minister of the mujaheddin interim government. Din Mohammad who has recently visited Paghman, says the mujaheddin had sieged till 4 August the Kabul regime troops at six places where 600 Kabul regime troops are deployed (VOAPS).
                                          245
    July-Sept ember, 1983                   AFGHAN JIHAD                        Vol.2#  No.l
 *   The NIF says fighting continued; until 7 August between the Kabul regime soldiers and the mujaheddin in Paghman and the Kabul regime troops retreated the same day* The mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime troops in Paghman and the Pachak Brigade killing or injuring scores of soldiers and destroying four tanks and two trucks in Pachak Brigade and two tanks and three trucks in Paghman
                                                                                         (VOAPS)*
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reported the mujaheddin eliminated 22 June - 6 August 40 Kabul regime
 security posts in Paghman* Thirteen tanks and armored vehicles alongwith six trucks of these posts were also demolished (VOAPS).                                                                      .
 *   The NLF says the.Kabul regime forces,which fought the mujaheddin southeast of Kabul, have retreated. The forces fought' the mujaheddin 2-4- August in Khurd Kabul, Khak-e-Jabbar and Chakari*
 Both the Kabul and Soviet troops participated in the battles. In the battle a Soviet Jet aircraft was shot down and 15 tanks, armored vehicle and trucks were demolished while 150 soldiers were killed or injured which also included 30 Soviet troops. The mujaheddin have also captured 30 Kabul regime soldiers. From the mujaheddin side, six were killed and six others injured (VOAPS).
 *   Diplomats say Soviet-Kabul troops have succeeded in strengthening four security posts in Paghman but it is reported that 4-,000 mujaheddin are still active in the region (BBCFS).
 *   A Kabul regime Air Force helicopter which was on a training flight crashed 9 August due to technical fault near Kabul, airport runway as a result of which three buildings were destroyed and a child was killed and a woman injured (RA).
 12    Quoting diplomatic sources in Kabul, The Washington Post has said that after a few days comparative lull, about 30 mujaheddin rockets hit 10 August the Kabul airport (VOADS).
 *   The Ittehad-e-Islami says, in attacks 6 August on the Kabul regime centers in Guldara, Kabul, the mujaheddin demolished four tanks, three trucks and four machineguns (VOAPS)..
 *   The Ittehad-e-Islami has reported, after eight days battle, the Paghman mujaheddin have retreated
 to Sanglakh pass due to shortage of arms and military hardware* The source says the mujaheddin eliminated posts which were built in Saib Bagh, The mujaheddin are launching rocket attacks on Paghman and Kabul from Sanglakh pass (VOAPS).
 *   The Hezb-e-Islami says Soviet-Kabul forces began attacks 31 July on the mujaheddin centers in Chakari, Kabul, but, after six days combat, all the organizations jointly pushed back the Kabul-Soviet troops. In the battle, two tanks and seven military trucks of the regime were destroyed and heavy casualties were inflicted on the Kabul, troops (VOAPS),
    * The ANS says in fightings 8 August between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime in Paghman pass, 27 Soviet troops were killed and 22 Soviet-Kabul posts also demolished. The mujaheddin also captured 15 Soviet troops and a*Soviet helicopter wa3 shot down (VOAPS),
 14     Soviet officials have said in rocket attacks 13 August six persons were killed and six injured in Kabul (BBCFS).
 ^5 '^le reports the mujaheddin shot down 8 August a Soviet military helicopter in Khairkhana Meena, Kabul (VOADS).
 16     Afghan mujaheddin sources say recently they conquered the Shakardara sub-division, Kabul province. The mujaheddin have also captured ten security posts around the sub-division (RPDS).
                                                    . 246
July-September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 *     TASS says the Afghan mujaheddin have fired about ten rockets in the past two days on Kabul city as a result of which five people have been killed and 11 injured (RPDS).
 *     Kabul city was subjected to rocket attack while leader of the Kabul regime Najibullah was speaking in a press conference. Radio Kabul said four persons were killed as a result of this attack and the other rockets fell at Kabul Airport (BBCPS), .
 17    According to Afghan resistance sources the mujaheddin in an attack 14 July on the military center of the Shakardara in Kabul province killed 110 Kabul regime soldiers and captured two tanks, two trucks and a large quantity of arms and supplies (RPDS).
 ^|0 Resistance sources say seven new security posts have been built since 15 July around Kabul.
 In all these posts Soviet troops have been deployed. About 200 troops with tanks and armored personnel carriers have been deployed in every po3t (VOAPS),
 *     A reporter of the Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin shot down 10 August a helicopter in Shakardarra (VOAPS).
 22    Hezb—e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin hit 18 August, Kabul airport with rockets destroying four helicopters and causing more losses to the Kabul regime (VOAPS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reports a Kabul regime jeep was attacked 18 August near Pul-e-Kheshti Mosque, Kabul, as a result of which two persons were killed. A Kabul regime jeep was also hit one day earlier near Pul—e—Charkhi killing or injuring four persons (VOAPS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reports the mujaheddin hit with rockets 18 August the Kabul regime artillery unit of Kargha division and other military installations killing and injuring scopes of soldiers and destroying eight planes and other non—combat vehicles (VOAPS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin rocket 20 August, hit areas near Kabul airport as well as Mahtab Qala. In the first attack a helicopter was destroyed and four soldiers killed or injured. Two explosions also took place the same day in Kabul inflicting casualties to the Kabul regime. (VOAPS).
 24     The resistance sources say an explosion took place 20 August at a Communist regime arms depot in Kabul killing or injuring scores of troops and causing heavy financial losses to the regime
                                                                                           (VOAPS).
  27    In a mujaheddin ground-to-ground rocket fire on eastern Kabul, four persons were killed and 12 others injured 27 August (RA).
  28     TASS has confirmed the mujaheddin attack on the Kabul airport. Altogether 25 rockets are reported to have been launched. TASS said three planes and the airport building are reported damaged
                                                                                            (RPDS).
  30    Reporters say in the attack by the mujaheddin on the Kabul Airport, at least five people have been killed, TASS had earlier said in the attack two Soviet soldiers were killed but in the latest news nothing has been mentioned about them. TASS says Soviet military buildings were hit killing 25 people including eight soldiers (VOAPS).
  31    Western diplomats say Soviet troops are engaged in fighting west of Kabul with the mujaheddin. Sources say 27 August they witnessed canon fire exchange in the Kargha Dam area. Soviet armored
                                                     247
    July-September, 1908              AFGHAN JEHAD                   Vol.2f No.l
 and artillary forces are engaged there to free Paghman from mujaheddin control (VOADS),
 * Diplomatic sources report the mujaheddin have attacked the Kabul Airport with heavy weapons. The airport was closed until six o'clock in the morning. At least one Soviet aircraft has been demolished and four military or civilian planes damaged (VOADS),
                                            September
 1   As a result of heavy weapons fired by the mujaheddin on the 8,91 and 10th districts of Kabul city, four persons have been killed and nine injured 1 September (RA).
 *    Western diplomatic sources say the mujaheddin launched 1 September rocket attacks on the
 Kabul Airport. The report says one plane, full with cargo, exploded. Also the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks on the apartment residential area, Presidential Palace and Bibi Mahro. No details were available about casualties (VOADS).                                  ■ *
 *    The NIF says the mujaheddin, in an attack on the Kabul airport 27 August, demolished about 12 transport and jet aircraft and damaged the airport terminal, runway and several military buildings. Similarly, the mujaheddin 28 August attacked the Sarobi power station tower and demolished several power poles and security posts (VOAPS).
 2   TASS says in the mujaheddin rocket attack on the Kabul airport, nine persons were killed and 21 others injured. AFP reported at least 30 persons were killed. A Soviet source in Kabul said a large number of people have been killed and injured. Western diplomats say the rocket attack was directed at the Kabul airport. In the attack, an ammunition dump and two transport planes were demolished (VOADS).
  *   According to a mujaheddin report, a Kabul regime helicopter gunship was shot down 28 August in Char Asyab Kabul (RPBS),
  *   ANS says the mujaheddin have captured 23 August five communist posts in Chashma-e-Bulbul, Paghman, Kabul province. In the operation, 27 Kabul regime troops were killed and from 30-3$ items
  of arms seized by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  *   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin hit 27 August with rockets Kabul regime post of Qala-e-Murad Baig, Qala-e-Sufaid, and Qala-e-Dasht, Kabul province. In the battle the mujaheddin captured $3 militiamen alive and seized 110 items of arms. The source says the mujaheddin also attacked 29 August the Kabul regime new post in Shakar Dara and captured the post. The mujaheddin have captured. 10 militiamen alive while about 40 items of arms were also seized. On the same day, the mujaheddin attacked a communist military convoy on the Shakar Darra road destroying two tanks
                                                                                                                       (VOAPS).
  3   •^le resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 31 August, Pul-e—Charkhi, Khak-e—Jabbar area, and Military University Southeast of Kabul causing losses in men and material (VOADS).
  ^ The office of Ittehad-e-Islarai says the mujaheddin launched attack 27 August on a Kabul regime battalion in Paghman killing four officers and a large number of troops and seized 20 items of arms (VOAPS).        ;
  *   The ANS says, in an attack 28 August, the mujaheddin captured three Kabul regime security posts in the Paghman pass. In the attack 12 Kabul troops were killed and 25 others were captured alive by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also seized $3 items of arms from the posts (VOAPS).
248
J uly—September , 1985
Vol.2t No.l
 Q The AMRC says, due to the mujaheddin rocket attacks on the military installations in Pul-e-Charkhi, Kabul, families of military officers in that area have been sent to Kabul (VOAPS).
 *    Reports say a number of ground-to-ground rockets,which the mujaheddin planned to fire on Kabul city, were discovered by the Kabul security forces (RMDS).
 0. Western diplomats in Pakistan quote reports from Afghanistan that the mujaheddin pressure on Kabul city has intensified and, in addition to rocket attacks, they have cut-off main roads around Kabul and have strengthened their positions near the city (VOADS).
 *    Western diplomats in Islamabad said the mujaheddin 1 September attack on Kabul Airport has caused heavy damages to the airpost. TASS said in the attack two transport planes and a helicopter were demolished (VOADS).
 ^ Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyan) said the mujaheddin attacked and captured 30 August Kabul regime posts in Dilchakan of Mir Bachakot, Kabul province. Following the operation, a commander with four mujaheddin on way back to their base were killed after being ambushed. The mujaheddin attacked the same day communist posts in Zamma and captured 12 militiamen alive (VOAPS). .
 0    TASS says the Kabul regime security forces defused a bomb,, placed in a truck, in Pul-e-Charkhi. TASS adds the resistance forces had brought the bomb from Pakistan (VOADS).
 *    The Ittehad—e—Islami organization says the mujaheddin demolished 5 September Kabul regime seven posts in Paghman,Kabul, and seized many type of arms. The source adds in the attacks the mujaheddin also burnt the Kabul regime ammunition dumps and food depots (VOAPS).
 *    The Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin fired rockets 5 September on security posts built oh the site of Kabul water reservior. In these attacks, the political administrator of Paghman was killed and the mujaheddin captured six soldiers alive (VOAPS).
 *    The AMRC says the mujaheddin hit with rockets 2 September two oil tankers in Karabagh, north of Kabul demolishing than with their crewmen (VOAPS).
 0    The office of Jamiat—e-Islami says the mujaheddin attacked 29 August the Kabul airport, Qargha-S division and police academy in Afshar. (VOAPS).
 *  The NIF says the mujaheddin destroyed 6 September three electric poles in Sarobi sub division
                                                                                        (VOAPS).
10
 Afghan mujaheddin sources say they recently shot down a Kabul regime helicopter in Khair-khana Meena, Kabul city. It has also been reported that, following mujaheddin attack, Kabul airport is still closed since last week (RPDS).
  *     Seven kilogram explosives, brought into Kabul by the mujaheddin,were discovered and defused_
  9  September by the Kabul regime security forces while it was being transported to the Maiwand Monument (RA).
  H TASS has reported fresh combats in the outskirts of Kabul and says in Kabul regime operations against the mujaheddin subversive activities who are responsible for roeket attacks on Kabul city, 50 mujaheddin have been killed and a number of others injured (BBCFS). *
  *     Commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) in Kabul, Abdul Haq has reported the mujaheddin attacked
July-Sept ember, 19 8#
Vol.2# No.l
 6 September a Kabul regime military contingent on way to Paghman from Kabul destroying^pine tanks, armored vehicles and trucks while 40 troops were killed and seven others with their arms joined the mujaheddin. The report adds, the mujaheddin destroyed 10 posts in Paghman and have seized 30 items of arms while three tanks have also been demolished (VOAPS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says about 70 posts in the vicinity of Paghman have been demolished by the mujaheddin and the KHAD office in the sub division has also been eliminated. From the mujaheddin two were killed and 12 injured (VOAPS).
 *     Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami says two Kabul regime helicopters flying from Gardez to Kabul were hit 8 September with rockets by the mujaheddin in Altamore. One helicopter fell in Altamore and the other in Chahar Asiab (VOAPS).
 *     In an explosion in a VOIGA car by the mujaheddin in front of the Afghan Cart building, Shar-e-Naw, Kabul 11 September, 10 persons were killed and 22 others injured while AO shops and 10 vehicles damaged (RA).
 *     Seven kilogram explosives, being transported by a motorcycle, was captured 11 September by the security forces in Chaman-e-Huzoori, Kabul (RA).
 13   The Afghanistan resistance sources have said the mujaheddin launched 10 September attacks on
 the Kabul regime posts in Sarobi, Kabul province, killing or injuring 14 Kabul regime troops and capturing four posts. One mujahed was injured. In the attack the mujaheddin seized 19 items of aims (VOAPS).                                             '
 14    The Jamiat-e-Islami says the mujaheddin in an attack on the Kabul regime military convoy in Khawaja Musafer heading towards Paghman from Kabul demolished 17 Kabul regime military and civilian vehicles and killed or injured scores of troops and militiamen. From the mujaheddin 10 were injured (VOAPS).
 *     The mujaheddin sources in Peshawar say in their attack 11 September, on the Kabul regime troops in Mahipar on Kabul-Jalalabad Highway, the mujaheddin killed four Kabul regime soldiers
                                                                                        (VOAPS).
 15    The Afghan mujaheddin claim that in a attack on the Kabul airport two fighter planes and three helicopters were eliminated (VOADS).
 *     The Ittehad-^-Islami says the Paghman mujaheddin launched rocket attack 8 September on a main Soviet base in Darul Aman. Details of Soviet casualties are not known. Flames were raising from the base. In retaliation, the Soviets carried out artillery shelling in the near bye places as a result of which two mujaheddin were killed and another injured (VOAPS).
 16    The NIF of Afghanistan said the mujaheddin demolished 13-14 September a bridge near Sarobi Kabul, province, closing the Kabul-Jalalabad highway for traffic for the whole day (VOADS).
 *     According to a report, three ground-to-ground rockets were fired 15 September by the mujaheddin in 9th district of Kabul city as a result of which a residential building in Bibi Mehru was damaged. No human casualties are reported (RA).
 19 The Ittehad-e—Islami organization says the mujaheddin have captured 16 September Sarai—e— Khwaja, Kabul province (VOAPS).
                                         250
July-September, 198&
 Vol.2, No.l
 20    The mujaheddin fired 20 September six rockets on several areas of Kabul city killing 10 and injuring eight (RA).
 21    The NIF has reported the mujaheddin jointly captured 17 September, Paghman sub division, Kabul. A part of Paghman had already been under the mujaheddin control (VOADS).
 22    Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 14-15 September a Kabul regime supply convoy in Cheshma-e-Bulbul, Paghman, Kabul province, and destroyed three tanks (VOADS).
 * Resistance'sources say, the mujaheddin demolished 16 September a post in the second security belt around Kabul city. They also demolished three tanks (VOA.DS),
23
 Kabul radio said fighting continues in Paghman and 300 mujaheddin have been killed. The mujaheddin say they have.captured the city a fortnight ago. Fierce fighting is reported continuing in Paghman between the communists and the mujaheddin (BBCPS).
 25    TASS says the Afghan mujaheddin fired 25 September two rockets on the civil population of Kabul city. TASS did not mention the casualties (BBCFS).
 * In five ground-to-ground rocket fires 25 September on Kabul city, by the mujaheddin, two buildings were partly damaged and two persons injured (RA).
26
 Resistance sources said the mujaheddin have recently shot down a Kabul regime aircraft in Paghman (RPDS).
 * An Afghan cameraman, Khan Allah, of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan was killed during a fighting between mujaheddin and Kabul regime soldiers in Paghman sub division, 18 September (PT).
 „                                       Kandahar 1  July
 2 The Harakat-e-Enqelabi Afghanistan in Quetta says the mujaheddin destroyed 30 June three tanks in Baba Saheb sub division, Kandahar, and the mujaheddin shot down a helicopter which crashed in the Safi desert. The crewmen of the helicopter - - all Soviet officers-were killed (V0APS).
 * The Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan says in their rocket attacks 23 June on government forces in Baba Saheb, Kandahar, the mujaheddin demolished a tanks with its crewmen. The mujaheddin are reported to have eliminated the Kabul regime arms depot in the Baba Saheb Kotal (VOAPS).
 * The Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin attacked 18 June a security post in Ghargi of Dand, Kandahar,in which seven militiamen were killed and.four others injured. Similarly,the mujaheddin launched rocket attack 21 June on a Soviet military post in Baba Ghazi Hill. In the attack at least seven Soviet troops were killed and six others injured and a tank was demolished (VOAPS).
 * The mujaheddin sources in Quetta said a tractor' carrying arms for the mujaheddin in Kandahar was hit by Russian rocket and demolished in Char Bagh region. In the attack, one mujahed was killed and another injured (VOAPS).
 2 An American correspondent, who has recently visited Kandahar, in an interview in Washington has said battles continue successfully in Kandahar and it is expected to soon end. He says most astonishing to me was that Soviet troops were still fighting the mujaheddin in Kandahar (VOADS).
 * The Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan has said in an attack 30 June on a Soviet military convoy heading towards Kandahar airport from Zeeri Dasht, the mujaheddin demolished two tanks and trucks and
                                         251
July-Sept ember, 19 #6
Vol.2, No.l
 20    The mujaheddin fired 20 September six rockets on several areas of Kabul city killing 10 and injuring eight (RA).
 2^ The NIF has reported the mujaheddin jointly captured 17 September, Paghman sub division, Kabul. A part of Paghman had already been under the mujaheddin control (VOADS).
 22    Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 14--15 September a Kabul regime supply convoy in Cheshma-e-Bulbul, Paghman, Kabul province, and destroyed three tanks (VOADS),
 * Resistance sources say, the mujaheddin demolished 16 September a post in the second security belt around Kabul city. They also demolished three tanks (VOADS).
23
 Kabul radio said fighting continues in Paghman and 300 mujaheddin have been killed. The mujaheddin say they have captured the city a fortnight ago. Fierce fighting is reported continuing in Paghman between the communists and the mujaheddin (BBCPS).
 25    TASS sa7s the Afghan mujaheddin fired 25 September two rockets on the civil population of Kabul city. TASS did not mention the casualties (BBCFS).
 * In five ground-to-ground rocket fires 25 September on Kabul city, by the mujaheddin, two buildings were partly damaged and two persons injured (RA).
26
 Resistance sources said the mujaheddin have recently shot down a Kabul regime aircraft in Paghman (RPDS).
 * An Afghan cameraman, Khan Allah, of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan was killed during a fighting between mujaheddin and Kabul regime soldiers in Paghman sub division, 18 September (PT).
 .                                       Kandahar »  duly
 2 The Harakat-e-Enqelabi Afghanistan in Quetta says the mujaheddin destroyed 30 June three tanks in Baba Saheb sub division, Kandahar, and the mujaheddin shot down a helicopter which crashed in the Safi desert. The crewmen of the helicopter - all Soviet officers - were killed (V0APS).
 * The Ittehad-e~Islami Afghanistan says in their rocket attacks 23 June on government forces in Baba Saheb, Kandahar, the mujaheddin demolished a tanks with its crewmen. The mujaheddin are reported to have eliminated the Kabul regime arms depot in the Baba Saheb Kotal (VOAPS).
 * The Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin attacked 18 June a security post in Ghargi of Dand, Kandahar,in which seven militiamen were killed and four others injured. Similarly,the mujaheddin launched rocket attack 21 June on a Soviet military post in Baba Ghazi Hill. In the attack at least seven Soviet troops were killed and six others injured and a tank was demolished (VOAPS).
 * The mujaheddin sources in Quetta said a tractor carrying arms for the mujaheddin in Kandahar was hit by Russian rocket and demolished in Char Bagh region. In the attack, one mujahed was killed and another injured (VOAPS).
 2 An American correspondent, who has recently visited Kandahar, in an interview in Washington has said battles continue successfully in Kandahar and it is expected to soon end. He says most astonishing to me was that Soviet troops were still fighting the mujaheddin in Kandahar (VOADS).
 * The Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan has said in an attack 30 June on a Soviet military convoy heading towards Kandahar airport from Zeeri Dasht, the mujaheddin demolished two tanks and trucks and
                                                       251
July-September, I988             AFGHAN J[HAD                   Vol.2, No.l
 ^•i-lle<i "three Soviets. The mujaheddin entered Arghandab and Mahallajat without sustaining any losses
                                                                                                                      (VOADS).
 *  A commander of the Ittehad-e-Islami reported that the mujaheddin attacked 24 June a Soviet military post known as "Tor Posta" in Kushk-e-Nakhud as a result of which a tank and two trucks with all the persons on board were eliminated and damages were also caused to the post. From the mujaheddin side three were killed and seven others injured (VOADS).
 *  The NLF says Kabul militiamen in Baba Saheb sub division first arrested and later killed by a firing squard AO civilians on the charges of cooperating with the mujaheddin. It is said the deceased were shifting the women and children to Khakrez as to save them from Soviet bombing(VOADS)
 *  The Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-I slami Afghanistan says in Quetta the mujaheddin in an attack on Kabul regime post along the Kandahar-Spin Boldak highway which continued until 2 July, occupied 3 posts and 15 soldiers defected to the mujaheddin. Furthermore, as a result of rockets fired by mujaheddin on Spin Boldak the same day, 35 government personnel were killed (VOADS).
 *  The NtF reports that the mujaheddin 28 June in an attack on Kandahar Textile Mill killed 3 communists .and injured five of them. Also they burned four jeeps and a truck (VOADS),.
 *  Resistance sources in Quetta say that the mujaheddin 29 June in a rocket attack on the airport and the new cantonment, as well as Soviet Army residential quarters in the city of Kandahar, killed 4 Soviet soldiers and destroy two tanks. Similarly, five Kabul regime soldiers were killed and 3 lorries demolished in the new cantonment. Reports about the communist losses at the airport were not available (VOADS).
 0 Resistance sources in Quetta say the mujaheddin 3 July killed 25 communist soldiers in firings over a Kabul regime brigade in Spin Boldak, Kandahar (VOADS),
 0 The Afghanistan resistance sources say in an attack 4 July on the Soviet-Kabul troops in Arghandab, Kandahar, the mujaheddin demolished a tank and killed or injured eight Kabul regime soldiers
                                                                                          (RPDS).
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have shot down one Kabul regime fighter aircraft in Kandahar province (JG).
 10   Resistance sources report, from Quetta a Soviet helicopter, while bombarding 9 July the mujaheddin positions in Baba Saheb Kandahar, was shot down by the mujaheddin with rockets. All its crew was reported killed (VOADS).
 *  An apparatus of American Stinger rocket launcher was discovered and shifted recently by the security forces-of the Kabul regime in Kandahar (RA).
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have embarked upon a decisive battle for capturing Kandahar (NWT).
 H The Afghan mujaheddin officials say in a two day fierce battle, a Soviet helicopter gunship has been shot down near Kandahar. All the three Soviet soldiers on board were reported killed (VOAPS).
 12   The resistance sources say Kabul government commander Mulla Malang recently joined the mujaheddin shifting hundreds of his supporters to Panjshir from posts east of Kabul. The Mulla Malang has no relation with the martyred Mulla Malang of the Kandahar mujaheddin (VOADS).
 13  In a news reel the British Commercial television has displayed a film on battles in Kandahar city, where the skeltons of Soviet tanks and armored vehicles are seen and it shows the heavy losses caused to the Soviet-Kabul forces (BBCFS).
                                          252
July-Sept ember, 19 88
ir«
 Vol.2, No.l
 from these sources in Kabul say the process of withdrawal has begun (BBCFS).
 ^ The Commander of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, Boris Gramov has told The Pravda in Kabul that two grand regiments of the Soviet troops will arrive 11 August in the Soviet Union from Kandahar
                                                                                          (RPDS).
 *   Quoting an eye witness, who has seen the Soviet troops withdrawal from Kandahar, the mujaheddin sources said the Soviets have even taken with them the Skeltons of the destroyed planes and helicopters and the wood used in the construction of military barracks (VOADS).
 *   The resistance sources said a Soviet military convoy, intending to withdraw from Kandahar 1 August, was subjected to .an ambush by the mujaheddin of Panjwaee on the Sher Agha double road. It is said Soviet troops were forced to return to Kandahar. In the battle, a tank, two trucks and two oil tankers were demolished and at least 18 Soviet troops were killed and seven others injured. From
 the mujaheddin side, eight were killed and six were injured (VOAPS).
 *  The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the Kabul regime forces have shifted Soviet troops from Shah-joey, Zabul and Moqor, Ghazni, to Kandahar airport and deployed them in various areas (VOAPS).
  0 TASS has confirmed the withdrawal of all Soviet troops from Kandahar (VOADS).
  *   Sixty ground-to ground rockets,placed in the outskirts of Kandahar province,were discovered and captured 7 August by the Kabul regime officials (RA).
  *   The Afghan mujaheddin sources in Quetta, Pakistan, said their men ambushed last week a Soviet military convoy while retreating from Kandahar.As a result 25 Soviet troops were killed and 14 tanks transport vehicles were demolished (BBCFS).
  9   The Afghanistan resistance sources report the mujaheddin fired 7 August 250 rockets on Kandahar airport as a result of which a helicopter and two aircraft as well as godowns and workshops were set on fire and following the mujaheddin rocket attacks, the last military soviet convoy left Kandahar airport and treated the main Kandahar road (VOADS),
 *   The resistance sources in Quetta say the mujaheddin commanders are currently busy in planning a final attack on Kandahar city. They say they hope to launch their attack within a week. The sources say the number of mujaheddin in the outskirts of the city has reached 6,000 to 7,000 (VOADS),
 *   The Afghan News Agency Quetta Bureau reports that the Afghan mujaheddin launched 3 August a joint attack on the Russian military convoys near the intersection of Shah Agha and Bagh-e-Nazar Jan, Kandahar city. Five tanks were destroyed and 18 Russian soldiers were killed and three tanks and five lorries were set ablaze in the vicinity of Bagh-e-Nazar Jan. (PT).
 10   Soviet officials have confirmed that during withdrawal of Soviet troops from Kandahar, three Soviet troops were killed and nine others wounded (BBCFS).
 *   The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported that a communist convoy, moving from Kalat, Zabul, to Kandahar,was attacked 31 July in Safa city, Zabul, by the mujaheddin as a result of which an armored personnel carrier, three military trucks and a heavy gun was demolished and seven troops killed. Two others, with their arms, surrendered to the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 *   The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says in mujaheddin attacks A—5 August on the Kandahar Revenue Office and Mechanical Area Base of Kandahar, the Revenue Office post and four trucks were demolished and 12 Kabul soldiers were killed and three others injured. In the Mechanial Area Base, a
                                                  254
    July-^eptember, 1988                   AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.2, No.l
 post was demolished and 19 KHAD members were killed or injured (VOADS).
 *  The Ittehad-e-Islami has reported that a part of the Soviet troops, who, by availing themselves of the sand route, were passing through Chopaili and Nawrozi regions in Kandahar, fell victim to the mujaheddin rocket attacks in Teeri as a result of which a truck with all the persons on board was demolished (VOADS).
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reported that the mujaheddin launched rocket attack 5 August on Kandahar military division, demolishing a jeep, killing two soldiers and injuring five others (VOADS).
      Quoting a Kabul regime colonel, The Pravda writes Soviet troops have withdrawn from Kandahar and the Kabul regime troops might be facing some problems in the maintenance of control of that city (VOAPS).
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says, after killing their four officers, 30 Muslim soldiers of the regime with their arms joined 7 August the mujaheddin in Kandahar (.VOADS).
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports the mujaheddin attacked 8 August, on the posts of Kandahar silo as a result of which six soldiers with their arms joined the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 ^|2According to the VOA report, following the Soviet troops pullout, Kandahar city, has been sieged by the mujaheddin and all important locations, including the highway leading to Kabul, are under the mujaheddin control and only two or three roads are under the control of the Kabul regime forces
                                                                                        . (RPDS).
 *  The Ittehad-e-Islajni has reported, in their attack 1C August on a Communist government patrol party in Daman, Kandahar, the mujaheddin eliminated a truck with four "Jauz jani'V militiamen while another four injured militiamen could escape (VOADS).
 *  Western diplomats say few days after capturing the strategic bases of the Kabul communist regime, the mujaheddin will now make an attempt to capture the entire Kandahar city (VOAPS).
 19    The Afghanistan resistance sources reported Kabul troops attacked 14 and 15 August the mujah-heddin positions in Baba Saheb, Kandahar, in order to open supply routes. The source said five Kabul regime men with their arms were captured by the mujaheddin while a number of them were killed
 or injured and the remaining (VOADS).
 ' • <
 *     Resistance sources report a truck, carrying 30 militiamen and a motor-cycle carrying the D&-puty Chief of KHAD of Kandahar on their way to launch an ambush on the mujaheddin positions in the Outskirts of Daman, Kandahar, fell victim to a mujaheddin attack. The truck with those on board is reported demolished and the KHAD Deputy Chief seriously injured (VOADS).
 20    An Afghan mujaheddin commander in Kandahar, Mulla Nooruddin says, following Soviet troops withdrawal from that province, the mujaheddin have pledged, to continue the war until an Islamic government is formed (VOADS).
 *     The NIF says the mujaheddin launched a joint attack 18 August on a Kabul regime military base 10 km west of Kandahar demolishing the base, killing 18 soldiers and officers and capturing 14 others. The entire arms in the depot of that base, including heavy arms, are reported to have been captured by the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 22    The Afghan mujaheddin say they have captured a military convoy eight kilometers south of Kandahar. In the attack the mujaheddin seized six tanks and a huge quantity of arms (VOGDS).
                                                    255
    July-September, 1938                 AfGHAN J[HAD                        Vol.2t No.l
 *     The Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin have captured the Baba Wali Saheb area of Kandahar and all troops deployed there were captured by the mujaheddin. Occupation of Baba Wali Saheb by the mujaheddin adds to the mujaheddin pressure on the Kabul regime forces in Kandahar
                                                                                     (RPDS).
 *     Resistance sources say the mujaheddin have strengthened their positions in Baba Wali Saheb, Kandahar and, according to a report of Hezb-e-Islami {Hekmatyar), the citizens of Kandahar have been asked to vacate, the city at the earliest. The source says, 14 security posts on the main road have been eliminated till 21 August and attacks continue on all other communists posts. (VOADS).
 24 The NIF reported that a unit of the communist forces, heading 20 August from Kandahar Silo to Kandahar city,was attacked by the mujaheddin on Panjwaee Double Road. After eight hours combat, four tanks and six trucks were demolished and at least 60 security personnel of the regime were killed, while 19 troops and six officers were captured by the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 *     Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan ,says the mujaheddin carried out 19 August heavy shelling on Commando Battalion in Manzil Bagh, Kandahar. A number of vehicles of the communists are reported demolished. According to the report, 17 government officials were killed and three others captured (VOADS).
 *   • Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in Quetta reported that a unit of the communists forces which was
 planning 19 August to carry aid to Baba Saheb sub division was attacked by the mujaheddin at Shah Agha Double Road, Kandahar, as a result of which, the unit was forced to retreat after losing two tanks and three trucks. In the attack 50 Kabul regime troops with their arms joined the mujaheddin
              •                                                                           (VOADS).
 * Diplomatic sources have said the Kandahar city is practically under mujaheddin control and the Kabul regime troops are only in control of. the airport or some central places in the city (RPDS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in Quetta says the mujaheddin began 23 August heavy shelling on Kandahar airport as a result of which a fierce fire broke out in the airport but details of losses are not known (VOAPS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) reports the mujaheddin have blocked the Herat-Kandahar highway which they occupied at Haji Nazar Bagh and the mujaheddin have established their trenches on both sides of the road. The road is reported to have been blocked following the capture of Baba Saheb sub division by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 * The Ittehad—e-Islami says the mujaheddin attacked with rockets 19 August the Kandahar Corps Headquarters while the Kandahar governor was holding a meeting there. In the rocket attack eight Kabul troops were killed and 11 injured (VOAPS).
 * The Ittehad-e-Islami has reported in mujaheddin attacks in the Baba Saheb, about 100 Kabul troops were killed and some others captured while the remaining fled away (VOAPS)..
25
over
 The ANA said, after two months of heavy pressure, the mujaheddin have gained control Arghhndab, near the Kandahar city (RPDS).
 29    HeZb-e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) says the mujaheddin in a rocket attack 28 August on Kandahar airport set a laze two helicopters and a plane. The source said five tanks, seven trucks, three oil tankers and a big ammunition depot were set on fire and destroyed. Besides 52 personnel and 12 military officers of the communist regime were also killed while heavy losses were also re-
                                                       256
   July-September, 1988                  AFGHAN JIHAD                      Vol.2,  No.l
 ported to have been caused to several buildings (VOADS),
 *    The Afghan mujaheddin sources said 16 communist helicopters arrived 27 August in Kandahar airport in order to check possible mujaheddin attack on Kandahar city* Meanwhile a Kabul regime bomber aircraft while bombarding 28 August the mujaheddin positions in Panjwaee was reported hit by the mujaheddin rocket and crashed in Kandahar city (VOADS).
 *    The NIF of Afghanistan in Quetta said the mujaheddin attacked 27 August a communist security convoy which was crossing the Panjwaee Double Road as a result of which two tanks with their crew were demolished. Twelve soldiers with their arms defected to the mujaheddin. The convoy remained under the mujaheddin sieg until 29 August, (VOADS),
 *     The Afghan mujaheddin sources report that fighting continued between the mujaheddin and comnunits in Spin Boldak, Kandahar, They said, the mujaheddin have captured till 28 August four posts (VOADS),
 *     Resistance sources have said, in their operations in Kandahar province, the mujaheddin have captured so far Panjwaee, Shah Wall Kote, Arghistan, maaroof and Arghandab sub divisions and they have now sieged the Kandahar city itself (RPDS),
 30    Reports from Kandahar say the Kabul regime control of the city is now confined only to the military contonment and the airport. The Kabul regime in its futile attempt to avoid the fall of the city to the mujaheddin have appointed a KHAD official as the governor of Kandahar (RPDS),
 *     Bakhtar says army units in Kandahar are in complete control of the situation and, with the cooperation of the people, are independently taking part in maintaining peaceful atmosphere there
                                                                                         (RA).
31
 Western diplomats say , as a result of an attack 28 August on Kandahar Airport, one helicopter, one jet plane and several vehicles as well as an arms depot has been destroyed. The diplomats said in the attack 74 Kabul regime soldiers, including 12 officers, have also been killed (VOADS),
                                             September
 T The NIF reports all mujaheddin organizations in an attack 23 August on the Kandahar Silo which is a strong communist bastion conquered the building 1 September, Reports say four tanks, one vehicle and a large number of heavy and light arms fell to the mujaheddin. Sixty communist soldiers have been killed and thirty captured. The mujaheddin have rendered six killed and six injured
                                                                               (VOADS).
 2; The Afghanistan resistance sources say a number of Soviet troops have been airlifted to Kandahar city, Afghanistan, to help the Kabul regime troops in defense against the mujaheddin attacks
                                                                                                        (BBCFS).
 *  Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan reported that, in an attack 26 August on a post in northern Kandahar, two tanks were danolished and 12 troops with three officers killed (VOADS),-
 *  The NIF reported that the Afghan mujaheddin shot down 1 September a communist jet fighter aircraft in Panjwaee, Kandahar (VOADS),
 0  The Afghan mujaheddin sources said thousands of Kabul regime soldiers have been transported to Kandahar and deployed at Kandahar airport. Hundreds of soldiers, equipped with modem weapons, have been despatched to Kandahar during the last three days. The step has been taken following the
                                         257
July-September, I98S
 Vol.2, No.l
 capture of a big military division.at 12 km from Kandahar, The mujaheddin are presently deployed at four or five kilometers from the center of the city (RPDS),
 0    The NIP said 13 militia commanders of Esmat Kandahari alongwith their men have joined the mujaheddin in Spin Boldak.- The defection took place 3-4 September and hundreds of them arrived in Cha-mant Pakistan, They brought with them 60 vehicles and hundreds of light and heavy weapons and surrendered to the mujaheddin (TOADS).
 * The NIF says, after a fierce fighting 4 September, the mujaheddin captured a base of Esmat Kandahari militia in Spin Boldak, Kandahar. In the battle two tanks and five trucks are reported to have been captured by the mujaheddin (TOADS).
 *    The Afghan mujaheddin sources report from Kandahar 2,000 Soviet troops, 2,000 Jauzjani militiamen and 3*000 Kabul regime trained in the Soviet Union arrived 1-4 September in Kandahar airport
                                                                                         (TOADS).
 ^ The Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin have gained recently control of the southern highway of Kandahar leading to the Pakistan borders (BBCFS).
 0    Reports from the mujaheddin sources say a Kabul regime militia commander Esmat Muslim has fled from his base in Spin Boldak to Kandahar due to increased pressure from the mujaheddin (RPDS).
 3    Mujaheddin sources have reported from Quetta they captured 9 September Spin Boldak, Kandahar.
 The mujaheddin have seized 400 items of arms and a number of tanks and armored personnel carriers and 400 Kabul regime troops (VOADS).
 10 Ittehad-e-ilslami Afghanistan reported that after, three months battle, Spin Boldak sub division fell 9 September to the mujaheddin. One thousand two hundred kilashinkovs, 12 tanks, 80 trucks, 50 heavy arms and a huge quantity of foodstuff were captured by the mujaheddin in that sub division. In the battle about 250 government troops were killed and 400 others captured by the mujaheddin.
 From the mujaheddin side, 65 were killed and a number of others injured (VOADS).
 *      The BBC correspondent reported that 280 families of the militia of Esmat Muslim joined 9 September the mujaheddin in Kandahar. The IUAM President, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said there all altogether some 3»000 people in the families who have surrendered. Fighting continues against the militia of Esmat Muslim. They will either surrender or will be shattered, he said (BBCPS).
        The Afghanistan resistance sources report that the Kandahar main prison in the western part of the city was recently captured by the mujaheddin and all the prisoners were freed (VOADS).
 *      The resistance sources report the mujaheddin in a joint attack have captured in Kandahar city posts. According to the report 10 regime armored tanks were demolished and 10 troops killed. The mujaheddin also captured 75 items of arms. The source adds, the mujaheddin launched attack with heavy arms on the Marz Qala base destroying the ammunition dump of the base (VOADS).
                                                                  a
 *      Hie Kabul regime bomber aircraft are reported to have resorted to carpet bombing on Spin Boldak, Kandahar, recently captured by the mujaheddin. Heavy casualties have been inflicted on the civilians (RPDS).
 12 The Washington Times writes that according to the Afghan mujaheddin, in the extensive bombardment of Spin Boldak, Kandahar by the Kabul regime forces, about 500 persons are reported killed.
                                        258
J uly-Sept ember
Vol.2, No.l
 The report said dead bodies are lying in the streets (VOADS).
 *     A NIF source said 300 militiamen of Esmat Muslim have so far joined that organization in Kandahar (VOADS).
 *     The mujaheddin claim the Kabul regime forces,.who were recently reinforced in Kandahar with another 7,000 troops, are only in control of the airport and a small portion of the city (VOADS).
 14 A leader of the IUAM in Pakistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has refuted reports quoting the mujaheddin commanders early this month that 500 Soviet troops were brought in Kandahar city (BBCFS).
 *     The Afghanistan resistance sources say the Mahal]ajat mujaheddin in Kandahar attacked 8 Sep-tember the Saddoza and Dand posts demolishing an armored vehicle and killing at least 15 communist government. The mujaheddin attacked the same day with heavy arms the telecommunication office as a result of which a Kabul regime tank and a truck were demolished and five officers were killed
                                                                                         (VOADS).
 *     The resistance sources report that the Kandahar mujaheddin destroyed 4 September a post new government cantonement in that province. In the combat, 14 Kabul troops were captured and 30 others killed (VOADS).
  15    Reports from Afghanistan say the mujaheddin captured recently Takhtapul and Dorahi near Kandahar 22 km from that city. The regions were captured four days after the fall of Spin Boldak to the mujaheddin (RPDS).
 1     After affirming the occupation of Spin Boldak, the Afghan mujaheddin are engaged in finalizing the strategy for wiping out the military garrisons on the highway and in surrounding areas
                                                                                              (FT).
  ' The Nation (Lahore) reported 16 September two Arab youth who participated in fighting in the mujaheddin ranks in Spin Boldak, have been killed.The newspaper reported that the two had joined mujaheddin ranks seven years ago (RA).
 18    A report of the Afghan resistance source says during their repeated attacks in Takhta-e-Pul, Kandahar, the mujaheddin killed 20 Kabul regime troops and captured five tanks and three military-men with 20 items of arms. In the battle four mujaheddin were killed (RPDS).
 *     Two Arabs reportedly died while fighting against the Kabul regime troops in the Afghan border town Spin Boldak 9 September (MIM).
 20    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports the mujaheddin attacked 12 September the Kandahar Commando Brigade with heavy arms. As a result two ammunition dumps were set ablaze and 30 men were killed and eight injured. One mujahed was injured (VOADS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the Kandahar mujaheddin attacked 12 September the Chehl Zeena posts destroying two tanks and killing an unknown number of government troops. From the mujaheddin side one was killed and three injured (VOADS).
 21    The Kabul regime has accused Pakistan of sending military advisers to help Afghan mujaheddin currently fighting in Afghanistan. Bakhtar has pointed out in this connection to combats in Spin ' Boldak and Kandahar city (BBCFS).
 *      The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in the mujaheddin attacked 17 and 19 September the
                                          259
July-September, 1983
 Vol.2, No.'l
 Kandahar airport, four planes were demolished at the airport. Ten government troops were also killed (VOADS).
 23    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) said the mujaheddin launched 18 September, ground-to-ground rockets on the new Kandahar cantonement demolishing five trucks, killing five troops and injuring eight others. A logistic depot of the regime was also set on fire (VOADS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported that the mujaheddin attacked 20 September two Kabul regime trucks in Shorandam, Kandahar, eliminating a truck with 17 persons on board. The mujaheddin captured ly September, a post in Loya Wara, Kandahar, seizing the essential goods from that post
                                                                                          (VOADS).
 24    The Afghan mujaheddin are reported to have blocked the supply routes to the military garrison and airport of Kandahar city. Reports indicate that the mujaheddin have stepped up their operations for liberating Kandahar city, according to Teheran Radio (MIM).
 25    Afghanistan resistance sources report that the mujaheddin rocket attacks have rendered Kandahar airport non-operative. The mujaheddin have advised the inhabitants of Kandahar city to vacate the city in order to avoid bloodshed. The mujaheddin also claim to have shot down a Kabul regime aircraft in Baba Saheb region (RPDS).
 *     An Arab adviser who had illegally entered Panjwaee, Kandahar, was killed 23 September by Haji Islam, a ring leader of a mujaheddin group (RA).
 26    Mujaheddin sources report in their attack 15 September, on comrfiunist bases in Maiwand, Kandahar, a truck load of arms was demolished and at least three militiamen were killed or injured
                                                                                              (VOADS).
 *     Resistance sources say in their attack 19 September on communist troops in Manzel Bagh, Kandahar, the mujaheddin killed 25 Kabul regime troops and eliminated entirely two ammunition dumps and two posts. A helicopter was also shot down by the mujaheddin in Daman, Kandahar (RPDS),
25
August
 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin destroyed 16-21 August posts around Gulbahar Textile, Mills, Kapisa, and demolished three tanks. They also damaged the gas station of Gulbahar Textile Mills. Similarly, they captured 19 soldiers with their arms. Twelve others joined the mujaheddin with their arms. The report adds the Kapisa health clinic and the Soviets aid goods depot were also damaged (VOAPS).
Kunar , July
 1  Radio Kabul has reported a mujaheddin missile attack in Noor Gul,Kunar,adding that four, person were killed and six injured in the attack (RPDS).
  2   The NIF organization says in an attack 28 June on the Chinar Post in Morawari Pass, Kunar, the
  mujaheddin killed or injured 10 troops (VOAPS).                                                   •
  12 The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin captured a post near the Dasar Mosque,
  Kunar 11 July. They captured 10 Kabul soldiers and killed or injured a large number of others during the attack. In the combat, 9 mujaheddin were killed and about 20 others injured (VOAPS).
                                          260
                                                                                    July-September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 13    Resistance sources have said the mujaheddin attacked 5 July a Kabul regime convoy in Tora Teega, Noor Gul sub district, Kunar, demolishing an armored personnel carrier with 14 persons on board.
 Two mujaheddin were killed and three others injured (VOAPS).
 14    The resistance sources said 25 personnel of Division-9 of the Kabul amy in Asadabad, Kunar, joined the mujaheddin. They say the troops defected from their cantonments following fierce combats in Chenar and Chaki near Asadabad (VOADS).
 *   The mujaheddin hit 13 July with heavy arms Morawara, Kunar, killing a number of people (RA),
 | 0Pive persons were killed and four buildings damaged 16 July, in heavy arms fire by the mujaheddin in Khas Kunar, Kunar province (RA),
 22    The Jamaat—al-Daawat led by Mawlswi Jamil-ur—Rahman says the mujaheddin demolished 11 July, posts in Bela, Tanga and * Khurshid, of Khas Kunar. They also destroyed Chinari post in Pashad
 • region and the mujaheddin attacks continue on Narang and Babro Tangi posts (VOAPS),
 * One adult and seven children were killed and 14 residential braidings demolished in mujaheddin rocket attacks on Marawara Kunar (RA),
                                                       August
 7   The mujaheddin in an operation have destroyed a strong fort in Pashad, Kunar, where the ruling party office bearers were present with women and children (PT),
 *^0The Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 4 August on the Kabul regime forces in Asmar, Kunar, killing 25 troops and injuring 10 others (VOAPS),
 * The I tt ehad-e-I si ami says the mujaheddin fired rockets 7 August on Shinka post of Khas Kunar and captured the post. Ten militiamen in the post were killed and the remaining fled to the sub division center. Three mujaheddin were also killed and eight others injured. Similarly, the mujaheddin killed 6-7 August two soldiers of the border battalion in Narang sub district (VOAPS).
 15    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 10 August the Asmar Brigade setting ablaze an ammunition depot and fighting still continues. A commander,alongwith 30 mujaheddin,has been killed (VOADS).
 *   The Afghanistan resistance sources report from Islamabad that the military base of the communist forces in Shaigal, Kunar, was captured 11 August by the mujaheddin. In the six week long battle,
 15  mujaheddin were killed and 30 injured. The source did not give any detail about communist casualties rVQAPS).
 23 The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 19-20 August Shaigal,
 Kunar,and fighting still continues. The mujaheddin had captured 19 August, Shaigal area and links between Chegha Sarai, the center of Kunar and Asmar military cantonement had been cut off. The source says the mujaheddin demolished 21 August a tank with all the personnel on board (VOAPS),
 *     I tt ehad-e-I slami says the mujaheddin attacked 18 August the Kabul regime posts in Sarkani, Kunar, killing 15 Kabul regime troops and injuring 20 others. Following the mujaheddin attack, the Kabul regime shifted the security posts to the center of Sarkani (VOAPS)..
 24     Resistance sources say a Kabul regime military unit, heading towards Shaigal, Kunar, for the reconstruction of a demolished post there, faced stiff resistance from the mujahedclin in Shingo-rak and was forced to retreat. Report says two communists, tanks were destroyed (VOAPS).
                                           261
J uly-Sept ember, 19 88
 Vol.2, No.l
                                  September
    1   The Afghan mujaheddin sources say they shot down a Soviet MIG fighter over Kunar 31 August capturing its pilot (RPDS),
    *   The Jamat—tud-Dawah Organization says the mujaheddin, in an attack 27 August on the Watpor sub devision, Kunar, province as well as areas around the sub Division captured alive 43 soldiers and 28 pieces of arms (VOAPS).
    *   A MIG aircraft was shot down by the mujaheddin 31 August at 11 a.m, in Asmar area of Kunar province (MIM).
    4  '^le Afghan mujaheddin have reported they have narrowed their sjege around Asadabad, center of Kunar, and have caused losses to an ammunition dump (RPDS).
12
             The office of Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin attacked 4 September the Asmar sub division, Kunar, killing 12 Kabul regime soldiers and capturing 33 others with their arms (VOAPS).
    * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says 10 Kabul regime soldiers surrendered 4 September to the mujaheddin in Shaigal, Kunar. Fierce fighting continues between the mujaheddin and the Kabul troops in Shinkorak, Asmar of Kunar Province (VOAPS).
    14     The Afghan mujaheddin said they have foiled a fresh Kabul regime offensive to recapture Nooristan, Kunar. According to the report, after a day*s fighting, the Kabul regime forces retreated (RPDS),
    15     The resistance sources say the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 9 September on the Kabul regime Battalion-909 in Narang, Kunar, setting ablaze an ammunition depot. The Ittehad-e-Islami claims to have sieged since 1 September a main base of the Kabul regime in Pashed, Kunar (VOAPS).
    24     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) and Jamiat-e-Islami say in an attack 20 September on posts in Asmar, Kunar, the mujaheddin captured 20 officers and soldiers alive (VOAPS).
    25     The Afghan resistance sources said in an ambush recently the mujaheddin gained control over Cheghsarai airport, Kunar. In an operation the mujaheddin are reported to have killed 62 Kabul regime activists and captured two others in Assadabad (RPDS).
    26     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar and Khales) say in their attack 13 September on Cheghsarai, Kunar,
    the mujaheddin captured several posts and a helicopter ground and killed 40 Kabul regime troops. ' Nine mujaheddin were killed and 10 others injured in the operation (V0ADS).              /
                      Kunduz.^iy
  Q The NIF says that one Kabul regime military officer and two soldiers joined the mujaheddin with their arms 17 June, in Kunduz. Similarly the mujaheddin, as a result of firing 15 June on Bagh-e-Mehri military unit in Kunduz, killed or injured 12 soldiers and, during the operation, two more soldiers join the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  * The NLF says that, as a result of mujaheddin attack 10 June, with heavy weapon on the city of Kunduz 15 government soldiers were killed or injured (VOAPS).
  12 The NIF says, in an attack in mid-June on Kabul regime posts in Qazaq Street and Angoori Bagh,
                                           262
Vol.2f No.l
                                                                                  J uly-Sept emb er, 1938
 Kunduz city, the mujaheddin killed four Kabul troops and also captured a number of othesrs (VOAPS).
 * A NIF report says in the mujaheddin attacks 27 June on the Kabul regime security pamsts between Khanabad and Kunduz, five officers and 40 soldiers joined the mujaheddin after some ressistance. The troops have surrendered $6 items of heavy and light anns, a tank and two trucks to the mujaheddin
                                                                                      (VOAPS).
 17    Resistance sources say, following fierce battle recently in Imam Saheb, Kunduz, tlrie Afghan mujaheddin have captured 200 Kabul regime troops (RPDS),                                            '\
 18    The 'NIF says, in their attack 28 June, the mujaheddin captured two posts in Imam Saheb, Kunduz. Three soldiers and an officer of the Kabul regime were killed and others fled during tMae attack
                                              *                                         (VOADS).
 *   Resistance sources say in an attack 12 July on a police battalion in Kunduz city, t-he mujaheddin demolished a vehicle and killed a number of Kabul regime troops (VOADS).
 21    A mujaheddin commander in Imam Saheb, Kunduz, Sultan Mohammad says 95$ area of “tthe sub division is under mujaheddin control. The mujaheddin have shot down 11 Soviet aircraft during 3.0 years. He said 50$ of the inhabitants of the Imam Saheb have migrated (VOADS).
                                                       August
 A Reports from Janiiat-e-I slami say that mujaheddin attacked 19 July Ahmad Jan post ire Khanabad, Kunduz, and captured that post. The mujaheddin also captured the commander of the post and 33 pieces of arms. Similarly, they attacked 3 July the general, battalion of Pehlwan Dawran near Bala Hessar, Kunduz, killing two militiamen (VOAPS).
 *   The Jamiat-e-Jslami says in a mujaheddin attack 1-9 July on a Soviet military convoy near Archi bridge on high-way between Kunduz city and Shebarghan port, seven military trucks were set ablaze
                                                                                      (VOAPS).
 *   The office of the Jamiat-e-I slami Afghanistan reports in their attack 20 July on two security posts in Arbab Rustam Village near the canter of Kunduz province, the mujaheddin killed five militiamen and captured 26 others while two mujaheddin were also killed. In the incident 25 pieces of arms and twq vehicles were seized by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 *   The Jamiat-er-I slami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked 26 July the militia post on the highway between Kunduz and Khanabad. In the attack 12 pieces of arms and two boxes full of cartridges were seized. The militiamen fled from the post. On the same day the mujaheddin attacked Malra— ghay post capturing 12 items of arms from that post (VOAPS).
  *  The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan reports, the mujaheddin hit with rockets 28 July the Kozak post in Kunduz city and seized away 14 items of arms. The mujaheddin also launched a joint attack 24 July on the Tori post, Khanabad, and captured the Tori areas. In the battle, 27 communists were killed and the road between Taluqan and Khanabad is now under the mujaheddin control (VOAPS).
  ^^The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin jointly attacked the building of Spinzar corporation in Shahrahwan, Archi, Kunduz, capturing 20 soldiers and the building of corporation was demolished (VOAPS).
  *  The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in an attack recently on a Kabul regime convoy marching from Mazar-e-Sharif to Kunduz, the mujaheddin killed at least eight Kabul troops including two
                                                      263
July-September, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
  Kunduz city,the mujaheddin killed four Kabul troops and also captured a number of others (VOAPS).
  * A NIF report says in the mujaheddin attacks 27 June on the Kabul regime security posts between Khanabad and Kunduz, five officers and AO soldiers joined the mujaheddin after some resistance. The troops have surrendered 56 items of heavy and light arms, a tank and two trucks to the mujaheddin
                                                                                         (VOAPS).
  17 Resistance sources say, following fierce battle recently in Imam Saheb, Kunduz, the Afghan mujaheddin have captured 200 Kabul regime troops (RPDS).                                                \
18
  The NIF says, in their attack 28 June, the mujaheddin captured two posts in Imam Saheb, Kunduz. Three soldiers and an officer of the Kabul regime were killed and others fled during the attack
                                                *                                          (VOADS).
  * Resistance sources say in an attack 12 July on a police battalion in Kunduz city, the mujaheddin demolished a vehicle and killed a number of Kabul regime troops (VOADS).
  21    A mujaheddin commander in Imam Saheb, Kunduz, Sultan Mohammad says 95$ area of the sub division is under mujaheddin control. The mujaheddin have shot down 11 Soviet aircraft during 10 years. He said 50$ of the inhabitants of the Imam Saheb have migrated (VOADS).
                                                   August
 0 Reports from Jajniat-e-Islami say that mujaheddin attacked 19 July Ahmad Jan post in Khanabad, Kunduz, and captured that post. The mujaheddin also captured the commander of the post and 33 pieces of arms. Similarly, they attacked 3 July the general battalion of Pehlwan Dawran near Bala Hessar, Kunduz, killing two militiamen (VOAPS).
 *  The Jamiat-e-Islami says in a mujaheddin attack 19 July on a Soviet military convoy near Archi bridge on high-way between Kunduz city and Shebarghan port, seven military trucks were set ablaze
                                                                                (VOAPS).
 *  The office of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan reports in their attack 20 July on two security posts in Arbab Rustam Village near the center of Kunduz province, the mujaheddin killed five militiamen and captured 26 others while two mujaheddin were also killed. In the incident 25 pieces of arms and twq vehicles were seized by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  *  The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked 26 July the militia post on the highway between Kunduz and Khanabad. In the attack 12 pieces of arms and two boxes full of cartridges were seized. The militiamen fled from the post. On the same day the mujaheddin attacked Malra— ghay post capturing 12 items of arms from that post (VOAPS).
  *  The Jamiat-e—Island. Afghanistan reports, the mujaheddin hit with rockets 28 July the Kozak post in Kunduz city and seized away 14 items of arms. The mujaheddin also launched a joint attack 24 July on the Tori post, Khanabad, and captured the Tori areas. In the battle, 27 communists were killed and the road between Taluqan and Khanabad is now under the mujaheddin control (VOAPS).
  ^^The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin jointly attacked the building of Spinzar corporation in Shahrahwan,Archi, Kunduz, capturing 20 soldiers and the building of corporation was demolished (VOAPS).
  *  The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in an attack recently on a Kabul regime convoy marching from Mazar-e-Sharif to Kunduz, the mujaheddin killed at least eight Kabul troops including two
                                           263
July-Sept ember, 19 Bd
Vol.2, No.l
  officers and captured four military trucks and a wireless set (RPDS).
  ^Jj^Quoting Soviet sources, reports say that the mujaheddin have captured almost all parts of
  Kunduz city. It is said the Kabul regime troops are only in control of Kunduz airport. Official
  Soviet-Kabul reports 11 August said in the battles early this week government troops had driven the
  mujaheddin out of the city (BBCFS).
/ * ' " * '
  *  TASS reports in a counter offensive 10 August to recapture Kunduz. city, the Kabul regime forces
  killed 35 mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  14 The Afghan mujaheddin say they have captured Khanabad in Kunduz province. The mujaheddin sources say they have captured AGO persons and seized a large number of military vehicles during their operation (VOADS).
  16 Western diplomats, despite Soviet claims that the Kabul forces were left to themselves to regain the control of the Kunduz city, say the city was subjected to bombardment by planes flying from the Soviet Union and Kunduz has been severely damaged (BBCFS).
  *     The situation in the Kunduz province has returned to normal and the armed forces have the situation under their control with the cooperation of the public (RA).
  17    Reports from Soviet and diplomatic sources say the mujaheddin have shot down a Kabul regime transport plane in Kunduz as a result of which all 29 persons aboard have been killed (VOADS).
  *     Quoting Soviet source The Washington Post, says fighting is going in all the surroundings of Kunduz but Kunduz city is generally under the control of the Kabul regime forces. The source has said fighting was tense earlier and Kunduz remained under mujaheddin control for one or two days
                                                                                             (VOAPS).
        Quoting its correspondent in Afghanistan The Izvestia. writes a Kabul regime Air Force plane carrying troops was shot down by the mujaheddin in Kunduz (RPDS).
  22        has reported the Soviet Union despatched troops to Afghanistan in order to help the Kabul regime troops reoccupy Kunduz city. The city had been captured by the Afghan mujaheddin following the Soviet troops pullout (RPDS).
23
Western diplomats in Islamabad say the mujaheddin have brought serious pressure on eight city centers in Afghanistan. The diplomats have said Kunduz, situated near the Soviet borders, was r&-occupied with the Soviet air assistance after a fierce battle (VOADS).
   27    The Afghanistan resistance sources say the Kabul regime has recaptured the center of Kunduz province from the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin decided 12 August to quit the city because resistance against the joint Soviet-Kabul forces would have entailed heavy civilians casualties. The source said in the battle, 30 mujaheddin and 190 civilians were killed (VOADS).
   28     The Afghan troops are reported to have attacked Soviet forces, which were proceeding towards ’Kunduz 15 August (PT).
   *• Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin launched an attack 18 August on the Kabul regime militia Brigade-74, known as the Pahlawan Rahim Brigade in Dasht-e-Abdan near Sher Khan port,Kunduz. In the attack the mujaheddin captured 500 troops and militiamen alive including the WAD officer of the Brigade and Communist Party secretary. In the attack the mujaheddin seized hundreds of items of
                                                  264
 juiy-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
 heddin ceasefire "through the elders of Kass, Rarmankhel and other places in Qarghaye e, laghman (VGAPS) •
 28^ arms convoy of mujaheddin, heading towards Kapisa, was eliminated by the Kabul regime armed forces in Laghman (RA).
 30 The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin eliminated 28 July a Soviet jeep with Jj'our persons on board in Sarkhkan, Laghman (VOAPS).                              •
 * Resistance sources report in their attack 28 July on a Kabul regime post near the center of Laghman, the mujaheddin killed eight troops and demolished a tank and a truck (VOAPS).
                                                    August
 Q The Afghanistan resistance sources say in a mujaheddin attack on the Kabul regime forces in Alin-gar, Laghman, a number of Kabul regime troops, including two officers were killed. One mujaheddin commander was also killed (RPDS).                                      1
    The mujaheddin sources said they recently launched a rocket attack on the Kabul regime military posts in Surkhakan,Laghman, and demolished two military posts (RPDS).
 8   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatysr) reported, in ah attack 31 July on Alingar, Laghman, the mujaheddin
 killed two officers and a militiaman and injured two others. The mujaheddin commander Rahimullah was also killed (VOAPS),
 'll Kabul Radio says in mujaheddin rocket attacks four persons were killed and eight others injured in Maytharlam, Laghman (VOAPS).
 15 According to a report of the Afghanistan resistance sources the mujaheddin fired rockets 11-12 August on Surkhakan, laghman,killing 15 soldiers and injuring 20 others (VOADS).
 * According to Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), in their attack 5 August on a post in Surkhakan, Laghman, the mujaheddin killed six government personnel and destroyed a tank and three jeeps (VOADS).
19
 The office of Jamiat-e-Islami says its general commander Ismail Tariq was killed 11+ August in Laghman by the KGB and WAD agents (VOAPS).
20
 In mujaheddin rocket attacks in Maytharlam, Laghman, two persons were killed and three others injured (RA).
  22   The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 18 August a Kabul regime convoy in Surkhakan, Laghman on Kabul-Jalalabad highway demolishing a jeep and a big truck and killing or injuring about 10 Kabul regime troops (VOAPS).
  *    Two people were killed and three injured 20 August when Afghan mujaheddin fired rockets at the town of Mehtarlam, Laghman, TASS said 21 August (DM).
                                           September
  1    The Jamiat-e—Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin, in an attack, destroyed 26 August three communist military posts in the Woraishmir Pass of Laghman. They also captured 11 items of arms in the attack (VOAPS)..
  *    The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime forces in Sar Kondo Baba Bridge, Laghman, 23 August destroying the bridge alongwith the three tanks. Similarly the mujaheddin in an attack 21+ August in the Mullah Omar region on the Kabul regime posts killed
                                                     266
July-September, -1983
KM
Vol.2, No.l
 12 soldiers, destroyed two military posts and captured 18 items of arms (VOAPS).
 0 Resistance sources say the mujaheddin recently captured three Kabul regime posts in Kass and Sorkhakan, Laghman, and captured 25 Kabul regime soldiers and killed eight others (TOADS).
 7 Resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 31 August Mehtarlam, center of Laghman, killing three Kabul regime troops and injuring four others (VOAPS).
 | Q Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin have captured 5 September the center of the Kabul regime newly formed province of Nooristan in Nooristan, Laghman. The source says the mujaheddin have captured the region after six days fierce fighting. Details of losses have hot yet been ascertained (VOAPS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) has reported that the mujaheddin attacked 30-31 August the Kabul regime troops in. Spin Tana Surkahkan on Kabul-Jalal'abad Highway. The mujaheddin launched rocket attacks .1 September on the Kabul regime posts in Khairokhel, Gandab, Kaftarkhan, and Zara Qala. They also closed Kabul-Jalalabad Highway for traffic. The report adds in the attack, 18 militiamen were killed in the Khairo Khel and Gandab posts while 15 persons were killed or injured in Zara Qala post. The mujaheddin have also captured one officer alive. Two Kabul regime tanks and seven trucks with their crewmen were exploded by the mujaheddin with mines (VOAPS).
 19    The ANS says the mujaheddin launched 8 September rocket with rocket attacks eliminated a Kabul regime post in Surkhakan, Laghman. In the attack eight militiamen‘were killed and seven others surrendered to the mujaheddin. The report says the mujaheddin demolished 1 September, with rocket, a Kabul regime vehicle with all the persons on board in Surkhakan area (VOAPS).
                                  _______________________ ,     July
 2   The Hezbre-Islami mujaheddin, led by Hekmatyar, conquered 1 July the Mohammad Agha sub division, Logar province. The mujaheddin operation began 29 June. The mujaheddin have captured a huge quantity of arms, ammunition and other supplies (VOAPS).
 4   The Afghan mujaheddin, after a week-long fierce battle against Kabul regime forces, have liberated the Khusk (Khoshi) sub district in Logar province, reports Radio Teheran (PT).
 5   The official news agency of the Afghan resistance says, following two days of fierce'"fighting the Mohammad Agha military cantonement of Logar surrendered to the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also Captured eight tanks and 18 trucks in the cantonement. According to the news agency, the area has again become normal and leader of Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar led the prayers offered 3 July by the inhabitants of Mohanimad Agha (VOAPS).
 ^ Q The resistance sources reported that the mujaheddin attacked 1 July the Sang-e-Safaid post and captured it and took away its arms and ammunition (VOAPS).
 *  Hezb—e—Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin hit 11 July a Kabul regime helicopter which feli in Babos near the center of Logar and its crew were killed (VOAPS).
 * The ANS reports in a mujaheddin attack 8 July on communist forces in Ainak, Logar, nine regime
 troops were killed or injured and three tanks and trucks were also destroyed* One mujahed was killed and two others injured (VOAPS).                                                           .       ,
 * The ANS says that the mujaheddin attacked 10 July the post in Bani Sher Afghan, Logar, and captur—
                                                        267
 July-September, 19
 Vol.2, No-1
  ed a wireless set. In the attack, a mujahed was killed and another injured (VOAPS).    -
  10 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 24 June a Kabul regime military convoy in Mohammad Agha Logar, as a result 12 tanks and trucks with the persons on board were demolished and an armored personnel carrier and a truck captured by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  30a number of arms and ammunition of the mujaheddin groups placed in Dashtak, Logar, was seized 29 July by the Kabul security forces (RA).
                                                  August
  £ The Afghan mujaheddin reported that they-have shot down 27 July a jet aircraft and a helicopter near Kulangar, logar. They also said Seemie Jan, a mujaheddin commander has been killed in Kulangar battles (VOADS),
  10The AMRC says Soviet troops moved from Gardez, Paktia, enroute to Logar to open the Iogar-Gardez highway-. The source says the troops plan to carry relief goods to Ghazni city which has been sieged by the mujaheddin. They troops were attacked by the mujaheddin in the desert of Dey Naw, logar.
  Four Soviet military trucks were demolished and Six mujaheddin were also killed in these operations.
                                                                                  (VOAPS).
  ^The NLF says the mujaheddin attacked 30 July a Kabul regime convoy in Mohammad Agha Logar. Seven Kabul regime tanks and trucks were blown up in the blast of mines planted by the mujaheddin in Ab-bazak, Logar (VOAPS).
  16   '^ie ^F says ^e mujaheddin, in an attack 2 July on a Kabul regime base in Bini Sharaf Khan, Logar, destroyed two vehicles and a fuel depot (VOAPS). •
  29   According to a - - - ANA correspondent report, the district of Charkh in Logar province was captured 27 August by the Afghan mujaheddin under the command of Haji Ehsanullah (KIM).
  30   Afghan resistance sources say recently the mujaheddin captured the Charkh sub division, Logar, and now- only the center of the province is under the govemement control, the rest being controlled by the mujaheddin (RPDS).
                                              September
  U The Afghan resistance sources said the mujaheddin recently captured a high ranking KHAD offi-cial in Mohammad Agha, Logar (RPDS).
  11   Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami reports the mujaheddin attacked 30 August on the posts near Pul-e-Alam, center Logar, The commander of the post with nine others was killed and five others injured while a tank of the Kabul regime was also destroyed (VOAPS).
  12   The Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin launched attacks 27 August, on the Ainak mine security posts, Logar, destroying a tank, three transport vehicles and a generator* They killed seven Kabul regime soldiers (VOAPS).
  * The office of Hezb-e-Islami says the mujaheddin in an attack 2 September on Koh-e-Mir Afzal, Logar, destroyed three posts. Seven soldiers on the posts with their arms surrendered to the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  10 The Log&r mujaheddin say they have intensified pressure on Pul-e-Alam, the center of logar
                                             263 .
July-Sept ember, 19 B3
Voi#2, No#l
 province. The mujaheddin have captured military posts in Mir Abdul and a Kabul regime observer unit was totally shattered. In another operation, the mujaheddin demolished an ammunition dump and security posts in Mohammad Agha and Qala-e-Wazir and inflicted heavy casualties on the Kabul regime troops (RPDS).
 *    Two mujaheddin commanders, Sayyed Wali of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami and Haji Afridi general commander were killed 6 and 8 September as a result of aerial attacks of the Kabul regime aircraft in Dobandi, and Surkhab, Iogar (MIM).
                                        Nangarhar,
 2  The mujaheddin sources say the mujaheddin killed 25 June four Kabul militiamen in Haska Meena,
 Nangarhar. In another attack the same day on Mohmandara^ the mujaheddin killed or injured five militiamen (VOAPS).                                                  *
 *  The Resistance sources said a vehicle was blasted 27 June in a bomb explosion near Barikab on Jalalabad-Torkham highway killing or injuring 40 persons (VOAPS),
 *  The mujaheddin sources report-in a heavy mujaheddin attack-2y June in Acheen and Ghani Khel, Nangarhar, six Kabul troops were killed or injured. Similarly, in their attack on Shegai posts of Nangarhar, the mujaheddin killed eight militiamen (VOAPS).
 *  The resistance sources say in an attack 28 and 29 June on Goshta, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin killed or injured about militiamen. In another operation they killed or injured seven troops and KHAD activists in Basol. The mujaheddin also killed or injured seven militiamen and c.aptured four others in Haska Meena (VOAPS).
 0 Mawlawi Yunus Khales leader of the Hezb—e—Islami Afghanistan, survived a bombing raid by 14 Soviet and Kab.ul regime jet fighters in Nangarhar province, according to a source of his party. The source told the AMRC that Mawlawi Khales left Peshawar  for jehad inside Afghanistan 12 June. He
 and a number of mujaheddin, were attacked by 14 Soviet and Kabul regime jet fighters in Tura Bora
 Khogiani on 26 June following a tribal jirgah but suffered no harm (PT).
 * Pakistan has agreed -that all parties concerned with the implementation of the Geneva accords on
 Afghanistan should chew propaganda, concerning violation of the agreement, pending investigations into the allegations by the UNIAG (DN).
 0 Resistance sources say, as a result of bomb explosion in the Spin Ghar Theatre House in the Jalalabad city, more than 100 people have been killed, a food market burnt and a number of shops demolished (VOAPS).
 *  Mujaheddin sources in Peshawar say a bomb exploded 25 June in the No.4 Agricultural Farm in Jalalabad killing two persons and demolishing two vehicles (VOAPS).
 *  Afghan .resistance sources say the mujaheddin killed four militiamen 2 July in Shinwar,. .Nangarhar (VOAPS)..                                              «
 *  The NiF says that the mujaheddin captured 5 July two government posts in Goshta, Nangarhar. In the fighting two mujaheddin were killed and four injured (VOAPS),.
 *  The mujaheddin sources say that the mujaheddin in their attacks on posts in Haska .Meena and Yaghi Band, Nangarhar, 5 July, killed or injured 9 militiamen, and 6 July in their attack on the
                                                  269
   July-September, 1988             AfGHAN J[HAD                  Vol*2f No.l
Dhaka border office killed or injured eight others (VOAPS).
 10 According to Afghanistan resistance sources, the mujaheddin have recently captured six posts in Nazian Shinwar, and three posts in Acheen, of Nangarhar (RPDS),
 * Twenty eight mujaheddin were killed and 10 others seriously injured in Haska Meena and Acheen, Nangarhar (RA).
 H TASS reports in explosins carried recently out in vehicles in Jalalabad and other places in Afghanistan, 150 persons have been killed or injured (VOADS).
 *    Afghan resistance sources say the mujaheddin have captured 16 security posts in Acheen, Nangarhar, and are presently planning to launch an offensive on Jalalabad city (RRDS).
 12    A young field correspondent of the ANS, Mohammad Yousuf, 25,wasi killed recently by the Kabul militia forces at Acheen, Shinwar, Nangarhar (MIM).
 13    The Afghan mujaheddin have launched a massive operation against the Kabul troops to capture Jalalabad, reported Teheran Radio monitored in Islamabad 12 July (PT).-
 14    The Afghanistan resistance sources say, in their recent attack; hear Jalalabad, the mujaheddin demolished eight communist posts. In the.attack, 27 Kabul soldiers with their arms joined the mujaheddin (RPDS).
 *    The mujaheddin sources say 24 dead bodies from Nazian, and 18 dead bodies from Acheen Nangarhar, were transported to Ghanikhel, where some were buried and the others handed over to their relatives. The NIP has said the mujaheddin attacked 12 July Paikhey Khorh, Nangarhar,'when a number of tanks were moving to Ghanikhel. In the attack, a tank and a jeep were demolished (VOAPS).
 * The Jamiat Islami reported the mujaheddin attacked 11 July .the border Check post in Nangarhar and demolished a security post of the regime. In the attack a mujahed was killed and another injured and the mujaheddin captured 10 Kabul soldiers. The mujaheddin demolished the same day an armored personnel carrier and a military truck with all the persons on board near Mahipar ( VOAPS).
 * The NIF office reported that the mujaheddin attacked 11 July the Kabul regime posts in Bela region, region, Baswai, Nangarhar, demolishing three-posts and killing or injuring seven militiamen. The rest of them fled (VOAPS).
 15    r^ie °ffice °f Hezb-e-Islami (Khales)' says in their attack 9 July on Ghulam Daag, Chaparhar sub district, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin killed two officers and four soldiers while three soldiers joined the mujaheddin (VOAPS),
 * As a result of an operation by the Kabul regime armed forces in Nangarhar province, 12 mujaheddin were killed in Haska Meena, 11 in Khogiarii, Nangarhar, and eight others in Kooz Kunar were killed and two others injured (RA).
 17    The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin are continuing their operation around Jalalabad with a particular intention to capture Acheen. According to the report, three security posts have been demolished in these areas and 12 Kabul regime soldiers killed (RPDS).
 19   In a mujaheddin rocket attack, 18 persons were killed in Nangarhar (RPDS).
 20According to the Afghanistan resistance sources, the mujaheddin have recently killed 11 Kabul troops and demolished two posts in Shewa, Nangarhar (RPDS).
                                           270
    July-September, 19#S                  i)[&HIIII JEHAD                    Vol.2,  No.l
 *  The Hezb-e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) says the mujaheddin captured.5 July four important posts of the Kabul regime in Ghanikhel, Nangarhar where about 200 troops and militiamen were deployed* In the attack, IQ soldiers were killed and 15 others injured (VOAPS),
 *  The Hezb-e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) reports that the mujaheddin eliminated 18 July two security posts in Sultanpur in Surkhroad of Nangarhar and launched rocket. attacks 17 July the Behsud region near Jalalabad killing or injuring about 10 persons (WDAPS).
 *  The resistance sources said a bomb went off 15 July near Roadat bazar, Nangarhar, as a result of which a vehicle was demolished and two persons killed. The report adds a bomb went off near the militia posts on Jalalabadr-Torkham highway and demolished a truck* Those on board were injured (VOAPS).
* The Afghanistan resistance sources reported, the mujaheddin hit with rockets 16 July, a jeep and a truck of the Kabul regime near Ghaziabad farm, Nangarhar, killing four officers and six soldiers* The report adds the mujaheddin destroyed 16 July an aircraft in Jalalabad airport and killed four soldiers (VOAPS).
 2*1 1» their mortar gun fires, the mujaheddin have killed five persons in Jalalabad (RA).
 22 The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says, in recent mujaheddin attacks on Ghanikhel and Acheen posts in Nangarhar, three government tanks and four trucks were demolished and all the ammunition dumps of Brigade-71 were set ablaze while 55 militiamen were killed and 12 injured* Prom the mujaheddin 11 killed and seven injured (VQADS).
 *  -The IUAM says the mujaheddin captured 17 July a Kabul regime security post in Sarobi, Shinwar, Nangarhar. In the mujaheddin operation, six militianien were captured and two injured. A military truck hit the same day a mine near Kahi cantonment as a result of which five soldiers were killed and seven others injured (VOADS).
 *  The ANS reports that in their operation 19 July, the mujaheddin eliminated all communist centers and security posts in Babai region, Shinwar, Nangarhar, after fierce battles and the region is now fully under the mujaheddin control* In the battles 12 militiamen were killed and 84 others captured
                                                                                          (VQADS).
 *  The resistance sources have said, in their attack 21 July on the Kabul regime posts in Ghanikhel, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin killed 45 soldiers and militiamen and 18 others including three officers alongwith their arms and ammunition joined the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 *  Five persons were killed 21 July in mujaheddin firing on Jalalabad city (HMDS).
 2QtASS says 18 rockets were fired during 24 hours on Jalalabad city by the mujaheddin as a result of which seven persons were killed (BB0FS)o
 *  According to the Afghanistan resistance 15 Kabul regime soldiers were killed and a number of military vehicles demolished 28 July in a mine explosion planted by the mujaheddin on Jalalabad-Torkham highway (RPDS).
 *  Resistance sources say, the mujaheddin eliminated 27 July a Kabul regime security post in Sarkundo Baba on Kabul-Jalalabad highway and captured six troops with their aims (VOAPS).
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin attacked 24 July, the Kaftarkhana post on Kabul—Jalala— bad highway, killing three soldiers and destroying a heavy gun and a zequick (VOAPS).
 *  According to a Bakhtar report, the mujaheddin fired 29 July 34 rockets on first, second and third
                                           271
   JuLy-September, 198S                AfGHAN J[KAD                    Vol.2, No.l
 districts of Jalalabad city killing five persons and injuring 11 others (RA).
 *  Reports of Hetb-e-Islami (Khales) say in their rocket attacks 27July on a base of Kabul regime
 Brigade-66 in       Khyber.,  the mujaheddin killed two Kabul troops and injured 11 others. In a
 fierce combat the*same day between the Kab\il regime forces and the mujaheddin in Pachir, Chaparhar of Nangarhar, 15 Kabul soldiers werp killed (VOAPS).
 *   The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says in their attack 17 July on a Kabul regime military unit near Tarey Kando, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin demolished four tanks and a truck with all the persons on board (VOAPS).
 *   The H.arakat-e-Bnqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan reports the mujaheddin launched joint attack 25 July on Ghanikhel, Nangarhar, posts demolishing the Khankhel, Darey Khel, Arab and Miangan posts. The mujaheddin fought a fierce battle the same day against the Kabul regime forces which had come from Jalalabad for the defense of these posts. In the fighting the mujaheddin demolished a tank and captured a tank, a jeep and 30 items of arms. Seven KHAD activists were also captured who were later executed (VOAPS).
 *   The Afghanistan resistance sources say an armored vehicle was blown up 24 July in a mine explosion near Mazina, Nangarhar, and an officer, with two soldiers on board were killed. The mujaheddin attacked 20 July the Mazina Post killing the commander of the post and three militiamen injured
     •                                                                                ■ (VOAPS).
 U Hezb-e-Islami (Khalea) says the mujaheddin hit a Kabul regime jet plane 6 August in Maraki Khel, Khogiani, which fell in Spin" Ghar (VOAPSX*
 *  Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin^eaptured 31 July five Kabul regime newly installed
 posts in Lai Pur, Nangarhar. In the battle, • the mujaheddin captured 34 various types of weapons also seized two arms depots (VOAPS).         ■'*
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reported that in ah attack 27 July on the Kabul regime security posts near Shaiwa, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin captured a post while four others/were vacated by the militiamen themselves. Two Kabul regime vehicles were also destroyed and the mujaheddin also seized 17 items of arms (VOAPS),
 I£ The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 30 June the Dakka border post, Nangarhar, killing or injuring four persons and capturing four Kabul regime posts. Similarly, the mujaheddin destroyed Gul Basat post, Dakka, In the attack, about 20 soldiers including four officers were killed or injured (VOAPS).
 *   The NIF says the mujaheddin attacked last week of July government posts in the center pf Ghanikhel Nangarhar, demolishing a number of posts and 35 soldiers and militiamen with their arms joined the mujaheddin. Similarly, the mujaheddin demolished 16 July the Sayyed Ahmad post. In the combat, seven militiamen were killed (VOAPS).
  0   A Kabul regime jet fighter aircraft was shot down 2 August in Khogiani, Nangarhar (PT).
  *  In their six rocket fires 5 August on the third district of Jalalabad city, the mujaheddin killed nine persons and injured 10 others while building was also demolished (RA).
  0   Thirteen and one half kilos of explosives placed by the mujaheddin in Qala-e-Iogariha in the 7th
                                       272
July-September, 1988
«NJ[
Vol.2, No.l
  district of Kabul city for explosions in Jalalabad city, was discovered and defused 6 August by the Kabul regime security forces (RA),
  0 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says 10 so&diers, with nine kilashinkovs and a wireless sets joined the mujaheddin 1 August in Kooz Kunar, Nangarhar, A Kabul regime truck was blown up in a mine explosion planted by the mujaheddin near the sub division’s center as a result of which five soldiers and an officer were killed (VOAPS).
  0 The Kabul regime security forces discovered and captured 9 August e quantity of arms and ammunition from the mujaheddin in Samarkhel, Nangarhar (RA).
  10 Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin shot 5-6 August 12 heavy gun "fires on the Kabul regime military targets in Uch Dand, the Public Revenue building of the Nangarhar province, residence of the Secretary of Communist party, and areas near the Behsud Bridge. Twenty five persons were killed, including nine in the residence of the Communist party secretary (VOAPS).
  * The Ittehad-e-Islami organization says in attacks 6 August on the Kabul regime centers in Bati-kote, and Ghaziabad regions, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin killed a high level member of the communist party and a high ranking oifficer of the communist regime army (VOAPS).
 ^j^The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 6 and 8 August on Jalalabad city during which three rockets hit the Jalalabad Airport demolishing a helicopter and causing heavy losses. Most of the shops in Jalalabad are reported closed and business has come to a standstill and the people have taken refugee in other places (VOADS).
  *  According to a mujaheddin report, they captured 6 August 12 Kabul regime militiamen in Achin,
  Nangarhar (VOADS).                                                        r.
 ^0Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has said, the mujaheddin recently in an attack on a Kabul regime military post in Batikote, Nangarhar, killed three militiamen and capturing three others. The post was razed to ground. (VOADS).
  *  In an interview in Peshawar, the commander general of Hezb-e—Islami (Khales) in Nangarhar province, Engineer Mahmood said following Soviet troops withdrawal from Nangarhar, several Kabul regime posts have been captured by the mujaheddin and now the mujaheddin are carrying out successful operations and, unlike the past, the government cannot conduct operations on the mujaheddin centers and the homes of the people (VOAPS).
  16    The Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin blew up 30 July a Kabul regime vehicle by mines in Shaiwa, Nangarhar. In the attack, 18 regime personnels and officials, including two officials of the intelligence office, the Party Secretary and Chief were killed (VOAPS),
  *     Afghan resistance sources say they attacked recently Kabul government military posts.in Shaiwa Nangarhar, killing four militiamen and capturing 12. Six militiamen defected with their arms to the mujaheddin (VOAPS). '
  *     The NLF reports that the mujaheddin in an attack 6 July on the Daka border post killed four Kabul regime soldiers (VOAPS).
  17    The NIF says that the mujaheddin captured'13 July the Arbaban post in the Ghanikhel, Nangarhar. During the operation, five regime soldiers were killed and eight injured. On the same day. the mujaheddin attacked the communist military post in Daroonta on Kabul-Jalalabad Highway demolishing four
                                           273
   July-September, 1988                  AIGHAN JIHAD                       Vol.2f  No.l
 vehicles and tanks and killing or injuring 20 soldiers. On the same date the mujaheddin captured a regime military post in Chaparhar, Nangarhar (VOAPS).
 22 The Afghan mujaheddin have reported they recently captured four Kabul regime posts in Ghani-khel, Golayee, and Daka, Nangarhar (RPDS).
 *     The resistance sources have said the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 19 August on Acheen, Shinwar, Nangarhar, killing or injuring 17 Kabul regime troops.. A tank and another vehicle were * also- destroyed in the attack. The mujaheddin also carried out heavy shelling 19 August on the Kabul regime 71 Brigade killing or injuring 10 regime militiamen. (VOAPS).
 *     As a result of 12 rocket attacks 22 August on Jalalabad city, one persons was killed and two others injured (RA).
 * The resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 18 August a Kabul regime post in Torkham, Nangarhar killing or injuring seven Kabul regime troops. The mujaheddin also attacked 19 August the Baswol, Goshta and Nadir Kot sub districts killing or injuring eight Kabul regime troops (VOAPS).
 23    Hezb-e-Islami (Khal’es) says the mujaheddin blew up 16 August a Kabul regime truck with mine in Dar-e-Noor, Kooz Kunar, Nangarhar (VOAPS).
 24    TASS says in I2 rocket fires on Jalalabad city by the mujaheddin one person was killed. TASS did not mention the venue and the time of.the attacks (BBCFS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin attacked 21 August the Kabul regime border posts in Kama Daka, Landai Khyber, Nangarhar, and captured a post in Kama Daka and another in Shalman, killing nine Kabul regime soldiers. The resistance sources also say Torkham-Jalalabad and Jalalabad-Kabul highway remained closed 22 August for traffic (VOAPS).
                                        September
 1    The mujaheddin sources say they launched rocket fires 16 August on the 66 - Brigade of the Kabul regime in Landi Khyber killing or injuring 10 soldiers. Similarly in their attacks they have killed four army officers in the Shamshad military post (VOAPS).
 * Resistance sources say the mujaheddin captured 24 August one military post near Torkham and another in Baswol,. Nangarhar. The sources add a Kabul regime military convoy, on its way from Kabul to Jalalabad, hit a mine as a result of which two tanks and one vehicle were demolished and about 20 soldiers killed or injured (VOAPS).
  4  Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says, in an attack 30-31 August on the Kabul regime posts in Darra-^-Noor, Nangarhar, the mujaheddin demolished a security post and captured four militiamen. In the attack the mujaheddin have also siezed six arms, 20 boxes of cartriges and 50 hand grenades (VOAPS
  * Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reports a Kabul regime tank was blown up 30 August as a result of the explosion of a mine planted by the mujaheddin near Ghulam Dag post Chaparhar, Nangarhar, as a result of which two officers and five troops on board were killed (VOAPS),
  *   Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) reports the mujaheddin attacked a Kabul regime force heading towards Kabul,in Shahedan areas,ontheKabul-Jalalabad Highway, Nangarhar, destroying four tanks and three trucks and killing or injuring about 30 troops (VOAPS).
  *   Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin attacked 28 August a Kabul regime supply convey in
                                         274
   July-Sept ember, 19S8           AfGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2,  No.l
Dehbala, Nangarhar, killing eight Kabul troops and destroying a tank while another six troops were also injured (VOAPS)#
 *   The Jamiat—e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked 2 September Asmani post near Torkham, Nangarhar and destroyed the post# In the attack, six Kabul troops were killed and three others captured alive by the mujaheddin while seven items of arms were also seized by the mujaheddin (VOAPS),
 *   The mujaheddin fired 13 rockets on Jalalabad civil population 4 September killing one and injuring two persons (HA).
 WJ Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin launched 31 August rocket attacks on Jalalabad airport and 11 Nangarhar Division killing two troops and injuring a number of others. Vehicles were also set ablaze in the Division# The mujaheddin also hit with rockets 1—2 September Ghanikhel, in the Shinwar administrative center and Goshta in Kama# In the attacks six persons were killed or injured (VOAPS)#
 8   Hezb-e-Islami (Mawlawi Khales) says the mujaheddin attacked 2 September the Kabul regime posts in Kandi of Shewa, Nangarhar, killing 50 militiamen and capturing the political jhief of the post# From the mujaheddin side, one was killed and another injured. The report says three Kabul regime soldiers killed the same day their officer in Shewa and surrendered to the mujaheddin commander with their arms (VOAPS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin fired 5 September rockets on Jalalabad city. Some of the rockets hit the telecommunication office, oil tank, and the Behsud Bridge killing 15 and destroying a number of houses (VOAPS).
 12 Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin demolished 2 September a Kabul regime security post in Darra-e-Noor, -Nangarhar, capturing 15 militiamen alive. In the attack nine militiamen were killed and nine items of arms were seized by the mujaheddin (VOAPS)-.
 14 Resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 11 September a Kabul regime convoy between Jalalabad and Cheghasarai, Kunar in Zairey Boba inflicting heavy losses in men and material. The road between Jalalabad and Cheghasarai was reported blocked due to the mujaheddin operations (VOAPS).
 * Resistance sources report that the mujaheddin launched three rocket attacks on Jalalabad during the last five days. The mujaheddin launched 8-9 September repeated rocket attacks on Jalalabad city. Two rockets hit the police office causing material losses (VOAPS).
 * The Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin launched 10 September rocket attacks on Shinwar, Acheen and Ghanikhel, Nangarhar, and Ghanikhel Brigade killing four persons (VOAPS).
 * Resistance sources say the mujaheddin demolished 11 September, two tanks and a military vehicle on the Surkhroad, Nangarhar,crossroad killing six persons. The mujaheddin also attacked 13 September the Kabul regime posts near Torkham, and the posts and military bases of the Kabul regime forces in Gerdi Ghaus and Momandara killing or injuring six persons (VOAPS).
 15 The Ittehad-e-Islami says communist regime aircraft have bombarded mujaheddin centers and villages in Nangarhar killing 11 mujaheddin in Batikot and injuring 25 others. The mujaheddin attacked the same day the Kabul regime militia in the region killing three militiamen and injuring
                                          275
  I
J uly-September
Vol.2, No.l
 three others (VOAPS).
 16    In mujaheddin rocket fires 16 September on Jalalabad, six persons were killed and a residential building destroyed (RA),
 19 The resistance sources say three mujaheddin rockets hit 17 September the Jalalabad city one of which hit the police post killing a policeman and-injuring four others. The mujaheddin on the same day captured six Kabul regime officers and KHAD officials on Kabul-Nangarhar Highway. The KHAD spies were executed and the officers are under detention (VOAPS),
 *     Resistance sources reported that the mujaheddin attacked 16 September Acheen in Shinwar of Nangarhar killing eight Kabul regime activists in a KHAD battalion.
 21    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has said the mujaheddin launched 17 September rocket attack on Jalalabad Airport, demolishing a plane near the airport and killing or injuring a number of government troops (VOADS).
 *     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) has reported in an attack 17 September, dn Jalalabad city 81-Brigade, 25 persons were killed and six injured by the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 20    The Afghanistan resistance sources said in an explosion in a base belonging to Nangarhar 11-military division, in Samarkhel, more than i+O persons were killed and 200 others injured. A number of barracks of the Kabul regime troops were also demolished (RPDS).
          Nimroz, *<»
 *  -The Hezb-^-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported that a Kabul regime .military base has been removed from Kang,Nimroz, to the center of the province. A tank hit a mine and blown up with its crewmen during the transfer (VOADS).
 |0Mujaheddin sources in Quetta have said in their operation 5-9 July, on security posts and center of Kang, Nimroz, an arms depot was gutted and eight government militia trenches were eliminated, 21 communist troops killed and 25 injured. The reports said Kang and six security posts around it are under the mujaheddin siege and fighting continues (VOADS)..
 *  Afghan resistance sources in Quetta say communist forces evacuated 27 June the villages of Head Master Rahmatullah and Habibullah in Kang,Nimroz,and are now being stationed in the Kang oenter. During evacuation, three trucks of Kabul militia were blown up after hitting mines. Two persons' were killed in the trucks. Presently the mujaheddin are deployed in the villages (VOADS).
                      25^e Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin recently exploded the office of the ruling party in Nimroz province and eliminated an arms depot in the center of Khashroad sub division (RPDS).
                                             August
  3  According to Afghanistan resistance sources, in a mujaheddin attack on a Kabul regime militia base, in Rubat, Nimroz, 300 militiamen with their arms joined the mujaheddin (RPDS).
  1 2 Hezb-^e-Islami (Hekmatyar) in Quetta has reported in an attack 7 August, on the Kabul regime posts in Kang, Nimroz, the mujaheddin demolished a tank and two trucks, killed eight Kabul regime troops, injured 13 others and captured two militiamen (VOADS).
                                           276
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
                                              September
 2   Tta Afghanistan resistance sources said« a Kabul regime military truck-carrying the regime activists hit a mine in Kang, Nimroz, as a result of which"the truck was demolished, and 10 persons on board were killed and two injured* Those killed include the Kang Chief of Youth Organization (VOADS).
 15 The Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 8 September the Kabul regime posts in Asel~e-Chakhnasur, injuring six militiamen and causing heavy losses to the posts* In an ambush the same day, four Kabul regime troops and an officer joined the mujaheddin near Zaranj*
 Communist casualties are not known (VQADS)*
 ^0 The Afghanistan resistance sources report that the mujaheddin captured 16 September the Kha-shroad sub divisionf Nimroz province (RPDS)*
 20   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin joinily attacked 15 September three Kabul regime militia bases in Khashroad, Nimroz. The bases fell 17 'September to the mujaheddin. The militiamen station in the bases fled to Delaram. Fifty of them were killed or injured (VOADS).
                                     Paktia,-July
 ^ The ANS says it appears that the government troops are preparing for a pullout from Khost city*
 It is said the flights of the military transport planes have increased since 15 June in Khost airport, The report says the Kabul regime has proposed to the mujaheddin not to attack the government t
 forces while retreating from Khost city and in return the government troops will leave light weapons and military hardware for the mujaheddin. But the mujaheddin have turned down the offer(VOAPS)*
 * The NIF says the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 24 June on Jaji Maidan, Paktia, as a result of which 17 government troops were killed and two mujaheddin injured (VOAPS).
 2   Several Soviet—planted mines, which cannot be located by mine detectory. explode daily .in Khost Paktia, The Peshawar based AMRC reported the mines were planted in an area near the Khost—Gardez highway.(PT).
 0 Resistance sources in Pakistan say that the Afghan mujaheddin, in heavy fightings recently in Gardez and Sayyed Karam r killed 17 and captured 73 Kabul regime soldiers (REDS).
 14   The mujaheddin killed 13 July, three persons and destroyed eight buildings with heavy.arms in the outskirts of Road-e-Ahmadzai, Sayyed Karam, Paktia (RA).
 15   Reports of the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan say in their rocket attacks 9 July on Gardez city,
 the mujaheddin killed nine communists (VOAPS),
 *   The Afghanistan resistance sources say they attacked 8 July a Kabul regime post near Gardez killing two soldiers and injuring three others (VOAPS)*.
 19 The resistance sources said, in an attack recently on Kabul troops in Khost airport, Paktia, the mujaheddin demolished a military aircraft (RPDS).
 2QThe mujaheddin sources have said the mujaheddin hit 18 July the Khost airport, Paktia, destroying a cargo plane stationed in the airport (VOAPS).
 22^e ANS has reported the mujaheddin shot down 19 July a Russian transport plane near Khost Aiiw port, Paktia (VOADS).
                                         277
July-September, 1988             AIGHAN JEHAD                  Vol.2,  No.l
  * According to reports, prominent Paktia commander Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani himself shot down 20 July a Kabul regime helicopter in Satto Kando* All 27 persons on board were killed* The report Says the mujaheddin shot down the same day a Kabul regime transport plane in Bari region, Paktia
                                                                                        (VOAPS).
  *  Reports from the office of Mawlawi Haqqani say, the. mujaheddin opened fire 21 July on Khost city, Paktia, which also hit the WAD office killing nine persons (VOAPS)*
  26    TASS says the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan units, with about 22 Arabs, have recently attacked the center of Khost with heavy arms (BBCFS),
   * The Ittehadp-s-Xslami reports in an attack 17 July on a Kabul regime convoy on the highway between Gardez and Urgun, the mujaheddin demolished 12 tanks and other transport vehicles (VOAPS)*
  *  Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says, the mujaheddin attacked 18 July on a Kabul regime convoy which was heading from Khost to wochobi eliminating two tanks and a truck with all the persons on board (VOAPS)*
  20The Afghanistan resistance sources report in the recent rocket attacks on military posts in Khost and Zadran, the mujaheddin killed 51 Kabul troops and injured IS others (RPDS)*
  *  Eight Afghan political prispners were killed when the mujaheddin fired ground-to-ground missiles on a Jail in Khost, Paktia, recently (MIM).
  JQ Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the Soviet Jet aircraft bombed 27 July the mujaheddin centers near Khost, Paktia, killing six mujaheddin and injuring 20 others* Two mujaheddin vehicles were also demolished. The mujaheddin in their attack 20 July on the Kabul regime Battalion-2, captured a Kabul regime post and they killed four Kabul regime officers and injured a soldier. They also captured an officer and three soldiers (VOAPS)*
                                               August
  9  Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin have captured Sayyed Karani) Paktiaj the birth place of the Kabul regime head, Najibullah and have increased their pressure on Gardez* Western diplomats in Pakistan said efforts by the Soviet-Kabul forces for reinforcement of Gardez have failed because the mujaheddin control routes in that region (VOADS),
  0 The NIF says the mujaheddin shot down 3 August one of the six helicopters on their way to Urgun from Gardez* Twelve helicopters of the regime also arrived 4 August in that area to bomb the mujaheddin centers* The mujaheddin shot down one of them (VOAPS)*
  "7 The resistance sources said in their recent attack in Shinkai, Paktia, the mujaheddin killed 10 Kabul regime troops and captured an armored personnel carrier* The mujaheddin also ambushed a Kabul re'gime military convoy on Kabul—GarGez highway near Maigokhel, killing 25 Kabul regime troops (RPDS),
   Q Western diplomats in Islamabad say the mujaheddin shot down 4 August a Kabul regime transport plane in Khost, Paktia, and 45 persons on board----all soldiers-----were killed (VOADS).
  10   Reports reaching ANS from Paktia say the mujaheddin shot down two Soviet-Kabul helicopters 4 August near Paru* (FT)*
  10 The NLF says the mujaheddin organizations in a joint attack 31 July on a rocket brigade of Kabul regime killed one military officer and five soldiers. The report , says the mujaheddin attacked 6 July a Kabul regime military convoy moving towards Gardez* In the attack, at Kola Ahmadi, seven soldiers were killed and two military vehicles demolished (VOAPS).
                                       278
July-September, 1988
Vol.2f No.l
 19 Resistance sources have said the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 15 August on Sayyed Karam Paktia, killing eight Kabul regime soldiers (VOAPS).
 23     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin hit 16 August with rockets Khost Airport, Paktia, demolishing a four engine aircraft of the Kabul regime (VOAPS).
 24     The Afghan resistance sources have said the mujaheddin launched recently rocket attack on the airport and residence of the governor of Gardez, Paktia causing heavy losses to the airport while a helicopter and eight soldiers were also eliminated (RPDS),
 28     Afghanistan resistance sources report the people of Paktia province have taken over the security affairs of that province (VOGDS).
                                                September
 1      The NIF says about 2,000 armed militiamen of Sayyed Karam, Paktia, defected to the mujaheddin along with their 24 leaders and arms (VOADS).
   A Resistance sources say the mujaheddin shot down 30 August a jet aircraft in Kharot, Paktia
                                                                                      (VOAPS).
   0 Resistance sources report the mujaheddin have recently shot down a Kabul regime jet fighter in Sayyed Karam Paktia (RPDS).
                  The NIF says the mujaheddin shot down 2 September a Kabul regime helicopter in Ucha Kanda,
   Paktia (VOAPS).
   * The NIF says the mujaheddin attacked Sayyed Karam, Paktia, destroying the building of the sub division and setting ablaze two vehicles and an arms depot. In the attack, 100 militiamen were killed or injured (VOAPS).
   10 The ANS says the mujaheddin fired rocket 31 August on the Paktia center Gardez destroying three trucks and a heavy gun while 10 soldiers were killed and 28 others injured (VOAPS).
   *     The ANS says in a joint operation 4 September the mujaheddin captured a Kabul regime military cantonement near Khost, Paktia. In the battle a number of Kabul regime soldiers and officers were killed and 25 kilashinkovs were seized by the mujaheddin. From the mujaheddin side, seven were killed and 30 others injured (VOAPS).
         Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami says 35 Kabul regime soldiers were killed, 23 injured and 15 others captured alive with arms in the mujaheddin attacks 31 August-3 September in the outskirts of Sayyed Karam, Paktia (VOAPS).
   *     Khirkot Brigade of Katawaz district, Paktia province is reported to have been captured 9 Sej>-tember by the Afghan mujaheddin (PT).
   *     The mujaheddin launched rocket attack 10 September on Gardez, Paktia, killing one person (RA),
   12 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the Jehadwal Brigade mujaheddin in an attack 10 September on the Kabul regime security posts in Bari, Paktia, destroyed four security posts and captured all their arms (VOAPS).
   *     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin of all the organizations jointly captured 10
                                             279
July-Sept ember, 19 88
Vol.2, No.l
 September the important Katawaz corps cantonement ±r.. Paktia. In the operation, the mujaheddin shot down a helicopter and seized a huge quantity of arms. As a result of the operation vast areas of agricultural land have also come under the mujaheddin control (VOAPS).
 16     In rocket fires 16 September by the mujaheddin on Gardez, Paktia, three persons were injured and four buildings damaged (RA).
 17     Radio Kabul said troops barracks were subjected to mujaheddin rocket attacks in Gardez, Pak>-tia, setting a number of buildings ablaze. Also a number of residential buildings were levelled to ground (VOGDS).
 18 The Afghanistan resistance sources reported that in their attack 13-14 September in Nader Shah Kot, Paktia, the mujaheddin killed at least 10 Kabul regime troops and demolished four military posts (RPDS).
 * A report of the Afghan mujaheddin sources says the mujaheddin shot down recently a Kabul regime aircraft near Gardez, Paktia (RPDS).
 2^| The mujaheddin have occupied a military post near Khost, Paktia, killing 35 Kabul troops and arresting 40 others, reports Radio Teheran (PT).
 22     The ANS says the Mawlawi Haqqani mujaheddin in an attack 19 September on Razmak, Paktia,captured a Kabul regime post, one of the biggest in the area (VOADS).
 25     The Afghan mujaheddin claim to have shot down 19 September two transport helicopters north of Gardez, Paktia (RPDS).
                            Paktika , July
 1 Hie Ittehad-e—Islami Afghanistan reports the mujaheddin have further tightened their siege around Urgun. of Paktika since last week and all supply to Urgun have been stopped due to the mujaheddin attacks (VOAPS).
  * The AMRC reports that the mujaheddin killed 26 June 13 Kabul troops and officers in Moosa Khan, Paktika. In the attack one mujahed was killed and another injured (VOAPS).
 14 In a heavy shelling by the mujaheddin in Khairkote, Paktika, two houses and four shops were damaged (RA).
 22lttehad-&-Islami Afghanistan reports the .Kabul regime Chief Collector in Paktika defected 21 July to the mujaheddin (VOADS).
19
23
tika.
                              August
 The Itehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin shot down 12 August a jet aircraft in Sharan, Paktika
                                                                                                (VOAPS).
 Resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 18 August the Kabul regime posts in Zama, Pekin the attack a zequick, an ambulance and a rocket launcher were destroyed (VOAPS).
                                     September
  K Harakat-e^Enqelab-e-Islami in Quetta said in their attack 26 August, the mujaheddin demolished a number of posts in Khairkot, Paktika, and battle still continues. Details of casualties were not known (VOADS).
                                           280
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2f No.l
 21 Western diplomats reported that Sharan, center of Paktika province has fallen recently to the mujaheddin. Only Urgun is reported to be under the Kabul regime control in that province (VOADS).
                     Parwan , July
 | The ANS says the mujaheddin captured early last week Farza, Parwan, and captured 12 tanks and a huge quantity of arms and foodstuff (VOAPS).
  * The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked 23 June the Farza cantonement during which the cantonment: was captured by the mujaheddin. In the attack, eight soldiers were killed and 42 others captured by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  § Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says, in an attack 23 June, the mujaheddin .defeated a battalion of the Kabul regime in Gulbahar,. Parwan, capturing 42 Kabul soldiers. The mujaheddin also seized ,64 item of light and heavy arms and a large quantity of military ftardware (VOADS).
  * Hezb-e-Islajni (Hekmatyar) reported, in an explosion 21 June at a center of a Soviet military base in Bagram airport, a number of planes were destroyed. Exact details of losses have not been mentioned in the report (VOADS).
  * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) said 110 Kabul regime militiamen with their arms joined recently the mujaheddin in Starghach nepr Charikar, Parwan* It is said, with the surrender of the militiamen, Starghach has been completely liberated (VOADS),
  11   A TASS report from Kabul speaks of an increase in the mujaheddin activities in .Parwan province* Report says these activities are linked with a plan for launching an attack on the Bagram airport near Kabul (BBCFS).
  14 The office of the Hezb-e—Islami (Khales) has said the mujaheddin attacked 11 July an armored unit of the regime in Koh-e-Safi, Parwan, killing eight Kabul regime troops and capturing .pine others and demolished four posts (VOAPS).
16
  According to resistance .sources, in an attack 7 July on a Kabul regime oil tankers* convoy in Salang highway, the mujaheddin (demolished 13 tankers and seized another four (RPDS).
17
  According Afghan resistance sources, the mujaheddin have recently demolished two Kabul regime posts near Bagram base, Parwan (RPDS).
  19   The office of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan says in a battle 3 July between the Kabul regime forces and the mujaheddin in Charikar,Parwan, 20 troops were killed and 20 others captured by the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were also killed (VOAPS).
  a                              August
  £ Reports from Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) say a Kabul regime military officer with a truck and three kilashinkovs defected 24 July to the mujaheddin from Bagram airport, Parwan. Another officer and five soldiers defected 26 July to the mujaheddin in Sabzi Kari, Charikar (VOAPS).
   * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says, in an attack 30 July on the Kabul regime posts in Najrab, parwan, the mujaheddin captured 11 soldiers with their arms and also seized a wireless set and some arms
                                                                                          (VOAPS).
t ‘
                                           281
* According to AAP, the mujaheddin continue their efforts to bring under control Salang highway and more than 100 regime soldiers have Joined the mujaheddin (JG),
  12    The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 5 August the Kabul regime militia posts near the Parwan province capital as a result of which a Kabul regime officer and eight soldiers and militiamen were killed and four others captured by the mujaheddin and a post was also destroyed (VOAPS).
       Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked the Textile Mills in Gulbahar, Parwan, and captured four posts in the surroundings of the Mills. Report did not say any thing on the casualties (VOAPS).
  19 A reporter of The Ittehad—e—Islami says the mujaheddin shot down 9 August a helicopter in Parwan (VOAPS).
  21    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 16 August Jabal-us-SeraJ Cement factory, Parwan, killing 22 soldiers and injuring 30 others. In retaliation, the government forces attacked the mujaheddin positions and residences of the people with heavy guns killing seven civilians(VOADS).
  * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has said, in an attack 19 August on security posts in the eastern Charikar, Parwan, the mujaheddin killed six communists (VOADS).
  25    Hezb-&-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports, in their attack 19 August on a post in Bagram, Parwan, the mujaheddin killed three troops, captured a soldier alive and two others with their arms joined the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also seized seven items of arms. (VOAPS).
  27    ^e^eran Radio reports four pilots of the Kabul regime Air Force have defected from Bagram Airport, Parwan, and joined the mujaheddin ranks (RPDS),
  25    Hezk-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) sayS the mujaheddin captured 25 August a vehicle carrying 31 Bagram airport military staff on the highway in Hoofian, Parwan. They include 25 officers, five soldiers and a pilot (VOAPS).
                                        September
  3   T*le Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin fired 31 August rockets on Bagram Air-port,. as a result of which three planes were demolished (VOADS).
  0 Hie Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin have demolished all Kabul regime posts in southern Salang, Parwan province and captured about 100 militiamen with their aims (VOAPS),
 13   The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says in a series of operations late last month, all the Kabul regime military bases on the road between Jabal-us-Saraj and Salang were captured by the mujaheddin and their personnel fled (BBCFS).
   *    Western diplomats say fierce battles have recently been fought north of Kabul. The diplomats
   add Karabagh, Istalif, and Mir Bacha Kot are either under siege or being controlled^ by the mujaheddin (BBCFS).                                                                                       '
   *    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin hit 8 September two security posts near Charikar bazar, Parwan. The mujaheddin captured a number of Kabul regime personnel including the security commander and the officer of the department of criminal investigation • The mujaheddin also
                                         282
July-Sept ember, 1986
 Vol.2f No.l
 21 Western diplomats reported that Sharan, center of Paktika province has fallen recently to the mujaheddin# Only Urgun is reported to be under the Kabul regime control in that province (VOADS).
                     Parwan , July
 | The ANS says the mujaheddin captured early last week Farza, Parwan, and captured 12 tanks and a huge quantity of arms and foodstuff (VOAPS).
 * The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked 23 June the Farza cantonement during which the cantonment: was captured by the mujaheddin. In the attack, eight soldiers were killed and 42 others captured by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 5   Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says, in an attack 23 June, the mujaheddin .defeated.a battalion of the Kabul regime in Gulbahar, Parwan, capturing .42 Kabul soldiers. The mujaheddin also seized ,64 item of light and heavy arms and a large quantity of military hardware (.VOADS),
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported, in an explosion 21 June at a center of a Soviet military base in Bagram airport, a number of planes were destroyed. Exact details of losses have not been mentioned in the report (VOADS).
 *   Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) said 110 Kabul regime militiamen with their arms joined recently the mujaheddin in Starghach near Charikar, Parwan. It is said, with the surrender of the militiamen, Starghach has been completely liberated (VOADS).
 11   ^ TASS report from Kabul speaks of an increase in the mujaheddin activities in Parwan province# Report says these activities are linked with a plan for launching an attack on the Bagram airport near Kabul (BBCFS).
 14    The office of the Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) has said the mujaheddin attacked 11 July an armored unit of the regime in Koh-e-Safi, Parwan, killing eight Kabul regime troops and capturing .pine others and demolished four posts (VOAPS).
 16 According to resistance sources, in an attack 7 July on a Kabul regime oil tankers* convoy in Salang highway, the mujaheddin demolished 18 tankers and seized another four (RPDS).
 17    According Afghan resistance sources, the mujaheddin have recently demolished two Kabul regime posts near Bagram base, Parwan (RPDS).
 19 The office of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan says in a battle 8 July between the Kabul regime forces and the mujaheddin in Charikar,Parwan,20 troops were killed and 20 others captured by the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were also killed (VOAPS).
                                      August
  3 Reports from Hezb-s-Islami (Hekmatyar) say a Kabul regime military officer with a truck and three kilashinkovs defected 24 July to the mujaheddin from Bagram airport, Parwan. Another officer and five soldiers defected 26 July to the mujaheddin in Sabzi Kari, Charikar (VOAPS).
  * Hezb-^-Islami (Hekmatyar) says, in an attack 30 July on the Kabul regime posts in Najrab, Parwan, the mujaheddin captured 11 soldiers with their arms and also seized a wireless set and some arms
                                                                                           (VOAPS).
                                                     281
J uly-September
Vol.2f No.l
 # more
 12
According to AAP, the mujaheddin continue their efforts to bring under control Salang highway and than 100 regime soldiers have joined the mujaheddin (JG)*
 The Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 5 August the Kabul regime militia posts near the Parwan province capital as a result of which a Kabul regime officer and eight soldiers and militiamen were killed and four others captured by the mujaheddin and a post was also destroyed (VOAPS).
 ^j*y* Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked the Textile Mills in Gulbahar, Parwan, and captured four posts in the surroundings of the Mills. Report did not say any thing on the casualties (VOAPS).
 19 A reporter of The Ittehad-e-Islami says the mujaheddin shot down 9 August a helicopter in Parwan (VOAPS).
 21 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin attacked 16 August Jabal-us-Seraj Cement factory, Parwan, killing 22 soldiers and injuring 30 others. In retaliation, the government forces attacked the mujaheddin positions and residences of the people with heavy guns killing seven civilians(VOADS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has said, in an attack 19 August on security posts in the eastern Charikar, Parwan, the mujaheddin killed six communists (VOADS).
 25    Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports, in their attack 19 August on a post in Bagram, Parwan, the mujaheddin killed three troops, captured a soldier alive and two others with their arms joined the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also seized seven items of arms. (VOAPS).
 27    Teheran Radio reports four pilots of the Kabul, regime Air Force have defected from Bagram Airport, Parwan, and joined the mujaheddin ranks (RPDS).
 25 Hezb-e—Islami (Hekmatyar) sayS the mujaheddin captured 25 August a vehicle carrying 31 Bagram airport military staff on the highway in Hoofian, Parwan. They include 25 officers, five soldiers and a pilot (VOAPS).
                                                September
  2       Afghanistan resistance sources said the mujaheddin fired 31 August rockets on Bagram Air^-port, as a result of which three planes were demolished (VOADS).
 0 The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin have demolished all Kabul regime posts in southern Salang, Parwan province and captured about 100 militiamen with their arms (VOAPS).
 13    The Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan says in a series of operations late last month, all the Kabul regime military bases on the road between Jabal-us-Saraj and Salang were captured by the mujaheddin and their personnel fled (BBCFS).
  *     Western diplomats say fierce battles have recently been fought north of Kabul. The diplomats
  add Karabagh, Istalif, and Mir Bacha Kot are either under siege or being controlled., by the mujaheddin (BBCFS).                                                         .                      '
  *     Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin hit 8 September two security posts near Charikar bazar, Parwan. The mujaheddin captured a number of Kabul regime personnel including the security commander and the officer of the department of criminal investigation . The mujaheddin also
                                                    282
July-September# 1983
J
Vol.2, Ho.l
 fe
I <"
 seized 21 pieces of light and heavy arms. They also demolished the same day a Soviet tank alongwith its crew (VOAPS).
 ^0 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the Kabul regime soldiers of a post in the southwest of Charikar, Parwan, joined with their arms 16 September the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
                  ________________________^        ,    July
 22^6 NIF has said, in an attack 23 June on The Darra-e-Soof, Samangan, the mujaheddin killed 13 militiamen and captured 18 others including two officers and a member of the House of People(VOADS),
 3*| The Harakat—e-Enqelab-e—Islami says the mujaheddin captured 9 duly Darra-e— Soof, Samangan and destroyed a helicopter of the regime. The mujaheddin have also captured 30 party workers and about 89 troops and militiamen in that sub division. Eight communist party members who were captured after resistance were executed after trial. Forty eight Kabul regime troops were killed and 23 others injured. The mujaheddin have seized 510 items of arms. In the battle 12 mujaheddin were also killed (VQAPS).
                                    September
 15  The Afghan mujaheddin captured an army garrison at Darra-e-Soof, southwest of Aibak, the center of Samangan (PT).
 19 The resistance sources report that in a mujaheddin attack late August on a Kabul regime military base in Qala-e-Nau, Samangan, near the Afghan-Soviet borders a number of Kabul troops were killed and a government building and a security post were demolished (RPDS).
 „                     Takhar , July
 IQ A report of the Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the Soviet jet aircraft carried out heavy bombardment 11 July on some villages and mujaheddin position in Chaal, Takhar, destroying about 470 houses and killing 40 mujaheddin and civilians. The report adds the mujaheddin killed 10 July, 10 Kabul soldiers in Baramka desert. The regime troops have also set on fire eight heaps of the harvest. Also 15 troops with their arms from Chahaab post joined 8 July the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), says Soviet forces bombed 7 July the mujaheddin trenches in Chal sub district, Takhar, killing 18 mujaheddin and injuring 12 others (VOAPS).
                               August
 0 The NIF says the mujaheddin dismantled 20 July a number of security posts in Takhar province and liberated 14 villages from the regime control. In the attacks, the mujaheddin captured 84 militiamen, killing 27 and injuring another while 140 pieces of arms and six heavy arms with thousands of bullets were also seized by the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
16
 Ahmad Shah Masood, commander of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a report has said that • Taluqan, the center* of Takhar province has fallen to the mujaheddin four days ago (BBCFS).
 19 The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has said the mujaheddin have captured Yangi Qala and Khawaja Ghar sub divisions on the bank of Ctxus river north of Takhar.The mujaheddin captured Khawaja Ghar 14 August. The report says the mujaheddin have captured alive 280 troops, militiamen, communist party officials alongwith the Deputy Commissioner of the sub division. In the operation, the mujahed-
                                          283
J uly-September , 1938
Vol.2, No.l
 din have also.seized two vehicles, scores of light and heavy arms and 200 boxes of cartdridges.
 The Yangi Qala sub division was captured 17 August, but details are not yet known (VOAPS).
 21 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reports the mujaheddin of all organizations launched 15 August a majors offensive on the centfer of Takhar province as a result of which they captured a greater part of the city. The governor and its militiamen and party members have fled to the old city and are still resisting. In the operation, a number of soldiers and militiamen and government officials were killed and the mujaheddin captured hundreds of light and heavy weapons (VOADS).
                                    September
 4   The Afghan mujaheddin claim to have captured three posts in Chahaab, Takhar (BHDi).
 0 Resistance sources said the mujaheddin attacked 29 August the militia posts in Khwaja Beland region of Chahaab, Takhar, as a result of which the mujaheddin seized 40 items of arms while a mujahed was killed and two others injured (VOAPS),
 ^ The Afghan mujaheddin say they shot down 5 September a Kabul regime aircraft in Khawaja Ghar, Takhar (RPDS).
 0 Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the Kabul regime forces failed in their attempt 4 September to recapture Taluqan city, Takhar, In the battle for the control of the city about 20 soldiers, militiamen and officers were killed or injured and 20 others captured alive by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin have seized 30 items of arms, while 20 mujaheddin were killed or injured. The source says the Kabul Radio claim that the mujaheddin were annihilated and arms seized was sheer fabrication (VOAPS).
 13 The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) said fierce fighting took place V-6 September between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime militiamen who attempted to recapture Takhar province.
 In the battle, the mujaheddin killed 43 militiamen and captured eight others. Prom the mujaheddin side, seven were killed and 14 injured. The mujaheddin also seized 17 items of arms (VOAPS).
 * Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) reported the mujaheddin shot down.5 September a Kabul regime air^* craft with rocket near Taluqan city, Takhar (VOAPS).
 18   The Afghan mujaheddin sources reported that the Takher mujaheddin have shot down a Kabul regime aircraft in Taluqan
                 Uruzgan,
 0 The Ittehad—e-Islami has said the mujaheddin of Tarinkot, Uruzgan province jointly launched 29 August an attack with heavy arms on the provincial center, the posts around it and the airport eliminating two helicopters, a big oil reservoir, a big foodstuff godown and two cannon bases, A cont-munist base was demolished and captured by the mujaheddin and an unknown number of the Kabul regime troops was killed or injured. Presently Tarinkot stands besieged by the mujaheddin (VOADS).
 ^ 1 Afghan mujaheddin sources report the Governor of Uruzgan was captured 8 September by the mujaheddin while he was serving inside the Kabul regime security posts (VOADS),
 * The Afghan;resistance sources say the mujaheddin attacked 8 September Tarinkot Airport, Uruzgan, with heavy aims setting a plane ablaze. Fighting continues in Tarinkot , (VOADS).
                                       284
July-Sept ember, 1988
Vol.2, No.l
      12   Western diplomats and the Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin have recently gained control over Uruzgan (VOADS).
      13   The Ittehad-e-Islami reported the mujaheddin demolished 9 September a post north of Tarinkot, Uruzgan, and its arms and ammunition fell to the mujaheddin. Similarly, the mujaheddin in their rocket attacks 9 September, on a Kabul regime patrol vehicle in Tarinkot killed all the 11 persons on board. The mujaheddin seized 11 kilashinkovs (VOADS).
      14   The mujaheddin sources in Quetta have reported that communists in Tarinkot, Uruzgan, have turned down a directive of the Kabul regime to leave the city and have decided to fight the mujahed din (VOADS).
      15   Harakat-&-Islami said the mujaheddin entered 10 September the city of Tarinkot, Uruzgan, and launched'rocket fire on a patrol vehicle. In the attack the Chief of KHAD, Political Chief of Maha-llajat, Commander of an Operative Battalion, directive general of the administration of the province. Deputy. Chief of the KHAD and a KHAD detective with four other KHAD officials were killed (VOADS),
      23   The people of Tarinkot, Uruzgan are defending their city against the mujaheddin attacks.
      Thirty mujaheddin killed recently and scores of their arms were destroyed (RA).
                               Wardak . July ::
      £L The Afghan mujaheddin had claimed last week to have captured Maidan Shahr, capital of Wardak, but diplomatic sources say the mujaheddin gained control over the city for a short period but the, government forces soon reoccupied it (BBCFS).
      Ij Western diplomats in Islamabad say Maidan Shahr, 25 km southwest of Kabul, has been seriously damaged due to Soviet aerial bombardments. According to these diplomats, bombardments were carried in retaliation to occupation of the city by the mujaheddin (BBCFS}.
      ^ Eighteen mujaheddin have been killed in Wardak and their arms depots destroyed by the Kabul government armed forces (RA).
      16   The resistance sources reported that the Afghan mujaheddin have recently shot down a cotnnunist warplane in Wardak (RPDS).
      v 18 ^Sban mujaheddin report from Peshawar that the mujaheddin have once captured Maidan Shahr, the center of Wardak province. In the announcement, it has been said that the mujaheddin have also brought Kabul-Kandahar highway under their control (VOGDS).
      28Hezb—e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the* mujaheddin shot down 16 July a jet aircraft which was bombing their positions. Die plane crashed in Sanglakh, Wardak (VOAFS).
      23   Diplomatic sources have said fierce fighting continues between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces for capturing Maidan Shahr, Wardak. According to the report, in the battle 32 KHAD activists have so far been killed (RPDS).
       24   Fierce fighting took place between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime troops for the control of Maidan Shar, north of Kabul recently (MIM).
                                           August
       1 The Afghanistan resistance sources say, by cutting-off the Kabul-Kandahar highway, the mujahed-
                                              285
July-September, 1988
 Vol.2, No.l
 din. have acquired full control of Wardak province. According to the news agency reports, the Kabul regime troops have vacated that province and have surrendered its control to the mujaheddin (RPDS)#
 2   The Afghan mujaheddin sources report they have shot down 25 July a Soviet MIG—25 aircraft near Maidan Shahr, Wardak (VOADS).
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have gained full control of the Wardak province by cutting off the Kabul-Kandahar highway, and were planning to invade Kabul shortly, Chargul Nisar, The amir-e-jehad of Wardak province, said 1 August in Karachi (1U)»
 ,                                              Zabul,  ->u.y
 £ The resistance sources in Quetta say Kabul forces were attacked when they were enroute from Moqor to Shah Joey. In the battle, which lasted until 27 June, a large number of Kabul troops were reported killed or injured and 80 soldiers with their arms joined the mujaheddin. Fifteen of these soldiers are now in Quetta. They say in the battle about 100 Kabul troops were killed or injured and five tanks with their crewmen were eliminated (VOAPS).
    Radio Teheran reports the mujaheddin attacked recently several government military posts in Zabul during which 10 Kabul regime soldiers were killed and another 11 captured (RPDS)..
 ^0The office of the Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan in Quetta city has, said as a result of mujaheddin firing on communist forces in Shahjoe, Zabul, 16 tanks and trucks were set ablaze and more than 80 communist troops killed or injured (VOADS).
 *  The NIF reports in a retaliatory attack, Soviet aircraft bombarded Mulla Khel Shahjoe, Zabul, demolishing about 300 houses. A number of the inhabitants of the' village were killed and others fled to mountainous areas. Fifty shops were also destroyed in Shahjoe, tj^ar .(.VOADS).
      Three mujaheddin organizations say their mujaheddin have been fighting since 4 July a fierce battle against the communists in Shahjoe, Zabul province (VOAPS).
 19   The office of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) says the mujaheddin captured 16 July Shah Joey, Zabul.They destroyed two tanks and four trucks and captured 135 kilashinkovs, alongwith a large quantity of other arms and ammunition and military hardware. Following the capture of the Shah Joey sub division, Soviet aircraft and helicopters bombarded the civil population and mujaheddin positions causing heavy losses forcing the people to leave their homes (VOAPS).
  * The Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan says the mujaheddin attacked 11 July Kalat, the center of Zabul province. During the operation, 97 soldiers and militiamen joined the mujaheddin (VOAPS).
  20   The office of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan has said in their attack 11 July on Kalat, Zabul, the mujaheddin killed or injured nine. Kabul militiamen (VOADS).
  2§Rep0rtS by the m^jaheddin say following fall of Moqor, the Shah Joey military base and Safa city, Zabul, the Kabul regime soldiers fled to Ghazni city leaving behind five tanks, and 14 other military vehicles (RPDS).
  23Afghanistan resistance sources report from Quetta the mujaheddin attacked 10 July a Kabul regime military convoy in Nurak, Zabul, demolishing three tanks and two trucks. The mujaheddin also seized five mortar guns, a large quantity of arms and four wireless sets.In the attack, about 120 Kabul troops with 100 items of arms surrendered to the mujaheddin. A high ranking officer of the regime with a
                                           286
   July-September, I9S8             AfGHAN JEHAD                   Vol.2, No.l
number of soldiers was killed. From the mujaheddin side, one was killed and six injured (VOAPS),
* Resistance sources say the mujaheddin sieged 15-18 July a unit of communist regime troops in Nurak, Zabul. The troops offered resistance and in the combat three tanks arid two trucks were destroyed and four trucks loaded with flour, a gun and nine kilashinkovs were seized (VOAPS).
                                             August
A The Afghanistan resistance sources say in a mujaheddin attack on Kalat, Zabul, two tanks and a number of other military vehicles were^ demolished (RPDS).
2. Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan reported the mujaheddin attacked 25 August the Aab-e-Garm post in the vicinities of western Kalat, Zabul, The post with all the personnel was demolished and four soldiers with their arms joined the mujaheddin. In the battle nine persons affiliated with the Kabul regime were killed (VOADS),
                                                MORE MIUTARY CHRONOLOGY 27-30 SEPTEMBEE, 1988
                                                           27
*     Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) says the mujaheddin, commanded by Mawlawi Haqqani, occupied 27 September, a Kabul regime military base in Zurmat, Paktia, killing or injuring 200 Kabul regime troops and capturing three tanks and a number of light and heavy arms (BBCFS).
*     Western diplomats in Islamabad say the Kabul regime forces have once again occupied Paghman city with the support of Soviet forces (VOADS).
*     The Afghanistan resistance sources in Quetta say Soviet troops, wearing the uniforms of the Kabul regime forces, participated in the ongoing battle in Takhta Pul. The Soviets have mostly been commanding the Kabul troops and are deployed to use heavy arms (VOADS).
*     The Afghanistan resistance sources have reported'the mujaheddin captured 23 September the center of Zurmat, 30km from Gardez, Paktia. The source said, in the attack, 150 Kabul regime troops were killed and 180 items of arms, nine tanks and 100 Kabul regime troops were seized by the mujaheddin.
*     The Afghan mujaheddin sources said in the rocket fire 21 September on the Kandahar airport, two helicopters were demolished and losses were inflicted to the airport installations (RPDS),
*     The mujaheddin once again subjected 26 September the Kabul civil population to ground-to-ground rocket fires killing 10 and injuring 14 others (RMDS).
*     By exploding an anti-personnel mine in Laghman province, the mujaheddin killed five and injured six others (RA).
*     Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan reports that in the fierce fighting in the vicinity of Herat city, 11 tanks were demolished and 18 Kabul regime troops were killed (BBCFS),
*     The Harakat-e—Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in Quetta has said the mujaheddin captured 27 September a Kabul regime post on Ghazni-Katawaz road. Three Kabul regime troops were killed and
28
287
   July-September, 1988                   AFGHAN JIHAD                      Vol.2f No.l
 their commander was captured. The mujaheddin launched an attack on the same day and eliminated a post belonging to the Chardewar projects. The commander of the post was captured (VOADS).
 *     Resistance sources have reported the mujaheddin captured 19 September a big post in Sultan Bakwa village in Bakwa, Farah. Eight militiamen were killed during the operation (VOADS).
 *    In the mujaheddin ground-to-ground rocket fires 27 September, on Kabul city, 33 persons were
 killed and 127 others injured (RA).                -
                                              29
 *     Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan reported that the Afghan mujaheddin destroyed 25 September to 27• September, three posts, an armored vehicle and two trucks of the Kabul regime (VOADS).
 *     The Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan said, the mujaheddin launched rocket attacks 17 September on houses belonging to the communists of Tarinkot, Uruzgan, killing the director general of the Uruzgan bank. Tarinkot still stands besieged (VOADS).
 *     Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan says, in an attack 21 September on a Kabul regime logistic convoy near Kandahar airport, the mujaheddin destroyed a truck and an armored vehicle and killed 14 communists. Following the combat, communist helicopters destroyed mujaheddin vehicle and a tractor and killed seven mujaheddin and injured four others (VOADS).
                                              30
 *     ‘ The Afghanistan resistance sources say the mujaheddin shot down recently a Kabul regime helicopter in Uruzgan (RPDS).
                   NEWS FROM THE COMMUNIST SOURCES
 *     It has been announced in Washington that US diplomat McWilliams has been appointed as a spe-' cial envoy in the US Ihbassy in Pakistan on the Afghanistan issue (RMDS).
 *     The Red Cross and Red Crescent have supplied medicine and medical equipment worth Afs, 30,1 million to the Afghan Red Crescent Society during one year (RA).

July-September, 1988 fl[GHAN JEHAD         Vol.2, Mo.l
RADIO AK3CANISTAN (RA) AND RADIO MOSCOW (RM) NEWS                      
ON IMPORTANT AfGHAN ISSUES (July-September,1988)                       
 •                      July     August   September       Total        
s§       TOPICS                                          RA 1 RM       
 •                     RA    m   RA   RM   RA  RM                      
co                                                                     
 1 Coalition            4    5   1    -    1     5     6       10      
   government                                                          
 2 Geneva Accord       42   15   78   24   82  210 .  202      60      
   Pakistani viola¬                                                    
 3 tions of Geneva     45   15   19   4    31  10     95       29      
   Accords                                                             
 4 Rocket attacks by   25    9   14   3    12    8    51       20      
   the mujaheddin                                                      
 5 Surrender of muja¬  16    2   18   1    5   -      39        3      
   heddin                                                              
 6 Over coming the     60    1   70   2    48    2    178  . : 5 ' ■ ' 
   mujaheddin                                                          
 7 NRP                 49    7   77   5    52         178      12      
 a Return of refugees 19197 520 6622 1100 7657 -     33476    1620     
 9 Economic and         7    -        -    1     -     8   -           
   Social agreements                                                   
   Soviet prisoners                                                    
10 of war with the      1        3         -   -       4        1      
   mujaheddin                                                          
The table is based on 9O0FM (Pakistan Time) of RAf Dari News 8 :00 PM (Pakistan Time) of EM Dari News for Afghanistan.

 o
July-September9 1988 flfGIlIlN JEHAQ         Vol.2, No.l