■f %
JANUARY-MARCH. 199]
VOL.A NO
U

       IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
Editorials:
  THE LIBERATION OF KHOST

      When this magazine was being sent to the press, the good tidings of the liberation of Khost city by the mujaheddin was received on 1 April, 1991. Hence we deemed it essential that although the contents of this issue were related to events during the period between January-March, 1991, some comments on this significant event of jehad should be inserted in this issue. Thus in addition to editorial, photos on the cover of the magazine and a special report, on the military operations leading to victory have been,'published herewith.
      Reports received here indicate that subsequent to this great military success achieved as a result of joint planning and operation of all the mujaheddin groups, the Khost city is calm and peaceful and the mujaheddin commanders are tackling the problems with Islamic solemnity and perception.
      Undoubtedly the victory in Khost both from the military as well as the political and psychological point of view, is the biggest achievement of our mujaheddin after the withdrawal of the Russian forces from our country, more than two years ago.
      Other editorials in this issue of our magazine, in one way or the other, are related to the political problems of our jehad and especially the need for a concerted leadership which-may pc 'lively and comprehensively take due advantage of our military victories and successes, in order to realize the goals of our jehad and to alleviate the sufferings of our people in the shortest possible time. In our opinion, even though the style of our handling this subject may perhaps be outspoken, it attaches special importance and urgency to the matters pointed out by us, at this juncture.
      As ordained in Surah Al-Nasr of the Holy Quran: When Allah1 s succour and the triumph comes, then hymn the praises of your God and seek forgiveness of Him.
      It means that every success and every victory is bestowed by £ God Almighty. So we should not feel arrogant and haughty. Therefore, as a gratitude to this God's blessing, let us avail ourselves of the opportunity to bring about a really effective leadership which may be able to alleviate the moral and material sufferings of the people in accordance with the Divine teachings.
      May God grant us success.
                                                                                                                                    price: SHAH M BOOK CO
                                                                                                                                                 PRINTERS, PUBLISHERS, DISTRIBUTORS i BOOKSELLERS
                                                                                                                                     pm-ii.shahm.bookco@usa.net serial no. e mail. shahmbookco@onebox.com
PO BOX: 1328, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
      Twprwr*Tnr~:
 P.O. Bo
 Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 258E'>
 JANUARY-MARCH* 1991      flfGllllllJtHAD           VOL.A NO.2
 PROPOSAL FOR ESTABLISHING RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP
 EDITORIAL: A statement issued by the AIG on the occasion of the anniversary of Russian invasion of Afghanistan contains a number of points which deserve comment (see page  The statement says:
     until the establishment of an Islamic order in Afghanistan, the jehad.will continue;
     any effort for the solution of the Afghan problem opposed to the wishes of the mujaheddin will be rejected including demands for coalition between Islamic and atheist forces or those rallied behind the former King Mohmmad Zaher Shah. ,
                     ...  ■     .                •     ■'   i
     In    making these points-      to    which we subscribe
 wholeheartedly- the same statement has made another point which calls for discussion and soul-searching. It claims:
     The Afghan nation has established a "responsible authority for the resolution of their major problems and through elections it has already undertaken - practical action in regard to the issue."
     Undoubtedly, it is the AIG Which the statement has termed as the "responsible authority" and it is referring to the Rawalpindi Jirgah of 1989 by saying that it has been the Afghan people who have established this authority. The AIG cannot be called a responsible authority and the Rawapinidi Jirgah, whose members were hand-picked by the’ 'seven leaders of Peshawar based mujaheddin organizations cannot be caTled a body representing the Afghan nation. It is indeed repugnant to Islam to twist facts and realities to fit one’s own politics and wishes. s
     The AIG (1) has been boycotted by one of its own members from almost the beginning of its formation; (2) has failed to carryout its own declared objectives (broadening its base to include all the credible elements of the Afghan society; shifting its seat to the interior of the country; holding of elections 1
 JANUAKY-MAKCH. 1991     flfCHflW JtHflB                 VOL .4 NO. 2
within a specific period of time, the deadline for which has already passed); (3) has been unable to initiate a clearcut and decisive alternative for solving the Afghanistan issue, either militarily or politically; (4) has been unable to include other credible elements of the society within its fold; (5) has been haunted by dissentions and plots within its own ranks; (6) has failed to gain recognition of the Afghan people and international community, etc.
      The realities and facts in regard to the inability of the AIG to carryout its functions are so obvious and universal that it will be indeed a waste of time to indulge in* arguements in this regard.
      As for the so-called elections plan, although opposed at this juncture by a good cross-section of our population, it has been mentioned by the AIG authorities for more than two years now. The plan has been pushed under the rug and then taken out several times to suit the politics of a number of AIG leaders. They know it very well and the nation also knows it very well that even if these elections are held under this law (which both in theory and procedures has so many defects and loop-holes) one can hardly expect the creation of a genuine representiative body as a result of it.
      At any rate, the AIG once again has failed to abide by its own declared deadline which said the elections results will be known by the end of March, 1991. In Dari language there is a saying: "0, Dear Goat, Dear Goat, please, don*t die. Soon the barley of Laghman will be harvested.” The AIG Always makes tall claims without carrying out ANAY ONE of its plans. ___ ■
      For the sake of putting an end to the miseries of our people, for the sake of not making our creed and religion a tool of politics, and for -the sake of making a success of our jehad, let us put an end to this disgracefull state of affairs.
      We call upon the AIG to establish a task force of Afghans (1) with long standing ties with the jehad, (2) •Afghans not entangled with too many politics of the political institutions of the jehad, (3) Afghans with an independent.judgement and known for their fairness, (4) Afghans representing the ethnical and
                                                          5
JANUARY-MARCH , 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 geographical entities of our country, to workout, on the basis of a consensus among the credible elements of the society, an alternative for the ^solution of the Afghan problem (military or otherwise). The AIG'"although it has lost its usefulness" should, neverthelesss, intitiate such a bold move; otherwise it is considered by a universal consensus a spent force.
      And let us above all not call the people or the institutions contributing to the creation of a healthy and free society by offering sound criticism and analysis, and engaged in discharging their Islamic obligations, lackeys of this or that power. Let us speak and act as true Muslims .as in the presence of God Almighty who knows the known and the unknoWn. Let us not resort to futile
 talking by questioning the' loyalty of Others just to serve our. own ends.

NAJIB REGIME
      There have been a number of authentic reports that some mujaheddin leaders 6r representatives had chosen to establish contacts with the Najib government and even one of the.leaders is reported to have held talks in a foreign country with Najib himself. Holding of such contacts are neither good politics nor in accordance with\ the principled stand taken so far by a wide spectrum of mujaheddin organizations.
      It is not good politics because no one can really believe that Najib will negotiate with the presence of many parties with a solitary organization on a question of life and death for his regime. When a consensus is worked out for the solution of the Afghan issue and the mujaheddin and the people of Afghanistan as a whole stand behind that solution, Najib will quit without having the honor of even being recognized for holding talks.
      The way to force Najib to quit would b.e to evolve a resolution among all credible elements of the Afghan society which should by its very nature exclude communist and atheist and other anti-Islamic elements. As soon as a consensus is worked out among these Afghan elements on an Afghan option- military or
 januaky-makcii, 1991  HlfilWHJtHflD        vql.4 nq-2
 political- the world would accept it and Najib will have no choice but quit,
     Najib's tactics in making these hypocritical overtures is to (1) gain some sort of recognition and credibility for his regime and (2) drive wedges in the mujaheddin ranks.
     The establishment of such contacts with the Najib's criminal puppet regime is also contrary to the principled stand of the mujaheddin. Starting from Taraki down the line -to Najib every one of these communists have been traitors to the Afghan cause. They have been a vdirect tool of Russian imperialism and symbol of destruction, massacres and untold miseries to our people. The very idea of sitting with them to talk about any subject is not right.            '
     It is good to know that a large number of mujaheddin leaders themselves have assailed the holding of such contacts with the Najib regime. As experience also proved,, nothing was gained from holding such talks, and in one case, as indicated by a mujaheddin leader, whose representatives had met Najib's envoys in a foreign country, they were lured into these talks by the leader of an v organization known for its disdain to the Afghan jehad and consistent leniency towards our enemies.
       IRAN AND THE AFGHAN
                          JEHAD
     The unfortunate confrontation of the Iranian authorities with the Harakat-e-tslami Afghanistan of. Mohammad Asef Mohseni brings into limelight some unfortunate realities in the Afghan-Iran relations which have surfaced specially since the signing of the Geneva Accords on Afghanistan in 1989. Neither an Iranian insistence to play the role of Big Brother to the Iranian based Afghan mujaheddin parties nor the emergence of a Tehran-Kabul rapprochement can be defended as Islamic and brotherly acts towards the Muslims of Afghanistan or their jehad.
                                                        7
 JANUARY-MARCH» 1991      flIGHflMJfHAD                   VOL.4 NO.2
      A large community of Afghans- perhaps more than a million-lived in Iran even before the Russo-Afghan War. They comrpised a big chunk of the labor force. But during the years of this war perhaps more than 1.5 million other Afghans sought refuge in Iran. Despite many difficulties which . the Afghans faced"PartlY because of the unfortunate plight of all refugees of modern times" the Afghans ought to be grateful to their Iranian brethren for allowing our refugees to live in their country.
      Although Iran neither rendered active military support to the mujaheddin during the pea'k-days of our jehad against the Russians nor it is doing so today when we.are still fighting the remnants of Soviet imperialism, their political support for our jehad was loud and clear. But, due to a number of reasons, Iran has now decided ]to expand relations with the Kabul regime. One of these reasons may be an Iranian illusion that, by exposing a soft side to the Kabul regime, it may be able to obtain a number of privileges from a regime in dire need of international recognition.
      As far as the relations of concerned Iranian authorities vis-a-vis Iran based mujaheddin are concer^nd, we hope our Irani brothers will realize that .even the Afghan Shias* lives and interests have been molded in the lcpng-standing traditions of the Afghan environment, despite their religious affinities with Iran. Ayatullah Mohseni, despite being a Shia, typifies the character of a true Afghan Shia and that is why he does not allow to be bullied or dictated by interests contrary to that of an Islamic Afghanistan.
      The extent to which the Iranian authorities have been keeping the organizations of Afghan mujaheddin based in Iran under their clamp is a well known secret to many Afghans. The Afghans, on their part, are aware of the fact that they cannot build a state within the state and they have to abide by the laws of the land where they live in exile. But, according to Islam, we are the muhajers and they are the ansars.we expect to be treated in accordance with' Islamic obligations and not bullied and discriminated against.
                                                          1
      Ayatullah Mohseni1s courageous starid deserves admiration. It is indeed incumbent upon all Afghan mujaheddin leaders not to
                                                8
 I
   JANUARY-MARCH^^
   allow to be treated as mere officials of the host governments and, for the sake of a number of privileges which they have been receiving from the authorities of the host governments, do not forsake or turn a blind eye towards the plight of the rest of their Afghan brethren living as refugees both in Pakistan and Iran or compromise on basic and vital interests of the Afghan / jehad which in fact should be the interests of the entire Islamic ummah i.e. equality, fraternity find support of the cause of our jehad. Neither our leaders nor the authorities of host governments should put their political expediencies above Islamic interests.
      NO CARE FOR QUAKE, FLOOD VICTIMS
       The devastating eairthquake which killed thousands of people on both sides of Afghan-Pakistan border as well as floods both in Iran and Afghanistan in January,went almost unnoticed bv the AIG authorities who make tall claims about being the legal auhtority representing the Afghan people. It was particularly painful for the Afghans to watch on the television and read in the newspapers of both Pakistan and Iran about the vast amount of aid and relief supplies sent to affected, areas of their countries to help the victims. Pakistan, hit only by the earthquake, in particular solicited large scales of aid specially from Saudi Arabia to the Victims of this catasrophe.
       The AIG, top, could have appealed for international aid and organized rescue teams to help the victims in the affected areas, most of them reported to be under the control of mujaheddin. No body really knows how many Of our compatriots have been killed, injured or affected as a result of the disasters.
          The Kabul government, which did not have access to these areas, tried to gain some publicity advantage from the event as well.
 h
          The fact is the AIG has become a spent force and if one
                                                 9
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991______   ^                           VOL A U0_ ,_2_.
  really makes an investigation of its accomplishments since its formation more than two years back, it would be very well evident that it has been a good-for-nothing organization and therefore to appeal to it or remind it to go to the rescue of the victims of these disasters even now (for surely they would need help despite the lapse of all this time) would be in vain.
       We can do very ..little than to record the isssue and, meanwhile, with a heart full of sorrow, sympathize with the survivers of both disasters and pray for the souls of those who lost their lives.


                                              10
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          DfGHANJIHAO               VOL.4 NO.2
  Political Dimension:
        GULF CRISIS OVERSHADOW AFGHANISTAN ISSUE
  AIG Elections Project Fails; One Too Many Alternatives for Afghanistan Issue
     .The Afghan political climate daring the past three months was as cold as the winter in Afghanistan. Tfie AIG virtually collapsed and what remained of it apparently was working in two factions. Furthermore, the AIG, over-stretched ■aimlessly, its mandate for 18 months and received a major setback in January by laying off over 40,000 of its employees. To begin with, right from the very start it was indeed a futile effort to set up such an extensive administration outside the country. Most of government circles are of'the opinion that it is the over-staffing that actually caused the closure of most of the offices of the AIG. The AIG President, and ministers who support him, repeatedly declared that 4 the employees have not been dismissed but have been sent oh a temporary leave until the government is financially in a position to pay them.
     The AIG, however, did not dismiss those working for the Ministries of Education, Information and Public Health though they were kept with reduced salaries. Ministers and departmental chiefs of other ministries were also kept in their jobs.
     In addition to outgrowing itself, the interim government spent substantial funds on purchasing furniture and other accessories and modern and expensive houses were rented. Unnecessary departments were established within the framework of ministries, and actually these very ministries were needed only after Afghanistan was liberated and a central government was established inside the country. Similarly such ministries already exist in Afghanistan and the new' government had only to utilize them according to its needs after streamlining them.
                     AIG PRESIDENT VS-PREMIER
          Differences and problems between the AIG President and Prime Minister h further increased as government orders and statements issued by each of. them
                                                   11
     JANUARY-MARCH# 1991          flfCllfljl JtjjflB                     VOL ,4''NO.2
    assumed separate shapes. When the Prime Minister announced a reduction in the salary of government employees, the President'raised the salaries; if the Prime Minister did'not attend a cabinet meeting for important reasons, the President opened the meeting at his own responsibility, etc.
                                                     1 !                        _     I
         The conflicts between the President and the Prime Minis ter were• specially revealed after the despatch of a 300 mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia to help Riad fight Iraq for its occupation of Kuwait. The AIG Prime Minister not,, only condemned the troop deployment, but assured the Iraqi government that the forces were not sent by him. .                              ;
         The Election   Project also intensified the conflict between the two wings of
    the AIG. in the     first place, it    was the principle duty of the  AIG to hold
    elections in Afghanistan in order to pave the way for the establishment of a legal government. But for many factors mainly due to lack of resolution, ill-administration, and dis-array in AIG ranks, the plan was not implemented.
         Sayyed, Noorullah Emad, Secretary of the Election Commission, declared at the end of December that 2,400 members to. an elected Loya Jirgah will meet 25 k January. He pointed out, apart from the Hezb-e-Wahdat, all other shia and Sunni parties supported   and participated in these elections.' But Sayyed  Abdul Hameed
    Sujjadi, member     of the Central       Committee of Iranian  based  Afghan Shia
    Hezb-e-Wahdat party, said that as the representatives of this party were taken into confidence by the seven Peshawar based mujaheddin parties and its agreement was not sought on the election plan, therefore the elections result will have no executive value. He said, this was not only an urge for .Afghan solidarity but also a vow for the attainment of Shia rights.
         Although the AIG took necessary steps to send. 138-man Supervisory, delegations to 20 provinces to execute its elections plan, but it did not take it long to issue another statement saying that the plan to. send these delegations was postponed because Of a severe cold weather inside the country . (as the AIG did not know of harsh Afghan climatic conditions when it made the elections announcement last autumn).
         A month after tiie despatch of some delegations to Afghanistan, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, said in an interview, "the elections have not yielded positive results as they were facing difficulties right from the beginning." He said some commanders and groups have reported difficulties in this respect.
         However the Hezb-e-Islami of Gulbuddin Hekm^tyar, who has boycotted the AIG almost right from its establishment, took part in the AIG plan by sending election supervisory delegations and insisted that elections should be held all* over the country.
         Shahadat/ the publicity organ of the Hezb regraded Mujaddedi's statement that the election was not possible an evasion of responsibilities andT stated that the mujaheddin were capable of overcoming all difficulties."The^ actual reason", said Shahadat "is that they are afraid lest they might lose the elections".
                                             12
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 VOL.4 NO.2
      None of the electoral districts of the 2Q provinces programmed for elections sent any results. Only the Shahadat newspaper published the result of elections which it said was held in Laghman under AIG plan. Giving the result of these elections, Shahadat reported that out of a total of 46 representatives elected, 31 were those of Hezb-e-Islami, 12 of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, 2 of the Ittehad-e-Islami and 1 of the Jamiat-e-Islami. The mujaheddin organizations included in the AIG did not comment on these results.
                                      FALL OUTS OF GULF CRISIS
      The Gulf crisis had many negative, effects upon countries in the region and particularly on world economic and political affairs including that of Afghanistan. One of the reasons that forced the AIG to dismiss' •. 40,000 of its
 employees was that the doners had stated that because of prevailing difficulties they would not  be in a position to continue their  aid to the AIG. Furthermore,
 the  mujaheddin attitudes towards the developments in the Gulf both in the AIG
 level and also among, other mujaheddin 'groups, have created new conflicts and intensified the old ones. After the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, the AIG cabinet decided to declare its solidarity with the Saudi government by promising to send a 2,000 contingent of the' mujaheddin force to Saudi Arabia. But after the rush of the US and allied forces to the region and the start of the war, some fundamentalist groups condemned "the US agression” and supported Iraq. On the other hand, as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait both had aided the mujaheddin throughout the   jehad, and Iraq on the other hand, had never supported them,  the liberals
 and  moderates supported Saudi Arabia. Disputes    on this issue    between the
 mujaheddin groups reached their climax when the AIG President actually despatched a 300-mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia. Prime Minister Sayyaf, while expressing his opposition to this move, regarded it as a decision taken by the President personally. Leaders of other mujaheddin groups such as Prof. Sayyaf, Hekmatyar and Rabbani also, strongly condemned the despatch of the mujaheddin forces to Saudi Arabia 'and * assured the Iraqi government that they were "in no way involved and, moreover, the mujaheddin group sent there had no connection to Hezb-e-Islami or other groups related to the AIG, adding that the step was taken simply to please the US.
                                              NEW FORCES
      These disputes led to speculations about the establishment of a new alliance and even an alternative aovernment to replace the AIG.
      In the wake Of these events, it was becoming evident that new forces have been added to the mujahedditi groups: commanders, ulama and elders. Haji Abdul Haq, renowned commander, confirmed in a radio interview the emergence of this new force. He said, may be these forces have become vocal recently, but in fact existed during the entire jehadic movement.
      The Council of Ulama in a meeting held at the AIG headquarters, pressed the government to announce that the six mujaheddin organizations of the AIG will follow the decision^ of the ulama regarding the future of Afghanistan. As the meeting was held in the government premises, Hekmatyar leader of Hezb'-e-Islami, who has boycotted the AIG, did not attend it but asked the ulama to meet him at his residence.
                                               13
    JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991         HUMANJIHAD             ,     VOL.4 NO.2
                                        ONE TOO MANY PLANS
          The Council of Commanders, which drew world attention by its very formation last summer, has driven a chill to the hearts of mujaheddin leaders. Similarly, tribal chieftains and leaders held occasional meetings and issued resolutions regarding Afghanistan. While on the one hand, these new councils further proliferated the mujaheddin forces, on the other, they serve as new pressure groups upon the old mujaheddin organizations. The mujaheddin organizations, the councils of commanders, ulama and elders, as well as other Afghan groups and personalities are having separate plans for the solution of the Afghan issue and each is lobbying for its own plan. But regarding the mujaheddin commanders it is specifically stressed that they will remain obedient to their main organizations and they do not wish to see the commanders emerge as a separate and rival force.
          After loosing interest in elections, the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, stated that the only way to solve the Afghanistan problem was through the Loya Jirgah. In order to accomplish this task, he urged all the mujaheddin groups to establish a broad committee to elect members of the Jirgah.
          Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, (main AIG rival) has urged the establishment of a jdint council for the overthrow of the Kabul regime. He say's all mujaheddin groups should take .part against the Kabul regime fronts.' Meanwhile, he supported   the AIG election project, insisting     that the
     plan for an elected Shoora shpuld proceed.
          Ayatullah Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mphseni, leader of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, is of. the opinion that a Supreme Council of Commanders should be established in Kabul concurrent with the establishment of a Revolutionary Council outside Afghanistan to oversee the political affairs of the country, if the establishment of these councils is not possible, an interim government-consisting of Afghan influential figures who are not related to any of the mujaheddin organizations or groups, ought to be established.
          Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, and the AlG Minister of Interior, believes that- one of the seven mujaheddin organizations should accept sacrifice     by deciding that neither its leader     nor its
     members would take part in the future Afghan government. This organization, then, should play   the role.- in  the interim period and pave the way    for the
     establishment of a  legal government. He has stated that his party was prepared
     to assume this role.
          Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, leader of a group seeking unity among mujaheddin parties, has stated that a leading council should be established from all the organizations in order to study the future of the Afghans and an interim government.
                        Some of the mujaheddin groups, commanders, tribal leaders have defended the Zaher Shah (former King of Afghanistan) peace plan which suggests the ^establishment *of a delegation of 30 Afghan personalities to call a meeting of
                                                 14
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
     300-Afghans for the formation of an interim government in Afghanistan.
         Abdul Sattar Seerat, .a former Afghan Justice Minister, says that a delega-tion of mujaheddin personalities or supporters who at the same time represent the cultural and geographical regions of Afghanistan, should be established and pave the way for the convening.
         Other Afghans also have plans and proposals for the solution of the Afghan problem. But all these have remained as individual plans and no measures have been taken to coordinate them and to come out with a single workable plan.
                          NAJIB AND HIS SEDITIOUS EFFORTS
          By making good use of the political vacuum, Najib is trying to keep his fading government in one piece. At the same time the puppet Najib regime has recently proposed his so-called broad-based plan for the solution of the problem with either of the three alternatives:
    (1)  participation of all opposition groups in a broad-based government, (2)
    establishmnent of a government through elections and (3) taking decision on the issue of war through a Loya Jirgah.                   '
        Apart from these seditious plans, Najib is trying to create misunderstanding and discord among the mujaheddin groups. For instance, upon return from Geneva, he had a brief stopover in Mashad, Iran, to give the impression that he had met a number of mujaheddin leaders and that a high-ranking delegation of his government had a number of meetings with a similar delegation from Hezb-e-Islami of Hekmatyar in Iraq two years before.
          According to Western media, Najib also met Peer Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and some leaders of Hezb-e-Wahdat. But the Hezb-e-Wahdat and Sebghatullah Mujaddedi both denied the reports. Sayyed Ahmad Gailani*s answer^ in this regard have been vague .and evasive and some journals have stated that many members of the Executive Council of the NIFA, ..belonging to Gailani,. have expressed their resentment over the meeting and have regarded it as an unfaithful act against the jehad and mujaheddin.
          Similarly, Qutbuddin Helal, Hezb-e-Islami Chairman of Political Committee, in an interview strongly rejected any understanding or meeting with Najib and regarded it as an unpardonable crime. But a few days later, Hekmatyar said that the Kabul regime by rfefer*ing too some meeting two years ago with Hezb envoys, actually demonstrates     its weakness   and desperate status.      According   to
    explanations offered by the official organ of Hezb-e-Islami, Shahadat, the meeting between the two delegations took place because Najib had promised to step down in favor of     a mujaheddin government. The Shahadat stated that    the
    Kabul regime delegation   was accompanied by Abu Khalid, an envoy of Yasser Arafat
    the PLO leader, who has had amicable relations with the Kabul regime all along the Afghan jehad.
          Another important   move by Najib  was the establishment of   friendly  ties
    JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             - AFGHAN JIHAD                     VOL.4                                          NO.2
    with Iran. Though the latter has an Islamic government and has given shelter to two million Afghan refugees, it has decided to switch on the green light for the Najib regime in responding sympathetically to the Kabul government's proposals, and is trying hard to strengthen the Kabul regime position by conducting mutual visits and establishing other ties under the guise of "humanitarian" aid and "cultural visits".
         At the start of these developments the Iranians permitted the Najib aircraft on way to Geneva to land at" Mashad for refueling and then to hold talks with him. Later the Kabul regime agreed to allow Iran establish a cultural center in Kabul. The Iranian government later sent 100 tons of food and medical supplies together with some cash to Kabul regime and promised to allow Afghan civilian planes use the Bandar-Abbas Airport. Though the Iranian leaders have stated that their stand towards 'the Afghan jehad has not changed, this subject together with their attitude towards the Afghan Shia mujaheddin and the imposition of Hezb-e-Wahdat, are all indicative of, the negative and deplorable changes that have occurred in the stand of the Iranian government towards the Afghan issue.
                       CONSEQUENCES OF THE KKOST OCCUPATION
         The fall of Khost to the mujaheddin will have major repurcussions on the political and military dimensions of the Afghan jehad. One can even say that it is the greatest mujaheddin military victory after ,the withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan, more so because the victory has come as a result of a joint mujaheddin operation,  on                                          the other hand the  victory  will enhance the
    urge for the establishment of a single mujaheddin leadership.
         One can say with utmost certainty that the occupation of Khost is a great victory for the mujaheddin from the strategic, publicity and political points of view, and a corresponding    defeat  for the Kabul                                           regime.    It proves that
    the mujaheddin are capable   of gaining similar victories over urban centers
    through unity and alliance.  If                                         they do not manage to form a single leadership
    particularly in the interim period, their victories in the military field will, in fact, remain futile.
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      flUlHflHJHtflB         VOL.4 NO-2 |
Military Dimension:
HOW KHOST WAS LIBERATED?
SPECIAL AFGHAN JEHAD REPORT
    Khosfc in Paktia province, which was lately upgraded to the Provincial status by the Najib regime, was liberated by the mujaheddin 31 March and is now being administered by a joint council of the mujaheddin. The main factor which led to the liberation of Khost was the alliance and solidarity among the mujaheddin groups and their joint command.
    The mujaheddin began their operation by attacking the weakest point of the security belt around the city deploying heavy artillery and using the 10 tanks they had at their disposal. Furthermore, new tactics and pinpointing combat positions forced the enemy forces to retreat.
                            I
    On the other hand, the Najib regime failed to supply its forces as a result of which the airport and other important points in Khost fell to the mujaheddin. Bad weather was also a factor in the fall of Khost. It prevented the Kabul regime air force to strike mujaheddin positions. The announcement by the mujaheddin of a general amnesty through local radio stations could also be counted as an effective measure in the surrender of government troops.
    The joint mujaheddin operations began at 4:30 p.m. 14 March by heavy artillery and armored vehicles. The forces that >took part in the operation consisted of seven local councils headed by a joint council of 23 members. A seven-man strong delegation known as the supervisory delegation, has been selected from the 23-man council. The delegation was responsible for the entire war operations. The command center was in the contingent at Barai, under Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani Barai. In a mujaheddin radio message at the beginning of the operations, while announcing a general amnesty, the enemy military officers were asked to drop their arms and join the mujaheddin.
    The local radio station and the airport radar installations were the first targets that were destroyed. On the following day, a military depot was blasted and, 16 March, 10 security posts were captured east of Khost including those at Malizai and Mirkhangai. At 3:40 p.m. two helicopters were shot down and two tanks and two armored vehicles were destroyed. As a result of the Sucker-20 rockets, fired on the Khost Garrison and local housing area, the oil reservoir was destroyed and heavy losses were inflicted upon government personnel.
    On the fourth day of the operation- 17 March- Latkisar, Bairagh, Gegah, Shalka and Qarargah-e-Buzurg were captured one after the other. The enemy losses on this day were five officers and 45 troops plus a tank.
                                             18
      On the fifth day of the^attack the Farm Bagh base, including the Pashem Highlands, were captured by the' mujaheddin who also captured one tank and some light and heavy arms.
      The sixth day of the operations was highlighted by the capture of the Bak-nad Yaqubi subdistricts and the strategic Kokarak post overlooking the new airport. Two enemy tanks were destroyed and the Kokar oil terminal was also captured.
      On the seventh day of the operations the Ghata PUla, Ghondai, Korgori, .'Chawki, Farkhar and three other posts situated east of the city were captured. One tank, one machine-gun. and pne cannon- were captured alongwith one officer and 20 troops. On this day the Mastmir Khan, Kotakh, Tarar and Pir Sakai posts were captured southwest, of Khost. One tank- was destroyed and 20 soldiers surrendered to the mujaheddin.
.                       '                                  "    . . ■ I
      The mujaheddin were advancing successfully from the north, south and east; but the advance from the west was slower although all the security posts in the south and north-east were conquered.
      On the 10th night of operation- 23 March- one military base and five posts were captured in the Sailkhanah district. The Sheikh Amir sub district together with another six security posts were captured after midnight. A big transport aircraft was downed 24 March and around mid-day 50 parachutes carrying abbuk 500 gun-shells .of various shapes and sizes were captured by the mujaheddin.The Kabul regime was now supplying its troops by means of parachutes only.
      A second announcement was made to the.public to vacate the battle areas.The mujaheddin had to stop operations for two days to allow 300 families to vacate their dwellings and to be transferred by the mujaheddin to bases in Miran Shah and other safe places.
      On 25 March another Kabul regime aircraft was shot down when it was landing in the new airport. Also the Surghundi, Sagi and Lali security posts, situated at Zani Khail were captured. The mujaheddin intensified their operations towards northwest, occupying four posts and killing General Ghundi of the Kabul regime Security Forces.
      The mujaheddin shot down a helicopter and a transport plane 29 March and began advancing towards the new airport which was captured rapidly. On the following day, all the remaining security posts around the city were destroyed and it was announced that all the military targets in Khost were now captured by the mujaheddin.
      It was at* 4:15 p.m. 31 March that Khost was liberated. The Kabul regime positions at Esmail Khail were captured and General Gul Aga, the commander of the Garrison, was taken prisoner by the mujaheddin.
      Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani told a mujaheddin reporter in an interview in the battle field, "we have been working on the operation on Khost plan for four
                                             19
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               Ilf (1111111 JIHAD ________. VOL.4 NO. 2
 months. When the news of the plan reached the Kabul government authorities they began strengthening their forces and re-enforcing the security belt around the city, but they did not know where the first attack will be launched. They had speculated the mujaheddin will attack the security posts near the airport because' they could easily be supplied in that area.
      Thus the mujaheddin changed their plan and attacked the Malizai and Farmbagh area southeast of Khost. The operation was carried out with the help of armored forces which soon succeeded to break through he enemy defense line".
      General Gul Aga commander of the Khost Garrison, told a mujaheddin reporter later, "the mujaheddin enjoyed a strong command and discipline and were furthermore blessed with the power of detection. They were aware of our week points and made good use of it and thus defeated us in the shortest possible time".
      In regard to the repurcussion of the fall of Khost, he said "the city plays the role of a gate in a house. Once it is penetrated, going to the courtyard and to the house will not pose any difficulty'.'. According to him, there were 40 armored vehicles, and a large number of different types of machine ghuns and cannons in the Garrison. He added that there were a team of 1,200 militiamen from the Rasheed Dustum group, 300 troops from the special guard and the Badghis, Faryab and Ghor militiamen in the Garrison. He said, "apart from the 2,500-3,000 regular troops, the Khost Garrison was occasionally re-enforced with relief troops, and the KHAD, the police and the militia had their own men, the exact number of which is not known to me. There were about 38 aircraft in the old airport which are now damaged. Similar is the case with the 14 aircraft in the new airport. Two days before the fall of Khost a delegation headed by a deputy of Najib Nazar Mohammad, General Sola Mai, the Deputy Minister of Defense and a number of generals visited the Garrison. General Ghulam Farouq, the President of KHAD, General Rahmatullah and Saadat Gul, (the Governor of Khost, have all disappeared during the mujaheddin operations and there were no news of their whereabouts" .
      Before the operation, the mujaheddin had decided to use the heavy arms they may capture for the liberation of other provinces but distribute the light arms among themselves.
      Five   hundred of the injured were transferred from the Khost     hospital to
 Miranshah for treatment. Over 2,000 POW's, comprising officers and militiamen have also been transferred to Miranshah.
      Najib had called on the UN Secretary General to intervene. A day after the fall of Khost Najib said in a radio statement that his contact with Khost had been cut-off and he proclaimed the following day as a day of national mourning.
      The    mujaheddin have established a joint executive council      to maintain
 security in Khost. The mujaheddin have captured thousands, of light and heavy arms and large amounts of ammunition. They have begun transferring the civilian population of Khost   to Miranshah for  their own safety from the     Kabul regime
 rocket and air attacks and are supplying them with the necessary goods.
      Eng,    Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, visited Khost and
 personally congratulated the mujaheddin on their glorious victory. He is reported to have said in an interview later that the capture of Khost was the beginning of the occupation of the provinces adjoining Kabul and later Kabul itself.
                                              20
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
MAJOR DOCUMENTS
 TEXT OF A1G RESOLUTION ON ANNIVERSARY OF RUSSIAN INVASION OF AFGHANISTAN;
 TEXT OF ULAMA SHOORA RESOLUTION ON ANNIVERSARY OF RUSSIAN TROOPS WITHDRAWAL;
 TEXT OF COMMANDER, ULAMA JOINT RESOLUTIONS;
 TEXT OF ULAMA SHOORA RESOLUTION ON GULF, KASHMIR. PALESTINE;
 AFGHAN ISLAMIC MOVEMENT'S STAND ON THE FUTURE OF AFGHAN JEHAD:
 JOINT DECLARATION OF MEMBERSHIP COMMISSION OF COMMANDERS' COUNCIL;
 TEXT OF UN RESOLUTION ON HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS IN AFGHANISTAN;
 TEXT OF CHARTER OF UNION OF AFGHAN ULAMA:
 22-24
 25-27
 27- 28
 28- 29 30-32 32-33
 34-37
 37-41
21
I JANUARY-MARCH, 1991 AfCHflHJtHflB ■ VOL.4 NO-2 |
Text of AIG Resolution
on Anniversary of Russian Invasion of Afghanistan

ava«aiavaKi«avafatafafaia«9#afaiDnH3ia»oi3«
\?'c]
  EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of the resolution issued by g the AIG pertaining to the anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. The text is published in the Ittehad-e-Islami journal of 31 December.

                  IN THE NAME OF GOD. MOST GRACIOUS. MOST MERCIFUL
       Mujahed, Muhajer and Ansar brethren Assalam‘-u-Alaikum Wa-Rahmatullah-e-Wa-Barakatuhu:
       December 27 coincides with barbarian and colonial Russian military aggression on the sacred territory of our Islamic country of Afghanistan which was conducted with impunity and utter disregard of human and international norms pf behaviour. Marking  of this black day e.ach  year once again renews the memories
  of the savage invasion    of the satanic power  of Russia, and revives.in the hearts
  of the people of this nation the wounds and scars of the oppression committed by these oppressors.
       During this period hundreds of thousand of our sisters and brothers have been martyred by the Russian aggressors and countless were incapacitated for life. Owing to indiscriminate enemy bombardment, our houses were demolished# Orchards, green fields and lands with standing crops were turned into barren and sandy deserts. Nevertheless We are thankful to God Almighty that in the-face of all these trials, tribulations, miseries, oppression and endless cruelties brought on the innocent Afghan people, He, conferred on the oppressed Afghan nation the courage and   fortitude to continue  its jehad and  steadfastness against
  the Russian army and     their puppets . until  the enemy was    forced to quit this
  country with complete digracefulness and flee from it.
       Although the remnants of this aggression of 27 December (1979)- the puppet, atheist and communist regime- still clings to power, but despite Russian support its days are numbered. While the perpetuation of this regime is a manifestation of the continuation of Russian oppression on this nation and, in addition to the fact that we are already busy at defeating the last vistages of infidelity and atheism with the help and grace of God, we decisively declare:
  (1)  Until the unholy and filthy rug of atheism and infidelity is not rolled
                                                       22
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              IlfGllilN JIHAI1                    VOL.4 NO.2
     up and remains unwrapped in  the sacred land of Afghanistan             and until it is
     not replaced by a new godly order of justice and equality, every passing day will be 6 Jaddi (27 December) for us and we will continue our jehad till the attainment of our sacred and cherished goal.
(2)  For the solution of   Afghan  problem any effort opposed              to the wishes and
     will of mujaheddin will not'only.prove futile but will add to our problems.
(3)  The enemies of our    jehad-  and as a  whole- all the enemies of Islam,
     through their meddling in our case, are shamelessly bent upon containing the establishment of an Islamic government by the mujaheddin. And with this end in mind, they have all united. But we remind them that resolutions regarding the future government in Afghanistan is the unquestionable and legitimate•right of the Muslim and Mujahed nation of Afghanistan and none other whosoever.
                              Our sacrifices for this holy cause run into more than 1.6 million martyrs and we have paid very heavily for this cherished goal. We have
     written' the document of our freedom with our blood, not with the class room chalk of the others.
(4)  The Afghan nation is a free and capable nation with high ideals and feelings and is fully in a position to determine its own fate and future. That is exactly why they have established a responsible authority for the resolution of their major problems and through elections it has already undertaken practical action on this issue. Therefore there is absolutely no need for the guardianship, supervision, control or advice from any quarter whatsoever and furthermore consider these as meddling in ,our internal affairs.
(5)  We have offered all these sacrifices for the sake of establishing an Islamic order in our country. Therefore the creation of a coalition where the atheists and Muslims will have shares is totally unacceptable to us and for that matter our religion, Islam, does not allow the participation of non-Muslims in an Islamic government.
(6)  We cannot leave Afghanistan, not even for a single day, to be taken care of by rieutral elements because whosoever considers himself neutral in the war between Islam and atheism and does not take sides particularly when atheistic barbarious attacks continue at the very threshold of Islam, such people have, willingly, disengaged themselves from the ranks of Islam.
(7) We consider all sorts of secret or open contacts with the Kabul regime and collusion with the enemy over the Afghanistan issue as a treason to and deception of the sacred objectives of mujaheddin, refugees, martyrs, orphans, widows, crippled, and all of our bereaved people and shall never allow these evil designs and cherished goal of the. cowardly bargainers of jehad to flourish and materializei
(8)  Two groups have helped our jehad: (i) Those who are our friends and friends, of the ideals of our jehad; (ii) those who have their own political ends
                                                        23
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
     out of this jehad and are neither our friends nor that of our objectives. Of course we do not hold any grudge against them. However our complains go to the Muslim ummah. We call on them earnestly, not to forget their hungry and oppressed brethren in Afghanistan. Instead of sending their money to the oppressed people of Afghanistan, they send it to those who even right now are fighting the Afghan nation and whose hands are stained with the blood of 1.6 million martyrs. Assistance to such enemies is tantamounts to letting down of jehad and deceiving the mujaheddin and God's religion.
(9)  Efforts to bring back the time tested old shaky hands who have actually
     sown the seeds of misfortune and we have over the years paid for the damages caused by their unbridled licentiousness and debauchery, through our jehad and immigration, are not only fruitless but we consider it an unpardonable              act and crime and shall hot allow such   endeavours to
     materialize.                   -
(10) We call upon the mujaheddin of the path of truth and trench holders in the way of Allah to continue their jehad until the establishment of God's order. Such a jehad is the greatest means of allegiance to God Almighty and the best means for earning the pleasure of God and the only way to freedom,
     honor and magnanimity. We advise them earnestly, in order to achieve their cherished goal, they have to leave aside their internal differences and hurdles and humble their adversary with the strength of unity.
(11) Hence at this stage and in the same connection we want to point out the following three points to the Muslims:
      (a)  The enemies   of Islam have united to annihilate you and us           and
      therefore you should not only unite but prepare yourselves for a fateful, confrontation and a decisive battle.
      (b)  Despite a proliferation of         problems, you should not lose hope for
     success. The dawn of Islamic honor and glory is drawing closer and an increase in hardships and problems are the harbinger of God's mercy and glorious dawn of victory.
      (c)  The Gulf war is not in the interest of Muslim ummah and the enemies
     are exploiting it for their own ends. We once more call upon Saddam to vacate Kuwait and bring to an end all his oppression and transgression and not  provide the neighbouring            countries an. excuse to keep foreign
     troops in their territory. We also call upon the leaders of Saudi Arabia to drive out the foreign troops from their land and, if and when needed, call upon the volunteer guardians of Muslim countries for help and assistance. At the conclusion we pray to God Almighty to bestow upon us fortitude and patience towards this end. Aameen.
                                                      24
VOL.4 NO.2
JANUARY-MARCH,
1991
Text of A1G Resolution ^ on Anniversary of Russian
Troops Withdrawal
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of an AIG resolution commemorating the second anniversary of the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan. The text was -published 15 February9 19919 in the newspaper "Subh-e-Pairuzee*.
  $
       Today is 15 February 1991, the second anniversary of the defeat and disgraceful flight of the aggressive and occupying Red Army of Russia from our beloved homeland, Afghanistan.
       The aggressive Red Army intoxicated with the pride of strength and' invincibility, resorted to barbaric invasion of our homeland in order to crush the jehad and thwart the Islamic movement of Afghanistan, let loose for 10 years a reign of terror, tyranny, death, destruction, massacre and pillage throughout our fatherland and shed the blood of our nation marcilessly* But at last, the legendary and heroic jehad and resistance of our anti-heretic Islamic nation shattered the myth of its inviricibility to smithereens and for the first time in the 70-year rule of communism, the vulnerability and impotence of the Communist Red Army was proved beyond any shadow of doubt on 15 February,* 1991*
       Therefore 15 February, 1991, or the day of the defeat and dishonorable retreat of the communist army is a day of honor and glory for the Muslim and Mujahed nation of Afghanistan but is a day of ignomony, dishonor and utter disgrace for communism and the red colonialism of Russia.
       Although the Russians fled from our country ort 15 February, 1991, in a shameful manner but their brutal and tyrannical interferences for the perpetuation of their puppet communist regime's rule in Kabul continue as usual. On the one hand the USSR itself is faced with hunger and famine and is extending its beggar's bowl to all the countries of the world, but on the other doles out economic and military aid amounting . to $   400 million a month to the unlawful
  and heretic regime in Kabul to prop it- up to this day.
       But we are confident that in the same way as the Red Army could not succeed in crushing the jehad and the Islamic resistance in Afghanistan during the 10
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 years of tyranical and bloody war imposed on the crusading Afghan nation and.on the contrary, exposed communism to defeat and dishonor throughout the world, today also the Russians, despite the continuation of their interference and military . and . economic assistance to' the communist regime in Kabul, cannot guarantee the survival of the Kabul regime or frustrate the victory of the mujaheddin or the establishment of the Islamic government.
      While condemning the continuation of the Russian interference in our country and resolving to continue our armed jehad till the downfall of the communist regime in Kabul and establishment of the Islamic government, we declare our following policy, resolutely and emphatically:
 1.    We strongly urge the USSR to stop interfering in our country and desist from further efforts to perpetuate the survival of the unlawful and imposed communist regime in Kabul.
 2.    We will continue our armed jehad till the complete downfall of the communist regime in Kabul, obliteration of all the vestiges and remnants of corruption, evil, heresy and communism as well as establishment of the Islamic government.
 3.    We will not concede, under any circumstance, to form a joint or coalition government by cooperating with the treacherous, murderous, criminal and quisling Khalq and Parcham Party or for that matter with any other heretic party or group. We consider any idea of coalition with the communists as a treason to jehad and our mujahed nation and hence condemn it strongly.
 4.    We take a firm stand against every plot hatched'to frustrate the formation, of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and do not accept the formation of any un-lslamic government under1 whatever name and title. We regard the formation of a heterogeneous and non-committed government as wasting the blood of our martyrs and throwing away the ideals of the jehad.
 5.    Only the faithful and mujahed Afghannation has the right to determine the destiny of Afghanistan and the shape of the future Afghan government and none else has the right to interfere or to temper with this privilege.
 6.    We appeal to all the heroic mujaheddin, all the brave commanders of the blood-stained strongholds and trenches of jehad, to intensify their struggle for the complete overthrow of the Kabul regime by preserving the harmony and solidarity of their military operations and to continue their armed jehad till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
 7.    We ask from all the Muslim countries and the peace-loving countries of the world to put pressure on the rulers of Russia to • keep their hands off Afghanistan and not to shed the blood of our people anymore by supporting a handful of murderers and criminals.
 8.    We expect all the Islamic countries particularly the two neighborly Muslim countries of Pakistan and Iran who have given refuge to five million Afghan refugees and have extended moral support to the jehad and the
                                               26
JANUARY-MARCII, 1991
 VOL.4 NO.2
       mujaheddin during the aggression and occupation of the Russian Army, to continue supporting the mujaheddin till the overthrow of the communist regime in Kabul and the formation of Islamic government in Afghanistan.
 9.    While condemning the occupation of Kuwait by. the Baathist Iraqi regime, we strongly oppose the present devastating war waged by the USA and its allies, under the pretext of liberating Kuwait, to destroy the Islamic country of Iraq. We demand ceasefire and speedy withdrawal of the Iraqi •> forces from Kuwait and the entire foreign forces from Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf region. It is the obligation of the Muslims to ensure the security of the Gulf region and the holy places of Islam and hence the Islamic countries should take appropriate steps in this regard.
 10.   We support all the Islamic Movements and all the freedom movements throughout the world especially the Islamic movements of Palestine and Kashmir. We consider the transfer and settlement of'the Russian Jews in the occupied territories of Palestine, a coordinated conspiracy of the colonialist Soviet state and the usurper Israel and condemn it strongly.
      Similarly we condemn the cruel attitude of the Indian government against the Muslims of India and call upon the Indian government to desist from harassing the Muslims living in its country.
Text of          Comma,
Ulama Joint Resolution
         EDITOR'S NOTE:   The  following  is the text of the declaration
         approved 24 December» J990, by the Ulama Solidarity Council and the Council of Mujaheddin Commanders of Afghanistan. The text has been published in Ittehad-e-Islami journal 14 January» 1991.
                   IN THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
       All praise be to God Almighty and blessings to the Holy Prophet, peace be, upon him. As the Afghan Jehad is passing through its last phaSe of victory and its positive effects are becoming manifest, it is at this sensitive juncture that the enemies of jehad are bent upon creating hurdles to inflict blows on Muslims and Islam and deprive the mujaheddin and those who struggle for truth and for their right of self-determination. That is why they sometimes suggest a coalition of the atheistic regime of Najib with that of mujaheddin and at other times come up with the suggestion of a common council of mujaheddin with
                                               27
 JANUARY-MARCH * 1991            MM JIHAD                        VOL. 4 NO. 2
 the atheists, etc. Widespread propaganda is being conducted by foreign governments and media to achieve this objective. It is with this aim that the Councils of Ulama Solidarity and Mujaheddin Commanders, have reached a joint conclusion and declare their stand vis-a-vis these events as follows:
 (1) Plan for the establishment of a joint and neutral government; (2) Plan for a joint council with the atheists and foreign agents; . (3) Organizing an international conference which suggests that it should be held with the participation of atheistic elements of the Kabul regime and mujaheddin along with similar plans discussed by the aliens are considered as. meddling in our internal affairs. We also strongly reject plans for holding general elections with the participation of atheistid regime, and elements who are not qualified to vote according to Islamic shariat.
      Wey scholars and commandars, want urgent solidarity and unity of our mujaheddin and vehemently condemn and reject disunity and a proliferation of. parties which turn into a bone of contention and source of differences, as a result of foreign meddling. Therefore we call upon all leaders of mujaheddin to put aside their disputes and differences and contribute practically and actively in restoration of peace and tranquility in our beloved motherland, Afghanistan by establishing an Islamic, government therein. This calls for closing their ranks and restoration of solidarity among, themselves in toto. Hoping God Almighty's blessings. .Signed by 15 ulama and seven commanders.
Text of Ulama Shoora Resolution on Gulf,
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------;Pr

         EDITOR'S NOTE:  Following  is the text of a resolution passed by
         the Council of the Afghan Ulama pertaining to the Gulf War» Kashmir and Palestine.     The text has been published in
         *Ittehad-e-Islami" Journal 14 January» 1991.


       The council of Afghan Ulema met 23 December, 1990, and the^ following problems were discussed: (1) Saddam's invasion of Kuwait, (2) The coming of American led atheistic multinational forces to the Gulf region; (3) The holy land of Palestine's issue; (4) The problems of Kashmir and Babri Mosque and; (5) the problems of the Central Asia such as Bukhara, Tadjikistan, etc.
       In the light of the Holy Quran and Traditions of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, verdigts were passed, the gist of which is as follows:
                                             28
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             HfilHllH JtHilO                       VOL. 4 NO. 2
 (1) Saddam's invasion of Kuwait is considered an un-Islamic. It is incumbent on all Muslims to try free the Muslim nation of Kuwait and Iraq from the shackles of Saddam's oppression and that of his atheistic party.
 (2) The coming of the Americans and other forces of infidelity into the land of Hejaz (Saudi Arabia), in response to Saudi's call, notwithstanding, is considered unholy and negates the norms of Islamic principles. The security and safety of Haramain-e-Sharifain, Islamic Common House of God Almighty, is obligatory and incumbent on all Muslims. The Americans and other ' infidels should vacate the Cbmmon House of Islam forthwith; otherwise it will be incumbent on all Muslims, the world over, to declare jehad against the Americans and the rest of the infidels. The Islamic ummah should settle the Gulf problem by themselves.
 (3) As soon as the forces of infidelity leave , the Muslims of Afghanistan, if. called upon and whatever the number be, are ready, God willing, to lay-down their lives for the security and protection of Haramain-e-Sharifain whole-heartedly, devotedly and without any remuneration.
 (4) The massacre of Kashmiri Muslims, their denial of self-determination, demolition of Babri Mosque and the geno.cide of Muslims by Hindus are not only against the principles of Islam but also negate the very spirit of the UN resolutions and principles. It is the sacred duty .of all Muslims to see to it that Kashmir is freed, once for all, from the Hindu domination.
 (5) That Holy Jerusalem, the sacred land of Allah and the first Qebla of the , Muslims,is in the hands of, Jews and Americans since 23 years. The Muslims
     therein are slaughtered 'day in day out by the Jews mercilessly. This is a serious challenge for the Muslims arid calls for an all out jehad by the Muslims against the Jews and their patronizers. The responsibility lies squarely on the shoulders of all Muslims as to why Palestine has not been freed until this day.
   *       I
 (6) Likewise, untiring efforts must be made to liberate Central Asia and its Muslim republics from Russian domination. They have been subjected to Soviet imperialistic domination for 70 years; therefore their liberation is
     obligatory on all Muslims the world over.
                            < .
 (7) To make the Muslim troops fight under the command of infidels is not permissible, therefore all those Muslim countries which have sent their troops to fight under the command of US infidel troops should be recalled or ordered to fight the infidels over there.
wnrDr
                                                                                                \
                                              29
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
Afghan Islamic Movement’s Stand on the Future of A fghanistan Jehad

 EDITOR'S NOTE:   The  following is the text of the resolution
 passed by members of Tahreek-e-Islami Afghanistan pertaining to jehad and the future of Afghanistan published in the Ittehad-e-Islami 14 January* 1991.

        Eversince the dawn of Islam in Afghanistan1 the Muslim Afghan nation has emerged victorious from hard tests imposed by jehad and, by offering heavy sacrifices, they have proved time and again that the aggressor has done so only at the risk of his life and he" has been driven out of the country with an amputated arm or' a broken skull.
        Yes, with the help of Almighty God, yesterday it was the English who had to quit this soil and now it was the turn of the atrocious Red Army which had to leave the Afghans alone after 10 years of torture,- destruction, looting and massacre.
        But we must bear in mind that colonial powers have, every time, 'gained control over Afghanistan with the collaboration of only a handfull of traitors and faithless elements inside the country. The poineers and fore-runners of Islamic movement first made the nation aware of the realities and th'an organized them into jehad ranks and gave them the necessary training to fa'Ce the enemy. They illuminated the jehad paths with their clean and pure blood ^nd opened deaf ears with their cries of Allah-u-Akbar (God is Great). They offered 1.5 million souls in sacrifice to Allah and another five million had to leave their homes and hamlets in order to safeguard their faith, honor anry dignity. Innocent Muslims were locked-up in dark cells by thousands. Tens o* thousands more were made orphans and a similar number were deprived of tiheir beloved sons and daughters.
        Despite all these atrocities and deprivationf the Muslim nation was not discouraged or intimidated. The mujahed may be knocked down many times but he rises again and again and will keep the Flag hoisted on his chest even if he loses both of his arms.                                          -           '
        Finally, this jehad proved that i.n the interior of Afghanistan all races
                                              30
JANUAKY-MAKCH, 1991               AKlHflH J1H11I1                   VOL.4 NO.?
without     any discrimination of  color, language or race have    united and are
witness . to this truth of God. We, as well as the future generations will remember this reality. Say:  Act, God, His Prophet and other believers will see
you.
      In   this sensitive • stage  of jehad a point to remember is that       the
materialization of jehad's objectives should by no means make us unwary of enemy's schemes and machinations 'of international cheats and robbers who may stealthily plunder our hard earned booty through their lackies and . puppets .. . In this hour and in this case the issues of Algeria and Palestine must ‘ serve as eye-openers for us.
      While observing all sorts of schemes, machinations, underhand tricks, treasons, treachery, cruelties    and oppression perpetuated and   hatched by the
enemy, we unequivocally give a clarion call to the Muslim ummah in particular and humanity at large that they should steadfastly and courageously stand by the Muslims     people of this nation  for the sake of circumventing  oppression. You
should not be afraid of any one except Allah because you were practically a witness; to the shameful defeat of the Russians who turned tail and ran away to Moscow in disgrace. Any filthy hand extended toWards Afghanistan shall be chopped off for certain.
      For the sake of safety, deliverance and security against all perils and dangers and for establishment of an Islamic order in the country,, we give a clarion call to all the oppressed, the miserable, the downtrodden, the leaders and pioneers of jehad of the entire Muslim nation, the world over and humanity at large, and declare that:
1.  We want a single Islamic government in Afghanistan;
2.  For the establishment of Islamic state and the success of the current jehad we ^consider the establishment of an Islamic Council sine qua. non.
3.  We want the unification of jehad organizations in the.country.
4.  We rejebt and condemn all kinds of foreign imperialistic meddlings including general elections under the auspices of UN.
5.  We strongly reject the establishment of neutral government.
6.  We basically condemn a coalition government with communists and secret or open contacts with Najib and the Kabul puppet regime in this regard is considered by us a big-treason to Islam and our nation.
7.  Zaher Shah's government or the one affiliated to him stands rejected in Afghanistan.
8.  No' government other than that of mujaheddin is acceptable to us in the
    country.
9.  We reaffirm the joint declaration of the Ulema and Commanders of country pertaining to the Afghan problem issued recently (see page ... )
                                         31
the
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              MGHflHJtHflll                    VOL.4 NO.2
      In accordance with the decision of 22 June, 1990 of all Commanders’ Council of Afghanistan's jehad held inside Afghanistan, the Membership Commission of the. Council visited Quetta, (Pakistan) from 17-24 February, 1991, to negotiate and reach understanding with scholars, commanders and elders of various tribes of the South Western region of the country.
      After negotiations and deliberations with more than 250 commanders of the region, the following resolutions were passed:
 A:   A. 40 members commission has been appointed to coordinate and harmonize
      all out military and security activities, aimed at toppling the atheistic regime and establishing an Islamic government.
 B:   Pertaining to the development and administrative affairs of commission's
      sessions, an agency was established which has already started functioning. In order to adopt necessary resolutions based on strategyalready agreed upon,teams were sent to coordinate and administer the security and military affairs of three different regions besides negotiating and inviting all the commanders of the area in relation to administration of the regions and systematic joint military and security plans.
 C:   As far as the commanders of Afghanistan jehad are concerned, any proposal
      and plan regarding the solution of the Afghan problem entailing imposition of unilaterally hatched political decisions without consulting the jehad leadership and contrary to the will of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan directly amounts to usurpation of the right of self-determination of the Muslim and mujahed population of Afghanistan and meddling in the internal affairs of our. beloved Afghanistan.
                -                               l
 D:   The Council unequivocally declares that the aim of creation of this council
      is to coordinate the military activities and joint cooperation and not to create distance between jehad commanders and jehad leadership cadres since both represent the actual jehad of Muslim nation of Afghanistan and are inseparable ingredients of each other.
                                               33
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
Text of UN Resolution
on Human Rights Status in
H EDITOR'S NOTEt The following is the text of UN Generel Assembly resolution on human rights situation in Afghanistan published 16 March 1990.
I
I
 THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY:
       Guided by the principles embodied'in the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights* the International Covenants on Human
       \«s         1
 Rights and the humanitarian rules set out in the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 19493 and the Additional Protocols thereto, of 1977,4
      Aware of its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and resolved to remain vigilant with regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur,
      Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil the obligations they have freely undertaken under the various international instruments.
      Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1984/37 of 24 May 1984, in which the Council requested the Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights to appoint, a special -rapporteur to examine the situation of human rights in Afghanistan, with a view to formulating proposals that could contribute to ensuring full protection of the human rights of the inhabitants of the country before, during and after the withdrawal of all foreign forces.
      Recalling also its relevant resolutions as well as resolutions of thie Commission on Human Rights and decisions of the Economic and Social Council,
      Taking note in particular of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1989/67 of 8 March 1989,5     in which the Commission decided to extend the mandate of its
 Special Rapporteur for one year and requested him to report to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session on the situation Of human rights in Afghanistan,
      Emphasizing the relevance of the Agreements on the Settlement of the . Situation relating to Afghanistan, concluded at Geneva on 14 April 1988', which constitute an important step towards a comprehensive political solution,
                                              34
JANUARY-MAKCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
      Welcoming, the completion, oh 15 February 1989, of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan in accordance with the Agreements concluded at Geneva,
      Welcoming also the cooperation that the Afghan authorities have extended in particular to the Co-ordinator. for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan, and to international organizations such as the specialized agencies, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of the Red Cross,
      Having examined the interim report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Afghanistan,which remains a matter of great concern even after the withdrawal of Soviet troops,
      Noting with deep concern that a situation of armed conflict persists in Afghanistan, leaving large numbers of .victims and causing enormous human suffering to the civilian population,
      Noting with grave concern that the treatment of prisoners detained in -connection with the conflict does not conform to the internationally recognized principles of humanitarian law,
      Noting with equal concern that more than five million refugees are living outside Afghanistan, that many Afghans are displaced within the country and that in both cases the numbers have increased,
     /Aware that the main reasons given by the refugees for not returning to Afghanistan pending the achievement of a comprehensive political solution, are the continued fighting in some provinces, the use of very destructive arms in the conflict, arid the minefields that have been laid in many parts of the
  country,
       Noting with concern that acts of terrorism have significantly increased,
  1.   Takes note with appreciation of      the interim report of         the Special
       Rapporteur on the situation of. human rights in Afghanistan and pf the conclusions and recommendations contained therein;
  2.   Welcomes          the cooperation of the Afghan authorities with   the Special
       Rapporteur;
  3.   Urges all parties concerned to work for the achievement of a comprehensive
       political solution based on the right of        self-determination and for the
       creation,,      of a situation that will permit the return of refugees and the
       full enjoyment of human rights by all Afghans;
  4.   Calls once again upon all parties to the conflict, in order to alleviate "the serious suffering of the Afghan people, strictly to respect human life
       arid the principles and provisions of international humanitarian law and to co-operate fully and effectively with international humanitarian organizations, .especially the International Committee of the Red Cross, in part-cular by granting it unrestricted access to all parts of the country;
                                              35
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991               flfCIIIlNJIHAD                    VOl .4 NO.?
.5.   Notes with grave concern the continuation of the armed conflict, which
      thereatens the life and security of innocent men, women and children;
 6.   Urges all parties to the conflict to respect the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 and the Additional Protocols thereto, of 1977, to halt the use of weapons against the civilian population, to transmit to humanitarian organizations, in particular, to the International Committee of ,the Red Cross, the names of all political prisoners and detained Afghan soldiers, and to allow the International Committee of the Red Cross to visit all prisoners in accordance with its established criteria;
 7.   Also urges ali parties to the conflict to release all prisoners of war in accordance with the internationally recognized principles of humanitarian law;
 8.   Expresses its concern at reports that the living conditions of refugees, especially those of women and children, are becoming increasingly difficult because of the decline in international humanitarian assistance;
 9.   Urgently appeals to all Member States, humanitarian organizations and all parties concerned to cooperate fully, in co-ordination with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, in order to facilitate the return of refugees and displaced persons in safety;
 10.  Urgently appeals also to all Member States and humanitarian organizations to promote the implementation of 'th'e pro jects envisaged by the Co-ordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Program Relating to Afghanistan and the programs of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;
    V                             ■ .
 11.  Urges all parties to the conflict to treat all prisoners in their custody
      in accordance with the internationally recognized            principles  of
      humanitarian law and to protect them from all acts of reprisal and violence, including ill-treatment, torture and summary execution;
 12. Notes with concern reports of the interrogation practices of the Afghan authorities, the large number of political prisoners and the conditions of prisoners awaiting trial;
 13. Calls upon the Afghan authorities to investigate thoroughly the fate of persons who have disappeared, to apply amnesty decrees^equally to foreign detainees, to reduce the period during which prisoners await trial, to treat all prisoners, especially those awaiting trial or those in custody in juvenile rehabilitation centres, in accordance with the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners8 and to allow the International Committee of the Red Cross to visit them regularly in accordance with its
      established criteria;
 14.  Requests the Afghan authorities strictly to apply to all convicted persons
      article 14, paragraphs 3   (d) and 5 of the International Covenant on Civil
      and Political Rights;
                                               36
VOL.4 NO.2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 15.  Notes with concern the allegations of atrocities committed against Afghan soldiers, civil servants and captured civilians;
 16. Urges all parties concerned to extend their full cooperation to the Commission on Human Rights and its Special Rapporteur;
 17.  Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the Special Rapporteur;
 18.  Decides to keep under consideration, during its fortyrfifth session, the situation of human rights in Afghanistan in order to examine it anew in the light of additional elements provided by the Commission on Human Right* and the Economic and Social Council.
                                         82nd plenary meeting 15 December 1989
 Foot Note: 1/ Resolution 2.1.7' A (III).
             2/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex,
             3/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75,.Nos. 970-973.
             4/ Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.
             5/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1989, Supplement No.2 (E/1989/20), chap. II, sect. A.
             6/  S/19835, annex I.
             7/  A/44/669, annex.
             8/ See Human Rights:     A  Compilation of International Instruments
(United Nations publication. Sales No. E.88. XIV.1).
of Afghan Ulama
    D                                                          B
    Q EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the Charter of the p Q Union of Afghan Ulama issued in Peshawar. Pakistan signed by 360 0 £jj scholars.
    o -                                         _____________
          IN THE NAME OF GOD. MOST MERCIFUL. MOST GRACIOUS
       Praise to God, the Lord of all the worlds, and peace upon Mohammad the * leader of all Prophets and, as God says, "let there arise of you a group of people inviting to all that is good, enjoining that is right, and forbidding what is wrong: They are the ones to attain felicity,”                     ,
JANUARY-MARCH» 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
1 , The Islamic country of Afghanistan has been the cradle of Islam, and an abode of scholars, men of- letters and men-at-arms, since many centuries. The inhabitants of this ancient land have nurtured the beautiful flowers of the Holy Quran in their hearts and souls and irrigated them with their crimson blood and diving, deep into the boundless ocean of the traditions of the Holy Prophet; peace be upon him, have sought out its peerless pearls and embellished them in the pure texture of the Hanafi jurisprudence and then bequeathed it to their progeny. Their virtuous descendants while holdingr the bouquets of flowers and the precious pearls inherited from their great ancestors, closest to their hearts, do not want that these uniq'ue flowers and pearls be dispersed or disfigured by the autumn winds of alien and atheistic beliefs but desire them to be refreshed eternally by the spring breeze of the realm of Quran: Therefore for the sake of forestalling unfavorable consequences and keeping vigilance against unforeseen events and being prepared for any eventuality, those religious scholars (Ulema) who are devoted to Islam, wanted to lay the foundation, stone of such a strong structure which may guarantee the preservation of their ancestors' ideology so that they may he able to bequeath the same legacy of 'the dear homeland, which they had .inherited, to their coming generations. Hence they resolved to convene a conference of distinguished religious scholars, to safeguard this glorious faith and consequently deemed it essential to form art alliance of religious scholars representing all the provinces of Afghanistan.
                        CHARTER OF SOCIETY OF THE AFGHANISTAN ULAMA
      This charter comprises Five Chapters and 44 Articles, as follows:
Objectives Organizations Obligations
Membership terms and fees Miscellaneous
CHAPTER I: OBJECTIVES
 1.   Persistent pursuance of Islamic policy in individual and^ collective problems and in all the domains of life.
 2.   Further efforts for promoting maximum goodwill and unity among the
      religious scholars in Afghanistan.
 3.   Vigorous                         endeavor     for the application and enforcement of the Islamic
      Shariat and complete implementation of the Quranic commands, traditions of the' Holy Prophet, peace be upon him,, and jurisprudence of the refined and accomplished Hanafi sect in all the courts and all the affairs of life.
 4.   Banning                          all sorts of rules, regulations, laws, transactions and customs
      repugnant to the Islamic Shariat.
 5.   Forestalling all                             kinds of religious deviations and, social and moral
      corruptions.                                        . ‘  -
 Chapter I Chapter II Chapter III Chapter IV Chapter V
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991 ______________MWJIHAD ___________________ VOL.4 NO.2
 6.   Supporting healthy and positive Islamic movements at the international level.
 7.   Striving constantly to forge unity among various jehad leaderships as well as establishing a government based on Islamic justice in Afghanistan.
 8.   Making efforts for mutual reformation and creating the spirit of Islamic brotherhood among all the strata of the society.
 9.   Trying to revive and restore the rights of all the individuals and classes
      of the Afghan society.
 10.  Participating in the preparation of academic curriculum in Afghanistan and supervising educational affair's in schools, colleges and universities.
 11.  Reviving all the rights of the female community and ensuring the Quranic (Islamic) veil and discouraging all non-Islamic modern teaching methods.
 12.  Supervising and checking and new and recently written books and publications from the viewpoint of Islamic Shariat.
 13.  Checking and supervising all the laws and regulations, particularly the laws to be enacted by the new Afghan government because approval by the Ulama Alliance would be a pre-condition for all such laws.
 14.  Inculcating Islamic spirit of jehad by establishing religious institutions and study circles of Islamic preaching all over Afghanistan.
 15.  Providing guidance, in regard to religious issues and Islamic subjects by issuing religious vedicts and publishing religious books and treatises and by stopping anti-Islamic and anti-religious publications.
 16.  In order to checkmate repetition of unsavory events like the incident of 27
      April, 1978, it should^be ensured that the future important persons and officials of the new Afghan government especially in the Ministries of Defense and Education must be mujahed, well-reputed, reasonable and prudent sunnis.                   ,
                                   CHAPTER II: ORGANIZATIONS
      This Alliance will be composed of the following establishments:
      (A) Supreme Council! (B) Executive Council! (c) Local Councils! (D)
 Secretariat.
 (A) SUPREME COUNCIL
 17. Number of the Supreme Council members will be equal to the number of administrative unit circles and from each circle at least one eminent religibus scholar will be introduced by the Ulama Council of the same circle.
                                             39
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              IKCHflNJtHAD                      VOL.4 NO.2
 18.  Till the restoration of normal and peaceful conditions in.Afghanistan, the chairman of each session of the Supreme Council shall be elected -from among the members of the Council.
 19.  The chairman of each sesssion shall execute the administrative affairs of the Ulama Alliance, till the next session.
                                                             I
 <B) EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
 #
 20.  The executive council shall be composed of those renowned and influential religious scholars who are elected from the Supreme Council members equivalent to the number of provinces.
 (C)  LOCAL COUNCILS OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
 21.  The provincial council shall be composed of one to three religious scholars introduced by each administrative unit circle of the same province.
 22.  Each administrative unit circle will have.an Ulama Council consisting of at least 10 'influential religious scholars of the same circle.
 (D)  SECRETARIAT
 23.  it is meant to ensure coordination among various offices of the Ulama Alliance.
 24.  This section will be composed of one secretary, one assistant secretary and two assistants.
                           CHAPTER III:OBLIGATIONS AND COMPETENCE
      The duties and powers of the Supreme Council are:
 25.  The Supreme Council of the religious scholars is the highest and most powerful decision-making,authority of the Ulama Alliance.
 26.  Taking decisions on important matters and issuance of important decisions and instructions in the light of the above-mentioned objectives are among the duties of the Supreme Council.
 27.  Appointment of chairman of the session, president of the Ulama Alliance and secretary of the council as well as appointment of members of the Executive Council, one each from every province, is at’the discretion of the Supreme Council and are selected from among the Supreme Council members.
 28.  President and Secretary of the Supreme Council will be the President and Secretary of the Executive Council, too.
                     CHAPTER IV: MEMBERSHIP TERMS AMD FEES
 29.  Persons possessing the following qualifications can be accepted as members:
      learning, piety, good reputation
                                               40
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               'IlffiHflHJIH/IB __________________VOL.4 N0.2
 30.  Eligible members   of  the above-mentioned councils    besides   having these
      qualifications, should be ahl-e- hal wa aqd (men of wisdom) too.
 31.  Membership fee for three months would be at least one hundred afghanis but those who can afford, may pay more to help strengthen this Alliance.
                                CHAPTER V: MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS
 32.  This Alliance has no material aims or illegal policies. Its main object is
      to promote coordinated efforts by the revered religious scholars to preach' the   Word of God,  to forge more unity among the ulama and     to help theft
      fulfil their responsibilities.
 33.  This   Alliance is  not affiliated to any particular    party and is neither
      opposed to any jehadic party.
 34.  This   Alliance of  religious scholars and students    is not   confined to a
      particular region, language or tribe but is open to membership for all the religious scholars without any consideration 'for the above-mentioned discriminations.      ,
 35.  Those associated with one of the strayed and heretic parties, will not be accepted to the membership of this Alliance.
 '36. President of the Provincial Councils will be one of the members of the said council approved by the Council of the relevant province and seconded by the Supreme Council.
 37.  President of the Local Council will be one of the members of the council approved by the council concerned and seconded by the provincial Council.
 38.  The Supreme Council will meet once in every six months under normal conditions except required otherwise in an emergency.
 39.  The Supreme Council may convene a meeting at the request of the President, if needed.
 40.  Religious students and pious persons are eligible for membership of the Alliance and are treated as religious scholars.
 41. A separate statute is to be prepared for streamlining administrative affairs and management of the councils.
 42.. The Ulama Alliance is in guest of such a person to head the future government who should be qualified for the post of Head of State, according' to Shariat. If the Head of State contravenes the Laws of Islam during his tenure, he is liable to dismissal.
 43.  The persons elected for the Supreme Council of the Islamic government of Afghanistan ought to be men of wisdom so that they may be able to select and appoint the Head, of State according to the Islamic Law.
 44.  After the victory in Afghanistan, any act of anti-Islamic sabotage would be condemned for ever and its perpetrator will be prosecuted.
                                              41
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          AFGHANJIHAD                VOL.4 NO.2
         AFGHAN
     RECONSTRUCTION,
     REHABILITATION
REPORT ON CCAR SEMINAR ABOUT THE FUTURE      OF  42-107 
AFGHAN ECONOMY:                                         
PAKISTANI INSTITUTE HOLDS SEMINAR            ON 108-124 
AFGHANISTAN:                                            
AMERICAN RESEARCHER EVALUATES PRESENT AFGHAN    125-135 
POPULATION AT 16.9 MILLION:                             
LATEST INFORMATION ON FIVE AFGHAN PROVINCES;    136-148 
NGO'S WORKING FOR AFGHANISTAN:                  149-158 
42
I JANUARY-MARCH. 1991 MCHflH JtHAD VOL.4 N0.2 l
CCAR SEMINAR ON THE AFGHANISTAN ECONOMY
Articles, Discussions, Summary
          EDITOR'S NOTE:    Following  are  summaries of papers read and
         discussions offered in the seminar of the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies of the CCAR on the economic fundamentals m the future Afghan society, held from 29 November to 2 December, 1990, in Islamabad.
                          INAUGURAL SPEECHES
  DR. AZIZULLAH LODIN, CHAIRMAN OF THE SEMINAR:    I am happy that a big number of
  our Afghan brothers have gathered here to investigate and study the economic conditions of our war-ravaged- homeland, Afghanistan. I welcome their participation in this seminar and today's function. Needless to say that this all round get-together demonstrates the keen interest of our compatriots in the economic development of future Islamic Afghanistan and overall progress and welfare of the people of Afghanistan.
       The. Muslim economists opine that in Islam poverty and beggary are by no means considered one of the worldly virtues. On the other hand, to be endowed with good living and to enjoy moral and reasonable material comforts and facilities which are the products and-outcome of legal labor and work is considered in Islam a virtue.
       Reaching this goal and fulfilling this desire will be impossible without good economy.
       Countries which have evolved a competent administrative set-up guided by economic development are reaping the fruits of a strong economy. '
       For instance Germany and Japan are very poor as far as agricultural lands and natural resources are concerned, but, due to an abundance of scholars and experts, scientific and research institutes and in the light of positive results attained through scientific experiments and technical research, they have reached to the level of importing raw materials from abroad and after better processing them to a higher quality, export them back to the exporting countries of raw material and thus earn good.revenues. While emphasizing this statement, I point
                                                  43
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               flfCHflN.JfHAD                    VOL.4 NO.2
 oat that in order to attain the cherished goal, an important factor is to have scientific research institutes and to hold seminars similar to the one we are holding now.
      Therefore, we expect that scholarly deductions, conclusions, opinions, ideas and proposals attained during this seminar and future seminars should be utilized by the scientists of future Afghanistan and implemented.
      Let us hope that the efforts of CCAR in holding such seminars and collection of expert. opinion and practical data by Afghan scholars and experts in various     fields • will usher an era of prosperity    and will prove
 instrumental in the   resolution . of problems and development of future Islamic
 Afghanistan.
 SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI, FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE CCAR:   While explaining  the salient
 points of the series of seminars by CCAR, in regard to this seminar he said: "Our scholars have two important tasks ahead of themselves in relation to the economic affairs of    future Afghanistan: (1) how to activate a  plan to replace
 our destroyed economic infrastructure in agriculture industry, and man-power', etc. in order to solve our immediate problems;(2) how to organize our economic institutions and our ways and dealings in the light of Islamic principles.
      When I desire    that our institutions  and  economic efforts ought to be
 Islamic not only in their fundamentals but also in their objectives . and activities, I am not trying to be expedient and speak in accordance with the public taste and mode. I utter these words with an unshakable belief that Islamic principles will fulfill'-our needs not only in economics but in all other fields, too, and the application of these principles will lead us to prosperity and true solution.
      A Muslim economist works on the assumption that the object of economy is not only -investment of capital and providing a good standard of living for the people. In this connection Islam differs from both capitalism and socialism. Nor, for that matter, Islam opines that economics is a neutral or a "positive" science. In Islam all the economic activities are aimed at evolving a social order where worshipping becomes conducive to progress and development and’'vice versa. And then the aim of both is to earn the pleasure of God and to praise His grandeur.
      I hope this•seminar will take* notice of this important guideline during its
 deliberations as well as its conclusions. Contrary to the western civilization,
 Islam stands for the inseparability of religion, and state. In western
 civilization, economic, political and technological affairs are pursued and
 tackled on the limited human knowledge and defective logic without seeking
                          s         .
 divine help and guidance.
      In the Muslim countries, despite the claim made by some of them that they are pursuing their Islamic way of life, economic affairs are subservient to non-Islamic ideas. Nevertheless lately a number of Muslim scholars have brought out many publications on vital issues including economic subjects based on Islamic vision. I am sure most of you have studied these writings.
                                               44
HIDAYATULLAH AMIN ARSALA, AIG FINANCE MINISTER (KEY-NOTE SPEECH): I pray to God Almighty to enable us pave the way for establishment an Islamic government in Afghanistan so that the cherished goal of jeach and every single Afghan is realized.
      The economic condition of Afghanistan is known to all of us. But I want to briefly recall that the economic foundation of the country is totally demolished and no trace is left of the bases laid out through labor, toil and trouble, in the Second post-World War period. I hope that this seminar will prove to be the beginning of research and study in various fields particularly the economic sector of Afghanistan and enable us to launch a general strategy and discuss means for resolution of all problems so that we can pave the way for creation of conducive and favorable possibilities to enable the people of Afghanistan lead their spiritual and material lives in accordance with Islamic tenets and under the guidance of Islamic government according to their wishes and in a befitting manner.
      As far as the future of Afghanistan's economy is concerned, we ought to adopt creative foresight. In other words, we should not think in terms of returning to 1978 level of economy and on the basis of the conditions of that time, but continue our economic development for the future.
      We ought to seek the possibilities of economic forward march in the country so that our economic progress is considerably faster than before and enable us to attain higher economic level coupled with lofty moral values.
      Priority should be   given to small fast earning projects.              For instance in
the  irrigation  sector,   karazes, ordinary  wells, deep                wells  and half deep
wells may be revitalized, constructed or drilled afresh 'since for the attainment of this target the presence of experts,engineers and technical cadres is not badly needed or felt and the natives are well versed with this kind of work and will voluntarily do the job.
      On the other hand, if we take up big irrigation projects in the first instance, then the presence of experts, engineers, scholars and scientists of different fields will be badly needed.
      Another point to ponder about is that hundreds of thousands crippled and incapicitated persons are looking for help not only from the state but the society as well to set their houses in. order and make their living worthwhile. To   solve this problem     we need to launch programs in                which their personal
services can be utilized usefully. We have had a bitter experience on this issue in the past and that was when the AIG agreed t.o pay salaries to the -crippled but unfortunately we were not in' a position to pay them for more than a few months. That is why I mention it so that in future such problems may be tackled carefully and we can successfully, provide them with better"living facilities.
      Since the administrative set-up of Kabul government is shattered and there is   no central government worth    the name  and, under the current political
conditions, every thing is topsy-turvy, therefore internal revenues such as ordinary taxes and taxes prdained in Islam such as "Ushr"(One tenth) would
                                                45
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991              HfEHflNJtHflU                     VOL.4 NO.2
                     not be sufficient for years to come. And, as the prospects of getting money through revenues from the people of Afghanistan seem remote, the people\ought to
 be motivated from now on that they should be prepared for economic and financial sacrifices.
                     While ending my address I pray to God Almighty to bring together under the banner of Islam and the Islamic state leadership in Afghanistan so that we
 may be able to contribute practically to the progress of religious life, social and economical advancement of the country. Wishing God speed.
 PRAYERS OFFERED BY HUJJAT-UL-ISLAM MAHDAVI:     Regarding  the economy of war-
                     ravaged and oppressed Afghanistan I briefly state that the barbarian, blood thirsty, atheistic arid cannibalistic super power attacked but, by the grace
                     and force of faith and the valor of brave and undaunted mujahed and Muslim people of Afghanistan, was defeated ignominously both physically and
 ideologically to such an extent that till the end of this world the Russian super power cannot straighten and stand up. As a result of this barbarious,
 Russian invasion and its aftermath over the years,Afghanistan has turned into a heap of rubbles with its economy shattered to the core.
      Holding of such seminars with participation of Afghan scholars and experts with a view to resolve the economic problem of future Islamic Afghanistan is
                     significant and commendable. We are looking forward to the useful topics discussed and presented , in this valuable seminar by our worthy learned
 personalities so that, God willing, fruitful conclusions are finally attained for the resolution of economic problems of Afghanistan. I pray:
      0 God, relieve . us from the hegemony of those who &re no well-wishers of Afghanistan. Set free our beautiful Afghanistan with its ample natural and peerless blessings from Russian servants and shelter it.
      0 Creator, return the past grandeur and glory of Afghanistan so that it becomes a rich country with proprietary of Islam and glitter like a star among
 Islamic countries and turn into a model of Islam for the Muslims.
      0 God, Afghanistan comprises various ethnic and religious groups who are all Muslims and brethern to each other, confer upon the people of Afghanistan
                                   •i- '     , .'                       .
 inter-love, sincerity and Solidarity. Accept the services of mujaheddin who have rendered very great services to Afghanistan under very meagre conditions.
      0 God, bring jehad leaders and organizations closer to each other so that they rise up victorious and successful in the way of Allah and glory of
 Islam arid Afghanistan. Let down those with ulterior motives, saboteurs and treacherous elements who intentionally and seditiously are bent upon, harming Afghanistan.
                                           46
JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
                                               ARTICLE
    SHORT TERM MEASURES FOR REFUGEE REPATRIATION AND HARNESSING MANPOWER IN AFGHAN RECONSTRUCTION
 DR. SAYED ABDUL AZIZ NAJIBI, ADVISOR IN THE GERMAN ECONOMIC COOPERATION INSTITUTE AND LEADER OF PROJECT FOR RAISING EDUCATIONAL STANDARD OF FORMER AFGHAN TEACHERS IN FRANKFURT AND LECTURER AT THE COLLEGE OF ECONOMICS OF KABUL UNIVERSITY: The writer has thrown light on the present economic conditions
 preventive medicine situation, educational system and the importance of technical know-how in Afghanistan.
      He states that subsequent to the shamhful coup of 27 April, 1979, followed by the   Russian invasion in    the same year, the foundation of the relatively
 stable  Afghan society was     shaken. The communists wanted to  bring about a
 so-called radical change in the economic and social structure of Afghanistan with the help of their Russian overlords but instead of improving the condition, as claimed by  their leaders     and masters, they devastated the entire social
 fabric  and the. somewhat    satisfactory living standard of       the people.
 Unfortunately we do not have precise statistics regarding the destructions and devastations caused by this degenerated Russian puppet regime during the last 12 years because the statistics provided by the regime is far from reality and other statistics are based on estimates and presumptions.
                                                             \
      A Swiss newspaper- Novizuricher Zeitung- in an article published 30 August, 1988, estimates the war damages equivalent’ to $ 10 billion, whereas Abdul Ghani Ghoussi in his article in the International Asian Forum (issue 20: 1989) writes that the Soviets caused more than $ 12 billion damages during the Russo-Afghan War ... Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan,the UN Coordinator for Afghan Assistance writes in his report in early July 1988:
      "The last ten years', war damages have been very stupendous: 2000 schools, 130 hospitals and 70% of the asphalted roads have been destroyed. Wheat production has been reduced to half its original volume and the area under cultivation has shrunk to one-third of its original size ... In the past, agricultural produce earned 50% of the total national income and covered 4/5th of the Afghan exports. The damage caused to the agricultural and livestock sectors of the Afghan economy are irreparable in the near future. The irrigation system known as karezes (subterranean canals) has been cpmpletely destroyed and will take many years to be revived".
      Discussing the educational system on the basis of his own first-hand knowledge, the writer states that during tjtie past 12 years modern education has been uprooted throughout Afghanistan and at present most of the Afghan youth and children are deprived of the benefits of forms! education. The female student community has suffered the most ... Russianization of the Afghan syllabi started right from the year 19,80 and Radio Kabul for the first time revealed in November, 198 4, that Afghan children were being sent to the USSR to learn
                                               47
                                                                     VOL.4 NO.2
 Marxist ideology. Hence during the first four years more than 53,000 Afghan children-.were forcibly sent to the USSR, Bulgaria and other Soviet satellites.
 The writer adds that this Russification process is ■ still continuing in the educational institutions of Afghanistan.
      Recounting the hurdles in the path of the refugees intending to return to Afghanistan after the establishment of an Islamic government, the writer reveals that the barbaric Russians have planted 30-50 million mines in Afghanistan which will require matty years to be cleaned up. Even after more than a year of the withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan, 4,000 persons have been martyred, more than 20,000 injured and disabled due to the explosion of mines.
 He is of the view that as a result of the imposed war, more than 1.2 million innocent Afghans have been killed. Most of them belonged to the sturdy manpower community. It is estimated that their bereaved widows and orphans number about 700,000. The problem of the disabled is even more acute and according to the UN Survey, they number between 30'0,000 to 500,000. Besides about 50,000 persons are suffering from psychological disorders due to the gruesome war. Another problem pf the people is narcotics. In the past Afghanistan was considered as one of the exporters of raw material for the drugs but of late due to the insecurity and chaotic conditions and endless sufferings many people have become addicted to these drugs.                  >
      Stressing the significance of industrial development in Afghanistan,.the .writer says, the authorities had to take into consideration the necessity of professional and technical training. It goes without saying that most of the poverty and deprivation in the developing countries is observed in the rural areas and Afghanistan is no exception. The only solution to their problems is the provision of general, technical' and professional education facilities to these regions. Therefore, the writer expresses the opinion that we should give priority to the rural development in our short-term reconstruction plans and long-term general development plans in future Afghanistan. For this purpose we should re-absorb the Afghan technical personnel so that we may not have to depend on foreign technical experts. As we are very much in need of technical personnel, the UN* its agencies, charitable organizations for refugee relief and governmental institutions of friendly countries ought to provide the. required professional and technical training facilities to us. For example the Refugee Rehabilitation Project at Nasser Bagh, Peshawar, trains the Afghan youth in the trades of tailoring, weaving and shoe-making etc. during 6-12 months1 course and after graduation, equip them with the required instruments and raw material. Similarly Germany has paved the ground for the training of technical and professional personnel in connection with Afghan reconstruction and the Economic Cooperation Ministry, through the -channel of Technical Cooperation Institute,has opened an office near Frankfurt, since a few months, to implement this program.
      Looking at the future perspective of education in Afghanistan, the writer foresees that the future government has a difficult duty to perform. It should put flesh on the skeleton of short-term and long-term measures, briefly stated as follows:
                  - Russification of education must be abolished and especially the teaching of
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
                                             48
JANUAKY-MARCH* 1991              fifGHflNJ[HAD                     VOL.4 NO.2
    Marxist doctrine and ideology must, be banned entirely and all the Afghan children should .be repatriated from the USSR and its satellite states to Afghanistan.
    New and revised academic curriculum for general and professional education in Afghanistan should be devised with special emphasis on the Afghan cultural values.
    Specific and basic teachers training programs for the elementary, secondary and professional level teachers should be arranged.
    Modern religious books should be compiled by the religious scholars and educationists. Theology and ethics should be declared compulsory subjects at the primary and secondary levels.
    In the early stages of primary education, latest .methods of teaching should be introduced.
    For • uniformity of the text books, it would be advisable if a central commission under the jurisdiction of the Education Ministry is deputed to edit and compile the text books keeping in view the cultural values of the Afghan nation.
    School uniforms should be abandoned.
    All girls and boys should be provided equal opportunity for education. It may be pointed out that an educated or at least a literate mother plays an important role in bringing up a child suitable for the future development.
                                            DISCUSSIONS
 <KUSHKAKI: The presence of mines has been          shown as the main hurdle in the way of
 returning  refugees.     I think the problem of leadership is more important. Once
 this problem is solved satisfactorily, it will encourage the return of refugees to their homeland. The presence of mines will be of secondary importance.
 DR. NAJIBI:    The      > Prime significance        of                          political problem cannot be
 overemphasized. The Kabul regime must relinquish charge of the government and retire. There are no two opinions on this fact. The presence of mines is certainly to be taken care of and properly attended to.
 DR. FARHANG: The problem of leadership and the change over of the Kabul regime to an Islamic state acceptable to the people forms the basic condition. Regarding the training programs of Afghan personnel carried put in Germany and elsewhere  and the technical-cum-professional     training handed over to the
 resident refugees, I would like to ask whether it could have been better if the same courses were opened in Pakistan? In that case a large number of unemployed Afghans could have been absorbed gsefully?
 DR. NAJIBI:  This is  sound logic that, had these programs been carried out in
                                             49
 %
 JANUAKY-MARCH. 1991              HlUllHHuNIHIJ                     VOL.4 NO.2
 Peshawar, instead of Germany, their utility and effect could have been greater. It is because there are four million Afghan refugees living here whose interest, relationship and sympathies with Afghanistan are deeprooted and more than those residing in the West. But unfortunately the budget approved for this purpose by the Germans there, is not being transferred here. This.topic should be taken up with Germany so that ground for its feasibility in here be laid down..
 ENG. SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN:  Is it not possible that a commission of the CCAR or
 AIG or some other forum is established so that it could negotiate with Germans the transfer and initiation of courses in Peshawar?
 DR. NAJIBI:The delegation ought to be arranged from amongst the resident organizations of this place as there is no other representative institute or organ in Germany, Dr. Farhang and I, being acquainted and associated with that place, are willing to cooperate in this field and offer our humble services.
 DR. ABDULLAH ALI:   Regarding education and training, there are some programs
 arranged by the AIG Ministry of Reconstruction but unfortunately, due to lack of funds, they could not be materialized. I propose that German cooperation should be sought in this respect.
 ISHRAT1:  The results of short term veterinary courses are not upto the mark;
 therefore, the AIG may control and supervise them so that their utility according to the set target could be ascertained. For one thing, graduates even from veterinary courses, have been opening clinics for treating hunian patients. So do those who are trained as medical assistants. 1
 DR. LODIN:   Assistant doctors who are trained in short term courses are
 indispensable for. the economic uplift of the society but their manner of conduct and work is the obligation of law and administration.
 ENG. ASADULLAH: As everything in Afghanistan has been destroyed and we are starting from scratch, which calls for funds, therefore priorities may not be overlooked while trying to eliminate our problems.
 KHATIBI:  In German training  courses  for the Afghans,are their experts really
 acquainted with principles of Islam and can they suitably apply these programs?
 Dr. NAJIBI:   There . are religious  teachers  who  have  10-20. years  teaching
 experience in Afghanistan in these courses. They teach 50 Afghan students three days a week. Furthermore, they are supervized and we watch their activities.
 KHATIBI:  This point ought to be carefully bortie in mind that Islamic topics
 should be taught as a genuine subject Nand principal item in these courses so that they do not yield negative impact.
   V                                            '       .
 DR. LODIN:   What is the total budget earmarked by German government to the
 training of Afghans and what percentages of the budget are fixed for management costs and the salaries of the personnel? What is the number of students according to the plan and practically how many are being trained?
                                             50
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              MGHflN JIHAD                        V0L-4N0.2
 DR. NAJIBI: As I work there as education and training advisor, therefore# I am not associated much with budgetary allocations; however, as per plan the number' of students are 500 and presently 50 are being trained.
 DR. LODIN: Under the UN SALAM program, $30 million are earmarked for mines clearance. How many mines are cleared so far and what is the^.r total number?
 DR. NAJIBI: In one of the issues of German periodical "Der Spiegel", a report said that, out of $30 million mines clearance project; $250,000 are paid annually to each mine expert. As such, the main part of the budget is eaten up by the employment of experts and only a nominal portion is left for mines clearance.
                                             . ARTICLE
                            THE WORTH OF WORK IN ISLAM
 MOHAMMAD RABBANI KHATIBI, LECTURER AT ISLAMIC ACADEMY, PESHAWAR, FORMER LECTURER AT COLLEGE OF LAW AND POLITICAL SCIENCE, KABUL UNIVERSITY: The writer, limelighting the value of labor and activity in economy from the Islamic point of view, states that in the Islamic system, work and business have been regulated in such a manner that the interests of society and individual may be safeguarded. The . Islamic rules and regulations for work and occupation include abstention from wastage; prohibition of hoarding; regulating transactions; avoiding any illegitimate profession or prohibited transactions; fair deal, honesty, cooperation, economizing and earning permissible livelihood.
      The writer quotes the following verses from th.e Holy Quran in support of his contentions:
      "It is He    who has made the e^rjth manageable for you, so traverse you
      through its tracts and enjoy of the sustenance which He furnishes." (Surah Al-Mulk -Verse: 15)
          "And when the prayer is finished, then may you disperse through the land and seek of the bounty of God."(Surah Al-Jum’a - Verse: 10)
      The writer further quotes the saying of the Holy Prophet ( peace be upon him) which reads:
      "Sanctity of a Muslim's property is like the sanctity of ,his blood".
      In pther 'words if anyone violates the proprietary rights of another Muslim, or damages it,    he has  to pay for it    or compensate  it. Therefore if any
 production unit   inflicts any harm upon  an individual  or society and proves
 injurious to their health and life by polluting the environment, that particular unit or factory   should be immediately closed down and  shifted to a suitable
 place but if this is not possible, then attempt should be made to reduce the pollution to the minimum and compensation s*hould be paid to the sufferers.
                                              51
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             RKlllflH JlHflll           ___ V0L.4 jjO «_2_
      As regards hoarding, the writer says that the Holy Quran has prohibited it strictly in these words:
      "Those who bury gold and silver and spend it not in the way of God: announce to them a most grievous penalty." (Sura Toba- Verse 34).
      The writer concludes with emphasizing the importance of work and creative activity for every Muslim in order to achieve self-reliance and self-sufficiency by believing in dignity of labor.
                                         DISCUSSIONS
 DR. AZAM GUL: Please explain what is the total period of revelation of the Holy Quran and what is the significance of ' Shab-e-Qadr, or the "Night of Ordainment" in the light of the Holy Quran's revelation?         .
 KHATIBI: In the first stage, the Holy Quran, in its perfect form, was repealed
 to the wordly heaven from the omni-presence of God Almighty. In the second stage from the wordly heaven, it 'was revealed verse by verse ("Ayat" by "Ayat") in accordance withthe queries of the Holy Prophet,' peace be upon him, or as per time and occasion and various incidents. This whole process of revelation has taken 23 years to complete.
      In the first "Ayat" (Verse) of "The Qadr Sura" in the Holy Quran, (God Almighty says:  "Verily, wo have revealed this (Quran) in the night of power".
 Furthermore the verse reads:  "This day have I perfected My favor upon you and.
 have chosen for you Islam as your religion" (Surah V: Verse No. ? )
 ISHRATI: In the verse. 61 of Surah XI God Almighty says: "It is God who heis produced you from the earth and settled you therein", so that mankind may pay attention to building-up of the earth and obtain from it his means of comfort and prosperity. Therefore the very aim of creation.signifies the construction of earth. And I also like to add some more points to Mr. Khatibi's paper and discuss them:
 1.  The qualities of a laborer or worker which include strength and honesty.
 2.  The rights of a worker. In the light of Islam, a worker's rights and Pr^-Vile9®s are manifold. His dues have to be paid forthwith and he or she should not be entrusted with a job beyond his power and capacity.
 3.  Limits within which a'worker can be engaged- in labor activities.
          4. Security of the worker: In the light of Islam it is an obligation of the state to care and look after the security of workers. At times a worker's assignments may keep him engaged round the clock and in order to ensure for his family members amanities including food, health, clothing and other requirements and to provide them with all the necessary facilities, is the duty of the state.
                                               52
JANUARY-MARCH# 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
In that case a worker will be able to engage in his work with peace of mind* Such Islamic laws may be discussed and debated in connection, with western aims so that the essence and superiority of Islam is proved to the satisfaction of all.
                                                            t .                _
DR.. FARHANG:  You have explained the theory of economy and labor rights. As the
issue of labor for production requires other factors like capital and land, therefore how do you explain the labor composition with other factors in the light of Islam?
KHATIBI:   From the point   of            view of Islam economy is a means to create and
organize a happy and prosperous society. In other words Islam does not consider economy as the real and basic aim and there are wonderful and very useful rules and regulations for economy which are planned and compiled by Muslim economists which you may study.
GHALEB:   Mr.  Khateebbi in his paper has spoken about the property losses and
damages. As per clear instructions of the Holy Quran, the original and real owner of properties is God Almighty since everything belongs to Him and human being is simply working on his behalf or as a custodian. Thus the property owned by individuals belong to    the society and it  is the duty of each individual to
use the property to his     and            the society's advantage as best as he can. For
losises and damages to the  property he will be held responsible. Because the loss
tp the property would be loss to the society.
DR. IBLAGH:    About Dr. Azam Gal's query, I point out that, as previously
explained by Mr. Khatibi, the revelation of Holy Quran has been completed in two stages and the verse in regard to the completion of the revelation of the Holy Quran has been revealed at the time of "The Last Pilgrimage" by our Prophet and God Almighty says that the religion of Islam is perfect to the letter i.e. from the point of view of society, policy, economy and justice and is the best and evcjrlasting guide for mankind for all times to come.
                       n %                   ’                    p      --
DR. LODIN:   The economists are of the opinion that labor is one of the factors
of production and its composition with other factors like capital, land and technical knowledge can contribute to production and thus can attain the required object. Furthermore, two other factors, i.e., quality and quantity of labor, which are of great interest to the contemporary world are also important. All this ought to be studied in the light of Islam. From .the economic point of view, ' sometimes capital can replace the labor. Our problem in the light of quality of labor will "be of special interest for the future. The loss of property, as explained by Mr. Khatibi and Mr. Ghaleb, saying that property solely and wholly belongs to God Almighty and its security is indispensible for the welfare of the society^, by itself, emphasizes the need for saving. Thus saving can fortify and strengthen the foundations of our future Islamic economy.
KUSHKAKI:   In an Islamic society, working, investment and all other economic
activities are not merely meant to solely provide facilities to the society. The real aim is to^ put us in a position to thank our Creator, God Almighty, for all that he has provided us with and to act in accordance with His will, and establish a healthy and just society,
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
                                           ARTICLE
    IMPORTANCE OF ROADS AND HIGHWAYS IN NATIONAL ECONOMIC GROWTH
  ENG. . MOHAMMAD SIDDIQ ESHAN, FORMER PRESIDENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND CURRENTLY CHIEF OF VITA IN PESHAWAR:       Elucidating   the topography  and
  geographical location and population scale of the mountainous, landlocked country of Afghanistan, the writer statels that Afghanistan being an agricultural land, whose more than 85% people are engaged in cultivation activities in 24,000 villages, attaches special importance to roads in the transport sector of its development plans. He discloses that till now less than 20% of the villages and towns have been linked with the public highways and roads. On the other hand a limited area is- covered by roads and most part of the country 'lacks communication lines. The mountainous parts are difficult to traverse and stand in dire need of roads. The high-altitude mountains, slow down the progress of road building or hamper the execution of such plans.
      The writer is of the view that in Afghanistan, in the first instance,
! construction of ring roads is of prime importance in order to link different points around the country so that interior parts may be later linked with these circular highways, contributing to the economic growth and social expansion of the country on a broader scale. Inspite of the fact-that we had included first, second and third category roads in our development plans and construction work was in progress, the invasion of th.e northern neighbour disrupted the entire plans and the work had to be abandoned. In the year 1959, the total length of the asphalted roads in the country was 1,600 kilometers and that of the . non-asphalted roads, 1,400 km. During the years 1978-79, the total length of asphalted roads in the country went up to 2,700 km., pebbled roads to 4,300 km.’ and by-roads to 10,000 km.
      As the writer has • explained, Afghanistan, being a land locked country, is generally dependent on its neighbours for trade and transport. In 1976 70 per cent of the entire exports of the country took place through the USSR, 20% via the country of Pakistan and 10% through the country of Iran. Construction of a bridge over the river Oxus at Hairatan port, helped expand trade With Russia. Therefore the future governments should take notice of this trend of reliance. All the commercial goods handled at the Karachi port is transported to Peshawar and Chaman by Pakistan railways which is not well-equipped and lacks many facilities and is very over-loaded. The transport of commercial goods via Iran, from Khorram Shahr Port and Khomeini Port to Herat covers 2,300 km, distance as compared to 1,450 km. and 938 km. via Pakistan. These ports, .like the Karachi port are very congested and .inadequate and lack storage facilities.
      Most of the developing countries do not have the financial means of constructing roads. Unfortunately Afghanistan also belongs to the same category and hence stands in need of the . assistance of friendly countries. With the establishment of an independent Islamic government in Afghanistan, the frigndly countries'would haVe to extend a helping hand in this connection.
                                               54
  JANUARY-MARCH» 1991              MW11111J1M111                       VOL.4nQ.2
      In the writer's opinion, the first step that should be taken by the future government in Afghanistan, ought to be the reconstruction and expansion of roads on the standard which existed prior to the Russian, occupation. In this connection, priority Should be given to the roads and highways connecting Pakistan and Iran to our cities and tradq centers.
                  I
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 DR. FARHANG:    In the past a 2,066 kms, concrete ring-road was constructed in
 Afghanistan which, with the exception of the distence between Maimanah and Herat, was a circular line that connected many points but, nevertheless, proved economically unfeasible. In future Afghanistan, during the reconstruction period also the importance of economic and social development cannot be overemphasized. Would you at a later stage of development, propose railway line construction to facilitate and coordinate the transport and communication system in the country?
 -ENG. SIDDIQ: I think, as a first step, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Herat may be
 connected to the neighbouring countries, railways and ,at a later stage, after achievement of further agricultural development, the possibility and feasibility Of extending the railway in Afghanistan may be considered.
 DR. ABDUL WAKIL:   Roughly, what  will be the construction cost of one km. long
 road and do you think we shall be able to construct subsidiary roads to connect villages and townships with highways?
 ENG. SIDDIQ:  The construction costs of one km. in mountainous and hilly areas,
 in plains and for the reconstruction of presently demolished roads are estimated $50,000, 20,000 and 10,000 respectively.
 ENG. SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN:    I would like to know, if climatic conditions,
 landsliding and salinity factors which are responsible for road .blockade have been taken into consideration in calculating these costs?
 ENG. SIDDIQ:  Yes, the problem of road blockade due to weather conditions is
 considered and is included in construction cost. Actually, while planning road projects, living environment is always taken into account and no negative point is left out.
 DR. NAJIBI: In connection with the return of more than five million refugees to their homeland, have you also estimated thq cost of roads connecting villages and townships.
 ENG. SIDDIQ: We have with' us' preliminary surv.ey reports of 16 provinces included in our project covering 24,000 townships and villages. When priorities are taken-up, then we can estimate expenditures according to the existing reports.
 DR. ABDULLAH ALI:  So many roads built in Afghanistan were not economical but,
 considering the conditions pf the country where land is more than population and the people live in scattered form and Widely apart from each other/ communication by roads was of paramount importance and, unfortunately, a portion
                                                 55
JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
   of our roads had strategic importance to our northern neighbour, According to productions and the existing conditions in Afghanistan, the railway project will not be feasible nor economical. But, in view of economic development, mining and attracting investments, etc, it may be studied at a later stage and its pros and cons discussed. I am of the opinion that,, as a first step,, more attention ought to be paid to roads so that Afghanistan's roads may return to their pre-1978 condition.
   AHMADZAI:   As Afghanistan is a land locked country with no access to sea, road
   construction for transportation and other purposes was of paramount importance. The construction of roads, including Kandahar-Herat Highway, which was paid for
   by the Soviets, besides their economical aspect, had political objects as well. Nevertheless, it served as a useful economical basement.                      t
   Railway line construction, at that time, was considered in the long term economic development plan and its multilateral feasibility from Peshawar to Jalalabad and from Chaman to Kabul was discussed.
      ( •
   ENGINEER SIDDIQ:   The  social  and economic study of the ^project pertaining to
  ' railway line from Peshawar to Jalalabad and from Chaman to Kandahar was carried out by the Americans in 1958. In the past more attention was being paid to the 1 economic principles of the highways but, I think, along with economic aspects, social and political feasibilities should also be considered, because 85% of the population reside in the countryside of Afghanistan whose 90% are farmers.
   ENGINEER ASADULLAH: Currently those roads of Afghanistan are to be attended to which are used by mujaheddin, because movement from a short distance to another point takes hours. By dint of team work and local hands mujaheddin have roughly filled up the roads to shorten distances.
    \
                                                                                     I
   ENGINEER SIDDIQ:    The UN has no role in coordination of aid because their
   interest is confined, to the available* information and their own angle of thinking and inclination. The establishment of Planning Ministry in the AIC to coordinate and harmonize the assistance and programs .usefully in the required fields, will be an effective step.
   DR. LODlft: The outcome of road construction,. in the past, in Afghanistan in the
   fields of tourism, imports and exports is clearly shown in the available statistics. The country's revenue from tourism amounted to $1,100,000 in 1965 whereas it amounted to $23,000,000 in 1978. Exports amounted to $90,000,000 in 1965 and increased to $330,000,000 in 1978. The import of tyres and tubes also dropped. According to the studies carried out, the construction expenditure of one km. railway line is estimated $1,700,000 whereas the distance between Torkham to Islam Qala is about 1,500 kms. So it can be seen that we will not be in a position to pay even the. interest of this amount. Therefore, in my opinion,
  • the expenditure incurred on railway line construction/ may be diverted to reconstruction stages of the country.
   ENGINEER SIDDIQ:   The study of railway line project has been carried out before
   the shameless 1979 coup. As the economic, political and social conditions have changed therefore the feasibility of railway project may be re-examined so that
                                                   56
  JANUARY-MARCH* 1991                flfGIIANJlllllD                     V0L.4 N0.2
 its pros and cons may be decided once for all.
 DR. AZAM GUL: Roads constructed recently inside the forests have made easy the chopping down and transportation of wood in Pakistan. In order to tackle the problem, a decision has to be made. Otherwise the number of trees in the forest will decrease and its richness will decline with the passage of time.
 DR. FARHANG: The Afghanistan railway project if extended to two points of Torkham and Spin Boldak, will give us access to international markets which is useful. Building a comprehensive net-work of railway lines throughout Afghanistan presently is not feasible and I think that it may be possible at a later stage during the forthcoming programs.
      «
 AHMADZAI:   The issue of utilization of roads inside Afghanistan for chopping and
 transportation of forest wood to Pakistan should be treated' seriously. Mujaheddin commandars can play .effective role in checking the. transportation of wood to Pakistan. We need to import wood for the rtext 20 years for
 reconstruction.
 DR. ALI: The construction of roads ought to be taken up in the light of economic factors. The Kandahar-Herat Highway was constructed 30 years ago and till now has failed to compensate its expenditure. As such roads that cannot make up for their costs are not acceptable. The cofet of Afghanistan railway project was estimated $2.5 billion and the repayment process was to begin 20 years later. The project of railway line construction calls for repeated economic and social study and, in case it can open up international markets and connect us with them, it will certainly prove advantageous.
 ENGINEER SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN:        The main reason that the northern and'
 Kandahar-Herat highways could not fulfill the economic expectations was the export of Afghan agricultural products, forcibly, to Russia instead of the world markets. The Russians paid for them as they wished. I opine that the economic
  analysis .pertaining to roads, primarily-and in the beginning, was at variance to a great extent after•their post construction utilization.
  DR. ARDUL HAKIL:   It will  be better if the AIG start discussions and negotiate
  with Pakistan government the issue of the import of wood and iron scraps of
  vehicles along with remnants of weapons which are left in Afghanistan so that their transportation and transfer to Pakistan be checked; since the shortage of both the items will be felt in the forthcoming process of reconstruction. We can utilize them in agricultural and technical appliances as well.
  DR. LODIN:   The impact of   roads as a whole-  not as  a single road  or a portion
  thereof-is considered in the national economic accounts. When the impact of all ‘the roads, from economic point ..of view, was taken into consideration it was concluded that roads contribute, to a very great extent to the uplift of exports, imports and national revenues. As in the past,the construction of roads will be indispensible, in future too, in connecting villages and townships with cities and highways and international lines.
                                                57
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
 VOL.4 NO.2
                                             ARTICLES
                       THE ROLE OF AGRICULTURE IN THE AFGHAN ECONOMY
 PROF. DR. AZAM GUL:   FORMER PROFESSOR, KABUL UNIVERSITY; PRESENTLY DIRECTOR,
 AGRICULTURAL SURVEY, SWEDISH COMMITTEE FOR AFGHANISTAN:  The writer first gives
 preliminary information about the state of Afghan economy, then compares the ratio of agricultural produce growth in the world with that; of Afghanistan, appending an index of the foodgrain and cotton produce of the main agricultural countries including Afghanistan, and discusses the condition of agriculture during the war in the country, appending another index showing the difference in quantity of the agricultural products in Pakistan and Afghanistan and at the end explains various aspects of the use of chemical fertilizers.
     About economy, he says that the Afghan economy was mainly dependent on agriculture till 1978. Most of the raw material for small scale industries existing in the country were also mainly provided through these agricultural products. Out of the total area of Afghanistan spreading over 652,626' sq.kms. equivalent to 65 million hectares, nearly 12% i.e. about 8 million hectares were cultivable but,owing to the water scarcity, half of that 'area was cultivable every year. Out of the total population of 15.2 million, 11.9 million comprising approximately 79.7% of the total population, were villagers; 71.6% of the country's manpower was directly engaged in the agricultural sector and about 85% of the entire population earned their livelihood directly or indirectly from the agricultural sector. Exports of agricultural produce earned $    221.61 million
 i.e. nearly 70.72% of the total exports. Wheat, maize, rice and barley are the main crops. The cash crops     are cotton, beetroot, oil seeds, fruits      and
 vegetables. Wheat is one of the primary agricultural crops of Afghanistan and its annual yield exceeds 2.7 million tons.
      Thef soil of the country is either dry or semi-dry and probably contains large quantities of calcium, lesser quantity of nitrogen and phosphorus. On the other hand, wheat, barley, rice and-maize were cultivated for many years without mixing any fertilizer in the soil. Animal manure was mixed in insufficient quantities in the soil but mostly it was used as fuel material or fagot due to the .paucity of fuel sources. In many cases the surplus leaves and vegetables, instead' of being ploughed  in the land or.buried underground to convert   into
 natural  manure, were used  as kindlewood -or kindling material. Hence the soil
 lost its strength and yielded lesser produce.
              i
      Till the end of the 1950 decade, the peasants were unaware of even the existence of chemical fertilizers and for the first time during 1961-62 chemical fertilizers were imported for the benefit of the cultivators. During the years 1962-63  nearly 7,500 tons  of amonium nitrate and super-phosphate fertilizers
 were imported. However, a considerable change in Afghan agriculture was visible in 1964 with the import of a few kilograms of improved wheat seeds from Mexico.
      The resultant increase in the produce of improved varieties of wheat
                                               58
 culminated in reducing the wheat imports gradually from year to year. So much so that during 1974-75 Afghanistan became self-sufficient in wheat. Similarly export volume of other products also showed an upward trend e.g. 34,000 tons cotton for $ 55 million, fruits for $ 106 million, skin and hides including some other commodities for $   61  million  amounting to a total of $    222 million.
 This amount was more than double the export earnings of $ 92 million from other non-agricultural items during the same year.
      The writer than gives a graphic detail of the growth of improved variety of wheat and other crops as a result of the proper use of chemical fertilizers and better cultivation process but regrets that the Russian invasion destroyed the entire system of agriculture and irrigation and the aggressors even withheld the supply of all those items needed by the farmers for cultivation. Therefore at present the agricultural produce suffices for 8 million people out of the total nearly 17.5 million Afghan population. Now 12.5 million people live inside the country whereas five million are living in a sort of exile. Keeping in view the quantity of food grains at present available for only eight million people, the food grains for the remaining 4.5 million (out of the 12.5 million residents) has to be imported. But given the present rate of agricultural produce, the country would face a food shortage for more than nine million people after the return of the refugees (numbering about five million). Therefore in order to forestall high transportation costs and to get over the shortage of wheat, wheat cultivation and other foodgrain cultivation should be expanded and enhanced.
      In the writer's opinion, use of improved varieties of seeds, proper chemical fertilizers, supply of sufficient quantity of water for irrigation,
 better methods of preparing the soil for seed dissemination, controlling the wild growth of weeds, plant diseases and spraying pesticides would help increase production. The ultimate aim should not only be raising the production level to the pre-war level of self-sufficiency but to provide nutrition to 2-3- million more months as a result of population growth in the course of past 11 years. In order to be self-sufficient after the return      of the refugees,  it  would be
 necessary to raise the level of wheat produce from 2.65 million tons of pre-war times, to 3.18 million tons or in other words 20% more than the 1978 level. Besides in view of the     birth rate increase    of 2%-3%per year  it  would be
 essential to keep pace with the growing population by increasing the agricultural yield at the rate of 2-3% per annum.
                IMPORTANCE OF IMPROVED WHEAT IN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
      Referring to the agricultural base of the Afghan economy, the writer quotes facts and figures, stating that out of the 652,626 sq.km, total area of Afghanistan equivalent to 65 million hectares, nearly eight million hectares
 i.e. 12% of the total     land area was cultivable. Out of the     15.2 million
 population of Afghanistan in 1978 nearly 79.7 per cent lived in villages and by employing approximately    71.6% labour, they      provided direct  or  indirect
 occupation and job to an estimated 85% of the total population. The agricultural produce exports earned more than $221.6i million and were equal to almost 70.72 per cent of the total export volume.
                                              59
  JANUARY-MARCH * 1991            HUMAN J1 Ml I)                    VOL.4 NO.2
 ..;K . -■ -                       ...    .                    --* • .... .-■ . • - ..
      Main cash crops have been wheat, rice^ maize and barley and other commercial crops and raw material for industries are namely cotton, beat, oil seeds, f^ruit and vegetable. Of course, wheat is one of the main crops in Afghanistan. Nearly 2.3 million hectares are under wheat cultivation, producing 2.7 million tons per year. Thus 85% of the total food grain and raw material produce is, wheat. Pursuing their traditional profession, the Afghanistan had been, for long, one,of the food grain exporting countries.               •    .
      Then throwing some light on the uses and benefits of the chemical fertilizers and the improved seeds, the writer reveals that in 1964 a considerable change occured in the agricultural field by importing a limited quantity of   improved wheat   seeds. The Afghan farmers,   after observing     the
 advantages, very soon showed interest in cultivating these seeds.
      In   the opinion of the write*-,  the wheat production as  a result    of the
 following reasons increased manifold before the communist takeover:
      1.  Cultivation of new improved varieties of seeds.
      2.  Use of chemical fertilizers.
      3.  Use of pesticides.
      4.  Bringing more lands under cultivation.
      Consequently in the years 1974-75 Afghanistan became self-sufficient in wheat production. But the writer notes regretfully that the Russian invasion and the negative policies of the puppet regime in Kabul upset the apple cart, so to say,, in 1979. Later due to lesser enemy attacks on the farmlands and abundant rainfall in 1987 (i.e. two years before the withdrawal of the Soviet troops) the farmers managed to revise agricultural activities to some extent, making the agricultural produce suffice for eight million people. By this time, according to the recent estimates quoted by the writer, the Afghan population was round about 17.5 million, out of which 12.5 million remained inside the country and five million had become refugees. Presuming that the present foodgrains, domestically produced, suffice fbr eight million people, then the rest of the population, which comes to 4.5 million inside the country, consume the imported foodgrains. If, the level of agricultural produce remains static, then after the repatriation of five million refugees, the total mouths to be fed would be about nine or 9.5 million, to be precise, which would create food shortage.
      Elucidating the cultivators' problem in detail, the writer calculates that in order to achieve self-sufficiency after the refugee repatriation, the wheat production which amounted to 2.65 million tonnes prior to the war, should be raised to 3.18 million tonnes.
                                   DISCUSSIONS
 AJRUDDIN WAIS: For the existing four million jereebs (two million- acres) of land 300,000 tons of chemical fertilizers are required of which 100,000 tons ought to be phosphorus or black fertilizers whereas phosphorus stone needed for production of black fertilizers is not available in the country end at the same time chemical fertilizers are expensive. Furthermore, as the afghani exchange value with dollar is drastically low, to buy fertilizers will /prove beyond our
                                             60
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      HIUIIHI1 lUlllIU                VOL.4 NO.2
 means and exorbitant. To solve this problem I propose that more factories should be constructed beside the fertilizer factory of Mazar-e-Sharif, which has an annual production capacity of 120,000 tons. This will not only cater to the agricultural requirements of the country in regard to chemical fertilizers bnt will also enable us to export the surplus to the world free markets which will earn us foreign exchange. The money, thus earned can be utilized usefully in buying the required phosphorus fertilizers and the sulphur product of natural gas may be used to fight agricultural harmful pests. Thus the foreign exchange to buy it from the world market shall be saved.
 DR. LODIN: Your proposal is really thought provoking and decisions pertaining to it are up to the economists of future Islamic state of Afghanistan since they will be laying the economic foundations of the country.
 DR. FARHANG: (1)  As a result of your past study and research, how do you find
 the cultivators' reaction vis-a-vis the new findings and experiments. According to economic theory the farmers of underdeveloped countries may start reasoning and argue or even resist modern agricultural methods. (2) In post-Daoud coup in Afghanistan the plan of agricultural land reforms was implemented and during the Communists'    period the same turned radical and   even the police confiscated
 the lands which   were given  to others. What will be  the effect of such measures
 on the agricultural harvest and land production?
 DR. AZAM GUL: In Islam illegal seizure or confiscation of property is an offence litigable in a       court of law. Furthermore, logically too, the .communists'
 reforms was not    a prudent  act. Because only five    jereeb land was given to a
 farmer of which the production of 2.5 jereeb sufficed the cultivating oxen's expenditure and the remaining 2.5 jereeb land's product could not cater to the living requirements of a farmer. Moreover, our Muslim community shunned cultivation of such confiscated lands which were forcibly taken away from their owners and distributed among them. As a- result large tracts of land remained barren and uncultivated. In the past the Ministry of Agriculture created many model farms in cultivated lands of the farmers thus encouraging them. Actually as far as the significance of improved plants' seeds> and new technology is concerned oiir farmers are fairly abreast in knowledge and need no encouragement but the important point is their reassurance regarding the new technology and initiatives.
 DR. ABDUL WAKIL: President Daoud's land reforms.could not get sufficient time to bring out the required results and the communists' land reforms was totally |a negative action because the people washed their hands off their lands disowning them and abstained from labor or.spending money on lands.
 DR. LODIN:  I am  of the opinion that there is no room for communists' negative
 reforms in Afghanistan since reforms meant to . develop the underdeveloped boomeranged the other way round and contributed to further deterioration of the national economy.
                                                                    ' *
 ENGINEER SlDDIQ:  You said encouraging tree plantation .and popularization of
 gardening on sand are given priority to wheat cultivation, I would like you to explain and clarify.                                                        /
 JANUARY-MARCH# 1991              HICHAM JIHAD                      VOL.4 NO.2
 DR. AZAM 6UL: These are oar long term economic develapment targets and primarily we are dutybound to provide foodstuff to the people, and eliminate hunger and poverty from amongst .the masses.
 DR. NAJIBI: How far the prolonged years of war situation in Afghanistan has affected the number of animals?
 DR. AZAM GUL: Around 55% cows and from 67 "to 100% sheep and goats have perished and, as a result of research and study undertaken during the last 3 years, there has been limited increase noticed in the number of animals. In order to increase the numbers to pre-war level, considering their, various levels of increase percentage wise, may take long years to wait.
 ENGINEER SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: You have quoted the price for one Afghani seer (about 16 pounds or 7 kilos) of wheat in your paper as Afs. 800 considering that chemical fertilizers are purchased at their cost price of Peshawar in rupees and on the other hand^ the afghani value is coming down daily. This is a matter for concern because irrespective of a bumper harvest, he cannot pay the price of fertilizers; what are your comments on this?
 DR. AZAM GUL:   800 afghagis is the average price per Afghani seer of wheat
 throughout Afghanistan. It is an all the year round price including winter and summer time both. The price of chemical fertilizers are high the world over but in Afghanistan it is .700 afghanis per bag. I think the price of wheat is to be considered. Chemical fertilizers are economical whatever their price may be.
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH: I am of the view ' that an improvement in weight and design of agricultural equipment would add to the work output.                    \
 DR. AZAM GUL: Ybar proposal is sound and useful. If the wooden plough and sickle are replaced with better contrivances, it will certainly increase the harvest because the existing plough cannot ^go .deeper than 5 to 6 inches in the earth whereas the deeper the earth the greater is the harvest. Such a mechanism, which can utilize our plough oxen and ' manpower, presently is considered Bine qua non for our cultivation. It is hoped that agricultural experts may provide us with better implements and contrivances.
 MOHAMMAD SADEQ ATAEE: The Swedish Committee sends large .shipments of improved seeds to Afghanistan, Have we ever considered the possibility Of' transmitting disease through the seeds?
 DR. AZAM GUL: Quarantine arrangements are being carried out presently in many of the .countries. Unforunately in the history of Pakistan and Afghanistan, they are never discussed or paid attention to, whereas such arrangements check the transferable and contagious harmful diseases from spreading. The wheat, bought from outside Pakistan must carry disease-free certificates but the cultivating wheat seeds- bought from Pakistan should be disinfected so that in the first place they could be utilized by humans and secondly would make them disease-free.
 DR. MUJADD&DI: In my opinion primarily irrigation schemes may be undertaken to
                                                     62
  JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991             IlfGHAN JtHflD __________ _________ VQ\..A no.2
 provide water for agricultural lands which are lying dry for want of watfer. Such schemes willv play a vital role in clearance of karaiz headworks and usage of water pumps which, in turn, will provide multiple opportunities for utilizing usefully the agricultural lands.
 DR. AZAM GUL: Irrigation arrangements are worth considering. Wheat, linseed and peas are cultivated    in rich dry-cropping lands and  the remaining            industrial and
 cash crops are cultivated in irrigated     lands. In   other words,             all important
 crops are cultivable! in irrigated lands. Therefore, in case improved sowing seeds along with chemdcal fertilizers are available but there is no water nothing can be done. This problem has to be placed on priority list and the related organizations, attention must be drawn to it. Regarding the usage of water pump, the irrigation authorities must be taken into confidence so that the balance expenditure and resources of underground water are not disturbed.
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH:.     Pertaining to the  method of   water pump,            utilization, I
 support Dr. Azam Gul's point of view because its utilization in some areas does disturb the ecology system. According to the studies carried out in Afghanistan the "discharge" and "recharge" quantum of underground waters in the province of Farah, parts of Herat province and Helmand is identical, and water pump utilization in remaining areas is not recommended.
 AHMADZAI:  President    Mohammad Dauod did  launch a land ^ reforms             program which
 was implemented partly and the rest remained on the paper. According to that program, the standard land was that of 200 jereebs (100 acres) below which water pump utilization is not economical. But the communist government of Kabul set eight jereeb of land as "Standard" in the program of land reforms which by no means benefitted the farmers, nor was it economical.
 DR. LODIN: The  statistics given in your paper are of             great interest to us all*':
 (1)  There are  many options   for  census, which are your ,methods? Security is
 considered sine quo non for census work whefeas security is at jeopardy in Afghanistan. How far are these statistics reliable and sound? (2) I think that water•pump utilization is useful because economically launching, of a project in an area attracts other industries and thus contributes to economic development. In other words   when a water  pump is installed in an            area invariably   a workshop
 is established  nearby Which  will  attract labor and           that wi2,.l be a    source of
 income to the unemployed. According to the theories of economy, capital investment in one place attracts capital and investment from other quarters. What are your comments on the subject?
 DR. AZAM GUL:   It is true that security and peace in Afghanistan stand disturbed
 and carrying out a census program is not an easy job. But we have taken pains to make them authentic as far as possible. Our methods in, census preparation are based on books coupled with our personal research and scientific efforts. Under the prevailing conditions we do take the responsibility on our shoulders in regard to the authenticity of census figures. Long term usage of water pump was not advantageous; however it may prove useful for short periods. But decisions in this regard are upto the experts on the subject who will advise their utility or otherwise. Nevertheless while utilizing water pumps, utmost caution has to be taken since experiments have proved that callous and haphazard utilization of waterpumps have turned some of the areas into deserts.
 DR. MUJADDEDI: In the areas where the problem of underground water balance basically does not exist, water pumps can be utilized and thousands of waterpumps could be installed on the banks of the rivers to irrigate those lands which are situated on higher level than the rivers. This will make up for shortage of water.I prefer the usage of water pumps to karaize because karaize's water,if not utilized for 3-4 months, dries itself. Whereas waterpumps are -utilized temporarily and while they are not being used, their water remains in the earth's stratum.
 ENGINEER SIDDIQ: The point that I want to emphasize is that any initiative adopted should not disturb radically our traditional system. Our country people and villagers have used these karaizes from time immemorial and have made it into a way of life. As such, this topic must be handled tactfully and carefully so that future problems may not crop up.
                                            ARTICLE
      ECONOMIC AID TO AFGHANISTAN IN THE PAST AND FUTURE PERSPECTIVE
 DR. MOHAMMAD AMIN FARHANG:   Professor, Bochom University* in Germany: former
 Lecturer at the College of Economics, Kabul University: The writer has divided this article in two parts and then has drawn a conclusion based on the salient points of these two parts and has apended a schedule of the development plans in Afghanistan plus a list of footnote references and sources of information.
      In the first part, he.explains the term "economic aid" as "developmental aid" and reveals that the'.advanced countries generally allocate one per cent of their fixed national income as economic aid to the developing countries. Then he elaborates the forms and modalities of the grant of these development aids, categorising them under credits, technical aids, project implementation grants, development aids with the condition that the material required for the projects should be bought only from the aid-giving country and according to the formula propounded by the Brazilian economist Raoul Prebich and other economists like H. Strout and H.B. Chevery based on providing foreign :aid to generate self-reliant economic development in two phases.
    . In the second part, the writer outlines the social and economic.structure of Afghanistan . prior to the shameful comriiunist coup in 1978, the foreign aid given to this country from 1956 to 1970 with USSR on top of the donor countries list coupled with the strings attached to these loans. As such, the writer 'expresses "the opinion that the USSR                                       expanded  its political and financial
 influence since 1953 in Afghanistan    and made Afghan economy dependent to its own
 to a large extent. Although the exact figures of the credits and military aids given by the USSR and the Eastern bloc countries have been kept secret, yet^an organization named Economic Intelligence Unit has estimated that from 1980-84 the Soviet Union gave military aid equivalent to $ two billion to Afghanistan. The Soviet development loan to Afghanistan had been generally subject to the condition  that the machinery and       the                                 material required for the development
 projects would be bought from the USSR and the                                    advisers and technical experts
 would also be employed and assigned from the Soviet Union. Another peculiarity
                                               64
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991        WGHfiMJIHAD                   VOL.4 NO.2
 erf the Soviet loans was that they usually financed only those projects which produced the items required by them. For instance, projects for the explpitation of natural gas, chemical fertilizer or the projects for irrigation at Jalalabad and the' growth of citrus fruits, for export to the USSR.
      Spotlighting the damages caused by the Russian invaders to Afghanistan, the writer points out that by military occupation and by supporting the puppet regime in Kabul, the Soviets have inflicted a financial loss of approximately $  20 billion to our poor country, not to speak of the killing of more than
 1.5 million innocent Afghans which is an absolutely irreparable loss. Therefore the war reparations to be paid by the USSR for the future reconstruction and rehabilitation of Afghanistan would be a pre-requisite for the restoration of mutual relations in the future.
      In the writer’s opinion, one of the most effective means of development on the regional basis would be the mutual social and economic cooperation', among co-religious and neighbourly countries of Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan who have unbreakable cultural, historical and religious bonds and form one of the most resourceful regions in Central-Asia from the angle of manpower, economy and natural resources.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 AHMADZAI: As  mentioned by Dr. Farhang,  loans given to Afghanistan in the past
 had political conditions attached with them, I am of the opinion that, in view of the past bitter experiences, we" have to be very careful in regard to future planning.
 SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: Dr. Farhang has mentioned some good points in regard to war damages and compensation.I would like to supplement them with the following points: Afghanistan's historical and cultural relics were looted by the Russians and they also ransacked . things in Shindand and Herat and looted Kabul Museum thoroughly. The stalemate which occured in productions over the war years: these points ought to be added in the paper.
 DR. FARHANG: When Taraki was killed and Hafizullah Amin transferred the contents of Kabul Museum from Dar-ul-Aman to Kabul city many important relics of the Museum were also stolen.
 DAOUD MUREED:  Under  the   prevailing conditions when economically Afghanistan
 has broken down and we have to resort to international assistance, what should be the modus operand! of. getting this kind of aid avoiding political involvement at the same time?                 -•
 DR. FARHANG:  Every  developed country is. ready to help Afghanistan. Providing
 assistance naturally strengthens bilateral relations including economic as well-as political. In other words assistance is not offered on humanitarian grounds only. We ought to try our best to cut down on other considerations besides economic. This depends on Our own capacity and assimilation of assistance properly. Assistance should be project free, and this will be to■our benefit. In other words, we may get assistance and loans but the selection of projects
                                             65
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991         /               .. .                  VOL.4 NO.2
 may be left to us, which will be taken up according to our own national requirements and priorities.-                                  . *
 DAOUD MUREED: There is not enough currency in Afghanistan and one of the options in trade and commercial business will be through barter trade.
 DR. FARHANG:  In barter trade or exchange of goods there is no evaluation of
 price in respect of exporting and importing goods. We may be exporting goods of higher quality and in return may import goods of much inferior quality. It is because, when there is no cash transaction, the evaluation of goods becomes very difficult. It is not true that we have no currency but certainly there are other options. By means of assistance received we can establish export development banks which were there in the past also. These banks can contribute financially to our business community and encourage them.
 ENGINEER SIDDIQ: (1) Do your' ‘figures include grants and military loans or not? (2) As regards compensation for war damages claimed from Russia, as mentioned by you, does it include mine laying damages as well?
 DR. FARHANG: Military assistance, starting from 1954-1955 till today, are excluded from the figures' mentioned since such aid is confidential and are hot published; however, the figures pertaining to economic assistance and loans, mentioned by me, are taken from the speculated figures of one of American institutes. As far as mines are concerned they played havoc in Afghanistan and caused unprecedented casualties. This is certainly the biggest crime that the Russians committed in Afghanistan. Human life is invaluable with no price tag. These figures do not include human losses and the stains of this deadly and shameless crime shall, for ever, remain as a disdainful, smear on the Russian complexion.
 DR.NAJIBI: As a reformer,Gorbachev was conferred upon the Nobel Peace Prize, but the world forgot the atrocities and massacres of the Afghans most mercilessly carried out under his nose. Destructions wrought in economic,agricultural,social and cultural fields in Afghanistan would require at lease 30 yrs.to be restored, not to speak of the moral and spiritual deterioration of values and the wounds thus caused. The AIG must ponder over this and discuss it threadbare calling for the compensation of war damages from the Soviet Union and the future Islamic government of Afghanistan ought to press this matter further and take it up in right earnest.
 DR. ABDUL WAKIL: Are there any prospects for the Russians' payment for the damages caused by them or absolving, themselves, of it? May be they will send their experts to repair a dilapidated building or a demolished bridge or to develop the economy in a certain field thus compensating for the damages.
 DR. FARHANG: The main question is'that, pf credibility of the relentless and undaunted jehad of the people of Afghanistan over the years which has to be established. The world has to acknowledge and appreciate it whole-heartedly. The Islamic government of Afghanistan must be recognized internationally. This government must be acceptable to one and all inside and outside Afghanistan equally. When such a legally formed government is restored, Russia will have to
                                            66
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               flfGHflU JfHflD __________________ VOL .-4'NO .2
 think twice before refusing to pay for war damages or set conditions. They ought to pay for it wi£h cash down.
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH:   I propose that the  iron  and other metallic scrap and junk
 and left-over spent-up war material from Russia be utilized in making agricultural implements. This topic should be taken up with aid giving sources as well so as to usher their cooperation.
 DR, FARHANG: To transfer war economy to peace time economy is good and useful. These left-over iron scraps and junk, if utilized advantageously, is a kind of investment which can, in turn, provide employment for our people. Then, with small workshops thus created, w6 can make various agricultural implements like
 sickle, plough, hammer, shovel and even push carts, etc.
                                         %
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH:   I would like to know if barter, trade or exchange of goods'
 system is considered illegal according to Islamic commandments and injunctions?
 GHALEB: Barter trade is . not illegal but difference in price or quantity and credit are disallowed.
 DR, SIDDIQ NOORZOI: There  is no standard set for          human life but in accordance to
 activity and income of a   person e.g. from 16 to          50 years of age a yardstick may
 be set and evaluated.
 AHMEDZAI: Dr. Farhang in his paper has said that foodstuff should not be purchased but be obtained throught assistance and aid. I am slightly concerned regarding this.
 DR, FARHANG:   I did not   think i.e.  I am not of the opinion that under no
 circumstance foodstuffs should be purchased. I simply mentioned that obtaining
 foodstuff on loan from other countries is not beneficial from economic point of view,, since food is a consumer /Commodity which does not revitalize. If we are
 not assisted we will be forced or obliged to purchase foodstuff and grains. It is most probable that the international community- the European Community in
 particular,which has foodstuff- may provide us primarily with food requirements as was the case in our      lean years and famine, that is to say             international
 cooperation is very much there.
 DR, MUJADDEDI:  What   kind of economic system do you anticipate or propose for
 future AIG?
 uy                    ■                   .         »
  DR. FARHANG: Our future social and economic set-up for future Afghanistan shall be • entirely based, . on Islamic principles to the letter. There are no two
  opinions regarding this. Our jehad was directed solely and wholly -for this purpose and the Afghan people also fought relentlessly and struggled for the same.
                                             67
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991           HIUIlHIl JIIIhU                     VOL.4 NO.2
                                            ARTICLE
    REFUGEE REHABILITATION. ITS MODALITY BY UTILIZING AVAILABLE
                                            RESOURCES
DR. ABDULLAH ALI, ADVISOR, AIG MINISTRY FOR REHABILITATIONS FORMER PRESIDENT OF HOUSE CONSTRUCTION IN KABUL:   The writer explains the topography and climatic
conditions of Afghanistan in detail, drawing the attention of the donor countries to the various problems of the war ravaged and devastated country and its suffering masses. On the basis of information gathered from the publications of various UN agencies and other sources, he estimates that the total number of Afghan refugees is seven million out of which five million have taken refugee in the neighbouring countries of Pakistan and Iran. He has divided these refugees in several groups which are as follows:
   1. Those whose houses and villages were" invaded or destroyed during the war.
     A large   number of these refugees are  living  in refugee camps and   are
     waiting   for repatriation and would need       help and assistance     ih
     rehabilitation and reconstruction for at least two or three years. In the absence   of any authentic                            statistics*, roughly 50% of the refugees in
     Pakistan and Iran may be included in this category.
   2. Nomads and cattle owners. As the pastures in. the country have remained in
     their original condition, therefore once the situation in Afghanistan returns   to normal, they would return with their cattle and other
     belongings. In  view of the fact that the nomads seldom possess        any
     immovable property,, there does not seem to be any difficulty with regard to
     their rehabilitation because their lives revolve around pastures and caravan routes. But in case they may now prefer to live, in villages or cities, than there will be a problem.
   3. Refugees whose properties have not been destroyed and in some cases   are
     being used by their kith and kin or some officials of the present iregime, on their return they can re-occupy or re-own their vacated properties and hence their rehabilitation too would not pose any difficult problem.
   4. A limited number of intellectuals, experts in       various trades    and
     professions, highly educated persons and specialists have throughout these years, given a new shape to their life styles, somehow or the other, while staying in Pakistan, Iran, Europe, USA and other Asian countries and are busy in theiir . employments and occupations and their children are getting good education and some of them are pursuing higher studies; Their total number may not possibly exceed 300,000. They will return to Afghanistan when alongside with the safety of their families, proper facilities for education and health and employment and other necessities and amenities of life are available here. They will have an important role to play in the economic revival and improvement of common welfare conditions in Afghanistan.
   5. The fifth group should be considered as lost,, because they ha\te settled
JANUARY -MARCH, 1991             AfBllflN                           VOL.4- NO.2
     down in other countries and      do not                      have any intention to return   to
     Afghanistan. They might re-consider their position if they find the future
     conditions better than their present condition.
     After due analysis of these groups, the writer comes to the conclusion that the refugees under discussion belong to the first category who are farmers and villagers. They vacated their houses and properties and migrated to the neighbourly countries preferring the hardships and hazards of immigrant life to alien bondage and aggression. Most    of the                     youth of this group have played an
active and valuable role in the jehad against the Soviet troops.
     In the opinion of the writer, those desiring to return to their homeland would not be more than 3.5 million consisting of approximately 600,000 homeless families requiring at least 600,000 houses. Therefore the time has come that a number of experienced Afghan experts in different fields should put their heads together and seriously strive to implement the reconstruction plans in Afghanistan without wasting any time.
     For general construction of economic residential units suitable to the climatic conditions of the country, he suggests that ordinary clay and stone may be used because even the most poor can 1 afford it and these materials are abundantly available. But the most important problem, in his view, is the need for energy, due to the paucity of     fuel and the destruction of forest wealth
owing to the 12 years of merciless    war. So he suggests that efforts should                    be
made to utilize the solar energy and the energy of wind. The writer expresses satisfaction that fortunately a number of Afghans have made necessary research in this sector and they can be invited to share their experience with their other countrymen preferrably under the auspices of the United Nations Organisation.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
AHMADZAI:  Dr. Ali  has  suggested the construction of mud houses in countryside
and villages. If facilities are available for construction of concrete houses and the people are assisted then why should mud houses be preferred?
DR, ALI: Today there are extensive scientific experiments and research being carried out on mud, its ingredients, durability,, utility, resistance and various other aspects of its utilization in construction. They have collected some useful data and have found out that mud mixed up with some other ingredients can be very durable. In the construction of toilets and latrines which are in constant contact with water some reformations and changes are to be carried out and understood while constructing houses.
ENGINEER SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN:     Dome  like constructions currently exist in
Northern parts; could we construct similar buildings in Eastern and Southern parts as well?
DR. ALI:  Regarding the construction and utility of dome like constructions in
other parts of Afghanistan, there should not be any difficulty. Actually every
                                           69
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991              KfiHflNJtHflD •                   VOL.4 NO.2
 area of Afghanistan, or for that matter elsewhere, has its particular ecological and environmental conditions peculiar to "that area. Constructions carried out in a certain area are actually the result of exhaustive research and study in the conditions of that particular area which have, suited these areas from time' immemorial and have stood the test of time successfully. Thus a certain type of construction is being recommended after studying all the environmental and ecological conditions. The dome-like buildings are mostly suitable for areas with less earthquake possibilities. But, their construction in areas prone to earthquakes cannot be ruled out entirely because, with certain additions and modifications like the addition of shock absorber rings along with, will suit them for those areas as well.
 KUSHKAKI: Can sun and wind energies be utilized commercially and privately and are there any statistics or studies carried out in this field so far? Could it be commonly used in Afghanistan advantageously and are the necessary means available?
 DR* ALT: In the field of solar energy, utility studies have been carried out arid experiments made the world over. In many places they are being utilized in two ways, i.e., "active", and "passive". According to the first method, special . ■cells are fixed on  to the roof.  These cells or batteries absorb the heat from
 the sun converting   it to  electrical energy and with this energy internal water
 heating system or water heaters start functioning and heat.; the entire house. This method is expensive but as a result of economic statistics it actually makes up for the expenditure within 6^8 years. The second method is comparatively very simple:  A  series of mirrors are fixed parabolically on the
 roof in such a way that they are always exposed to sun rays vertically* Water heaters  are placed beside1 them.   With the help of sunlight, the mirrors start
 heating the water  heaters  which is transferred to barrels and then the entire
 house is warmed up. Fortunately some Afghans have studied this process and have been able to get doctorate in this scientific research. This is applicable in Afghanistan. Utilization of wind energy is simpler and easier as compared to that of sun. In California there are water pumps operated by wind energy. According to Afghanistan's . climatic conditions where in certain areas winds happen to be a permanent feature, wind energy can be utilized usefuly.
 RAFI: There are historical documents to the effect that the utilization of wind energy in Afghanistan was in vogue 1000-2000 years before. The presence of wind mills in Herat province and elsewhere is a. testimony to the fact.
 DAOUD MURBED: How do you evaluate the role and success of private sector in
 housing and town building for the future of the country?
                    DR* ALI: Considering our economic conditions and their interests, foreign pri-vate sector will not suit us and may not be useful. Regarding private involvement internally, it should be said if they are capable to take this up seriously and are willing to accept 25-30 years for., repayment of their investment by the house owners in easy instalments then it will be a great blessing. This kind of wofk. is better in urban areas than rural. The future government of Afghanistan can encourage private enterprises to undertake such projects in the provinces as well technical guidance may be provided by the
                                             70
 JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991            : . MGIIMJIBM                        VOL.4 NO-2
 government and personnel, be trained in this field to go to rural arena and give necessary instructions in building of mud houses on hygienic and sound lines.
 DR. ABDUL WAKIL:     There are houses in rural areas which are demolished and
 destroyed as a result of bombing arid their owners are really justified to have new ones built for them. Naturally' new..houses will excel the old ones. In that case some "wise" guys may demolish their built-up houses by planting a bomb underneath so as to get better houses. How could you differentiate between the real needy ones i.e. the genuine and the fake?
 DR. ALI: It is the management and administration to solve such problems. But when we say let the people build their own houses it is because they are poor; we can provide them with a daily . salary - perhaps in kind - and they will be. busy in construction of their houses. They will be compensated for their labor and activity. Economically this is a sound idea.
 ENGINEER SIDDIQ: As far as the building of mud houses is concerned I agree with Dr. Ali. There is no dearth of mud and sand in Afghanistan. Presently in Tashgurghan mud and sand are utilized in the building of mud houses.
 DR. ALI: In view of research carried out on mud, it has been found out that by proportionate mixing of sand with mud a highly reliable, mixture almost identical to that of a brick can be produced which is ideal for construction.
 DR. MUJADDEDI:  Wha£, is your opinion about  the construction of non-residential
 structures like mosques, schools, hospitals and offices particularly when lime and cement be easily available?
 DR. ALI: We can construct charity houses and factories out of mud and they will be fine models for construction; however, brick and lime being available, they can be utilized iri building schools and others prone to corrosion or tear and wear.   . •
 ENGINEER FAZAL UMAR ZAHED:  I  opine that mud construction takes longer time and
 they are not damp proof, which is a problem.
 DR. ALI: Where manpower is available it cannot be a problem. Where environmental and climatic conditions are conducive mud houses can be built. That is why I have recommended west, northwest and southwest. In the areas prone to humidity and climatically not feasible stone houses are recommended.
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH:    Those  houses  which  have remained intact after the
 bombardment can be utilized with nominal repair but they are mined by the . communists which, if entered, will explode. Therefore prior to the return of refugees some action ought to be taken in this regard.
 DR. ALI: The presence of mines is a general problem arid a main hurdle.
                  .' it '
 DR. NOORZQY: In ancient cities like Balkh, Bost and others, old buildings have mostly erodeijl whereas 1,000 to 2,000 yeat old buildings in other countries still remain strong and sound. If we continue utilizing mud what can we expect in1 the future?
                                            71
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1991               flfllllllNJtHflfl                 VOL.4 NO-2
 DR.NAJIBI: What Dr* Ali means is the reformed form of mad houses. The Germans have conducted some studies and research in this field and want to construct such houses. In the aid program for reconstruction of Afghanistan, Germans with collaboration of Afghans are busy on scientific and technical studies.
 DR, LODIN:    (1) Is . the durability of mud, concrete and wooden houses
 respectively assessed? (2) What is your opinion in regard to the use of stone in construction of houses since they are (available in large quantity in the country?                              "
 DR, ALI: Mud stays longer than the rest. Sliding and motion create some strange cracks inside the concrete andi wood is the least resistant. Our people are well versed and highly experienced in stone constructions and they are talented also in this field. We may provide them with "typical" 2-5 room maps and guide them to construct stone houses.
                                              ARTICLES
                     REFUGEE REHABILITATION IN AFGHANISTAN
                                                                       ft
  DR. MOHAMMAD SIDDIQ NOORZOY:    EMRITUS PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS , UNIVERSITY OF.
  ALBERTA RESEARCH ASSOCIATE, I IS UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA:    The writer has made
  painstaking studies into the number and gender and various categories of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Iran, USA, Germany and other countries in Europe and Asia and has tried to make a calculated forecast about the total number of refugees intending to return to Afghanistan and has prepared detailed graphs of the skilled and educated manpower usable in future rehabilitation and reconstruction work on a gigantic scale in the war ravaged country suffering from the devastating effects of the ruthless Rdssian invasion in 1979 till the withdrawal of the invading forces in 1989 in pursuance of the Geneva Accords and the aftermath of the ruination caused by the puppet regime sitting in the saddle with the tacit support of their Russian overlords.
       As regards up to date information about the number of Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran, the writer points out that official reports concerning the number of refugees in these two countries, most probably show the figures much less than the original or the actual numbers. But in other countries, having restrictions on the entry of refugees under the constant surveilance of the authorities concerned (mainly in USA, Germany, Turkey, India and on a smaller scale in France, Canada, Australia, ‘Austria and certain other countries), the number of refugees are at least known to the immigration authorities who;’ unfortunately, do not disclose it to the common people. Anyhow, the estimated nearly, correct numbers in the above countries are as follows:
             AFGHAN REFUGEES
  In Iran           In other countries . fFotal:
 2,241,000        +     100,000       \  *  5,797,568
In Pakistan 3,456,569    +
                                               72
 JANUARY -MARCH * 1991           flfGH/IN  J1HM1_              _____
      The writer later mentions that mostly women and children have sought refugee in Pakistan and Iran whereas their menfolk returned to the homeland to carry on the jehad. He categorises the total number of refugees in the following manner:
 Male        Female         Children      Percentage         Out of Total
 1,449,392   1,623,319      2,724,858    Male - 25%)
                                      Female - 28%)      =  5,797,568
                                     Children- 47%)
     ' Th.en. he speculates that the minimum ..number of these refugees expected to return to Afghanistan, would be 4,712,200 and maximum 5,117,405.
      Throwing ample light on the condition of the refugees and the future of • their children ahd their educational problems and the uncertainty about their preference to settle down in cities or villages after repatriation and giving a rough idea about a limited number settling down permanently in the countries of refuge,, he expresses the opinion that 90-95% of the total refugees in Pakistan may return to Afghanistan. But later adds that it is expected that even more percentage would return to participate in the reconstruction program in the years ahead.
      Discussing the manpower needs for the reconstruction projects, the writer states that the age of 42.66% of the total adult members of Afghan refugees abroad is ranged between 15 to 59 years and the rest 57.34% are either 60 years old or more than that. Therefore he foresees that but of the repatriating refugees, those ranging between 15 and 59 years of age would practically constitute the manpower in the future independent Islamic Afghanistan.
      Thereafter the writer focuses attention on the educated, skilled and trained personnel among the refugees and gives a break-up of their stipulated percentage and the future opportunities.
      After a detailed discussion of the educational requirements of the refugee children in the post-repatriation period and the steps to be taken to provide them the required primary education and the need for trained teachers and - the number of schools proportionate to the estimated number of repatriated minor boys and girls, the writer brings up the issue of war reparations. He reveals that Geneva Accords make no mention of the indemnities to be paid to the refugees, whereas discussion about determining the amount of damages caused by an imposed war would have been in the fitness of things. He adds, everybody knows that during the decade long war vast areas of our agricultural lands and their irrigation systems have been ruined, orchards and fruit farms devastated, cattle wealth plundered and destroyed, towns, houses, mosques, schools and trade centers have been damaged extensively. Therefore the demand for reparations is not just based on human compassion, but it is a lawful demand for expediting the process pf rehabilitation and reconstruction,, which would in turn create a suitable atmosphere for repatriation. Besides, because these refugees were forcibly driven out, the internationally recognized principles of human rights were violated and hence compensation must be paid for. the large-scale damages caused by the imposed war.
                                              73
    JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          IIKillllllJtHflfl                             V0L.4N0.2
                      PROBLEMS AND DIFFICULTIES OF RECONSTRUCTION
    Emphasising the need for conducting surveys and preparing questionnaires for assessing the damages inflicted on houses, schools, mosques, public utility buildings, commercial institutions, universities, factories, mines and communication networks, during the past decade of Soviet-Afghan war in Afghanistan in order to undertake a proper planning and have an estimate of the required international funding and financial aid for reconstruction and rehabilitation work, the writer expresses the opinion that reconstruction projects should be co-related to the general and continuous economic development of the country to enable the Afghan economy to; grow and to cross over the difficulties in its path..
         The other big " problem, in the' writer1 s view, is the presence of mines throughout the country. Locating and defusing about 30 to 50 million mines planted on a very large scale, is considered one of the basic difficulties because daily a considerable number of persons are blown over by these mines, or get injured or lose their limbs. Although vast areas of the country are liberated but rehabilitation work cannot make a headway due to this reason. The human losses suffered so far are unbearable, particularly for a country which has undergone tremendous sufferings as a result of the war. It may be mentioned that even so many years after the Second World War, still unexploded explosive material has been causing damages in different parts of Europe. Who knows for how many years    the       Afghan people will have to face such  a danger  from the
    underground mines. The preliminary measures taken by France, USA, Turkey and UK for mine-sweeping programs have great importance but speedier action is needed in this connection in the length and breadth of the country. According to the information received from experts, lack of proper guidance to refugees in Pakistan adds to the reconstruction problems. Besides, the special programs conducted in Pakistan for creating mine-awareness among the Afghan refugees, does not exist    in Iran. Therefore unawareness of refugees     in Iran   about the
    hazards of mines, will expose them .to serious dangers in the times to come. Although some circles believe that in the Islamic Republic of Iran the refugees enjoy the required amenities of life, creating awareness among them regarding the dangers of millions of mines all over Afghanistan would be an unavoidable obligation for    all         concerned. Fortunately in Pakistan the UN    agencies,
    international relief       bodies and the government of Pakistan are doing what is
    needed in this connection. However the focal point is that during more than six years of indirect talks in Geneva leading to Geneva Accords, pitiably no mention was made about the existence of millions of mines in Afghanistan so that the Soviet rulers could have been forced to cooperate with us in connection with the removal of mines. The Soviet government should know that so long as mines are not removed or defused completely, there would be no possibility of the revival of Afghan economy. Hence economic relations between Pakistan and the USSR would never grow and develop under these circumstances.
                 As regards refugee repatriation, the writer ?ays that in Pakistan it is *i reckoned that this job can be accomplished in a short time. One of the Pakistan authorities once opined that the entire process of repatriation would take only six months. But actually it is believed that at the rate of 200,000 refugees per
74
    JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              MCHMIJtHflP                       VOL.4 NO.2
    month, it will require 15 to 17 months to repatriate approximately 3.5 million refugees from Pakistan.
         In order to arrange a planned and smooth.rehabilitation of the refugees, the writer believes that proper planning and surveys should be made to assess various categories of refugees and to give priority to those refugees to return to Afghanistan who are able as well as inclined to participate in the implementation of rehabilitation programs and then to repatriate those who cannot perform any such jot>y•at a later stage. Moreover prior to their return, adequate information of the availability of required facilities for settlement ought to be put at the disposal of all those concerned so that they may not be forced to grope in the dark. For elderly persons who have not been in touch with: their job or profession during all these years, it would be necessary to start adult refresher courses to re-float them in the mainstream of social life. On the other hand, for a majority of the refugee youth and children, who could not avail proper education, educational facilities should be provided on an adequate scale.
         Coming to the question of compensating the losses suffered by the refugees, the writer expresses the opinion that ultimately the USSR, being responsible for these sufferings and destructions, should pay the war reparations to help put the Afghan economy back on the track of progress and welfare as well as to prove its bona fides regarding establishing good relations with the future government and the people of Afghanistan. Besides, the countries of the free world and especially the Islamic countries can later on come to the rescue of the Afghan people, financially.
         Discussing the problems of the about half a million disabled persons and those who suffered psychological disorders and shocks during the decade long Soviet-Af ghan War, Dr. Noorzoy stresses the need for a special study and a minute survey determining the age, number, gender and category of physical or psychic disability of such people for better and effective medication and psychological treatment. In this regard, he refers to an article published in the American newspaper which says that an American expert manufactures artificial limbs with some light material and plastic made by Dupont and other firms, which enables the disabled to take part even in sports and games. A team of experts led by Herman Hittenberger has left San Francisco for the Soviet Union to help the Soviet soldiers disabled during the Afghan War. Hittenberger has reported that he would like to visit Afghanistan, too. Therefore the writer suggests that this expert may be contacted to do the needful for the Afghan disabled persons.
         Throwing some light on the general problems related to reconstruction work, Noorzoy writes that sufficient quantity of foodstuff and medical services would be essential when the refugees return home. Whereas for economic reconstruction, the country stands in need of revival of international trade, in the private sector particularly with the free world, induction -of refresher courses for civilian government employees and introducing necessary reforms in the educational system as well as the judiciary will be needed.
         Although a comprehensive survey of the water resources and the area to be
                                                75
 covered by them has not yet been made in Afghanistan, the rivers in the country have been put to minimum use for irrigation purposes. Before the war, the total
 irrigitable area in the country was 5.3 million hectares of land, half of which was irrigated and only 1.4 million hectares received sufficient water. Thus 3.9
 million hectares had either no water or received a small quantity. It shows that there are vast sources of irrigation in the country and irrigation facilities
 can be increased upto 279 per cent. In his opinion the infrastructure for large-scale projects related to the reclamation and irrigation of the agricultural lands can be provided by the UN and the World Bank.
                     Focussing on transportation, he elaborates that with the exception of some airlines carrying passengers and cargo, the rest of the bulk of transportation
                     has been taking place through a network of highways in this land-locked country. In some cases, the trade'goods related to Afghanistan was transported by trains
                     in the neighbouring countries, upto the Afghan bprders. But now as, reported by the refugees, the network of highways connecting the capital with the main
  highways and even ports have been severely damaged due to the war. Therefore re-carpeting and surfacing the roads and highways with asphalt would be of prime importance. After the cessation of hostilities,, the neighbouring countries would be interested to send their goods to Afghanistan which would in the long run reduce Afghanistan’s dependence on the Soviet Union. Therefore a systematic planning in this field would boost up the Afghan economy to the highest degree.
       He has emphasized the significance of the revival of industries and the handicraft industries like carpet'weaving, karakul pelts, seasoing of sheep-skin-and leather work as well as the establishment of new and modern industries preferrably with the help of foreign companies or joint ventures.
       In the field of mineral exploitation e.g. coal, gas, salt, lapus lazuli and other precious stones and marbles etc., he reveals that during 1979-84 geological machinery worth $ 192 million was brought from Russia to Afghanistan which in itself is an index of the mineral wealth of this country and shows that minute surveys must have been made regarding the mineral potential. So the writer suggests that the future Afghan government should make good use of these
  studies and technical surveys. But here the writer points out that the entire / planning should be dons by the Afghan experts themselves, avoiding the pre-planned programs which might prove detrimental.
       Keeping in view the enormity of destruction in the country during the ruinous war, the writer believes that complete economic recovery of Afghanistan will take five, to seven years requiring the continuance of., international assistance. But due to lack of adequate statistics and information regarding the precise total amount of funding for proper economic development, we cannot give an exact figure. However, the estimate so far provided by the development program coordinators, amounts to somewhat between $ 1-2 billion, which is a very optimistic assessment. The writer opines that this amount will never be sufficient to meet the expenses of all the reconstruction programs spread over a' period of five to seven years.
                                            76
DISCUSSIONS
 KUSHKAKI: Dr. Noorzoy talked about the 4th Afghan plan which he said contained interesting and useful points. From what angle or point of view, the plan could be usefully utilized in future economic development of Afghanistan?
 DR. NOORZOY: For mining and establishment of heavy industries, the same can be utilized.              1
 DR. NAJIBI:  The opium poison and scourge of which the Americans are scared
 stiff, owing to certain reasons, has increased as compared to pre-war period in Afghanistan. Have the Americans devised any means to replace the cultivation of opium so that farmers are encouraged and give up opium production?
 DR. NOORZOY: Of late the war is on against opium cultivation in the US but the struggle has failed owing to the toterring foundation of the campaign. If the proposal comes from the' people themselves most probably the Americans will cooperate amply.
 ENGINEER SIDDIQ:   US   International Development Program has instituted an
 organization to fight the cultivation of opium and its officials have visited Peshawar and are busy collecting data and statistics from Helmand, Uruzgan and^ Nangarhar provinces.
 ENGINEER SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: In Dauod's period this.problem was discussed and ' taken-:up. Some proposals were made for alternatives to opium- cultivation. The cultivation of soyabean was supposed to.be the - best option to replace poppy cultivation. Gardening the area was also proposed.
 DR. NAJIBI:  Women comprise half of the Afghan population and they are the
 architects of the future generation. They have been associated in the past with education and training and have contributed usefully. But in the future development of Afghanistan they have been set aside. In fact SALAM project, and the UN as a whole have neglected completely a section of the Afghan population. You have mentioned that women should participate in the future economic development of Afghanistan. Since you are very much aware of the SALAM operations, have you any particular reasons?
 DR. NOORZOY: Women's participation in reconstruction is a religious as well as a political issue. Their participation or otherwise will be taken up by the AIG.
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH: In-  long term and short term programs priorities must be
 considered because monetary restrictions will be very much there.
 DR. NOORZOY: Once AIG is established in Afghanistan and the refugees settle dgwn in their homes, urgent needs will crop up. Therefore we ought to be prepared for such emergencies e.g. agricultural products ought to be early yielding ones so that they fill up the gap of waiting for foreign assistance. Currently the international community is faced with other urgent problems and the Afghanistan issue is put away in cold storage. I read in a paper that Saudi Arabia is
                                              77
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991               MMNMMI    ___________________ VOL.4 NQ.2
 providing $4 billion to the Russians to tide over their economic deficiencies. As such, friends are forgetting us. These difficulties ought to be included while planning. It is our duty to attract world attention otherwise we will be clean forgotten.
                                            ARTICLE
                          TRANSPORT IN FUTURE ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN
 SHAH JAN GHANI AHMADZAI:     FORMER PRESIDENT OF GOVERNMENT TRANSPORT NON
 LIVING IN THE USA: Referring to the past 12 years of destructive war which left a trail of blood and tears and scorched earth in the once beautiful and scenic country of Afghanistan, the writer states that it is a land-locked country depending for 98% of its exports and imports on transport trucks and lorries which is considered the most expensive one after air cargo in the world. He adds that maximum part of our exports and imports are conducted via the ports of the neighbouring countries of Pakistan, Iran and the USSR. The Karachi Port handles 75% of our shipments of goods out of which 25% is forwarded via Chaman (Baluchistan) and the rest 50% via Peshawar to Afghanistan. Fifteen per cent of our goods are transported to us via Hairatan, Sher Khan Port and Torghandi, but in view of the longer distance the charges of cartage in this case are much higher than Karachi. The' remaining 10% of the total goods are forwarded to us from our friendly country, Iran via Yousufabad Port.
      Explaining some of the difficulties faced by the Afghan transporters ifi Pakistan, the writer comparing the present conditions with the past, discloses that in the past the Pakistan Railways carried the Afghan goods in the goods train at the third class rates. But now charges (A) class fare for the same, equivalent to the cartage charges by passenger; trains, i.e. instead of the usual 30% now hundred per cent transport rate is demanded and even then the Afghan goods have to wait for their turn to be forwarded by train to Peshawar.
                                              A
 On the other hand, owing to non-availability of goods wagon, the Afghan intransit goods are detained or held up for months at the Karachi port and hence have to pay demurrage. Though Pakistan uses 20 tonne or 30 tonne large trucks for its own goods transport but does not permit Afghan goods to be transported so, even in Pakistani trucks.
      Keeping these facts in view, the writer adds that things have now changed' and Pakistan is fortunately developing fast and therefore Pakistan Railways is busy transporting its own goods and cannot even cope with' that. Hence he expresses the hope that the Pakistan authorities, under the circumstances, would arrange for a spacious goods shed and a separate space for the storage of Afghan goods to be transported to its destination within 10 days, and thus would earn.,, the gratitude of Afghan.authorities. But if not possible, then permission may be given for transporting these goods by container trucks, probably in the form of a joint Pak-Afghan venture.           '
      In this connection, elaborating further, Ahmedzai suggests that in future a project should be undertaken for the manufacture of spare parts for trucks and tractors and motor engines in^cqJLlabqration with an advanced country having
                                              78
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      ItffiHMIJIHAD                   VOL.4 NO.2
 good experience in this field. For this purpose the Jangalak Factory for spare parts may be reactivated or another factory may be established, keeping our economic interest in view.
      He appeals to the future authorities reconstruction of the war ravaged country, importance and should be given priority.
in Afghanistan that for the transport’ would be of vital
 <!
                             DISCUSSIONS
 ENGINEER SIDDIQ: The uphill of Salang is higher than that of international norm and is specially built for Russian vehicles. When you propose a greater "tonnage'1 would that not be tantamount to a load on repair work of the vehicles?
 AHMADZAI: Bigger "tonnage vehicles" have been using this pass or uphill in the past and the Ministry of Public Works had allowed their passage from the pass. ENGINEER SIDDIQ: We would not disallow the usage of big "tonnage" vehicles but we mean to say is which vehicles ought to use which kind of roads.
 DR. ALIs The "tonnage" of cargo carriers according to the explanation of Engineer Siddiq has' to be considered minutely. This is more so in respect of our country's environmental conditions,' road safety, height problem and dangers of over-loading.               ‘
 ENGINEER SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: Other countries that I have visisted have common railway lines, what about railways in Afghanistan?
 GHALEB: Afghanistan, is a land locked country and transportation is confined to roads* therefore air transportation ought to be considered too. .
 DR. NOORZOY: As per latest reports available 80% transportation in the country is carried out  through Russia; in case railway line construction is not feasible and we are                                                           confined to roads only, what will be the future like?
 AHMADZAI: it comes to 35 cents per kg. by Russian route whereas from Karachi port it comes to 15 to 16 cents and from there the commodity can be transferred to Kabul and Kandahar and then be distributed onwards to other areas.
 ENGINEER’SIDDIQ: You have mentioned the Jangalak Factory. This has been a kind of motor repairing workshop which proved to be a white elephant for the govern-ment. The vehicles repaired ir\ this factory were invariably useless and'used td remain off roads more than often. ’ '  - .
 AHMADZAI:  In  case the Janglak Factory is useless       why not utilize it in
 production of motor parts which will cater to the needs of the vehicles.
                                            ARTICLE
                 FRUIT CULTIVATION AND EXPORT IN AFGHANISTAN
                 / * '
  DR. ABDUL WAKIL, FORMER AFGHAN MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, AT PRESENT ADVISOR IN DAI INSTITUTE IN PESHAWAR:  In  the past the economy of Afghanistan has been
  vesting on agriculture and would be so for a long time in future. The agricultural produce 'of the country may be divided in two main parts, one is the staple food of the people, the wheat, and the other is the cash crop including fresh and dried fruit besides cotton and other exportable commodities.
                                             79
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              flfGIMNJIHAD                       VOL.4  NO.2
      Here the writer, gives a percentage of the export items of Afghanistan in proportion to the total volume of exports, as follows:
      Natural Gas: 35%; dry fruits: 30%; cotton: 5%;-fresh fruit: 7% carpets and rugs: 13%; other items: 10%.
      On the basis of his studies and estimates, the writer is of the opinion that given proper planning, Afghanistan would be able to produce sufficient foodgrains like wheat to meet the needs of its people as well as push its fresh and dry fruit export to such a level as to earn a couple of billion dollars. According to one of his estimates the exports can be, pushed up to $ 2.5 billion per annum at the minimum and $ 7 billion per year at the maximum.
      Then the writer illustrates his point with the help of a graph, regarding the capacity for increasing the agricultural produce in Afghanistan, by showing the consumption ratio of chemical fertilizer per hectare in Afghanistan and other Asian countries.
      As regards fruit production in Afghanistan, the writer says that various kinds of fruits are grown in this country and, due to the favorable climate, generally the quality of Afghan fruits is higher than most of the countries of the world. The main fruits are:
      1~ Grapes 2- Apricot 3-       pomegranate 4-  Almond 5- Mulberry   6- Apple
 7-Pear 8- Peach 9- Quince 10- Cherry 11- Plum 12- Blackcherry.
      Fresh grapes have a good market in Pakistan. But the raisins are exported to Germany, UK, China, Poland,      Czechoslovakia and India- etc. Therefore the
 Afghan growers should concentrate more on the cultivation of grapes. The DAI has chalked out a program to improve the production of raisins and its export to the world markets. Fresh apricots are at present exported to Pakistan only and perhaps the Pakistani market cannot absorb more than the present quantity. But dried apricots can be sold at very good prices the world over. We have a plan to teach the correct process of drying the apricots to the cultivators, by technical and trained personnel. Pomegranates are exported fresh and because it needs certain special climatic      conditions for proper growth, its   volume of
 production is very limited^ in the world. The Afghan pomegranates are not produced anywhere else and have the best quality. It has very good markets in Pakistan, India, Arab countries      and Southeast Asian countries and  should be
 grown on an extensive scale. Although almonds grown in Afghanistan are of good quality but unfortunately they have many varieties and shapes like the apricots.
  On the other hand great quantity of almonds is grown in California which has even penetrated the ■ Afghan almond -ma-rket; in India. Hence competition with the American almonds makes our marketing task very tough and we should be careful.
      Another very profitable occupation for the Afghan cultivators is the mulberry. Although fresh mulberries provide good nutrition to the Afghans and dried mulberries are also much in demand during the winter season, its foreign .market is limited but can acquire a good market oversees if dried and packed properly coupled with effective publicity.
  ° Apples, pears, peaches, quinces, cherries and plums etc. can be sold only
80
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991             illGHflHJ[HAO                   VOL.4 NO.2
 when these are fresh and hence their export market is limited to 'Pakistan. Although these are lesser in quantity but have a good market. Black cherries (aaloo bokhara), at present almost confined to the province of Ghazni, is usually dried and exported to Pakistan and India. Efforts are being made to innovate a mechanical instrument for making its drying process speedier and economic because only then the area under its cultivation may be expanded. At
 present its main markets are in Pakistan and India but if like mulberry it could * be dried and packed in a proper commercial manner and given due publicity, it can acquire a good international market.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
 AHMADZAI: You are suggesting gardening while, you know, that gardening nee&s
 watering which ought to be carried out once in 12 days. How do you account for that?
 A. WAKIL: It is but natural that gardens are laid out in areas where water and irrigation resources are plentiful nearby and fortunately apricots and grapes are those which can resist thirst. There are vast lands in Afghanistan which are irrigated once every 12 days.
 FARHANG: It is said that Afghan fruits can have good market in southeast Asian,
 European and American countries. May be, it is the distance problem or competition that comes in the way.
 A. WAKIL: It is the dearth or, I did say, absence of technical fruit experts. In case the Afghan fruits are prepared, preserved and packed in accordance with international market and exports standards, I believe they can beat all world records as far as their taste and quality are concerned. They can find wonderful markets not only in Asia but can attract European markets as well.
 SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: There are some areas in Afghanistan which have dry-cropping fruits such as grapes, apples and pears. What is your opinion about their exploitation and development in the future?
 A. WAKIL: The quality of dry-cropping grapes is splendid. Grapes that need less water are supposed to be of high quality. But cultivation or plantation of fruits in dry-cropping lands depends on the .conditions and environment and characteristics of the locality and the people. It is upto them to decide what cultivation is paying and which one is lucrative and which one is not.
 DR, ALI: Dr. Wakil has mentioned that in areas of Haidan, Wardak and Logar,wheat harvest and production is less compared to other areas. What is the reason?
 DR, WAKIL: For cold areas of high altitudes as in Afghanistan, I believe, suitable wheat is- yet to be developed in the world. We have tried very much in this respect. The harvest attained from Bezostaya and Mexipak wheat in hot areas and could not be got in cold areas of Afghanistan.
 NAJIBI:  In Frankfort of Germany I came across a good number of Iranian fruit
                                           81
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991               HfCHilMJIHAD                      VOL.4 NO.2
 merchants selling melons, pomegranates and grapes. Their quality and taste along with color is similar to that of Afghan fruits. I cannot say if they do belong to Afghanistan or Iran. However, the demand for Afghan fruits and dry fruits over there is very great.
 DR. WAKIL:   I am sure that fresh fruits specially grapes can be exported to
 foreign countries butras far as dry fruits are concerned, they have tp be properly processed, preserved and arranged in accordance with standards prior to exportation. Afghan raisins could not attract foreign markets because of the absence of proper packing and similar considerations.
 NOORZOY: Had in the past fruits been included in the 5th and 7th year plans as export       items the world would have known our fruits and they could have been
 appreciated today. I figure that in future plans this drawback must be looked into and eliminated. Today the world is more conscious about the nutricious value of fruits so much so that their consumption three times daily is advised.
 ATAYEG: Is  there any plan or program for collection of "germplasma" of plants
 and fruits?                                         -
 A. WAKIL: Your query is reasonable enough and we ought to have had experts for preservation of the same but unfortunately we are handicapped in this regard. It is due to the ‘same drawback that our ancient quality of potatoes are slowly dying out along with fine quality of our delicate apples.
 ATAYEE:  You had mentioned or rather advised in your paper the usage of
 phosphorous chemical fertilizers for dry-cropping lands whereas that kind of fertilizer is gradually soluble. Don't you think nitrogenic fertilizer would have been better? .
                                                           t
 DR. WAKIL: The best kind of chemical fertilizers are those - haying ammonium phosphate          for dry cropping lands. They have 16% nitrogen. Phosphate is a
 substance which remains in the earth and can be utilized next years too, so it is preferable.
 WAIS: It takes the vegetables' roots longer to absorb the phosphorous fertilizer whereas ammonium phosphate fertilizer is assimilated and absorbed sooner and better.                                                      >              r
 LODlN:   I have heard that when they wanted to convert a part of Najaf Desert in
 Iraq to orchards,a system of pitchers irrigation was introduced, A pitcherful Of water was placed i ft. deep under each tree. The water was absorbed through sunlight gradually and the water used to be absorbed by the tree. What are your comments on this?
 DR. WAKIL:   Needlessr to say that suggestions, information, experiences and
 observations have all their utility but, as far as the irrigation of orchards is concerned, I have selected the "bubble irrigation system" which can be implemented with simple contrivance and with less cost. In other words $ of the orchard's annual revenue suffices -its' irrigation.
 LODIN: In California fruit plants are raised at home inside the vases, what are
                                             82
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               MHMUJUMB                         VOL.4 NO.2
 the characteristics of such saplings?
 DR. WAKIL: Actually this is a system of multiple plantation of saplings i.e. saplings are planted 6 inches apart from each other nursery-wise. The production capacity of each sapling comes to about 2 kgs of fruits. Then they are trimmed next year; again it produces fruits. According to the statistics the production of such saplings are more than those of big trees per acre. These kind$ of saplings are popular in Holland and elsewhere.
 KUSHKAKX:  The Kandahar Fruit and Conserves Company failed to attract markets in
 Gulf countries. What was it due to?
 DR. WAKIL: It wag due to the absence of hygienic and proper packing conditions
 required under the standard rules for foreign markets pertaining to conserves and other consumable items.
 MUREED: Purchasing  of saplings is indispensable and, from quality point of
 view, which foreign markets would be advisable?          /
 DR. WAKIL: I hope that this problem will not crop up in future. In fact I am not in favor of importing saplings from abroad unless they are certified to-be free from herbal diseases, etc. and then also a very small quantity of high quality may be imported for multiplication.                              .
                                            ARTICLE
                REORGANIZATION OF THE BANKING SYSTEM AND MONETARY POLICY
                             s          .                 ■
 DR. GHULAM MOHAMMAD NIAZ, FORMER LECTURER, KABUL UNIVERSITY, PRESENTLY RESIDING IN GERMANY: The writer has attempted to project the banking system and monetary
 policy in      future Afghanistan- which has lost whatever economic assets it
 possessed during a decade long jehad against the aggressors and was forcibly thrown off the path of progress- in such a manner that a distant perspective of economic scheme within the existing motivations and in the traditional and Islamic context of Afghanistan may become manifest. He believes that the statistics available after      27 April,  1978, are not credible because they
 were aimed at misleading the people. Hence in describing the Afghan banking system/ he has highlighted the situation prior to the communist takeover with' particular reference to the banking laws enforced in the year 1975.
      The writer states that the future economic pattern of Afghanistan would not be basically much different from the past pattern till 1978. In other words, the future Afghan economy wo did also be based on the pillars of the market economy. But Afghanistan has been an Islamic country and will be so, in the times to come. Moreover the Afghans have their own characteristics. Therefore any decision regarding the economic policies in the future Afghanistan cannot be successful and effective unless it conforms with the fundamentals of Islam and the historic traditions of the Afghan nation.
                        ' As regards banking system in Afghanistan, the writer elaborates that in
                                              83
 januaky-makch# 1991              fllBlIAHJIHIW                      vol.4 no.2
 view of the fact that the headquarters of all the banks were situated at Kabul and foreign trade deals were also mainly carried out through the authorities at Kabul, therefore the banks were more active in the fields of foreign trade, money transactions abroad and international payments rather than domestic monetary transactions and granting of loans. This vaCcum was created mainly due to the non-utilization of banking services by the people at large and their interest in cash transactions among themselves.
      The banking system in Afghanistan till 1978 consisted of the Central bank (Da Afghanistan Bank), National Bank (Bank-e-Melli), Commercial Bank (Pashtanay Tejaratee Bank), Export Promotion Bank (Bank-e-Enkeshaf-e-Sade-raat), . Construction Bank (Bank-e-Rahni wa Tameerati), Agricultural Bank (Bank-e-Enkeshaf-e-Zeraati) and Industrial Bank (Bank-e-Enkeshaf-e-San'ati)..
      Outlining the background of these banks, the writer states that according to the 1975 Banking Law, The Afghanistan Bank was recognized as the Central Bank having a "special legal identity" and as a government organization, with one billion afghani capital. Bank-e-Melli was most successful in its banking functions, without any state contribution. Besides having a network inside the country, it had branches in London, Hamburg, , New York, Karachi and Peshawar. Following on the heels of Bank-e-Milli, the Pashtany- Tejarati Bank opened its branches at Karachi, Tokyo and Paris but due to paucity of technical personnel and appointment of non-professional persons as head of the banks and chairmen of its board of directors, it could not achieve the desired goals. The Export Development Bank was established in 1976 to promote exports by granting appropriate loans but it had not yet started moving forward when the 27 April coup d'etat occurred. It was planned that this bank would receive 10 million dollars long term loan from the government of Iran. The Construction and Mortgage Bank was established in 1948 with a capital of 60 million afghanis for granting loans on low interests for building houses and hotels. Although it had reached the peak of its activity in the years 1951,   1961 and 1971 but owing to
 inadequate financial resources, it could not cope with the growing demands of development loans. The Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan was originally established in the name of Agricultural Bank in 1953 and in 1969 assumed the present title and then Afghan parliament approved and accepted five million dollars World Bank loan for this bank. During the first 5-year plan in 1958 the Afghan Industrial Development Bank was established with a hundred million afghani capital. In 1971 after the approval of the "Industrial Development Bank's Law" by the then Afghan parliament, the bank received a long term loan of‘ two million dollars from the World Bank. Then it was placed under American management and it started functioning as a corporation with a basic capital of 240 million afghanis with 60% of its shares held by foreign investors.
      This was a rough sketch of the composition of banking system in Afghanistan, ^ showing that it was heading towards development and expansion. However it was quite adequate for the needs of Afghanistan and would be so in future, too, provided that professional persons should be at the top and its administration should get rid of the bureaucratic control.
      In part B of this article, the writer expresses the view that the main aim
                                             84
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
                                                                           VOL.4 NO.2
 of the banking sector should be to strengthen and develop the economy of the country. For this purpose, the banks should at least perform the following functions
      1-  Collection of cash'capital;
      2-  Guidance for investment;
      3-  Transforming the cash capital;
      4- ' Handling of routine cash transactions for domestic and foreign trade.
      After discussing these points in detail, the writer focuses his attention on the future banking system and expresses the opinion that as the prime target is the economic development of Afghanistan, we can present a plan consisting of two categories. The first category should comprise the Central Bank with its branches in capital and provincial centers, other cities and even villages. The second category should Consist of all other banks including cooperative banks and saving banks', with branches in cities and villages.
      Analysing the working and desired functioning of these banks, thoroughly and elaborately, the writer comes to th# sensitive problem of defining the bank interest as usury or simple profit and appeals 'to the religious scholars to study the valuable researches made by the economists of Pakistan and Iran in this field and the scholarly analysis and research of the Pakistan Council of Islamic Ideology propounding the theory of profit and loss and also to take advantage of the studies made in Egypt and other Muslim countries, in order to come to a clear and unambiguous decision in this regard.
      In conclusion, he suggests that as banking is a western phenomenon and the world economy cannot progress without this system, it would be advisable, for the timfe being, to take into consideration the interest factor, particularly in our foreign transactions, so long as the Muslim economists may find a solution to this problem.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 NOORZOY: There are institutions for sale and purchase of shares in other countries where people can exchainge their currency for the main one. What do you think if such a free market, is organized and the money deposited in the banks and a specific department be entrusted with this kind of transaction?
 NAJIBI:  Capital market   or disbursement of shares is highly appreciable but
 this kind of system calls" for a highly advanced and -expensive banking system which presently does not exist even in many other countries as well, not. to speak of ours. At present the economy of our country is shattered and a long time is needed for its reestablishment and its capability to get going with "Capital Market". t
 FARHANG: "Interest" in Islam is forbidden. For the sake of argument, let us
 suppose that I posses a large sum of money which. I do not need and whigh I cannot utilize in this manner. But according to basic rules of economic development, economic stagnancy is not permitted. Fortunately, an investor comes my way asking for my money.! lend him the money, so I am the "lender" and he is
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL-4 NO.2
 the borrower". I do not get any interest from my capital in the interest of the society and the borrowers. So what do I get and in what way my sacrifice is compensated i.e. how I am paid in return of my good turn?
 EBLAGH: "Riba" or "interest" is a very delicate subject which calls for detailed discussion. Actually nowadays some countries like Pakistan and. Egypt have divided banks intp two categories "interest donors" and "non-interest donors" i.e. "Islamic" and "non-lslamic". We are not going to discuss this topic any further since this subject will be taken up by Ishrati in his paper.
 NAJIBI: We have spoken of Islamic and non-lslamic banks, i.e. those with interest and without interest. In other words while dealing with foreign countries non-lslamic banks are utilized. In the past the German government provided us with an interest free credit but they deducted only the administrative expenditure which came to 0.5%. In future also where other institutes like World Bahk or other international organizations provide Afghanistan with credit they- will follow suit, i.e. they would charge only the administrative expenditure.
 LODIN: Administrative or management expenditure does not fulfill the "interest" , or "riba" conditions in- the banking system because management expenditure differs from "riba" since its exclusively departmental expenditure. We ought to discuss this topic minutely.
                                            ARTICLE
              FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND PROBLEMS RELATED TO FUTURE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF AFGHANISTAN
 AZIZULLAH LODIN (ADVISOR FOR AIG'PRESIDENT, FORMER PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS, KABUL UNIVERSITY):  This  articles  analyses  the natural and economic problems,
 investments prior to the Soviet invasion and the subsequent difficulties faced in this connection, bottle-necks of the war-afflicted economy and assessment of the damages incurred and lastly draws a conclusion and suggests ways and means to overcome these predicaments.
      The writer says that before 1978 Afghanistan was regarded' as one. of the least developed countries. According to the World Bank' statistics and those of Afghan sources, too, agricultural produce contributed upto 55.4% of the GNP and industrial products (including cottage industries) upto 14.5%. Our annual economic growth rate did not exceed 31% whereas annual population growth of the country . ranged from 2.3-2.5 per cent, and our average per head income during the years 1976-77 did not exceed %160.
      In the writer's opinion, the greatest hindrance in the path of our development has been the natural and geographical shape of our .mountainous country, rendering it land-locked and covered with very high mountains and also waterless deserts. As most of the country is composed of difficult terrains, development of communication system has been most hazardous and expensive, creating severe hardships for laying an economic infrastructure. On the other
 .JANUARY-MA^
 han-d, average rainfall/snowfall per annum varies between 143.7 to 344.1 milimeters mostly .confined to five months i.e. from December to April. For this reason, our cultivators either depand on rain water or very expensive irrigation system. Besides, shortage of water has always been a source of numerous social problems.Another handicap is that we have a vast territory (650,000 Sq/Km.) with relatively limited population e.g. in certain parts of Afghanistan, the population density various between 200 to 300 persons per square kilometer, whereas the major portion of the country has a population density of' merely. 4 to 20 persons per square kilometer, which makes the communication problem more complex and uneconomical.
      As regards manpower, the writer quotes facts and figures to prove that actually 49% of the country's total population is composed of non-productive individuals and the remaining 51% ranging between the ages of 15 to 65 years,may be regarded productive.If keeping in view the religius and traditional susceptibilities, the female community which comprises nearly half of the population, is deducted from the productive force, then only a quarter of our total population is engaged in the production process. On the other hand, more than 88% of the population is illiterate and as such their participation in the economic development would be less productive. Hence undoubtedly our future economic development will depend much more on the removal of this deficiency. In this connection the point which needs special attention is the fact that during the last 12 years of communist rule and the war not only a major part of our educational in&titutions-in cities and villages- have been destroyed but the teaching of communist theories and ideologies by the communist party and the communist regime in the schools and colleges have also made a negative impression on the minds of the people. Therefore we will not only require heavy financial expenditure for the reconstruction of the educational institutions and revision of the text books but stand in need of vigorous efforts for promoting positive thinking among the students, too.
      Touching the subject of natural wealth, the writer says that mineralogical surveys show that, by the Grace of God, Afghanistan is rich in subterranean resources, though necessitates technical know-how and investment for 'proper economic exploitation and marketing. Surveys conducted in 1973 and after, put the quantity of oil reserves to 12 million barrels, whereas our natural gas deposits have been estimated between 120-118 billion cubic meters. Coal reserves are estimated at 50-80 million tons. There is no doubt that if properly harnessed with modern methods, these untouched resources can be of immense economic use. Besides, some other rich deposits have been detected and surveyed after 1973 which can boost up the country's economy to even newer heights.
      Lamenting the lack of adequate capital for investment’in economic ventures, the writer is of the opinion that as a result of Soviet invasion and the imposition of communist system, the economic condition of our country has been completely disrupted and whatever investments were made during the past 30 years, and whatever steps were taken in the private sector, have been completely obliterated. Under the circumstances, our future economy will be faced with much darker prospects.       r'_
                   The paucity of skilled labor will be another future predicament • Most of jthe factories arfd workshops were either destroyed during the war op were closed
                                              87
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          HlflUIINJIHMI                V0L.4 NO,2
 down and most of their    workers  migrated       to                          other countries. Some of the
 technical and skilled workers who have acquired employment in the neighbouring countries, have not only saved a little but have aiso learned new methods of work with modern equipment. So if a reasonable policy is adopted for attracting them back to the homeland and providing, them with training facilities through short courses, the bottleneck could be removed to a certain extent..
                                         DISCUSSIONS
 MUREED:     How would you  utilize usefully regiqnal  economical                               cooperation
 considering the classification of projects and productive sectors?
 LOOIN: This utility is considered in all economic sectors of this system's
 members. Economic experts  believe that one       of the problems of underdeveloped
 countries is their small limited markets.
 FARHANG: In 1985 Karmal estimated war damages to the tune of $ one billion which was amended to $ 2.8 billion by Dr. Abdul Ghani Ghausi (Afghan economist living in Germany) and was further amended by Prof. Naik Mohammad Kamrani (living in USA) to $ 16.1 billion. Are the differences based on selection or assessment?
 LODIN: All the figures pertaining to war damages are based on estimation and
 Prof. Kamrani has .taken the production value of manpower also into consideration. May be one day minute estimates are available.
 EBLAGH:   The, figures of  war damages include                                human casualties  too and in
 Afghanistan round about 1.5 million people are deliberately martyred; therefore, according to Islam, deliberate killing cannot be compensated other than the killing of the killer.,
 GHALEB: It is true that in Islam deliberate killing has no material compensation but in some countries as per . criminal laws it has been ruled that the children of the killed ought to be compensated till they come of age.
 NOORZQY: For authentic estimates of war damages minute and comprehensive survey and study have to be carried out So that true and realistic statistics can be available.
                                            ARTICLE
                        ISLAMIC SCHOLARS ON USURY AND BANK INTEREST
 ABDUL AHAD ISHRATI:  FORMER MEMBER OF LEGISLATIVE BOARD, AFGHAN MINISTRY OF
 JUSTICE: Spotlighting the economic condition of. the third world with special reference to the Islamic countries and their exploitation by the big powers and the root cause of the backwardness of these countries as well as the financial tactics of the. advanced industrialized states and the main reasons of the retarded development of the Muslim nations, the writer declares that Islam permits economic ,freedom, activity, growth and increase in financial profits* and does not block the path of free economic activity or confiscate private
                                            88
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1991              fltCHflHJtHflM                 . VOL.4 NO.2
 property like the communist system of economy. But it is also not in favor of complete economic autonomy, as advocated by capitalism, which leads to corruption in society and, as a matter of fact, Islam teaches moderation.
     As regards usury and interest, he is of the opinion that not only the religion of Islam has prohibited it entirely but also all the divine religions have termed it unlawful, in this connection, the writer quotes the sayings and views of ex-President Reagon, American senator Bradley and a French Finance Minister opposing banking interests.
     The writer then adds that in qrder to have a better look on bank interest from the Islamic viewpoint, it would be necessary to see usury from the angle of Islamic injunctions. Therefore we would refer to the Holy Quran, which reads:
    • "That which you lay out for increase through the property of (other) people will have nc> increase with God.; but that which you lay out for char.ity, seeking the countenance of God (will increase)..."(Surah Ar-Rum: Verse, 39)
           Another verse in Surah Al-Imran, reads:
     "0 you who believe, devour not usury, doubled and multiplied; but fear God that you may really prosper." (Verse: 130).
     The final verses ordained by God Almighty in this connection are as follows:
     "Those who devour usury will not stand except as stands one who the Evil one by his touch has driven to madness. That is because they say:     "Trade
     is, like usury," but God has permitted trade and forbidden usury. Those who after receiving direction from their Lord, desist, shall be pardoned for the past: their case is for God (to judge); But those who repeat (the offense) are Companions of the Fire:     they will abide therein, for ever.
     God will deprive usury of all blessing but will increase for deeds of charity: For he loves not creatures ungrateful and wicked...
     0 you who believe, fear God and give up what remains of your demand for usury, if you are indeed believers.
     If you do not, (then) take notice of war from God and his Apostle: but if you turn back, you shall have your capital sums; deal not unjustly and you shall not be dealt with unjustly." Surah Al-Baqarah; Verses 275-79),.
     The writer explains that usury and interest lead to huge increase in the assets of the usurer whose wealth piles up with the money of the needy, without any commercial transaction. That is why God has prohibited the cruel custom of usury because this contravenes the principles of trade and commerce.
     While discussing in detail various types of usury and profit-making in the light of the views expressed by renowned religious scholars of different •
                                            89
 JANUARY-MARCM, 1991             MfiWIHJIHAD                      VOL.4 NO.2
Islamic schools of thought, he quotes the gist of an article by Sheikh Mohammad Sayyed Tantavi in the daily 'Al-Watan' issue No.5277 dated October 26, 1989, (Page NO.13) saying:
     "The Board of Judicial Decree believes that all the banking transactions cannot be called unlawful or entirely lawful from the Islamic viewpoint as every aspect of it has a specific interpretation. The reason is that banking transactions are many dimensional, having various purposes and ways and means. Hence some of the banking transactions have been termed lawful according to Shari'at and the profit Accruing from such transactions' have been described as permissible (from Islamic viewpoint)".
     As. evident, some of the religious scholars have called these transactions permissible but regard the interest as forbidden and then there are differences of opinion among the ulama, too.
     Those Islamic banks which conduct their business on the basis of profit and loss, without fixing a specific amount or period, and all the depositors share the profit or loss of such business, such a deal is considered permissible and lawful from the point of view of Shari1 at. The dealings of specified banks promoting social or collective >elfare such as agricultural or industrial or developmental banks are also permissible according to the laws of Islam.
     As regards the sale of prize bonds or lotteries, the writer says that in 1976 an Islamic seminar was held under the chairmanship of Sheikh Mohammad Farah Al-Sauhuri, in which 14 jurisconsults of the four schools of the Sunni sect namely Hanafi, Hambali, Maleki and Shafe'i participated. Four of them opposed
the sale of bonds and eight scholars considered it lawful and permissible, arguing that people voluntarily subscribe to these bonds issued by the government and get profit on them, whereas the state spends the sum on public welfare projects and thus both the parties do not suffer any loss and there is no exploitation involved. The Board ol Islamic Judicial Decree in Egypt (Dar-ul-Ifta) also considers it permissible.     ,
     In conclusion, the writer discusses the issue of usury and interest at length from many an'gles, and at last concludes that in view of this brief study of the views of Muslim scholars and ulama pertaining to banking and bank interest, it is felt that Muslim economists and financial experts should discuss this topic further and more thoroughly in order to come to a unanimous decision and find out in clear terms as to which i& the right or the wrong way of approach to this important issue.
                                         DISCUSSIONS
EBLAGH: Islam has declared unequivocally "riba" or “interest" in whatever manner or shape it may be, "unlawful" (haraam). Barter exchange or changing goods for goods is permissible provided there is no difference in the price or quality of the goods exchanged. In casre there happens to be a difference of some kind then it is unlawful, in another'case if a person gives 1,000 afghanis as credit to another person and after the expiry of one month demands 1,100 afghanis and* gets
                                             90
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1991               flfllHUHJIHWJ_____________ VOL-4 NO.2
 it,then 100 afghanis which is the additional amount and 'he has got it free without any extra effort or labor. This is supposed to be "interest" which is unlawful.
 ISHRATI: In Islam there are no credit donor banks and credit takers. There are ^sherakat" (partnership) and "muzarabat" (limited partnership for bailing the
 capital. We can deposit our .money in the banks without interest.
                                            /
 NAJEEBI: Arab capitalists deposit their money with "shares certificates departments" and after the expiry of a year's time the interest is not added to the capital but is spent on philanthropic items and humanitarian works. What are your comments on this?
 ISHRATI:   The interest  on  their capital  is  unlawful  being interest  and its
 consumption as charity is not considered charity, because God Almighty has enjoined on us to spend our best in His way whereas "interest" being unlawful, is obviously not the best.
 ATAYEE: Mostly fruits are picked up from the trees in the raw form. The trees are not allowed enough time to blossom and the buds to open when the fruits are . nipped in the buds and taken to the markets for sale. Whereas at this stage there are dangers of environmental and other possibilities of herbal diseases etc. What is your opinion on this topic?
 ISHRATI:  Inspiration on this subject can be taken from Islam. Such an action is
 not forbidden.
 GHALEB: The injunctions about such fruits are that the fruits ought to come out off their buds before they can be consumed, otherwise they will be considered as, ^illegal. This again depends on theikind of plantation, i.e, it may be treated differently in case of corn and wheat etc.
 ZAHED:' What are your comments regarding premiums, when an article is being sold on more than its real worth through payment by instalments and also about advance payment of house rent which is in vogue nowadays?
 ISHRATI: In Islamic jurisprudence "deferred" or "ultimate" payment is considered legal but "advance payment", has no root in Islam.
 NOORZOY:  Suppose  a person  gets 100 afghanis Credit from a bank and meanwhile
 prides shoot up with the bying value of 100 afghanis lowering to 50 afghanis only, whereas at the end of the year the bank or creditor asks for 100 afghanis. How do you account for that?
 ISHRATI: When a person asks for credit he is unaware of the market situation so the value of his 100 afghani credit has risen meanwhile by 10% so at the end of the year if the credit donor asks for 110 instead of 100 afghanis that he had given originally, 10 afghanis will be treated as interest or usury which is unlawful in Islam.
 EBLAGH:  Genuine  or original  commodity has been defined and specified in Islam
                                              91
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1991            AFGHANJiHAII                    VOL.4 NO.2
 i.e., it is easy to identify the exchanged commodity. For instance you give 100 afghanis to X. This X is unaware of the market situation whether the value of the credit would rise or fall; therefore he owes only 100 afghanis to the donor and that's all.
 KHATIBI: If you give A credit of Rs. 100 (not afghanis) telling him that he may return it in afghanis, meanwhile if the value of rupee rises in the market you will have to pay him according to the market value his 100 rupees equivalent in afghanis. Your deal originally was one of "exchange" and not as that of current account. In the latter case he would have to repay without considering the rise in value.
 GHALEB: God Almighty has declared that to give credit to a needy is tantamount to giving credit to Him. In that case the difference in rise or fall of* the original credit ought to be borne happily without any obligation on either side.
                                           ARTICLE
                         ECONOMIC PLANNING IN FUTURE AFGHANISTAN
                                                  *                       V
 DR.ENAYATULLAH EBLAGH, FORMER JUDGE'. OF THE AFGHAN SUPREME COURT# CURRENTLY PROFESSOR# ISLAMIC ACADEMY# KUWAIT: The writer has attempted to briefly outline the . future economic infrastructurein Afghanistan in the light of. Islamic teachings by making suitable references to the sayings and traditions of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him,* and by quoting relevant verses of the Holy. Quran. Dr'. Eblagh has made a brief comparative study of the economic systems o.f socialism and capitalism and has distinguished them from the Islamic economy. In his view, the term Islamic socialism is an anachronism and a term invented by the non-believers to make communism acceptable or at least; palatable to the Muslims. He says that Islam supports economic freedom but this freedom does not in any way resemble the capitalist^ type' of freedom nor for that matter the communist type, Islam is a middle of the way system and neither gives full freedom to the capital owner so that he may do whatever he may like with his capital nor deprives him of the right to own it, as in the communist system. In Islam the rules of Zakat (legal tithe) and Sadaqat (Cherities or alms) basically negate the concentration of wealth. The Holy Quran reads:
     "And in their wealth and possessions (was remembered) the right of the needy..." (Surah Al-Zhariyat: Verse 19).
     Then comparing capitalism based on the idea of absolute ownership of wealth by an individual and communism based on the precept of state ownership, the writer declares that the Holy Quran on the one hand clarifying th^t all the wordly goods belong to God and man being a trustee, has the individual ownership right subject to certain conditions and says:
     "Give them something yourselves out of the means which God has given to you ... " (Surah An-Noor: Verse 33).
           •Stressing the importance of zakat and alms for. the social welfare in the
                                            92
  JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991             WfCIIAHJEHAD                      VOL-4 NO.2
 Muslim society and pointing out the dignity of labor and the Islamic rules and practices for , the welfare of the worker, he derides the ignorance of those Afghan youth who fell a prey to the deceptive communist propaganda and draws their attention to the sensible Islamic laws and expresses the hope that the future Islamic government in Afghanistan would depute special boards of legislators and scholars to draft regulations for the benefit of the workers based on the principles of Islamic jurisprudence and the examples set by the just rulers in Islamic history in order to erase the vestiges of deprivation and > oppression in the labor community.
                                         DISCUSSIONS
 NAJIBI: Dr. Eblagh in his paper has mentioned that economics is the root and origin of all supplementary affairs. I’d like this to be explained.
 EBLAGH: Fundamentals in Islam are the beliefs; dealings and transaction belong to, supplementaries.
 NAJIBI': In free economy there are points which do not clash with Islam such as labor rights* ownership rights and legacy rights.I'd like further clarification.
 EBLAGH: Generally, Islam is not agreeable to the economy regarding capitalism. As an example:  take up legacy or ownership. We find that according to Islam,
^everything belongs to God and He is the absolute owner of all. In other words, a person is not supposed and cannot throw away his property in the river or-simply bjUrn- it because in that case society is entitled to and has the right to detain that person. The property is owned by God Almighty and human being, are simply trustees. As such the property ought to be well cared for and maintained. According to Islamic jurisprudence human beings are divided into several groups: • (1) one who is wise, endowed with common sense, adult and well versed in Islamic ways; (2) child; (3) orphans; (4) lunatic; (5) mentally deficient. This applies to a person who is an adult, owns property but is using his property unscruplously or wrongly. Islam does not allow misuse of property; therefore the judge will indict him for mishandling the property, which belongs to God and is the property of the society eventhough that person has got the property through legacy and belongs to him.
 LODIN: Legislations to this effect have been passed elsewhere also which may be taken from Islam.
 SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: Dr. Eblagh has mentioned in his paper that with payment of 2.5% zakat after the expiry of 40 years, the capital of the capitalist is transferred to the poor. I’d request him to enlighten me on the subject.
 EBLAGH: When you pay something as charity in the way of Allah or pay zakat, in fact it is an investment and your capital is in circulation and you pay zakat 2.5% per 100*000 rupees you have actually paid 100,000 rupees to the* poor after v the expiry of 40 years.
 FARHANG: Dr. Eblagh has said that no one is entitled to waste away his property
                                             93
   JANUARY-MARCH, 1991            AIGHflMJ[HAD                     VOL.4 NO.2
  since the property belongs to God Almighty whereas Allah does not need any property. Does he mean the public treasury?
  EBLAGH: Actually God Almighty is the Trustee of all the members of Society and he transfers his trusteeship to the judge, king or the authority in command. The trustee or authority is endowed with the trusteeship reposed in him by God Almighty. The Holy Quran unequivocally declares: Give away from God's property
 ' to the poor i.e. from the property that God has bestowed on you. In other words basically everything belongs to God Almighty.
                                           ARTICLE
             JOINT VENTURE AND ITS ROLE IN TRADE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  MOHAMMAD DAUOD MUREED, WORKING FOR TRANCO IN ISLAMABAD:       The writer has
  described the procedural systems and organisational methods of international joint companies, private investment rules, nature of investment projects, investment concessions and assistance, foreign investment control system, legal aspects of investment, working procedure of a presumed joint company and joint company establishment agreement and has appended copies of the statute of the company supply agreement, technical assistance and license agreement and China's law on joint ventures for further authentication of his arguments.
       As regards private investment . rules for domestic and foreign investors in Afghanistan, he writes that this law was enforced in the country in 1967. It was attempted to encourage and protect investment^ in private sector so that individuals and organizations may take the responsibility of direct control and administration of the small industrial establishments. By 1973 about 84 private industrial firms were established and' started functioning under this law. The productions of these units only catered to the needs of domestic market and were not exported. Participation of foreign share holders in private investment was very limited. Out of 108 small industrial projects in 1975 foreign investments, were made in 21 projects only, which did not exceed $ 5.5 million in 1973. One of the causes of such limited foreign investment, ' was that despite the enforcement of domestic and foreign private investment law, the government paid more attention to the development of industry in the public sector. Consequently the industrial production in this sector rose from 23% in 1961 to 42% in 1971. Besides the Afghan government took over control of the main industrial establishments till 1975.
                 After discussing the pros and cons of investment laws in various countries, he throws light on the nature of investment projects in general. He expresses the opinion that in Afghanistan, keeping in view the reconstruction work in future (. and the main role of the domestic and foreign investment, it seems necessary that the permission for foreign investment and formation of joint companies should be granted according to-the relevant laws in consonance with ’ the peculiar economic conditions,of the country. Such projects ought to be more oriented towards the development of small industrial and agricultural ventures in the country and should play a significant role in creating better labor
94
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             HfClMH ^IHflU____'________________VOL--{NQ^
  conditions, more job opportunities, expansion of exports, saving foreign exchange and transfer of technology. For initiating small productive projects in the private sector, including woodwork, metal ..work, leather processing, rriasonry , engraving, manufacturing simple tools for electric work, thread-making industry, weaving, sewing, building tools and instruments, brick-making., ceramics, agricultural implements, water pumps, wind generators, automobile spare parts, cycle and tractor spare parts etc., such economic ventures can be undertaken with the help of foreign investment particularly with the cooperation of businessmen and commercial/indUstrial organizations of the neighboring countries.
                                                         I
      Then giving some more details about the requirements and working procedure of the joint companies, the writer says that in Afghanistan, in view of the paucity of capital and foreign exchange and keeping in mind the fact that the development of small-scale agricultural industries as well as exploitation of mines and natural resources, presently at a low level, it is essential that at least 25% of the total foreign capital invested in this country be set aside for this purpose and the foreign firms allowed, if inclined, to have more than 49% of the shares of the joint companies at their disposal. However, care should be taken i that modern machinery consonant with modern technology be imported because the foreign investor intentionally introduces old and unusable machinery. In case any foreign investor does so, he should be made to compensate the loss, under the rules'., On the other hand, it should be clarified in the agreement or charter of the joint company that the company should utilize the raw and processed material in the domestic market and avail such domestic services as may be available inside the country and priority should be given to the domestic interests. In view of the prevailing economic conditions in the country, it would be advisable that state investment ought to rely on import substitution.
                        \ \ ;• .
      The writer     concludes by Referring     to the’ concessions for promoting
  investment, tax   exemption, royalty payment, necessity of "free trade zones",
  significance of   production quotas, scale  of unofficial index of exports from
  Pakistan to Afghanistan by roadi pribr'to October 1988 and other relevant points, e.g. investment   agreement, equity  joint  venture, contractual joint venture,
  partnership rules, joint stock companies and articles of incorporations.
                                      ARTICLE
      TRADITIONAL HANDICRAFTS AND THEIR SHARE IN THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF AFGHANISTAN:
      DR* SAYYED ABDUL AZIZ NAJIBI (SECOND ARTICLE):   The writer has cast a cur-
  eery glance at the traditional handicrafts of Afghanistan and has discussed ways and means for their revival in the times to come and has thrown ample light on the problems .and difficulties of the carpet industry, self-help system, advantages of private self-help institutions, development of handicraft trade and trade transactions.
      Some of the age-old handicrafts in our country are, carpet weaving, rug and
                                         95
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             AFGHAN JtHflD    __________ VOL.4 NO.2
 felt carpet making, silk fabrics, textiles, garments and embroidery etc. A large quantity of these handicrafts are exported to the advanced countries of the world. For instance, the revenue from the export of carpets and rugs in 1969 amounted to $ 6.2 million.
      Discussing the difficulties faced by the traders engaged in carpet industry, the writer enumerates some of the problems in this regard briefly as follows:                                             -
      Raw material such as wool and other essential basic commodities should be supplied in better quality, regularly and at suitable prices.
      A central unit should be established to dye the wool in uniform colors, which should be fast and bright.
      Traditional and new designs and -patterns suited to the taste of the customers should be introduced.
      The carpets should be graded and specified accordingly to gain the confidence and trust of the customers.
      Centralized self “-help purchasing agencies should be initiated to maintain a regular supply of the products and adequate loans may be provided to encourage the industry.
      The writer feels constrained that as a result of the war imposed by Russia and its agents, a large number of skilled tradesmen have sought refuge in Pakistan and Iran etc. Therefore measures should be taken to attract these skilled workers back to their homeland by:
      establishing a cooperative fund for the Carpet weaving families.
      supplying raw material particularly wool regularly to the tradesmen engaged in this industry.
      forming a carpet exporters' union and acquiring UN assistance for marketing the products.
      organizing self-help institutions at all administrative levels to help promote cottage industries.
      after recounting the advantages of cottage industries and propounding various suggestions for expanding the handicraft trade, the writer believes that as Afghanistan is a developing country devastated by the war, in the first instance small projects should be preferred and establishment of big and heavy industries phould be postponed for the time being. The treinendous results achieved during the past century in Germany and other industrialized countries, have been the outcome of encouraging and promoting technical vocations and handicrafts. ...
      He concludes with these remarks of Albert Shaister that "cottage industries
                                        96
  JANUARY-MARCH/ 1991             flfCllflN JtHflB                 VOL.4 NO.2
 and handicrafts play a significant role in the developing countries and therefore a profession or vocation should be taught to the students alongside with normal education because the progress of these countries depends solely on the technical and vocational skill of their people".
                                         DISCUSSIONS
 DR. ALI: Dr. Najibi says that in personal life every one is responsible for one's own obligations and ought to help oneself e.g. in house rebuilding, atmospheric clearance and developing one's land one should personally participate. But I'd like to know that, while encouraging this process, what is on Dr. Najibi's mind?
 NAJIBI: Primarily people are not capable to produce things by themselves, therefore aid giving organizations, including the UN and friendly countries along with Muslim nations, should provide such people with the required implements and other necessities to build shelters for themselves or promote any other trade of one's liking. In this way they will be able to produce their own local handicrafts and productions to /ater for their personal needs as well as offer them to the markets. Thus it wall revitalize their handicrafts.
 SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN:  A single industrial factory used to be in Paktia which
 catered to the governmental orders for furnishing offices with wooden chairs, tables, cabinets, almirahs, etc. Owing to limited production, it could not offer its articles to the market.
 NAJIBI: Paktia was one of the few areas where we had forests but unfortunately
 its trees used to be chopped-off by non-technical and unwary people and were not replaced by fresh plantation of saplings. The German project in Paktia,' besides developing wood industry, guided the local people and benefitted them with advices and suggestions regarding the maintenance and sound utilization of trees, chopping their wood, etc.
 FARHAN6: In European markets beautiful Afghan carpets! are sold out as Pakistani and Iranian carpets. It appears that Afghan carpets are losing the markets, what are your proposals for the future regarding the Afghan carpets, its sale and market?
 NAJIBI: In the past unfortunately, regarding the introduction and exhibition of Afghan carpets abroad, no sound and comprehensive steps have been taken and I opine that a brochure containing pictures of various kinds of Afghan carpets with their characteristics should be distributed so people may get acquainted with them . and they may not be taken for alien carpets and thus the duplicity problem .be. eliminated- and genuine marfc^ts can be attracted.
 RAHIMULLAH:  Dr. Najibi has sugges-ted the participation of foreign and ,donor
 institutions in encouragement . and promotion of handicrafts. Won't in that case developmet of these crafts remain subservient to the interest and advantage of aid donor sources?
 NAJIBI: I. believe aid without strings ought to be accepted. Project ought to
                                            97
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              flfGHflNJlHAD                      VOL.4 NO.2
 be purely all Afghan enterprize irrespective of technical and non-technical hands and only under extraordinary conditions and unavoidable situation aliens should be employed.
 KHATXBX: Dr. Najibi  has  spoken of church aid to be utilized whereas monastic
 life among other things entails isolation and non-involvement in worldly affairs is meaningless. Therefore, to talk of trust; and Islamic organizations would be better.
 FARHANG: If the church aid is  rejected then the           aid from US and Europe should be
 rejeced likewise because they  all believe in church and are one           and the same. In
 this regard we ought to be broadminded and in-our judgement far sighted.
 KHATIBI: Dr. Farhang, in his discussions, has repeatedly mentioned the term of "The Islamic government acceptable to the people". I opine that 12 years holy jehad and the martyrdom of 1.5 million people was only, in the way of Allah and His glorification. This war     is still raging until an Islamic government               is
 established and once it is done why it should not be acceptable to the people?
 FARHANG: Even now we do have an Islamic government which is not acceptable to some of the Afghan people due to reasons best known. In fact what I mean to say is an Islamic government acceptable to the majority and recognized by the world at large.
 KUSHKAKI: I  want to hear       some   discussion about ways to attract private investment. Considering the fact that during the                    past 12 years the capital-  is
 shattered with the investers broke and fugitives, the attraction of private investment will be a* strennous job.
 NOORZOY:  In 1974, the Afghan government had passed a bid! encouraging and
 attracting private investment in Afghanistan. Various incentives and immunities were included for the benefit of investors. We do not know what happened to all those investors, how many are still in the field and how many are facing hardships. So long that real facts are not available nothing can be said on the topic.
 LODIN:  Almost all economists are unanimous on this point that- the role of
 private investment is more effective in the uplift of economy and increase in production in Afghanistan than public sector. Therefore, the need for attraction of private investment cannot be overemphasized. As a first step towards this end, the provision of ample security of the investment, the capital and safe future returns for the investors are considered invaluable, in the long run, to have better hold- on national economy and overall uplift of developmental projects. As such the application of sound rules in this regard is very necessary. Better returns and benefits for the investors are factors which attract them to invest more in their selected and desired sectors. They ought to be assured of better advantages,., better security of their capital, sound environment * and- • pea-cef ul atmosphere. Since high rate of interest and better returns of their investment is of paramount importance to the investors, therefore care should be taken to offer them their own choice of economic sector to invest in, so that they may be attracted in large number and easily.
                                              98
                                                                  JANUARY-MARCH* 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
     Prior to return to the homeland, rehabilitation and reconstruction on economical research and study committee comprising economists, lawyers and experienced persons in commercial and economical fields may be established and its terms of reference and obligations, assigned. They will include consideration and deliberation over all the economic problems of Afghanistan from expensive and big investment to private and lower echelons, offering feasibility proposals and suggestions, taking into consideration the particular ecological and environmental factors. In this way, many of the past shortcomings and blunders, waste of time, energy and capital will be contained and a conducive environment with favorable atmosphere for best returns and production will be maintained to the satisfaction of our and all.
                                         ARTICLE
                             SALAM OPERATION IN AFGHANISTAN
WOLFEGANG VON ERFFA: UN OFFICER FOR UNOCA: The jUNOCA was commissioned in the
spring of 1988 by the UN Secretary General to coordinate the economic and humanitarian assistance programs in preparation for the repatriation of the Afghan refugees and by mitigating a part of the war damages to help the Afghan nation reconstruct their devastated country.
      The writer says, our duties were to guide the UN agencies and the NGOs and to try our best to avoid duplications and to strengthen the trust and confidence of the donor countries in the UN system under the existing circumstances. Later we decided to name it "Operation SALAM" and in our opening conference in New York in October 1988, Operation SALAM took practical shape.
      In Afghanistan international bodies were engaged in these activities whereas in Geneva and Pakistan offices and branches were opened and new personnel was employed. In the beginning a consensus was achieved on a number of main principles. They were:           ""                                   •
 1)   Every humanitarian aid should be based on humanitarian considerations only and not on political expediency.
 2)   All efforts should be focussed on speedy assistance, preparing the ground for repatriation of the refugees and elementary aid for reconstruction.
 3)   Any political misuse pf the UN assistance ought to be avoided.
 4)   Last, but not the least, these aids should be given in such a manner as to
      discourage any tendency toward long-term dependence on foreign aid.
  / ' _ - ' • * . . ‘ .
      Here the writer adds that in 1988 autumn, first report on estimates and assessments regarding the existing conditions and requirements of the Afghans was submitted to the UN.
                    He is of the ppinion that the program of voluntary return of the refugees is co-related to the demining process. The reason is that during the past years
 JANUAKY-MARCH > 1991        flKlllflW JtHflD           _________VOL.4 NO.2
 a large number of mines were planted throughout Afghanistan resulting in physical disability of tens of thousands of Afghans. So even if peace be restored in future, this would still remain a burning issue. It is estimated that about 50 million mines have been scattered in the length and breadth of Afghanistan but none of the UN agencies have been commissioned to arrange for demining the country. However the UN Secretary General has delegated this duty to Operation SALAM to evolve a strategy for this . purpose. Hence a training program was initiated in early 1989 for the Afghans so that they may locate and trace out the unexploded shells and bombs and mines as well as defuse them. Such a program was carried out in Pakistan and the main part of the program was put into practice in January 1980 inside Afghanistan, in its eastern provinces. For the first time in the UN history, military personnel from nine countries took part in these humanitarian operations. In January, 1990 • the first detachment of patrons from France, Turkey and the United States arrived in Pakistan to start the training program. This UN team trains and educates the Afghan volunteers in demining job. Every graduate of this short course gets a certificate and takes an oath that he would use his training only for humanitarian purposes.Till the month of May 1990, nearly 11,000 Afghans got such.training.
     Describing the destruction of roads and highways during the Russo-Afghan war and the difficulties in transportation as well as the paucity of manpower in the agricultural sector and the complete dislocation of the irrigation system throughout the* country,the writer expresses the fear that the ever-increasing cultivation of poppy (and the problems related to drug traffic) is one. of the direct and dangerous resuits of the collapse of agricultural system in Afghanistan. The UN is trying to substitute poppy cultivation with other cash crops like wheat, or vegetables etc.
                                     i                    '
     As regards health services, the writer states that the war conditions deteriorated the already insufficient health facilities in Afghanistan giving rise to a biggest record in infant wartality in 1989. Therefore, as in other beakward countries of the world, a concerted fight against six fatal infant diseases was started by vaccinating the infants all over the country. Now the UN has worked out a long-term reconstruction project which includes provision of an infrastructure for sound health facilities in all parts, of the country. Similarly in the educational sector, the UN has undertaken"the establishment of technical centers in various parts of the country, particularly those controlled by the mujaheddin.
     The writer concludes by saying that in some regions, surprize attacks, armed incursions and rocket firing still continues, but the, courage and perseverence of the heroic Afghan nation is really praise-worthy who have kept alive their invincible spirit and morale against intolerable odds and unbearable pressures.
                                       DISCUSSIONS
 ENGINEER SAYYED HABIBUR RAHMAN: Why a basic plan is not prepared for the areas under poppy cultivation so that people are properly guided as to what crop should replace poppy cultivation and be yielding positive results?
                                           100
  JAN1JAKY-MARCH. 1991 ___________HfflllilH JIMII)                    VOl .4  NO-?
 DR. ERFFA:   International institutions have prepared plans in tune with the
 local conditions and-- the poverty of..; the people so that they may be able to replace poppy cultivation with other drops' and, meanwhile, these, institutions try to provide them with cash crops for cultivation replacing poppy. This step will contribute to their better living standard.
 FARHANG:  You have  talked of peace and reconciliation in your paper along with
 reconstruction and development. We Afghans are certainly interested to hear about peace, tranquility and reconciliation and, thank God, we are all at peace with each other and fully reconciled and have always been. However a handful of disgruntled wayward elements of zero percentage have risen against the people bf Afghanistan and are guilty of massacre, crimes and oppression against the innocent masses of Afghans.;How can we reconcile with such a group of criminals. ‘Therefore, please do not advise us on this head. You are a German yourself and are not reconciled with the Nazis even today.
 DR. ERFFA:  I. am dead against mujaheddin reconciling with the.Kabul regime. What
 I mean to say is solidarity and full agreement of all the mujaheddin groups among themselves. Often UN teams have visited the areas inside Afghanistan and have faced obstruction and difficulties in their working and have even been detained as hostages. Actually I want reconciliation and solidarity among the mujaheddin groups not reconciliation with the communist regime of Kabul.
 ATAYB13: You have given the number of mines in your paper between 5-50 millions. In case of such a great difference in the number of mines, would it be possible for Operation SALAM to assess correctly the time, number of specialists, technical experts, working implements and finally the budget required for mine clearance and resolve the problem? If, at all, the mines' clearance program is set, irrespective of the vast difference in the number of mines, difficulties may crop up at a later stage.
 DR. ERFFA:   The accurate assessment regarding the. number of mines is not
 available to both of us. The Russians have laid out a great number of mines the correct number of which is known to them only.and a small number is laid out by mujaheddin in certain places and they know their number so the accurate picture is beyond our power. .However, we are trying to get the maps showing the exact location of the mines which will enable us to clear them.
 DR. KAJIBI: I came across a report in German journal, Der Spiegl showing the allocation of $30 million for mines clearance and the salary of a foreign expert for the project is $250,000. In case of exorbitant expenditure on the experts' salaries, how about.training talented young Afghans, voluntarily, for the project who can. replace the employment of foreign experts and in turn can teach further trainees.
 DR. ERFFA:  I'd like to know the source of this report because we do not pay
 any one such large salaries. There are 300 workers here who are all Afghans and. trained by officials of friendly countries of Turkey, US and some othersi Of course I.do not know how much these officers are being paid.
 K&ATIBI: Last year it was disclosed that the patron of UN humanitarian aids.
                                            101
  JANUARY-HAffCH, 1991             ' HfGllftH JtHAB ■_____             vqi^4   no. 2
 Sadruddin. Aga Khan, in collusion with Ismailias of Afghanistan, had closely knitted the Ismailias with the’ Najib regime and had helped in their inter-collaboration. Unfortunately this action was.against our expectations of the program.
     ERFFA:   There are complaints and .objections in this regard from almost all
 quarters. It is true that Sadruddiri /Xga ‘ Khan, being the spiritual leader of Ismailias, may have a soft corner for them but the UN assistance is meant for the entire population of Afghanistan. In fact, according to the UN principles and norms of international policy, the assistance should be provided without any., discrimination or consideration of race, religion,‘color and cast.
 DAUOD MUREED:  The  Soviet  Union had pledged $    600 million tp   the program  of
 Operation . SALAM, and they intend  to provide       Afghanistan with machinery and
 technical equipment ini the garb of this assistance so that Russo-Afghan liaison may be maintained in the coming years.
 DR. ERFFA:   The Russians pledged to the tune of $     600 million assistance    to
 Afghanistan  but I  do not  know  exactly as to    how much they have paid. The
 Russians had promised the transportation of aid cargo from Western Europe through Russian     ports on the   Afghan border which was transported and
 distributed. All   the same, considering the         unstable internal situation in
 Russia, I    do not  think  they  will be able      to implement    their plans  in
 Afghanistan.
 ENGINEER ASADULLAH: The Operation SALAM, programs are found to be double faced
 i.e. humanitarian plans to be implemented in Afghanistan and the one which contradicts the first one. For instance Sadruddin Aga Khan stated sometimes back that there are 30 million mines laid out in Afghanistan. In other words, there are two mines on    the waiting for each Afghan     but almost in the same breath,
 after one week when the political dimension of the issue was being discussed, he says there is complete peace and security in Afghanistan and the refugees should return home, thus negating his previous statement.
 DR. ERFFA:  Regarding  your Statement that our operations are double sided and
 contradictory. I hope that in future both sides will be compromising and will be able to contribute to the welfare and better assistance to the Afghans. We earnestly desire that our work is polished and reformed and we do listen to reasonable criticism.
 RAHIMULLAH:  Prior to clearance of mines anti-poppy cultivation publicity and
 propoganda may be launched. The poppy might be cultivated in Pakistan frontiers and they might allege that these are cultivated in Afghanistan.
 DR. ERFFA: We do agree with you but mine sweeping forms the basic program of pur operations and as, a first step, we want to clear those areas where mines are in abundance like Kunar, Paktia and Kandahar.                     . v
 DR. ALI:  It is said that houses may be constructed but' I have no knowledge
 regarding their type and as to who has approved their construction maps and whether those houses will fulfil the conditions prevailing in Afghanistan?
                                        102
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          flfGHflfl JtHflD                     VOL.4~ NO.2
 DR. ERFFA: Those kind of houses take two to three months to be built and it will be tried to construct the minimum portions of the ceilings of these houses since the ratio of forest wood chopping in Afghanistan and its transportation, as compared to Pakistan, is less. I would not like to discuss, this topic here any further since it will be out of context.
 ENGINEER SIDDIQ:  When we talk about hiring Afghans in the Operation SALAM
 programs, we mean experienced and well trained ones. Because low ranking Afghans with lesser training might commit mistakes detrimental to future of Afghanistan.
 DR. ERFFA: It is Hot our aim to bring. ..them here to Pakistan to work in our
 projects in Peshawar but our aim is to make them work inside Afghanistan.
 DR. LODIN: Commander Ismail Khan, single handedly with limited means arid without any outside material or technical assistance, has been able to clear. 70,000 mines in Herat and has them registered. How many mines has Operation SALAM since its inception uptil now, been able to clear or diffuse and in.what areas?
 DR. ERFFA: So far that Commander Ismail Khan has swept away 70,000 mines is a
 commendable job which should be highly appreciated. In Operation SALAM program
 10,000 mines have been cleared so far.
                                            ARTICLE
          MECHANIZATION OF AGRICULTURE AND ITS POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE ASPECTS
 ENG. MOHAMMAD AREF NOORI:  Afghanistan  is essentially an agricultural country
 and more than 85% of its total population is engaged in or related to this occupation. Therefore the writer says that agriculture and livestock breeding has been the source ofv highest figure of national income next to the production of natural gas which was till recently treated as a state secret. The scientific and technical aspects of agriculture were kept at a low key till the decade of 1960 from the social point of view and then students were compulsorily made to study the subject of agriculture at colleges and universities. More than 90% of the cultivation was carried out by manpower or animal force. Only 10% or lesser work was done by utilizing mechanical implements.
      Since the later half of the 1960 decade, agriculture and cattle-breeding underwent a metamorphosis because all the developing countries made the maximum use of the green Revolution Movement which started with the use of improved seeds of foodgrains and chemical fertilizers and Afghanistan also participated in it on a modest scale. In consequence, the volume of foodgrain imports, particularly from 1975 to 1978 reduced to a great extent.
                   In regard to the import of agricultural implements, the writer reveals that according to official reports, there were about 3,000 tractors in the country, but unfortunately^ due to the imposition of communist system against the will of the majority, the imports of war machines and weapons replaced the agricultural machines. This policy resulted in the whole-sale destruction of agriculture
                                            103
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
III
iiUinJt
 and livestock throughout Afghanistan.
VOL.4 NO.2
      Alluding to the mechanization of agricultural sector, the writer enumerates the following negative dimensions of this program*which, in his opinion, do not block the path of mechanization but*any how, create impediments in its progress:
 1.   The topographical conditions of a number of provinces, particularly in the central part of the country, are not favorable for mechanization.
 2.   It is a very expensive plan.
 3.   It .requires a considerable number-of itechnical and mechanical         personnel.
 4.   Supply of liquid fuel and motor oil for transport is a major             problem which
      will assume a large proportion if agriculture is mechanized.
 5.   About 80-85% of our cultivators do not have more than                      15 acres of
      agricultural land and hence cannot afford mechanization.
 6.   Traditionally agricultural facilities have been owned by big landlords. So the majority of cultivators (being small land owners) with limited assets, could not avail the facilities of agricultural loans or development programs and/or agricultural machinery.
 7.   A large number of capitalists have left the country, during               the past few
      years or did not have the courage to invest in this field.                On the other
      hand, those new entrepreneurs who became big tycoons following the communist rule, do not have the experience and knowledge of investing in productive sector especially mechanization of agriculture.
      Anyhow, the writer believes that despite all these negative aspects, perhaps there does not exist        any other alternative              but to mechanize the
 agricultural system. The reasons are:
 a)   In view of the paucity of animals of burden directly involved in the
      agricultural process which     have been reduced to almost 50% due to              the
      devastating war, if- measures are taken to start cattle breeding t.o raise their required number to the pre-war     level, then   the cultivators should
      wait for more than 30 years to achieve this target.
 b)   Arrangement for importing       bullocks and animals of                burden from the
      neighbouring friendly countries for meeting the needs of draught animals in our country would take about 20 years.
 c)   Martyrdom of       the youth in the war and the exodus           of the peasants under
      protest, has      created such a manpower vacuum which           cannot be filled in a
      short time inspite of mechanization of agriculture.
 d)   Mechanization      would not only increase much needed           food grain production
      capacity in an expeditious manner but would bring about considerable reforms in the physical structure of agricultural farms.
 .JANUARY-MARCH, 1991            flllilMN J[HAD                     VOL .4 NO.2
 e)   It would enhance the possibility of expanding and developing the
      uncultivable lands throughout the country.-
       \ *
      At the end of the article,the writer stresses the need for streamlining the import of agricultural machinery and implements so that the spare parts may be available in the local market, and states that previously Pakistani, Indian, American, Japanese, British, Russian and Iranian machihery and machine tools were imported in Afghanistan without proper economic study and through assessment of trade relations'with the manufacturing countries for the supply of the spare parts. As a result of this policy, the cultivators were faced with many difficulties. Therefore in future, trade relations and machinery imports should be well-planned in consonance with the country's requirements.
                                            ARTICLE
                   QURANIC INJUNCTION REGARDING PRESCRIPTION OF USURY:
 HUJJAT-UL-ISLAM MEHDAVI (SCHOLAR): One of the important problems in Islam and
 the -Islamic economy is the prohibition•of usury. Usury is such a despicable and unlawful practice that even God Almighty has permitted the faithful to wage war against the usurer. But unfortunately today usury, or in other words, "interest” is an important part of the world economy.
      Forbiddance of usury, from the Quran and the sunnah. view-point, is so clear that Surah Baqarah, verse 275 of the Holy Quran reads: "Those who devour usury will not stand except as stands one when the evil one by his touch' has driven to madness. That is because they say, 'trade is like usury.' But God has permitted trade and forbidden usury. Those who after receiving direction from their Lord, desist, shall be pardoned for the past; their case is for God (to judge)'; but those who repeat‘(the offense) are companions of the fire. They will Abide therein (forever)."
      And the Holy Prophet (peace be upon him) has been quoted as saying:  "One
 dirham (penny) of usury is regarded by God worse than seventy times commitment of rape in the Holy Kaaba".
      When someone takes loan from someone else, it is due to one of the' following reasons:
 (1) Either in case of dire need, when taking illegitimate interest or receiving back more money than the actual sum, would amount'to cruelty and a' Sinful deed.
 (2)  Or the one who receives invests the money with the consequences mentioned below:
      a) ' He becomes hankrupt and in this case taking back money from him would be unfair. But if he is faced with financial loss and the loaner demands the money back on the usury rates, it would indeed be most unfair.
      b) He gains no profit and makes no loss. In this case the loaner cannot
                                                                105'
     ask for interest money.
     c) Taking interest is unfair. For example a laborer or a craftsman takes a loan of 100 afghanis at the rate of 10% interest, but he earns a profit of five afghanis only. So if he pays back 10 afghanis more, he . loses five afghanis and becomes a victim of injustice because he devoted his time and energy to a certain enterprise and yet could not earn any profit.
     d) Takes a loan on compound interest and after paying back the debt with interest, has to repay the compound interest which is also unfair.
     e) Takes a loan ' before the contract by fixing the rate of' interest according to the unit of investment without fixing the limit for repayment to the usurer.
     The jurisconsults have mentioned these five conditions in the books of Islamic jurisprudence.As the future government in Afghanistan would be Islamic, it would be better to assess the evils of usury beforehand.lt is proposed that a team of three economists and three religious scholars and jurisconsult (Shia and Sunni) and three, legal experts- totalling nine persons- should visit Islamic countries, especially Iran, and study their financial systems as. well as contact the . ulama concerned in other countries to ponder over the ways and means of obliterating usury and .interest from the banks and improving other related matters in such a way that the' future Islamic government should have a healthy Islamic economy.
                                     CONCLUDING SPEECH
 BURHANUDDIN RABBANI: In his concluding address, at the end of the 4-day seminar by the CCAR, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Uamiat-e-Islami and the AIG Minister for Reconstruction observed: "At the outset, I.would like to express my
 deep appreciate and heart felt thanks to all the activists of CCAR, particularly to Brother Kushkaki who has endeavored to hold this beneficial seminar and also the Chairman of the seminar Brother Dr. Lodin and all others whose participation has proved invaluable to this seminar.
      Presently we are embarking on a very important and most significant phase-the reconstruction of our country, a phase which entails our return to free Afghanistan and the manner we will maintain our freedom? If yesterday, we gained our freedom with kalashenkov, its maintenance, in the future must be carried out through other means. Our system in every respect, ought to be self-sufficient and our economy must rely on its own resources.
      Needless to say that in the reconstruction of our country, especially in economic reconstruction, which is of paramount importance to our country, we are faced with gigantic tasks, of course, the participants of this seminar have discussed different perspectives in detail. However, I opine that we do need an "economic culture” for reconstruction so that our businessmen know what to import? Should he import children's balloons, toys against foreign currency? Shall we import all from abroad or develop our ownxnational industries, too? Let us see if our own rough cloth which is made locally can be developed so as to
                                                106
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991        MfilMNJIHAQ                   VOL.4 NO.2
replace the Russian cotton cloth. And how long should we remain as exporter of raw material.
                               \ . '
      We ought to ponder o^er priorities of our economic programs. What should be
on the top of the list? What to do in agriculture? What about industries? What innovations we can bring into our agricultural sector and why, as mentioned by the seminar participants, should we be satisfied to feed only eight million people while, considering the lands that we have, we can feed 70 million. Why not do it? Why remain always a consumer country and why not become a producer country. We stood victorious in the military war. Now we should do our utmost not to be subdued in the economic war. I expect the participants to foresee correctly the difficulties which exist in the reconstruction of our economy and, as far as my person is Concerned, I am heartily their co-worker.
      I want my brethren to bring forth an accurate program and call upon others wherever they are, and request them to cooperate in this regard. Now is the time to prove that we are a nation of champions and that we can stand up to any challenge.
107
 I
| JANUARY-MARCH, 1991 WHHJ1D    V0L.4 N0.2
PAKISTANI INSTITUTE HOLDS SEMINAR ON AFGHANISTAN
           EDITOR'S NOTE: The Institute of Strategic Studios> Islamabad» held a Seminar on nReconstruction of Afghanistan: Problems and Prospects" on December 4 and 5, 1990 inaugurated by Sayed Fakhar Imam» Pakistan's Federal Minister for_ Education* in which 14 distinguished scholars and experts on Afghan affairs belonging to Pakistan* Afghanistan and western countries read their articles covering different aspects and dimensions of the Afghan issue• A summary of the salient portions of these articles is presented here.
Q
Q
El
8
Q
a
a
a
                     PROSPECTS FOR PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT
 MUSHAHID HUSSAIN, PAKISTANI JOURNALIST: The year 1990 was important for four
 major developments pertaining Afghanistan. These included (1) emerging divergence between Pakistan and Iran centering around' sharply contrasting attitudes towards the Kabul regime'/ (2) ability of Dr. Najibullah to survive the
 Tani coup, (3) America's change of line on Najib. with acceptance of his staying
                 « ....
 in office for an indefinite period (4) Pakistan's own subtle but significant change of line through the decision to invite Ahmad Shah Masood, which was his first visit to Pakistan in 12 years. This meant discarding, exclusive reliance on 'the AIG and adoption of a policy geared around mujaheddin military commanders.
     As regards change in the American attitude towards the mujaheddin, he expressed the opinion that the USA started promoting the unity of the USSR, since escalation of the Afghan conflict could, in turn, destabilize the Muslims living in the Soviet Central Asia. Both Moscow and Washington apparently now view Afghanistan as the first defense line against. Islamic movement affecting the whole of Central Asia. ,
     In connection with the divergent perspective of Tehran and Islamabad, he referred to the November 23, "accidental landing." of Najibullah's plane in Mashad, and stated that this stopover was probably part of the series of growing quiet links between Kabul and Tehran, manifested in growing formal and informal exchanges between the two countries, the re-opening of trade and cultural links as well as direct telephone dialing between the two capitals and the upcoming resumption of flights on both sides. Iran has also stopped all military
                                           108
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991         MMJIHAD                      VOL.4 NO.2
 assistance to the mujaheddin groups based in Tehran and Najib is on record praising "the positive attitude of Iran towards Afghanistan”. Iran's distancing from Pakistan on the Afghan issue began after it felt excluded from deliberations leading to the formation of the AIG which was essentially cobbled together by Pakistan, USA and Saudi Arabia. The' writer added that Pakistani suspicions were also raised when the Iranians arranged a meeting in Tehran in August, 1989 between the visiting Indian Foreign Secretary, S.K. Singh and representatives of the Tehran-based Afghan mujaheddin.
      In his     opinion  the scenario for       Afghanistan is that of a
 de-internationalization of the simmering conflict there with external forces developing less of   a stake in the situation.                           Pakistan and Iran will remain the
 two countries with  an abiding interest in developments                          relating to Afghanistan.
 On the other hand,  hb thinks that a new Najib has emerged on the scene and this
 Najib has changed   clothes, changed religion                            (from a  Marxist  to Muslim) and
 qhanged ideologies, projecting an image more of an Afghan nationalist.
      Therefore,the writer concluded that.the geo-political Environment today is more receptive to a '"political settlement in Afghanistan than it was ever before.
                     IMPACT OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTS ON THE AFGHAN CONFLICT
 NOOR A. HUSSAIN, EX-DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE ISSI:     The                           paper encompasses the
 political, military, economic and psychological impacts of the issue under discussion.
      In relation to the economic impact, the writer is of the view that if the confrontation in the Gulf is prolonged ..*, some of the Arab and international agencies may curtail their operations; some may even wind up their projects and centers. That would have an adverse effect and impact on the psychological aspects of the Afghan conflict ... On the other hand US embargo on economic and military assistance to Pakistan and the drastic reduction in foreign remittances of Pakistanis abroad in, West Asia, are also some of the developments that are likely to have an impact ... on the Afghan conflict.
      A number of measures- though; posmetic in nature- have been adopted to give Leninism and Islamic face in Afghanistan and the overall impact of these strategems by the Kabul regime upon the conflict in Afghanistan has hardly lessened the political and military resistance of the mujaheddin towards Najibullah whose removal is still an essential pre-requisite tb any settlement.
      On 23 August, 1990 Gorbachev during Najibullah’s visit to Moscow made it clear that the USSR would not be able to meet the aid needs of Afghanistan in the foreseeable future. TheiKabul regime is therefore likely to depend more and more now on its eastern neighbour Pakistan and upon the AIG whose mujaheddin groups control the eastern provinces of Afghanistan.
      The year 1990 should be regarded as a watershed year for the Afghan people in which leadership on both sides is beginning to realise that a political solution may be the only- answer and that time may be running out before an Economic disaster by way of femine inflicts another tragedy on the ravished country.             ■.                            .•
                                           109
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
                       AFGHANISTAN: COMPROMISE AMONG AFGHAN- PARTIES URGED
 HEINZ SCHWARTZ, FORMER MINISTER OP STATE, MEMBER OP FOREIGN COMMITTEE: Casting
 a cursory glance at the world situation with particular reference to the reforms in the USSR and the upheaval in Eastern Europe in 1980s which led to an East-West rapproachement,    he declared that during the last decade
 communism/socialism failed once and for all on its home continent^ Europe, because it is a theory against man, against freedom. It survived for 73 years in the USSR only with the aid of brute force and dictatorship. History has overcome communism and freedom and democracy have triumphed.
      Referring to Afghanistan, he quoted a leading German newspaper of 22 November 1990, which wrote:                       •
      "The Gulf crisis has reduced even farther the world's limited willingness to bother itself about the continuing war in Afghanistan..."
      In the conclusion, he states that "We in Germany, always demanded the withdrawal of the Red Army (from Afghanistan) and President Gorbachev ordered that the Soviet forces be withdrawn from Afghanistan ... It. is now upto those concerned to prove that they are capable of achieving, peace.' This' is not possible without compromises ..."
  THE FOREIGN RESISTANCE AND THE NAJIBULLAH REGIME: A COMPARATIVE
                                                  STUDY
 SHIREEN M. MAZARI:  HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND STRATEGIC STUDIES,
 QUAID-E-AZAM UNIVERSITY, ISLAMABAD: The continuing failure of the mujaheddin to achieve political andr -military success and the continuing survival of the Najibullah government the analysts are paying greater attention to the latter. Especially with the shifting global priorities of the US and the domestic compulsions of the Soviet Union, the resolution of the Afghan issue seems to be centering more than ever on the Afghans themselves, with Pakistan in danger of side-lined.
      With regard to the survival of the Kabul regime, she believes that the Najibullah regime has survived primarily as a.result of the weaknesses in'the mujaheddin policies and not because of it? own inherent.strength.
      Thereafter, tracing the success achieved by the mujaheddin in the course of their long struggle against the Najib regime and the overtures of Najib to form a coalition government with the copperation of the resistance group-leaders and the blunt refusal of the mujaheddin leaders to talk with Najib, the writer expressed the opinion that the failure of the mujaheddin military offensiva.(in Jalalabad) was coupled with their political rigidity. She added that this position was reflected in thp manner in which the AIG was formed in February 1989, from a narrow base (i.e. the Pakistan-based seven party.alliance) which ignored a number of important guerrilla factions especially the Iran-based Resistance. Thus the writer added that three distinct resistance groups i.e. the AIG, the Iran-based mujaheddin, and the commanders fighting within Afghanistan, one of the most important being Commander Masood, emerged on the scene.
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991             MfiHAHittttAD                     VOL.4  NO.2
      As regards the Afghan resistance, the writer thinks that it is being seen now as an inter-Afghan conflict rather than a conflict between a small state and a superpower and within *the US the spectre of an Islamic fundamentalist government in Afghanistan is now causing more concern. Therefore the idea of a broad-based government is gaining in strength. In any event, the Gulf crisis has led to the final withdrawal of the US as a 'major actor in the Afghan conflict.
      Referring to Pakistan's diplomatic ofTensive on Afghanistan, the Zia-Junejo's "1/3 formula" in any future administration for including one-third representation of the PDPA; then Gen. Zia contradicting this proposal and insisting on the removal of the PDPA regime under Najib; the Soviet-Najib initiatives including a call for an international conference on Afghanistan; the Baker Plan in 1990 for gradual transfer of power and Shevardnadze's 10-point formula for ceasefire and UN supervized elections, the writer has stated that the mujaheddin have so far rejected all political initiatives. She added that Najibullah meanwhile has launched a new diplomatic offensive b,y visiting Geneva to meet ex-King Zaher Shah's representatives. Some mujaheddin leaders, like Pir Ahmad Gailani and Sebghatullah Mujaddedi also, it is believed, flew to Geneva to meet Najibullah. There is a view that Najib may step down while some PDPA elements would participate in a broad-based government. The writer concludes by saying:
      "The mujaheddin most of all need to realise that the successful conclusion of their guerrilla struggle in Afghanistan can come about through political and diplomatic initiatives while the military struggle is only one of the instruments of the political struggle and not an end in itself".
      REPATRIATION OF AFGHAN REFUGEES: AN AFGHAN PERSPECTIVE
 SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI, FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE CCAR AND FORMER MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND CULTURE OF AFGHANISTAN:    The foremost thing to bear in mind
 about the Afghain refugees both in Pakistan and Iran is, that they have not merely sought asylum for economic reasons but were primarily motivated to migrate for deep religious and political beliefs. That is why the Afghans did not respond massively to a UN call in 1990 for a return to so-called "zones of tranquility"* for they were convinced that condition's were not fit for them to return to Afghanistan despite the economic rewards promised to them by the world body. To them an atheist government is still in power in Kabul and to return to their homes under the same conditions which had forced them to leave, was not right. They refuse to return despite the very difficult conditions under which they are living in Pakistan and Iran.
      As regards the new leadership, he elaborates that the mujaheddin and most .of their leaders., who have fought .-the war, belong neither to the old bureaucracy nor to the. traditional aristocracy of Afghanistan ... The people who have led to the war, are ^ither the religious leaders of the country or belong to a completely new group who did not enjoy any social, political or economic.status in the past . . . The other forerunners in the arena of Afghan politics- the commanders- are either members of Islamic movements or with none of such affiliations.
                                                    Ill
 JANUARV-MARCH. 1991'             fllGHftHJIHAfl                    V0L.4    NO.Z
      Comparing the roles of the traditional religious leaders and the Islamic progressive elements, the writer foresees that the extent of the impact that the Islamic progressive parties will have on the future Society of Afghanistan will depend very much on who will assume the leadership after the expected downfall of the present communist regime. But one thing is certain: The active cooperation and the approval of the traditional community of religious leaders will be an essential password for the success of any future leadership.
      Referring to the other characteristics of the Afghan society, he says that in this society all the ethnical groups will demand equal politipal/economic rights. The future Afghan society, despite its regional and ethnical trends, will be cooperative in the task of re-building the country. The:Afghan society will be highly illiterate and there will be hundreds of thousands of handicapped in the country*. The people will also demand an elected system, he said.
      Spotlighting the enhanced religious, ethnical and regional consciousness in the future Afghan society and coming to the state of literacy in the coimtry, the writer lamants that before the war, about 35% of children with school age in Afghanistan were being enrolled in schools. This is estimated to have dwindled in the refugee camps in Pakistan and liberated areas combined to 7-8 per cent.
      Stressing the need for elections to choose a proper leadership, the writer expressed the belief that the only practical solution for having a proportional representation of Afghan ethnic groups both on central and provincial levels, will make elections essential and desirable means in the future Afghan society.
      Discussing the scenario for the solution of the Afghan problem and the creation of the present Afghan Interim Government, he writes that the failure of the AIG  to accomplish   its proclaimed aims, gave rise to several efforts  on
 the part of Afghan groups to suggest ways for solving the Afghan problem. One of
 these has been the formation of a council of mujaheddin commanders inside the country which met three times during the current year         Another effort   to
 suggest  a  solution for      the Afghanistan problem was made by\ a group    of
 high-ranking Afghan advisors, ironically, invited by the AIG early last summer. The advisors called for the creation of a new political condition ... But the AIG rejected these proposals readily and without careful examination.
      In conclusion, the writer declared that no matter what happens, with or without   an initiative undertaken by the AIG, it seems    as though a group   of
 Afghans should form a task force of their own to create new political conditions in which the seven Peshawar-based political groups and all other credible elements of the Afghan society are included. To do this, the task force should be. supported by all sides concerned. Members of this force, in their turn, should make it clear that they renounce any participation in the future power apparatus of the country so that their intentions and aims are not questioned and doubted.     •                               :    -
                   AFGHAN REFUGEE REPATRIATION: A PAKISTANI PERSPECTIVE
 NASIM ZEHRA, PAKISTANI JOURNALIST:     The writer  has expressed deep concern
 regarding the presence of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan, which according to her has given rise to the "klashinkov culture", upward trend in crime, drug
                                           112
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991           flfCIlflNJtHflB                       VOL.4 NO.2
 smuggling, drug addiction and sabotage activities. In her opinion, they have taken over the transportation especially the" truck transport business in NWFP and Baluchistan; they have infiltrated the vegetable market and their unskilled labor works at cheaper rates to the detriment of the local labor; prices of property and foodstuff etc. hav^ been pushed up due to their presence whereas wheat, rice and livestock are smuggled from Pakistan into Afghanistan; serious problems of de-forestation have been created in Chitral, Dir and Hazara etc.
      But she stated that despite all these problems, there was no mass uprising against them in any part of the country. She however says, international aid to the Afghan refugees has played an importat role in making them acceptable. She also agrees that in the short-term the more well-off in Pakistan benefitted also because aid products found their way into Pakistani households, cheap labor has been available in the market and approximately 6,000 Pakistanis have found employment in the Afghan Refugee Commission, etc.
      However, the writer felt that during the last couple of months the situation has changed. The Pakistan government, in her opinion, is feeling the pressure as supplies of relief goods from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia etc. has gone done ... and Americans have also reduced thei^f supplies.
      Recounting the reasons, why large-scale repatriation has not occurred, the writer attributed it to three factors i.e. lack of physical; lack of economic security and discouragement by some local mujaheddin groups. But she writes that it is important to note that in the northern areas of Afghanistan, controlled by Commander Ahmad Shah Masood, life proceeds almost normally and basic amenities like health and education facilities are available and relatively few have left that area. The AIG has also prevented repatriation but perhaps only to a limited extent-. UN officials privately admit that the AIG has made it obvious that they are opposed to repatriation with Najib still in Kabul.
      Concluding the article, she wrote that of the agitated Pakistanis propose a simple formula for repatriation and that is, just close down the refugee camps and send them all back. But she expressed the opinion that this will riot work and there has to. be a        comprehensive  and     practical approach    to ensure
 repatriation, which will only be possible by removing all the hurdles that have prevented the Afghans from returning home. For this purpose she advocates political settlement and      reconstruction in      Afghanistan. Hence   Pakistan's
 position should be to encourage a peaceful political settlement, acceptable to the majority of Afghan groups opposing Najib.
                       REPATRIATION OF AFGHAN REFUGEES: A UNHCR PERSPECTIVE
 RENE VAN ROOYEN, HEAD OF UNHCR, ISLAMABAD: The writer Vias thrown light oh the Geneva Accords, initial expectations, consequences of the Afghan war, prospects and plans for repatriation of the Afghan refugees.
      With reference to the   consequences of the   war, he stated that as a resiilt
 of population displacement, agriculture and animal husbandry- the       backbone of
 the Afghan economy- have suffered an enormous decline. According to the
                                            113
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               MCHflHlllHM)                      VOL.4 NO.2
Agricultural Survey of Afghanistan, agriculture production has fallen to below 50 per cent of the 1978 level and the area cultivated by individual farmers has declined by 30% of the 1978 level. The decline in the stock of sheep and goats has reached dramatic figures: as much as 70% of its pre-war level. It follows that present agricultural production is insufficient to, support the existing population, let alone a large number of returning refugees. In this connection, the writer added that the rehabilitation of irrigation system clearly remains the highest priority- in the restoration of agricultural production to levels adequate to suPP°tt repatriation.
     Giving the reasons for the failure of repatriation program so far, he elucidated the point by arguing that despite the signing of the Geneva Accords, fighting continued in Afghanistan and the ensuing overall internal security in the country worsened. Moreover no recognized central government was in place. These factors did not encourage a large return of refugees to their country.
     The Project Market Place (PMP) jointly proposed by UNHCR and WFP was initiated to enable Afghan refugees in Pakistan to exchange their family ration card for a cash subsidy upon their decision to return to Afghanistan. In this connection, the writer explained that this program, estimated of US $         327
million would have been financed by a combination of donated food monetized by the sale on the open Pakistani market of food donations or direct food sales to the refugees and convertible donations from the international donor community. This grant in aid- (US $455 equivalent for a family of six) would have been made in Pakistani rupees freely convertible to Afghan currency at the border. But, he added, this plan never materialised mainly due to a renewal of fighting in Afghanistan. Neverthless, although the program was never implemented, its principles remained valid and were used in the following year in the Pilot Plan for Voluntary Repatriation which started 25 July 1990 and continues until this day. Then he revealed that there was increasing evidence that despite volatile situation in Afghanistan and continued security hazards there, a sizeable number of refugees are returning to Afghanistan: Since mid-April this year, between 100 to 150 families a day are reported to have returned to Afghanistan independently, mainly to the provinces of Kandahar and Helmand from the Baluchistan province- in Pakistan. This movement represents a 100% increase over the same period in 1989     ... Although no large-scale repatriation can be
foreseen until the security situation,, improves in Afghanistan, the numbers of refugees who have responded to the pilot project are significant. By the end of November 1990 over 12,000 families- around 854,700 individuals- have, availed themselves the opportunity to encash their passbooks (toreceive a cash grant of
US $150 together with 300 Kgs* of wheat).
     In conclusion, analysing the situation prevailing in Afghanistan and the
willingness of the refugees to return, to reconstruct their houses, to work in
their fields, etc., the ...writer is of the view that the political uncertainties
in many areas still pose a Serious threat to. the security of the returnees. In
his opinion, it is in the interest of the Afghan people and all the parties
genuinely concerned to work on a speedy and peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem.
                                                                i
                                        114
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991               htflHAHJlllfll)                   VOL.4 NO.2
               EVALUATION OF THE PROGRESS MADE BY UN AND NGOS ON ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION AND FUTUREPROSPECTS (OPERATION SAL AM)
 MARTIN BARBER, HEAD OF MISSION , UNOCA, ISLAMABAD: In this paper, read by Javid Nasim on behalf of the writer, the role of the UN Coordinator, guiding principles of UN assistance, the conceptual framework, phased approach to relief, rehabilita-tiort and development, regional priorities, zones of tranquility, role of NGOs, demining programs, crop protection in the north of Afghanistan, health and human resource development were discussed.
      The Office of the Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance relating to Afghanistan (UNOCA) was established by the Secretary General in May 1988 following the Geneva Accords. But the developments in the country since then have belied the optimism to which these Accords and the consequent withdrawal of foreign troops had given rise in many quarters. Then giving some details about the UN assistance programs inside Afghanistan, the writer throws light on the positive contribution of the NGOs and expresses the view that the role of NGOs in the implementation of cross-border projects has been vital to the success of UN programs, particularly from the Pakistan side. There are practically no agencies on the Iran and Soviet sides. In order to encourage self-reliance and promote the notion of self-help, UNOCA has encouraged the formation of Afghan NGOs. Eighteen such entities have been registered with UNOCA and more are in the process of being established with UN support.
      As regards mine clearance program which is of crucial importance for the refugee repatriation, the writer reveals that starting with just one team of 27 ymen in January 1990, ATC (Afghan Technical Consultants) and SWAAD (South-West Afghanistan Agency for Demining) now have a total of 28 teams (765 men) in Afghanistan, UNOCA has also procured two flail (mechanical mine clearance machines) which are on trial in Paktika and is cooperating with a team of mine-detecting dogs sponsored by USAID, The target for 1991 is to recruit and deploy upto 60 teams of 27 men each (1,620 men).
      Limelighting the various UN programs providing health and education facilities and helping to revive agricultural activities and encouraging vocational training and mobile training units set up by ILO in Afghanistan, he refers to Afghanistan Program undertaken by UNOCA to promote building up of an Afghan civilian technical infrastructure- a professional cadre that can take charge of the reconstruction, rehabilitation and development of Afghanistan. So far 18 Afghan organizations have been developed and registered with UNOCA. Some are already acting as implementing partners for, UN funded projects in health, agriculture and demining.^ Administrative and management training^ is also provided to the staff of these organizations.
      The writer expresses optimism by saying that a most encouraging start has been made in spite of numerous difficulties.If these programs are to be carried out fully, however, peace must come to Afghanistan. If the war drags on much longer, the fear is that international donors, UN organizations and NGOs will have become tired of waiting and will have moved on to other centers requiring assistance.
                                           115
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
HI
                  RECONSTRUCT I ON OF AFGHAN I STAN: PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS
              ' ' ' ' •
 ENGINEER ABDUL RAHIM, DIRECTOR GENERAL, RAFA: This article reflects the effort
 of the writer to focus attention on some salient aspects of the difficulties the Afghan people may face in the post-war period in relation to reconstruction work and has proposed possible solutions so as to bring Afghanistan at least to the pre-war level at first and then to march forward on the road to further development in an orderly manner.
      The writer has listed the following important social changes in the post-war period in Afghanistan:
      External and internal migration of a large number of people.
      Migration caused more awareness about their 'neighbouring countries like Pakistan and Iran as well as other countries.
      Many of them have learned foreign languages. Their children have been brought up in different environments.
      The residents of towns and villages now might prefer to live in cities. £$o these people would now like to spend their mohey in cities instead of investing it in villages for agriculture.
      Many of the Afghan students who would return, may not follow the local languages very well, because as refugees they have studied at various places under different educational systems. Many others were not able to receive formal education.'                                      •  :
      Previously the technocrats, the tribes and the Khans formed the pillars of power but in the post-war Afghanistan, the forces of jehad, and those with economic resources and national appeal would be the pillars of power.;
      Rise in political awareness has given rise to political groupings which might face certain difficulties in having a united , policy for reconstruction.
      Then the writer examined in detail the importance of irrigation in Afghanistan which is basically an agricultural country and the use of underground water channels called the karez in south and south-eastern parts of the country with scant rainfall and pointed out that since late 1950 and early 1960s engineers developed a modern irrigation system covering 330,000 hectares of land. He enumerated the following projects, which have been completed:     j
      Sardah Dam in Ghazni
   •* Irrigation Project in Kunduz ; ' .
      Abgardan Dam over Panjsher River
 i - Charikar Canal
      Darunta Dam in Nangarhar
 I ~ Kemal Khan Dam over Helmand River
  . “ Kajaki Dam to Irrigate Helmand. Valley
                                          116
•*: •
        Bat the writer adds ruefully that during the years of occupation, the Soviet forces made efforts to paralyse Afghanistan's rural economy in order to force the population out of their lands. Thus as a result of aerial and ground bombardment, damage was caused to the irrigation system. Invaddition to that th^ •(underground) channels were mined, causing loss to life and property. According to statistics, 500,000 hectares of land under the irrigation system received damage. About 200,000 hectares of forest were damaged by Napalm bombs.
        Therefore,, he suggests, the following ways for the repair and reconstruction of the irrigation system in, Afghanistan:
     - To improve or find a better substitute for the existing system of karezes.
     - Repairing and putting into operation the existing hydro-electrical posts ' over Afghan rivers.
     -  To regulate flow of river water for better use in farming
     -  •to determine the possible use of artesian wells.
     -  To set up small projects for irrigation using appropriate technology.
        Referring to transport, he writes, the road transport in Afghanistan is the most important means of mobility for social, economic and commercial activities. During the last 10 years about 33% of the partly paved roads and 25% of the total paved roads have been damaged. So there is a need to conduct preliminary survey pf roads to know about their conditions, type of construction, manpower, material and machines required to rehabilitate the roads.
        i •                 '        •         .                         '     ’
        The writer points out that for several years the Afghans were busy -in , defending their homeland against foreign occupation. Now they are in the sensitive stage of evolving their administrative structure and clean their country. All those, governments and their people who have helped Afghanistan and wish to help them in future should realize that their aid Should not delay the process undertaken by the people of Afghanistan and cause more destruction to our country.
        In his opinion, the refugees would return in mass number when an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan. It is necessary to have a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction and to chalk out priorities for short term plans. For this purpose it is necessary to set up a planning commission of Afghan experts supported by advisors from Muslim countries and the UN. Thus, by the time a representative government is established in Kabul, necessary studies, surveys and planning be submitted for the approval of the government after which the implementation would start.
                   PAKISTAN'S ROLE IN THE RECONSTRUCTION OF AFGHANISTAN
                    FAZL-UR-REHMAN RESEARCH FELLOW, XSSI:- With the Afghan war entering into its 12th year in a few months' time, the writer after a short study of the. losses suffered by Afghanistan during the period under review, which according to Dr. N.M. Kamrany's estimate, arndunt to $644.8 billion, and the efforts made by the UN Secretary General's Office of the Coordinator, is of the opinion that reconstruction is a slow process and can be implemented effectively when peace is restored and the' refugees start returning home. However, there are a number
                                           117
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991              flfGHAHiRWID                    .  VOL.4 NO.2
                                                       ____ ___!   ..... \ ■ . ' . ■ ;
 of factors having a direct bearing on this process in Afghanistan which he has enumerated in the following order:      , -
      There is a certain ambivalance. in the Afghan attitude towards international assistance, which is of vital importance to them. On the one hand they attach high value to the international and bilateral assistance while on the other they accuse the donor agencies of involving themselves in the internal political affairs of the Afghans, Although the AIG is ready to play its role as a partner and to collaborate with the UN and aid giving agencies in the reconstruction process, the UN agencies do not have the mandate to treat the AIG as a partner. Consequently the relationship between the AJG and the donor agencies has somewhat soured, generating an atmosphere of mistrust.
      As regards the Indian factor, the writer expresses the view that the failure of the Indian government to publicly condemn the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, its support to the Soviet puppet regime of Kabul and its hostile vision of the Afghan resistance forces, has indeed created major reservations about amicable relations between Afghanistan and India, once a representative government is established in Kabul.             >
      Concerning the Soviet factor, the writer declares, although the Afghans say that they will not undertake a hostile position against the Soviet Union once there is a representative government in Kabul, however, they intend to claim war damages from the USSR.
      The Iran factor is over-shadowed by the differences persisting between the Iran-based and Pakistan-based mujaheddin. The percentage of Shia representation in a future government will affect the Iranian role in the reconstruction process.
      As                    far as   Pakistan is concerned,        he expresses the opinion that
 unfortunately since the birth of Pakistan its relations with Afghanistan re-mainned problematic. Only Kabul opposed Pakistan's admission to the UN. The root cause of these troubles was the "Pashtoonistan issue", which has vanished with time as well as political development inside and outside Afghanistan. Pakistan has supported the Afghan resistance and accommodated the largest concentration                     of refugees         and has been assisting them on
 humanitarian grounds providing economic, political and moral support as best as it could for the just cause of the Afghan resistance. The majority of Afghans have high regard for Pakistan's contributions towards the Afghan cause, inspite of the fact that Pakistan has been accused by some factions of mujaheddin for being more supportive to some favourites and for its extensive involvement in the internal affairs of Afghans. In the light of the above1stated factors that have blended Pakistan in a multi-dimensional supportive role with the Afghans, Pakistan could play a more meaningful role in the reconstruction of Afghanistan, one                    of the Afghan problems is the loss of trained and highly skilled manpower
 during                   the course  of war. Afghans would   desperately need a large number of
 doctors, engineers, technicians and planners etc. which Pakistan could prdvide.
      For the reconstruction of Afghanistan, the writer suggests a two phase
                                         118
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
                                                                           VOL.4 NO.2
 program and proposes that as a first step for the first phase two autonomous foundations should be established e.g:
      1-  Pak-Afghan Education Foundation
      2-  Pak-Afghan Health Foundation.
      In the second phase, Pakistan can assist in many areas such as setting up small industries, providing machines, tools and other equipment as well as construction material, technical experts and professional manpower. It could also expand trade, transit and part facilities for Afghanistan. It is an historic opportunity for Pakistan to build confidence and strong relationship with Afghans on concrete foundations by helping them selflessly and timely.
                   THE FUTURE SHAPE OF THE AFGHAN SOCIETY (AFTER SETTLEMENT OF THE CONFLICT)
 PROF. RASOOL AMIN, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, WUFA:      While confessing his perplexity
 relating to the modality of the future shape of things in Afghanistan, the writer has touched upon the socio-political structure of Afghan society before the communist coup; the impact of the communist regime as well as the resistance on the country and has suggested ways and means for the settlement of the conflict and the type of political system preferrable under the prevailing circumstances in Afghanistan.
                i         '      •
      After discussing the traditional Afghan society in detail and referring to the role of the past monarchs in shaping the history of Afghanistan and expansion of the Afghan empire to the Indian sub-continent, Iran and the Central Asian regions, the. writer analysed the communist coup of 1978, the infiltration of the inexperienced and half-educated PDPA members in all the state organs to implement the so-called revolutionary programs; the servitude of the local communist elements to the USSR and the reaction of the people to the "red terror" let loose by the puppet regime which boomeranged in the form of popular resistance crystalizing in the shape of jehad against the godless creed, he gave a bird's eyeview x?f the ruthless Soviet invasion and the preliminary misjudgements and miscalculations of the foreign Countries regarding the tenacity and ferocity of the Afghan resistance and stated that when it was realized that the Afghans had stood firmly against all the communist brutalities, then the other countries started gradually to support the Afghan war of liberation which ultimately convinced the USSR to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan. In the words of the writer, the so-called progressive revolutionary communist regime and the subsequent Soviet invasion have brought nothing except the irretrievable human suffering, physical devastation, terrible political, cultural, economic ad social damage to the Afghan society.
      Then referring to the UN resolution of 8 November 1990,emphasizing an early start of intra-Afghan dialogue for the establishment of a broad-based government through democratic procedures, he briefly diiscusses three out of the several formulas for the settlement of the issue; these are: 1
                      1- Soviet insistance on Najibullah's stay in power during the future elections and the right of its party to contest seats for the forthcoming parliament.
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO,2
   2- Insistence of the political parties to transfer power to the mujaheddin and to k?ep on the fight for toppling the Najib regime,
   3- . Replacement of the Najib regime by an impartial interim government for a
      specific period to work for reconciliation, to convene the Loya Jirga, to draft the future constitution and to hold free and fair elections under the supervision of the UN and the OIC and other international agencies.
      Then tl\e writer discretely > points' to the fact that some suggest the name of the ex-King Zaher Shah for the formation, of the interim government but the mujaheddin outrightly. reject this suggestion,* arguing that he was the -main cause of the prevailing tragedy. On the -other hand, he would not be acceptable to Iran, too, because in his presence the son of the former. Shah would be encouraged to increase his activities for the re-establishment of monarchy in Iran.
     The writer dwelt at length with the arguments of the pro-Zaher Shah parties, referring to his forty years' experience, enactment of the 1964 Constitution and’ his aversion to strained relations with Pakistan and declared that the opposition is merely scared of his strong position yet, that is why a weak Defence Minister of the communist regime is acceptable but the former monarch is .still considered an anathema.
      Spotlighting the refugee exodus, the growing urbanization of the popula-lion, the devastation caused by the imposed war and the basic change in the Afghan social outlook, he points out that before the war the Afghans enjoyed somewhat self-sufficiency but a major consequence of the conflict has been the increased economic dependency. Therefore, in his view, working towards regaining total economic independence and national reliance will be a serious challenge, to the future government.
      As regards the future political restructuring of Afghanistan, the writer believes that Afghanistan cannot afford a political system based on cultural units like the USSR, because in this country, one tribe, one ethnic group and one sect does not live in a specific area but rather they live mingled throughout the country. To rebuild the ruined infrastructure, the leadership will be in dire need of peace with the neighbouring, countries ... During the resistance, Pakistan has been involved in all aspects of the Afghan cause. Therefore, no government in the future will be able to bring peace, stability and development without having cordial relations with Pakistan. Similarly an imposed surrogate government in Afghanistan will not only face constant resistance of the xenophobic Afghans but will definitely melt the existing Afghan goodwill for Pakistan.                        1
      Looking, to the future state of affairs, he opines that the tendencies emerging in the Soviet central Asian republics Will prompt the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Whenever it happens, there will be a renewed pattern of balance of power arrangements in the Central Asia, whose Muslim republics will look to the South for re-establishing economic, social and political relations. Afghanistan,being a cross-road, will be an important conjuncture fot all these
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             . .AfGHAN JEHADVOL.4 NO. 2
 transactions. This now depends on our foresight whether we can lay a broad-based friendly framework for the future or not.                                   •
  THE FUTURE AFGHANISTAN, ITS RELATIONS WITH NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES
  "  §                                * •                N
 DR. IMTIAZ BOKHARI, SENIOR RESEARCH FELLOW, ISSI: In this paper, the writer has endeavoured to determine the form and shape of the future Afghanistan as' well as to review relations with its neighbouring countries. About the present confusing situation, he is of the opinion that the number of parties to the conflict is so large, each with strong views on the nature of the political order that should succeed in Kabul, that one cannot be blamed for not being too optimistic regarding a qu.i.ck and peaceful order replacing the present bloodshed. On the other hand, he thinks that Dr. Najibullah had read the writing on the wall that the Soviet Union is sinking deeper into the quick sand1 of its domestic politics and failing economy which will force a cut in its $250 million assistance to Kabul every month. He quotes Boris Yeltsin as saying that the food aid sent to Moscow from Europe should not go to Kabul and that the Soviet Union should end its economic aid to Afghanistan and reach a settlement without Najib. In this context Na jibullah's dash to Geneva), where he reportedly met not only Gailani but also the representatives of King Zaher Shah and his reported meeting with the other Mujaheddin leaders, during his "technical" stop-over for refuelling in Mashad, make eminent sense. Najibullah's reported offer to step down in favor of Zaher Shah has given a sense of urgency to the settlement of the conflict in the post-Geneva period. . Another significant development affecting the future of Afghanistan which only preceded Najib's dash to Geneva by a few weeks was a meeting in    Islamabad  of the Afghan      military leaders including Ahmed Shah
 Masood- his   first in the past twelve   years- and Mujaheddin leaders including
 Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, in order to. bring about more co-ordination in mujaheddin military and political strategy.
      Pertaining to the possibility of Zaher Shah's return to Kabul as a King, he deems it out of question, declaring that the days of monarchy are over, even in Afghanistan.   But what can be debated, is the return of Zaher Shah as an interim
 measure, acting more    as a transition mechanism from the Marxist regime of
 Najibullah to a future regime formed after the elections. During this whole
  process, the UN could provide the umbrella and help for holding elections.-On the face of it, Zaher Shah option seems an attractive preposition but runs into serious opposition from certain mujaheddin quarters on the grounds. They fear, once in power, even as an interim head of government, the King, through intrigue and coercion and     in      collaboration with his    supporters within
 Afghanistan, would attempt to perpetuate his rule.
      Then in relation to the futur arrangements for elections, he enumerates three main     contenders for powder in Kabul:    (1) military leaders inside
 Afghanistan; (2) the political groups operating from Pakistan and; (3) those based in Iran.
 to the question  of    the future Afghanistan's  relations with its
 after the ouster  of   Najib, the writer opines that it is expected
                           121
                                                                                             Coming neighbours,
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991              RfGHflNJtHflD _______________\  VOL.4 NO.2
that a much warmer relationship will follow between Pakistan and Afghanistan once future government takes charge in Kabul. But Islamabad needs to be careful in the manner in which it handles its relations with the future government in Kabul. Islamabad must not be perceived to be assuming the role of "big brother."
     As regards Afghan-Iran relations, he says that Afghanistan did not have such disputes with Iran as it had with Pakistan and had shared historical and cultural ties with each other for a long period. Neither Iran nor Afghanistan have been under colonial rule. But Iran's main interest would be to try to secure a better deal for the Shia minority of Afghanistan. A moderate regime in Kabul would be more likely to be sensitive to such Iranian concerns than a fundamentalist regime. The Iranian leadership would also view a fundamentalist regime as a prestege of the Wahabi-Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States.
     Concluding the article on Afghan-Soviet relations in the future, the writer believes that although Afghanistan has lost its glitter as a potential zone for penetration or expansion, it still remains important enough for the USSR. The reason lies in the fact that although the Amu Darya (Oxus River) divides Afghanistan and the Soviet Union, it is not a cultural divide. The cultural and ideological linkages provide Afghanistan with the means to influence developments in the neighouring southern Soviet republics. Inspite of its deep economic problems, the Soviet Union cannot afford to completely cut off aid to Afghanistan, which will need massive external assistance for reconstruction of war-ravaged country for which the Soviets do bear moral responsibility. So one can say that Afghanistan will pursue a> pragmatic policy in its relations with the USSR. Kabul will need every ruble it can get from the Soviet Union for its reconstruction while Moscow, would like to treat, its southern neighbour with as much indulgence as it possibly can to keep it under check from making undue ingress in the sensitive southern areas of the USSR. Nonetheless, the writer believes, that it would be easier for a moderate regime in Kabul to strike equation with Moscow as compared to a fundamentalist regime.
   THE ECONOMIC FUTURE OF AFGHANISTAN: THE INTERNATIONAL DIMENSION
PROF. DR. VOLKER NIEHAUS, FACULTY OF ECONOMICS AND INSTITUTE FOR DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT POLICY, UNIVERSITY OF BOCHOM:The writer gives a brief summary of the development and mpdernization strategies of sovereign Afghanistan before the Soviet occupation and of the measures and efforts of the communist regime since 1978, then highlights some obstacles and options for the country after the war.and with a government inclined to Islam.
     With regard to Afghanistan's own potentials and resources including rich mineral sources, the writer is of the view that there is presently only natural gas _which can generate a substantial net foreign exchange .income necessary for imports. He states that over the last decade, the gas was delivered to ‘the Soviet Union on barter basis at an extremely low price. The gas fields are located very Close to the Soviet border. Pipelines do exist and the transportation costs are very low compared to an export of the gas via Iran or Pakistan. Such an export would require enormous investments in transport
                                           122
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              flfCHflNJjMB_____________________ VQL.4 NO.2
 infrastructure (pipelines) and it is doubtful whether this would be a technically or economically viable option. Alternatively Afghanistan could try to increase the utilization of the gas in its own country.
      Discussing the ineffectiveness of the RCD and now ECO (i.e. economic cooperation between Turkey, Iran and Pakistan) owing to the fact that the participating countries are not complementary to each other, the writer suggests that there is a much larger grouping of nearly 50 countries with some economic objectives also, where Afghanistan is already a member in (but with a suspended membership after the Soviet occupation) namely the OIC which took measures to promote economic cooperation among Islamic countries. Thus the OIC can promote economic development of Afghanistan indirectly, especially by a more effective protection of foreign capital flowing in from other Islamic countries,. There could be an inflow of foreign private capital when Islamic banks are established in Afghanistan.
      Throwing light on the implications of a resource-based industrialization, the writer points out that Afghanistan, is a country with a rich resource base, especially in its northern parts, which is utilized economically only to a small part. Then he adds that besides large natural gas fields, vast coal deposits have been explorated but are exploited only marginally. Grand iron ore deposits have been found in remote parts of the country and the infrastructure for a large scale exploitation is under construction. A substantial increase in the mining of copper are high on the agenda ... Other important natural resources include limestone and coal for the production of high-quality cement, chromium, various strategic minerals (.e.g. beryllium, cesium, lead, molybdenum, tin, zinc) and precious stones; c-and one should not forget the water resources and hydroelectric power ... Therefore the creation of industries for the processing of these natural resources within the country and the export of the products of these resource based industries would be an obvious recommendation.
      Talking about the Soviet-orientated technology in Afghanistan, the writer suggests that if the coming government of Afghanistan accepts that, on the one hand, it should not throw away the Soviet technology immediately but on the other hand does not want to purchase spare parts and additional equipment from the Soviet Union, it has to look around where else in the world Soviet
 technology is available in the form of . "second hand" at a very low price. One possibility might .. be the former German Democratic Republic-. The German government may be willing to provide many items from this list (especially if they are related to technology applied in the public sector) at concessional terms or completely free as development aid for Afghanistan.
      Referring to future trade relations between Afghanistan and the USSR, the writer surmizes that it is often implicitly or explicitly assumed thatt after the end of the war, the relations with the Soviet Union would be hostile and/or factually terminated. From a purely economic point of view, the complete suspension of economic relations would be a very premature conclusion. The topographical situation is more conducive to an expansion of trade for most important products with the Soviet Union than with the. neighbours in the West and South of Afghanistan (i.e. with Iran and Pakistan), the road links to the
                                            123
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              AfGllflHJtHflP                    VOL.4 NO.2
 major cities in Soviet Central Asia give Afghanistan an easy access to rail road lines that run relatively close to the Afghan border and connect Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tadzhikistan with the overall Soviet network and thus with the large markets in European Russia. There is nothing comparable in Iran and Pakistan. These countries are. only transit countries for Afghan products but not their final destination.
       The writer concludes: one could ehvisage a situation where Afghanistan's location between the Soviet Union and the Indian sub-continent is no longer a disadvantage but brings benefits from an intensified transit trade. The government of free Afghanistan will be challenged by new risks, but with a little luck, it will also find new chances for social and economic development of the country.
                       FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC AFGHANISTAN
 DR. LORENZ L. GOSER, REPRESENTATIVE OF HELP, GERMANY: He briefly elaborates on several experiments towards democracy made during the reigns of King Amanullah, ex-Prime Minister Shah Mahmood,       ex-Prime Minister Yousuf and ultimately
 ex-President Daoud who abolished monarchy and declared Afghanistan a Republic, forcing Zaher Shah to turn his holidays in Italy into exile* Then he adds that his former supporters i.e. the Khalq and the Parcham parties toppled Dauod and killed him in their military coup in April 1978 and named the country "Democratic Peoples Republic of Afghanistan"- spoiling the word "democratic" by acting as a cruel communist dictatorship.
      Paying tribute to the democratic virtues of the Afghan nation, he states that the Afghans are used to participate in decision making,; be it through their jirgah or shoora system or just by discussion in the Khan's hujra, having in this respect an old democratic tradition. He is of the opinion that freedom is not just a word for an Afghan but means beside the national independence, an indiividual one, bound to nobody else but God and His laws.
      Then analysing the social and political structures of the Afghans and their need for better and more educational .institutions, he foresees that the future form of government in Afghanistan tends to be a de-centralized democracy. Therefore, his deduction is that the motivation and the energy for the great resistance, has emerged from faith and faith was growing through jehad. So, he poses the question, why should it hot be possible to build on this faith- not against it- a democratic movement as well? He concludes:    If# as  obvious, so
 many Afghans ask for an "Islamic Government", this does not at all indicate a demand for dictatorship through religion but to base any future government on their exercised and esteemed religious principles ...
                                             124
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
III
                                                                             VOL.A NO.2
American Researcher Evaluates Present Afghan Population at 16.9 Million
 ftDlTdk'S NOTE: The following is a summary of a report prepared (>y Thomas Eighmy an American specialist working for USAID projects for Afghanistan in Pakistan on the Afghan population. His survey was completed last year.

   EMPIRICAL BASES FOR ESTIMATING AFGHANISTAN'S POPULATION IN 1979
      This study draws upon survey evidence, sometimes published, but more often fugitive and occasionally conflicting, gathered from 1.971 to 1990. The purpose of the study is to estimate the number of Afghans in refugee status and inside the country under mujaheddin and PDPA control.
      For reasons of power, influence over rivals, and to lay greater claim to resourdes, Afghans tehd to overstate the numbers when speaking of population. Foreign observers may uncritically accept this arithmetic hyperbole for lack of alternatives. The following are current examples which have been repeated sufficiently to gain the status of conventional wisdom:
      A. 3.2 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
      B. 2.2 million Afghan refugees in Iran and elsewhere.
      C* 2.2 million Afghan residents of Kabul.:
      D. 1.2 million Afghan deaths during the war.
     • There is no- scientific basis-.for any of these numbers with the exception of the first; 'and even here the evidence is not entirely convincing.
      What is remarkable, given the diversity of views about the size- of Afghanistan's population, is the manner in which estimates converge^ and unrealistic numbers noted in section A above are exposed, once the population estimates and growth rates are placed in a. common data base and analyzed siiaultafiaously, The summarized results of this analysis at a national level are
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991            RfGllflN J1HAI)                     VOL.4 NO,2
 recorded in the Executive Summary Table (Annex I). This narrative provides a perspective for viewing those results.
      For specific planning purposes (i.e. school enrollment statistics, textbook, distribution, planning of public health immunization campaigns, distribution of food and other supplies, and election planning,) it is necessary to estimate the population by smaller units. In this case, population estimates are built up according to 325 minor civil divisions (MCD). which existed in 1973 at the time the original Afghan Demographic Studies project was carried out. These 325 minor civil divisions cover the national territory completely i.e., without missing any areas or without any overlap.
      The grouping of woluswalis into rural zones originally derived for . demographic sampling and estimating procedures reflects relative homogeneity of ethnicity, climate, agricultural practices, water and population distribution. Rural zones are thus better aggregates for agricultural production estimation, and other sectoral planning purposes than conventional but heterogeneous provinces.
      The first comprehensive and nationwide exercise to estimate -the size, demographic characteristics,    and spatial    distribution of . Afghanistan's
 population was the Afghan Demographic Studies (ADS) project funded by AID and the Afghan Ministry of Planning. The 1973 results, announced in 1975, were published at a national and province level. Printouts from the original 1975 data tapes were used in this study to break out estimates by woluswalis as no other comprehensive data set was available at that level.
      The ADS figures for a 1973 settled population of slightly over 10 million came as a surprise inside Afghanistan where informal estimates ranged between 16 and 19 million. As shown in the Executive Summary Table, (Annex I) these ADS results were subjected to minor demographic adjustments to 1974. and projected at the appropriate rate of natural increase to 1979.
      During 1978-1979, the PDPA regime, with UN assistance, attempted a complete census, pre-census activities were largely completed by the Central Statistics .Office (CSO) and limited interviewing (principally in the cities) was undertaken before the spreading resistance to the PDPA brought census operations to a halt. Using information at hand in a technically commendable effort, the CSO staff provided, independently from ADS and this study, an estimate 6 1/2% higher than the ADS projections for the same year.
      It should be noted that the 1979 CSO results were never properly a census, were not subjected to post-estimation quality control sampling, and were not
 based on controlled demographic sampling as were the earlier ADS results. Having already incremented the ADS results by an estimated 4.6% coverage .undercaun£
 (based on quality control re-interviewing) and incrementing the observed growth .rate from 2.2% to 2.4% per annum to reach the 1979 projection, the CSO results
 were reduced proportionately to converge on a '79 base settled population of 12,252,890. (see Annex I.)
                                                  126
 .JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      HtGHflN-JtHAD          ______ V0l..4 NO. ?
                        ADJUSTMENTS TO REACH THE 1990 POPULATION
     The passage from 1979 to 1990 must be made by steps. First the 1990 population by district is estimated by projecting the 1979 averaged ADS and CSO adjusted estimates by woluswali at the applicable growth rate of 2.4% per year.
      Second, this result was then reduced by 5% across the board in all rural and urban districts. The 2.4% annual growth rate! represents steady state-growth as if nothing had happened between 1979 and 1990, a patently false notion. The 5% incremental death rate applied to the projected figures is, like several assumptions here, open to challenge but nonetheless defensible. Direct combat deaths, deaths due to disruption of livelihood and shelter, deaths of children following deaths of their parents, deteriorating food, shelter and medical supplies.’ and, for the refugees, the rigors of migration clearly caused incremental deaths. The only measure of this was an estimated 9.3% death rate, verging on "decimation",, determined by a survey of Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The author's of that study belifeve that this figure also applies to those who remained in the country, but have no empirical basis for stating this.. Indeed, they note that major disruptions to refugees occurred in the year of their flight. The utilization of this 9,3% (or 10%) death rate has given rise to the belief that more than 1 million Afghans have been killed in the war.
      However, the 9.3% rate seems too high to apply to non-refugees across the entire country. When combined with known refugee out-migrations, it leads to "negative" populations in a large number of districts. In short, zero percent is too low, 10% appears too high, and 5% is what has been used in this study. For whatever it is worth statistically, this equals 795,2-58 incremental war deaths. A higher number is possible, in fact likely in contested districts. The nation's war dead may indeed be over 1,000,000, but there is no way of knowing.
      •third, this projected population is reduced by the Afghan refugees in Pakitan. Here we have used the official Government of Pakistan figure and results of the most* recent Refugee Origin Survey ‘-provided by UNHCR. The GOP/UNHCR official estimates when divided by the number of Origin Survey household heads, yields an average household size of 7.3, not inconsistent with independent measures of household size based on surveys in Afghanistan, the refugee camps, and neighboring parts of Pakistan (See Annexes I, II and- III). This provides some internal verification of the correctness of official figures. When the larger household size of 8.77 as determined in a UN survey in the camps was used, the result again yielded too many "negative" woluswali populations inside. The balance of evidence suggests that the early refugee base estimates may have been too high due to over registration, duplicate registration, and possibly poor control of ration cards.
           * ‘
      Conversely, the present official figures may understate the actual number of refugees (registered and unregistered). The rates of refugee increase from new births, unregistered refugees, the cut-off of most registration by the Government of Pakistan in the summer of 1988 upon the signature of the Geneva Accords, and finally the ration limitation at 6 persons, per household all
                                                   121
. JANUARY-MARCH, 1991             Alllllflfl JtHAll                 VOL.4 NO. 2
converge on the official figure. This assumes that any average in the official registered figures are offset by unregistered refugees. In this analysis, if the true refugee figure is lower than the official figure, as some still suggest,, the population alive inside Afghanistan is increased accordingly.
     Fourth, from the remaining population, an estimate of Iranian refugees by district has been subtracted. The Iranian government has been slow to conduct any studies or release detailed internally consistent or verifiable information. If we assume 2.2 million is correct, a further conceptual breakdown is possible. Many migrated before 1978-1979 and are effectively integrated into Iranian society. Many who travelled after that date will not return. The Afghan population in Iran tends to be male dominant and working in cities. This reflects male selective seasonal or permanent labor migration, a tradition in western Afghanistan.
     Areas where the percentage of migration to Iran was highest are those closest to the Iranian border, central Shia areas populated heavily by Hazaras, and the troubled dryland farmed Loess hills of Badghis and Herat. Subtracting 2 million presumed Afghan refugees to Iran from these target areas once again produced too many "negative" populations. One million seemed too low a number given the information that we do have from Iran. One and one half million was the target figure used, prorated among the rural zones according to the'above criteria (distance from Iran, ethnicity/religion, agricultural characteristics) as agreed upon with panels of Afghans from this area. When the individual woluswali estimates were added, without further reference to the 1.5 million target figure, the total was 1.278 million, the figure used in this- analysis.
     Fifth, an allocation algorism accounted for both the nomad population and districts where Pakistan and Iran refugees subtracted from the projected 1990 population resulted in a small number of "negative" populations. The true nomad population was identified by ADS after a nomad survey in 1974 as slightly over 1 million. Given the degree of semi-nomadism in Afghanistan, the visual impact of tents, yurts and caravans on the move (the same caravan seen by people at different places) and the concentration of nomads along highways, great care had to be taken to avoid over-estimation and double-counting. Refugee sources indicated that as part of the CSO census effort, a similar exercise was made in the late 1970's. Despite CSO's "announced" figure of 2,500,000 the CSO nomad census estimated only 800,000 true nomads (plus 500,000 semi-nomads, local nomads and" harvesters). Conditions leading to the reduction .of the true nomad population (i.e., the conversion from pastoral nomadiism to settled farming, trading, and urban pursuits) were clearly present in 1974.
     By an additional assumption, no woluswali could have less than 20%. of its projected 1990 population. Somewhere among the ruins or hidden up the valleys in the most war ravaged districts, at least 20% of the projected population is assumed to still be alive. The problem then became one of adjusting districts with ^'negative" populations or populations below 20% of the 1990 projections once the Pakistan and Iranian refugees had been subtracted. When these anomalous. districts were mapped, it became apparent that many of the refugees in answering the UNHCR's origin question may not have answered for their home district but rather- the point from which they exited Afghanistan,- e.g., •Ja-ji, Torkham,
128
 vJANUARY-MARCH, 1991          __
 Assadabad, or some well known point not far from the border, e.g.-, Khost, Sarobi.
      T?he rural zones most .^affected by "negative” populations in some districts are known to. be winter pasture areas for nomads. This fact, combined with the propensity for heads-of-households to name the place from which they left Afghanistan rather than the place where they actually lived, explains most of the anomalies. Furthermore, the internally displaced non-nomads also gather in. these staging areas prior to crossing the borders into Pakistan, or to be able to do so, depending upon conditions,•especially food supply. Both nomads and the internally displaced are especially subject to this concentration close to the border and sources of external support given their lost livelihood (livestock, farms, and urban occupations). Other negative figures are due to refugees listing the dominant woluswali or loy woluswali in their area rather than the sub-districts (alaqadaris) which are also represented in the data base. Thus., readjustment of nomads and internally displaced populations within the rural zones removed the "negative" district populations while accounting for internally displaced refugees ahd nomads.
      Sixth and finally we adjusted for Kabul, the national capital, largest metropolitan area and by all anecdotal accounts, the PDPA city most swollen with new arrivals. Kabul and its contiguous districts were projected to about 1 million by the general formula. Again, 2 or 2.2 million is the figure commonly heard, although there is no empirical basis for it. Reports indicate considerable urban, crowding, new construction and reconstruction of old winter damaged houses in the hills within the city limits. But, the same features where
 noted in the 1970s. Furthermore the most current migration trend is -still outward. Taking Kabul city and the contiguous areas (those largely within the PDPA lines), and projecting not the merged ADS and CSO base but, in this case the higher 1979 CSO base at 6% per year instead of 2.4%, without removal of the 5% incremental war deaths, yields a figure of 1,787,896. This is higher than the base projections by about 800,000. The 6% growth rate and other adjustments yields a growth factor between 1979 and 1990 almost 3 times the rate of natural increase, permitting significantly high in-migration into Kabul. As hostilities end, the Kabul population may be the easiest figure in this analysis to verify.
      The summation of the populations of all cities (including the outlying areas within their districts), known to be under the control or influence of the PDPA, total approximately 4,358,990, This is probably on the high side as most of the rural areas of the districts containing the cities are known to be in resistance hands. Thus, 4 million is considered to be the probable upper limit of areas under PDPA control or influence, the latter not necessarily implying approval.
      SUMMARY
      Tautologically and inferentially, the following statements apply to various elements of Afghanistan as noted in the Executive Summary Table (Annex I) and the six steps outlined in the previous section.
      A. We are reasonably confident of the population (settled and nomad) in 1979 at the commencement of major destruction, war-related deaths, and refugee
                                         129
 JANUARY "MARCH, 1991                         _______________________VOL .4 NO • j_
 out-migration. It is approximately 13,052,890 based upon independent projections by the ADS survey and the CSO partial census.
      B. Between 1979 and 1990, after adjusting for births and deaths (Steps
 1,2) the total settled and nomad population (approximately 16,904,904) either remains in its WCluswali or moves.                              * .
      C.      Those who remain or the internally displaced who travel short distances will be included among the residual 1990 population alive inside Afghanistan (approximately 12,363,225).
      D. Those who move either cross the border or not.
      E. Those who cross the border into Pakistan or are born,there (approxi-
 mately 3,271,580) or to Iran (approximately 1,277,700) have been accounted for in steps 3 and 4.            '
      F.      Nomads and internally displaced who enter the Pakistan border area are accounted for in Step 5 (approximately 764,904). Nomads not thus accounted for are "free" to continue to move between Afghanistan and Pakistan (approximately 221, 552) .
      G. Those internal refugees (net in-migrants) who have moved to Kabul (approximately 816,066) are accounted for in Step 6.
      H.      There is no way to enumerate other internal migrants who have moved to other cities (probably more than off-set by out-migrants from the same cities), o_r have moved to non-border areas, or have moved within their own woluswalis or rural zones. They probably number less than those already accounted for in Steps 5 and 6.
      I. The residual is the population remaining alive inside Afghanistan (approximately 12,363,225).
      J. Those in areas of PDPA influence or -control include Greater Kabul (Kabul and 3 adjacent woluswalis) with a population of approximately 1,787,896. To this a maximum of 42 other districts containing provincial capitals and other towns known to be under PDPA control or influence (population approximately 2,571,094) may be added. The residual in resistance held areas is approximately 8,004,235 or more people. Resistance controlled areas thus contain over 65% of the population remaining inside Afghanistan. Significant refugee return would further increase the population of these areas.
                                          130
                                                         i
JANUARY-MARCH» 1991         WllllflllJIHAD               VOL.4 NO.2
                                            ANNEX 1
AFGHANISTAN'S POPULATION EXECUTIVE SUMMARY TABLE
Date Base                Population  Comment                 
1973 ADS Unadjusted                                          
     . Settled Rural     8,670,722   Published ^'2           
     Settled Urban       + 1,509,597                         
     Nomad               Unknown                             
     Total Settled       10,180,319                          
1974 ADS Adjusted                                            
     Settled Rural                   4.6% Undercount         
     and Urban           10,882,753  2.2% Natural Increase * 
     Nomad                1,074,000  Unpublished             
     Total Afghanistan   11,956,753  325 Woluswali/ 1        
                                     Alagadaris              
1979 ADS Projected                                           
     Settled Rural                                           
     and Urban           12.252.890  2.4% Annual Natural     
          Nomads_^CS02 a +. 800,000  Increase                
     - Total Afghanistan 13.052.890  Unpublished             
                                         11,074,620 1,976,738 IIToilTIil        Published 3
                                         ___800,000        Unpublished       I
                                         1378517358
                                                            2.4% Annual Natural Increase less 5% 15,918,448        Incremental  Deaths on
                                                            ADS Base. (For Greater Kabul, 6% Annual‘Natural Increase plus net in-migration, no inpremental deaths)
 Nomads   "Settled"                                        See Text
   (Allocated)                           +  764,904
 Total Settled                           16,613,352
 Nomads "Free"
                                         +__22 1,552       Inside & Outside
 Total Afghanistan                                         Afghanistan
 (Insi'de & Outside)                     16,904,904
1979                CSO
                  Settled Rural Settled Urban Total Settled
                  Nomads__________
                  Total Afghanistan
1990               Projections
                  Settled Rural and Urban
                                           131
 i
 JANUARY-MARCH.1991   fllGH/INJiHJlD                  VOL.4 NO.2
 Less Refugees
   Pakistan                              - 3,271,580      Published
   Iran & Other                          - 1,277,700      Est. by Woluswalis'
   Adjustment__________^__L______—_________
 Total Alive                                       4
   Inside Afghanistan                     12,363,225
         ■1- 1 Less PDPA Control oir Influence
 ■ Greater Kabul &                        -1,787,896
   Other Urban Centers & Adjacent
   Districts _     ■ _   '_■;___  ._______ #.571^094
4 woluswalis/alaqadaris
42 woluswalis/ Alaqadaris
Total PDPA . .
                                                                                  Control or Influence
 4,358,990        Probable Maximum
Resistance Conttol or Influence Inside Afghanistan
 8,004,235        279 woluswalis/
           ,      alaqadaris
 1)   ADS - Afghan Demographic Studies - Ministry of Planning and State University of New York, Buffalo (SUNY), Project assisted by AID, j.971 -1975.
 2)   Minor modifications on SUNY report made by Pinkerton Computer Consultants,
    . funded by AID .                                                 -
 3)   CSO - Central Statistics Office, People’s Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. Project assisted by United Nations, 1978 - 1980.
 4)   All figures in this table are indicative. Exact numbers are the result of projection formulas and individual,^ Woluswali/Alaqad&ri .adjustments required for internal consistency of the detailed tables (Annexes IV, V).
                                         ANNEX II
                                  Some Comparisons of Demographic Measures
                                         for ■
                               Afghanistan and NWFP/Balochistan (Pakistan)
                    Area                    Population (000)
                   Sc^Knu
                                              (•72)              ('81)
 NWFP                74521                     8392              11061
 Balochistan        212122                     2432               4332
                   421711                      10824             15395
                                              (•73)              (*79)
 Afghanistan        636265                     10180             13053
                                          132
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991         MANJIHAD                     VOL.4 NO.2
                                                                               
                      Surveyed Growth Rate % per  Year                         
                      Total   Rural                     Urban                  
         1973 ADS CBR 4.30           4.40               3.80 : .               
                  CDR 2^10           2.24               1.30?                  
                   NI 2.20           2.16               2.50                   
         1979 CSO CBR 4.80?   5.00?                     4.00 Note; The CSO     
                  CDR ; *2^20        2^30               1.80 crude birth       
                   NI ' 2.60         2.70               2.20 rate appears      
Most likely estimate  2.40%                             too high               
                      Apparent Population Growth  Rates                        
                            % Per Year                                         
NWFP/Balochistan      , '72 - •81                       3.99                   
Afghanistan (Settled)                                                          
   ADS *73 Unadjusted   •73 - '79 '                     4.23                   
   CSO '79 -^adjusted                                                          
 .ADS..'74 Adjusted     •74 - ' 79                      3 d 70                 
’ CSQ .'79 Unadjusted                                                          
Inherent                 74 _ ' 79                      2.40                   
  ADS '74 Adjusted                                (used for projection to ’90) 
  CSO '79 Adjusted                                                             
                                     Household_Size
1973 ADS              6..23                            Total 1972 NWFP 6.1
                       6.17 Rural                    Balochistan   6.3
                       6^60__Urban______________________________________
  1979 CSO              6.19 Total            1981  NWFP       ,  6.87
                       6.16 Rural                    Balochistan  7.34
                       6.13 Urban
  1988 UN                8.55 (Unadj.)
  (Refugees)           8.77 (Adj.)
  1989  UN Origin
    Survey        '     7.33 (Derived) ”-366 Annex  ill.
                                                Sex Ratio
  1973 AIDS            115.6  Total    1972   NWFP
                       115.9  Rural
                       113.9  Urban
  1979 CSO             105.8  Total    1981   NWFP
                       105.3 Rural
                       109.0                      Urban 1988 UN                 95.4 Unadj.
    Refugees            94.5  Adj.
 109.4
 108.3
 113.2
 108.7 Baloc. 111.5
 107.3         109.8
 117.1         121.0
                                             133
   JANUARY-MARCH., 1991          RIRHflH  JIHAD                     VOL.4 NO.2
                 •   '        I'    .    •          '  .
                                               ANNEX 111
          AFGHAN REFUGEES POPULATION  STATISTICS            
     . !    (SOURCE SAFRON, GOVT. OP  PAKISTAN)             
  DATE      NWFP    BALOCHISTAN         PUNJAB     TOTAL    
Dec  1988 2>238,905 . 835,650          180,032   3,254,587, 
Jan  1989           • . .                                   
Feb  1989 2,238,825 835,723            170,934    3*254,482 
'Mar 1989 2,240,601 836,055            170,903    3,256,559 
Apr  1989 2,236,931                                         
May  1989 2,239,393 841,936            189,841    3,261,170 
Jun  1989 2,240,421 842,032            170,841    3,262,294 
Jul  1989 2,239,290 841,964-           179,644    3,262,103 
Aug  1989 2,240,261 842,2.01           179,641    3,262,103 
Sep  1989 2,240,529 842,259            170,631    3,262,419 
Oct  1989 2,241,702 850,026            179,578    3,271,304 
   Household size'                            Refugees'      3,271,304 =  7.33
   (UNHCR Origin Survey)             Heads of Household       .445,796
                                             134
JANUARY-MARCH,      1991           nui                                      VOL. 4 no.2     
                    -              PROVINCE SUMMARY                                         
                                                                      Page 1 of  1          
NAME OF STRATA NO;    OF AREA      RURAL    *90     (-)PAK.  (-)IRAN   NOMADS/        •90 ; 
              DISTRICTS  SQ. KM.   DEN-  POPULATION REFUGEES  REFUGEES ALLOCATED POPULATION 
                                   SITY  PROJECTION                              ADJUSTED | 
                                                      i 1                                   
01 KABUL              i3 4720.1     58.7    2280417  250082     looooo    122446  2052781 | 
02 KAPISA              9 5403.9     55.4     433163  10003           o         o   423160 \ 
03 PARWAN           9.   5959.9    62.4.     530679  38330        3600         0     488748 
04 WARDAK           9    9699.2     31.8     398910  17708        9000         0     372202 
05 LOGAR            6    4408.9     42.7     264973  215737          0     52424     101661 
06 GHAZNI(Reduced)15     21381.3    24.0     770684  52090       17800   / 7 ■ o     700794 
07 PAKTIKA            18 19409.3     7.6     250855  94295           0     31120     187679 
08 PAKTIA(Reduced)2 6    9778.5     32.6     523812  529807          0   .227301 221890 4 ! 
09 NANGARHfVR         21 7607.4'    97.0    1002883  519957          0     21823 533912 |   
10 LAGHMAN             6 7227.1     36.0     379065  81555           0         0     297509 
11 KUNAR'             13 10551.6    20.6     308093  210996          0     49188     146799 
12 BADAKHSHAN       <13  40885.8     8.5     554374      316         0         0     554059 
13 TAKHAR             12 12325.3    26.6     557531  18237           0       " 0     539295 
14 BAGHLAN            10 17164.7    12.4     4840^6  221263       1500    13601. 275614"    
15 KUNDUZ              7 7928.0     34.3     576574  293623          0     84940     367891 
16 SAMANGAN           •6 16639.7    11,0   312524 ,  18156        1400         0     292968 
17 BALKH             .41 12284.2   26,6,  . 629223   40957        2600         0   585665 ] 
18 JAUZJAN •          12 26226.3    14.9     677883  59121       10700         o 608062 1   
19 FARYAB             13 21306.3    18.7     674001   67 30'     1300,       7 o   665971 j 
20 BADGHIS             6 21677.8    10.5     317527      ' 0    167100         o     150427 
21 HERAT              13 38798.8    13.7     870404      719   487000-         0 382685 I   
22 FARAH              11 591'46.6    3.9     377802  11566      237100         0     130608 
23 NIMROZ              5 41724.1     2.4    139851,     4044     85000         0     50*928 
24 HELMAND            13 62336.8     4.9     541554  212941      50400     53796 337001     
25 KANDAHAR           16 49371.6     7.6     737761  292434      37200     65923     474051 
26 ZABUL               9 17068.3     6.5     186113  60457        4100      5577     127134 
27 ORUZGAN             9 28929.3    11.2   501796 '     9863  . ,31000         0     460932 
28 GHOR                7 38757.9     4.3     318378      382     15500         0     302497 
29 BAMIAN              7 17546.4    11.4     317143      213     15400         0     301530 
   UNASSIGNED                                                              36765            
     TOTAL SETT-LED 325 636265.-1   13.6  15918448   3271580 12-77 700   '764904 12134072 | 
                  )                                                                         
                                            135        -     -                        1 . ; 
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
LATEST FACTS, FIGURES ABOUT AFGHAN PROVINCES
Jauzjan   ; Kapisa;Kunduz ; Laghman
          EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are accounts of latest information on social and economic conditions in Five provinces of Afghanistan worked out by the Operation SAtAMi Information on 18 provinces have already been published in the previous issues of the Afghan Jehad,
Jauzjan ;
 Area (sq. km.):
 Official Population (1979 Census): Estimated 1990 Population:
     of which:  At Home  Population
   , >         Refugees
 Provincial Capital:
 Districts (Woluswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
  25*, 548 588,609 677,880 608,060 69,820 Sheberghan
                                                   12
       At the crossroads between the Soviet republics of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to the north and the Hazarajat highlands, to the south, Jauzjan has remained largely untouched by the war. Limited rehabilitation activities have taken place in the province. The population, mainly of Uzbek origin and including a large number of Turkomen in the north, did not migrate in large numbers during the course of the war. Semi-nomadic tent-dwellers living along the Amu River are mainly of Pashtun stock. According to reports, village populations have remained relatively stable.
       UN missions visited the area during the spring and summer 1990 to open communications and supply routes. The distribution of wheat during 1990, either through bazaar sales at subsidized prices or through emergency assistance to vulnerable groups, have been the primary form of assistance to this population.’
                     Recent locust and sunn pest infestation has greatly decreased agricultural yields in the province. To combat the plague in the region and to rehabilitate the provincial economy, operation SALAM provided an initial? delivery of pesticides during the spring of 1990 in Sat-e,-Pul and surrounding districts.
                                          136
  JANUARY "MARCH , 1991           HfGHllN JtHflD                      V0L.4  N0.2
 "According to ON assessments, the province has the potential to produce a wheat surplus once a comprehensive locust and sunn pest control. program is being successfully implemented.
      Through a UNDP/FAO-supported program, .new varieties of wheat seed were delivered to Sar-e-Pul, Sang Charak- and Kohistanat districts to assist farmers. Through the UNDP support to NGOs project, veterinary services are being provided that may. benefit ais many as 1,500 'herdsmen. As part of vocational training/ program, a UNESCO-supported project for the rehabilitation of ikat and plain silk weaving has been approved.                    -
      In Sheberghan district, UNICEF distributed medical supplies and essential drugs. During a-UN assessment mission to the provincial capital,?a nutritional survey was carried out in 18 surrounding villages, with an evaluation of health needs and facilities. FFW activities have been organized to lay the groundwork for the rehabilitation of the' local physical infrastructure. These activities have provided essential'Assistance to many needy families in the province.
      Roads in need of extensive repair have been indentified; -priority is being. given to those linking the provincial capital, sheberghan, to Faryab and Balkh provinces.                          '
 UN Agenies;
 FAO, UNDP, UNESCO, UNICEF, WFP
 Implementing NGOs:                                                        ",
 AAA, ACAF, AMI, FMD, IMC, SCA, SNI, UNO
                                                          137
                                                                      ' ■ /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           /
JANUARY-MARCH# 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
                                                                            A
                                                                     Khamyab /# \
/
 ' #V..
 ' Qarqin S. /
 r —n
 i
\
 ________-i
■\      7   '    i
Mengajek^ 'Mard*an , v        S\ •    »
  \Aqcha0\ r^V
                                                                              v-r1; 5
                                                                                /Paizabad
                                           (
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF JAUZJAN/SAR--E-PUL PROVINCE
 International boundary            1
 Province boundary         •       1
 Woluswali and Al.aqad3.ri boundary" Paved road
      |   \  BALKH Province Center
\ y        \       Woluswali center
   * ***■               \ Alaqadari Center
                                                       \ ;
SAR-E-PUL
FARYAB

 (
/
r
)
j
I
\
r
Kohistanat
                                                                                               S^ng Charak ^
                                                                                            < (
\
 "\
(
v
 f
r
 s'

/

 ® Balkha
N

/
/
■V
SAMANGAN
V

V
J
bamian ^
 GHOR
\
r
v
V
 0 10 20 I___I___I_
50 km ___I
1*38
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991         flfCHflHJEHAD                VOL.4 NO.2
Kapisa
 Area (sq.km.):                            5,382
 Official Population (1979 Census):      345,775
 Estimated 1990 Population:              433,160
    of which: At Home Population         423,160
             Refugees                     10,00.
 Provincial Capit&l:                     Mahmood Raqi
 Districts (Woluswalis) and
 Sub-districts (Alaqa.daris):                  9
       This small, mountainous province, situated north of Kabul, lies in the Panjshir Valley. It was visited by the Salam 3 Mission in October 1988 to assess local needs and to provide recommendations for future UN rehabilitation work. No further mission has taken place since that time and no major program has yet been initiated.             Kapisa has established civilian entities under     the
 Shoora-e-Nazar ("Shoora of the North") with the possibility of acting as UN counterparts in rehabilitation activities.         .
 * While there are few refugees from this province, according to. reports there-are many internally displaced persons. Reconstruction work, and a certain amount of return was already noted by the SALAM missiqrr, which recommended several assistance programs to reinforce the trend.
    V Agriculture is the main activity. Farm size is generally less than 10 jeribs (five acres) in Kapisaj local yields have declined considerably as a result of lack of fertilizer and other inputs. Through its 1989--90 program, FAO provided 98 MT of wheat seed and 20 MT of DA^ fertilizer to the North Eastern Valleys, including Panjshir. By late September 1990, PAO had approved projects involving the distribution of 152 MT of improved wheat seed to the North Eastern Valleys . through its 1990-91 program. FAO/UNHCR have supplied 10 MT of Blue Silver improved wheat seed for multiplication, and a crop protection project has been completed. UNDP is considering projects for the development of animal farm power, land and water resources. Plans include the reconstruction of 15 km of canal in Kohistan, the establishment of fruit seed nurseries in Panjshir, and the construction and repair of roads in Taqa-Ozbin.
       Health facilities, such as the hospitals in Rocha and Anawa, are badly in need of rehabilitation. WHO is funding the'upgrading of a clinic and a hospital, and a major countrywide program for drug supplies and quality conttol (of medicines and their storage has been initiated that provides necessary supplies to Kapisa. Medical facilities are currently run by Afghan staff trained in Peshawar. These individuals work in more than 20 locations.
       The Panjshir Valley was heavily mined during he war. Effective demining operations, halve been carried out by the local population, who have now been joined by UN-trained deminers. It is planned to. intensify this activity in the months to come in collaboration with the Shodra-e-Nazar.                     ♦
  UN_A2encies£_ FAO, UNDP, UNHCR, WHO
 ' Afghanaid, AMI, Avicen, DCA, FMD, GAF, IMC, ISR, MSH, NCA, SAG, SCA, SNI, SERVE, UNO, VITA •
                                                    • 139
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF KAPISA PROVINCE
  International boundary
  Province boundary
  Uoluswazli and Alaqadari boundary
  Paved road
  Province Center
  Woluswali center
  Alaqadari Center
Kapisa
parwan
50km
140
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
>
 Area (sq. km.):
 Official Population (1979 Census): Estimated 1990 Population:
      of which:   At Home Population
                  Refugees Provincial Capital:
 Districts '(Holuswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
                                                                                                    7,825
                                                                                                  555,437
                                                                                                 *576,580
                                                                                                  382,960
                                                                                                  293,620
 Kunduz
                                                                                                        7
      Situated on the border of Tadjikistan SSR, Kunduz is crossed by a major north-to-south supply route from Dushanbe to Kabul that was .severely damaged during the war. A. critical east-west supply route from the northern provinces, also crosses Kunduz. The section of this route that runs from Mazar-e-Sharif (Balkh province) through Kunduz to Faizabad (Badakhshan province) is largely inoperable. Most supplies destined for Badakhshan| are currently routed through the USSR. Opening this route will facilitate the movement of supplies to the Northeastern provinces.
      It is estimated that 70% of the farmers in the province cultivate holdings between six and 15 jereebs (3-7.5 acres) in size. Wheat, rice, barley and cotton are the main crops. Agricultural production has declined sharply in recent years' as a result of the scarcity of labor, the decline in farm .power and the lack of irrigation. Although many farmers are familiar with the use of fettiliizers, these are in very short supply. In its 1990^91 program, FAO has approved projects involving the distribution of 152 MT of improved wheat seed to the northeastern Valleys, including Khanabad and Chahardara in Kunduz. In addition, UNDP has completed a seed testing and multiplication project to select appropriate varieties for the area including country-wide rehabilitation and reconstruction program. Provision of these inputs, coupled with the sharing of oxen or tractors already ...practised on certain farms, is expected to. revive production.                                          *•
      According to reports, a number of internally displaced persons are currently returning to their home villages. UNHCR has indicated that a significant number of returning refugees requesting assistance in Herat or Kabul are on their way home to Kunduz.
                                       Assistance is being provided by the UN for veterinary services through an NG0. An initial assessment survey of a 40 km irigation canal, an agricultural survey and extension work are also' being completed in the a^ea. Additional pro jects , involving ... vegetable seed , ‘multiplication and agricultural skills development are currently under review. UNOCA/WFP is supporting art FFW project for the rehabilitation of the Gaw Kush canal that wi\l irrigate 500 hectares of agricultural land.                                                                                                                                                                                                      ._
      Health care is provided mainly by health workers trained in Peshawar by
    JANUARY-MARCH, 1991           WAN JIHAD                   VOL.4 NO. 2
     various NGOs, According to the WHO database, a total of 35 medical facilities are operational in the province. A government hospital providing essential .services for the urban population is located in the city of Kunduz. WHO is » building a health clinic and has approved a major program for drug procurement and for the quality control and storage of medicines.
‘         No specific  program has yet been undertaken to repair or improve physical
     infrastructure. Pending the return of refugees, the local labor shortage is a-major constraint to large-scale rehabilitation in the province. A UN mission is envisaged to assess the extent of damage to public and private buildings. A socio-economic survey of the province is being undertaken by UNIDATA. The results are expected to be available by November.
     UN Agencies:
     FAO, UNDP, UNHCR, WFP, WHO Implementin2_NG0Sj_ ,
     Afghanaid, AMI, Avicen, DCA, FMD, GAF, SCA, MSH,)UNO
V,
                                              142
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
 VOL.4 NO.2
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF
   KUNDUZ PROVINCE
   International boundary
   Province boundary
   Woluswali and Alaqadari boundary
   Paved road
   Province Center
   Woluswali Center
   Alaqadari Center

 143
JANUARY-MARCH* 1991          fllCllilNJ[HAD               VOL.4 tyO.2
  Laghman
   Area (sq. km.):                       7,209
   Official Population (1979 Census):  310,751
   Estimated 1990 Population:          379,510
      of which: At Home Population     297,510
               Refuggees                81,560
   Provincial Capital:                Mehterlam
   Districts (Woluswalis) and
   Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):               6
         Laghman is situated in a mountainous region, featuring deep, narrow valleys in the north and agricultural land along the southern border of-Kabul province. Given the difficulty of transportation and communication in the region, this province has received very limited assistance. Because there is no regional Shoora to act as a UN counterpart, it is difficult for tile UN to implement projects in the area.
         Tribal relations between the iour ethnic groups- Nooristani, Kohistani, Tajik and Pashtun- are reported to be relatively stable. The northern valleys of the province, which experienced little migration, have been virtually unaffected by the war. The south, however, suffered extensive destruction: it is estimated that nearly 80,000 refugees have moved from this part 6f the province to Pakistan. There are no reports of.any major return so far.
         The traditional sources of income- farming, livestock, the timber trade and transportation- have greatly suffered during the past decade. Before the war there was considerable migration to urban centers and family members were often sent abroad. Agriculture in the high, northern valleys continues according to traditional practices. Agricultural . constraints include the lack of farm power, the prevalence of livestock disease and the scarcity of seed and irrigation, which have resulted in greatly increased food prices.
       ; In its 1989-90 program, FAO distributed 2 MT of improved wheat seed in the province. By September 1990, FAO had approved projects involving distribution of 22 MT of wheat seed and 22 MT DAP fertilizer as part of its 1990-91 program. Additionally, it is expected that FAO will provide fruit trees and poplars to Laghman, during 1990-91. Three UN-supported projects in the agriculture sector have been undertaken by NGOs so far. Additional activities supported through operation SALAM include the strengthening of veterinary clinics, local irrigation rehabilitation, distribution of herbicide and'provision of. seed for multiplication. Additional projects'are under review.
         Seiveral NGOs are working in the health sector to support and supply local medical trainees and vaccinators. A high incidence of malaria.is reported. WHO attempted to undertake a malaria spraying program through the Ministry of Health, but this effort was rejected by the local population.
         NGOs support a total of 76 operational schools and madrassas, of which 20 are for girls, supported by various NGOs, resulting in a relatively high level of education within the province. yN_Agencies£_ pAO, UNDP, UNHCR, WHO
                    AAA, AMI, ASA, Avicen, CAS, DCA, FMD, ISR, IIRO, LBI, MAR, MADERA, MSH, SCA, UNO
                                              144
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
   ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF
   LAGHMAN PROVINCE
   International boundary
   Province boundary                     .<■.
   Woluswali and Alaqadari boundary — —— Paved road Province Center Woluswali Center Alaqadari Center
BADAKHSHAN
 KUNAR
NANGARHAR
   JANUARY-MARCH, 1991 ftfCHllHJtHflD __ VOL.4 NO.2
  Logar
    i  •
     Area (aq. km.):              ;                        3,944
     Official Population (1979 census):                  202,823
     Estimated 1990 Population:                          264,970
         of which: At Home Population                     49,230
                    Refugees in Pakistan                 215,740
     Provincial Capital:...                           Pul^e-Alam
     Districts (Woluswalxs) and
     Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):                               6
          Prior to the war, Logar province was considered "the granary of Kabul". More recently, Logar- was identified as one of the provinces where agriculture has suffered most. Today many Logaris reportedly travel to Kabul to buy goods, so long as the main road remains open and prices in the capital are acceptable. Logar is among the provinces considered a priority area for UN assistance in view of the high number of refugees originating from it.
          Almost 80% of the province's total population consists of refugees owing to the proximity of intense fighting around the capital. According to a recent UN mission to Azro district, as many as 90% of the houses have been destroyed. It has been reported that 40% of the refugees in Azro district have returned. The UN will target assistance to facilitate their resettlement.
          Within the past year, a bazaar has been established at Deh Naw. The Kolangar and Mohammad Agha bazaars on the Kabul-Gardez road, however,' have been almost completely destroyed. Given its location, the province is a center of trade with central Afghanistan as well as Kabul and Pakistan. Fruit, especially grapes, apples and vegetables, have traditionally been the main products of Logar. Despite frequent conflicts along its routes, trade with Kabul has continued. The major route from Kolangar to the capital is in good condition and has remained open.
          Due to the decrease in local irrigation and labor, agricultural production has declined dramatically. In its 1989-90 proigramt FAO distributed 34 MT of wheat seed as well as 35 MT DAP and 85 MT urea fertilizers to the province. In addition, FAO distributed 9,500 fruit trees- including apple, apricot, peach and plum- during 1989-90, mainly to the district of Baraki Barak. By September 1990, FAO had approved projects involving the provision of 96 MT of improved wheat seed and 69 MT of DAP fertilizer to Logar. 2000 poplar cuttings were planted in nurseries in Baraki Barak for rooting and propagation through FAO as part of its 1990-91 program. Operation SALAM has also supported a crop protection program in the province. Animal husbandry and irrigation rehabilitation projects are being also currently supported through operation SALAM.
                          VA UN mission to selected areas reported that a significant proportion of the land in Azro district is cultivated with cannabis. Crop substitution
                                             146
                                                         SHAH M.' BOOK CD.
                                                         P.0. Box 1328, Kabul, Afghaniste.i Chahrahi Saddarat TeL 25SS1
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
    programs are still difficult to implement under the present conditions. The mission also assessed the rehabilitation of the hospital in Azro district. EPI activities, already being provided in some areas, will be expanded as hospital facilities improve.
         Prior to the’ war, Logar was distinguished for its high level of education. Fifty-eight schools for boys and 29 schools for girls previously operated in the province. The war and resulting depopulation have almost totally disrupted formal education. The UN is assessing means of • potentially bolstering the education sector in the province.
    FAO, UNDP, UNHCR, WHO Implementing NGOs;
    ACLU, AFRANE, AHS, AMA, AMI, ARC, ASA, DCA, DACAAR, DNT, FMD, GAC, GAF, HCI, IMC, IRC, ISR, LBI, MAR, MSH, NCA, NRC, SCA, SNI, UNO, VITA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
 *
                                               147
  '/
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF LOGAR PROVINCE
 International boundary Province boundary Woluswali and Alaqadari boundary Paved road
 Province Center vJoluswali Center Alaqadari Center
HARDAK/Maidan          PUL-E-ALAM
                ; \             i
GHAZNI
 10
20
_1_
50 km ___I
 148
{ JANUARY-MARCH. 1991 minim yoL.4 no.2 |
    INSTITUTIONS WORKING FOR AFGHANISTAN:
AFRANE; AMI) AF; ARC JAVICEN} CARE I NT ER N ATI 0 N ALE; CR S; C FI D;
DACAAR; desp ; dca ;
         EDITOR'S NOTE: Hundreds of institutions are busy in Peshawar in various kind of help to Afghans • The ARIC in a publication has produced the profiles of many of these institutions• The following are the second instalment profiles of these institutions•
 AFRANE was founded in Paris in 1979, by people who were already familiar with. Afghanistan and/or had previously been there. The purpose was to establish assistance to the Afghans.
       The first mission of assistance started in i980. Emergency aid was provided to the population that stayed behind in Afghanistan under the most difficult circumstances. The assistance consisted of cash for food# blankets# clothing and the subsidizing of food stocks. Each mission inside Afghanistan was undertaken by expatriate volunteers who were authorized to decide on the use of the available funds.
       Since the military situation began to improve in 1986# the program orientation moved toward agricultural assistance and rural rehabilitation and reconstruction. Priority was given to the restoration of traditional irrigation systems# such as karezes arid channels. AFRANE elso bought tractors.
       Programs oh rural development have been integrated for two years. In addition to irrigation projects# AFRANE is also involved in the Distribution of seed and grain# tree plantation# livestock breed improvement#, plant protection# tractor repair# support .of rural schools and small projects in income generation.
       These programs are implemented in: Herat, Ghazni# Kandahar, Logar and Badakhshan. AFRANE operates with the consent and cooperation of local
                                           149
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991          BfCHflMJlHflD                VOL.4 NO.2
authorities, like shooras and commanders. Some projects operate in cooperation with other NGO * s.
      In 1990, AFRANE will start a special program focusing on the mechanization of agriculture.                                      . - . .
 FUNDING: US Government, UNDP, UNHCR and IRC.
                                       AMI
 AIDE DE MEDICALE INTERNATIONALE (AMI)' is a French, humanitarian association of volunteers, founded in 1979 to respond to medical emergencies affecting third-world populations which are inaccessible to international organizations like the World Health Organization and the Red Cross.
i                        .           ._■■■.                    .
      AMI sends missions of’' two or three doctors and nurses into Afghanistan for 2-3 months to help wherever their assistance is needed. Most of the volunteers sent to Afghanistan and other countries take a few months leave from their jobs in France, the United Kingdom, Belgium.or Holland. Since May 1990, AMI has operated in 14 provinces of Afghanistan.
      In September 1985, AMI and Solidarite Afghanistan Belgium consolidated efforts to form an autonomous joint project - Medical Training for Afghans (MTA). This project, operates a 20-bed hospital with a training component, in Peshawar. The Afghan nurses trained each year return to rural Afghanistan to take care of the health structures within their own regions.
      In 1990, AMI continued its mission inside Afghanistan and evaluated the projects run by former trainees, as well and studied the possibility of starting a health training project in Hazarajat. In Pakistan, AMI also began its. sixth session of medical training and organized refresher courses for former, trainees.
                                      ... . \ "• FUNDING: Solidarite Afghanistan Belgium, AREFE (Belgium). Terre des Hommes,
          Amis Suisse de 1'Afghanistan, Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, IRC, Governments of France, Belgium and the European Community.
                    THE ASIA FOUNDATION
 THE ASIA FOUNDATION is a private, publicly funded grant-making organization founded in 1951 and based in San Francisco, California. It hats 10 resident offices and 26 country programs in Asia. According to individual country needs, the Foundation offers support in vital areas of development, complementing
 larger, and more impersonal bilateral gr multilateral official assistance ’ programs.                          . v
      Its grant activities are largely concentrated in the areas of human
                                    150
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
mi
vol.4 no.2
resource development, public administration, education, foreign trade and investment, free enterprise and business management, economic development, international'relations and diplomacy, and library development. The Foundation’s Books f3r Asia program distributes more than a million books and journals a year to thousands of schools, universities and libraries throughout Asia.
     From 1954 until 1979 the Foundation was active in Afghanistan, providing consultants, equipment/materials for institutionalizing, sponsoring exchange programs and training and modernizing public service in such institutions as the Rural Development Department, the Higher Teachers' Training College, the National Archives and Kabul Museum, Nangarhar and Kabul Universities, the Raisin and Karakul institues, the Women’s Institute, the Helmand-Argandab Valley Authority, the Academy of Science, and the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Planning, Finance,, Public Health, Foreign Affairs, and others.
     Future Foundation programming'is under discussion, and will proably include support of AIG institutional development; ACBAR and its resource and information center (ARIC); development of professional associations; and technical/ professional library development.
FUNDING:   From a number of- corporations, foundations and trusts, and major
          financial support from the US Department of State, smaller grants from USAID, USIA.
                                             ARC
 AUSTRIAN RELIEF COMMITTEE FOR AFGHAN REFUGEES (ARC) was founded in 1980 in Vienna. It was established as a relief organization to help Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Afghans in Afghanistan.
         •                     it                 '■
                               \
      Initially ARC concentrated its activities in the medical field, but since 1982/83 has expanded to run projects in sanitation, basic health education, income- generation, 'technical training and assistance to skilled Afghans. The latter project is known as ASAR (Assistance to Skilled Afghan Refugees).
      ARC runs three Primary Health Care Programs, consisting of immunization, daily curative medicine, personal and environmental hygiene,, and staff training. The latter includes training of Primary Health Workers and Traditional Birth Attendants.
      Since 1982, *ARC has been running sanitation and basic health education programs in all refugee camps in NWFP and Punjab. The aims of .these projects are to reduce the incidence of sanitation-related diseases by the construction and maintenance gf latrines, education about sanitation and basic health.
      The Technical Training Centers are comprised of vocational training workshops, each training 100 students for one year. Practical subjects, such as carpentry,, tin-working, electronics and building are taught in conjunction with t/heoretical basics. A literacy coursed has been designed for illiterate students.
                                           151
 january-march, 1991             flfCllflMJ[HAD                   vol.4 no.2
      ASAR carries out socio-economic surveys of camps to identify and test skilled refugees.Tools and equipments are then distributed and the beneficiaries and their activities are subsequently monitored. Newly established programs (1988) include poultry farming, tree nurseries and sewing projects for women. Disabled people are now being incorporated into the program. . ASAR is also extending its work into Afghanistan.
      ARC has recently expanded its cross-border activities to include agricultural, irrigation and veterinary projects in Logar, Ghazni and
 Kandahar. These projects are specifically aimed at rural, development, and though concentrating On limited areas, ARC is increasing its activities 'and staff numbers on this programme.
      Since February 1989, the Technical Training Center in Peshawar (TTCP) has trained two groups of 10 disabled students. These students were in sojne cases severely disabled and wheelchair bound. However TTCP successfully trained these students in typewriting skills, providing the materials and tutoring. They have since obtained employment with NGO's in Peshawar.
 FUNDING:  The institute for International Co-operation (IIZ-Austria); Norwegian
           Refugee Council/Norwegian Church Aid (Norway); ‘Bread for the World (FRD); NOVIB and Inter Church Aid (Netherlands); Oxfam (U.K.); HEKS (Switzerland) and UNHC^.
                                        AVICEN
 THE AFGHANISTAN VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION CENTER (AVICEN) in Peshawar was created in September 1987, as an infra-structural support to an existing vaccination campaign inside Afghanistan that began in 1983. AVICEN now includes a training center, a cold store with repair workshop, a unit for operations and one for research and analysis.
                     . / * *
      The purpose of the AVICEN program is to controlf through immunizations, six easily-preventable diseases in Afghanistan:    measles, TBC, diphteria, polio)
 whooping cpugh (pertussis), and tetanus infections.
      AVICEN has as one Of its goals-.the establishment of an Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) infra-structure within Afghanistan, through which it hopes to promote the development of other public health prd^rams as well.
      In addition to providing immunization in three refugee camps in the NWFP in Pakistan, AVICEN is currently implementing vaccination and immunization programs in 19 provinces in Afghanistan; by early 1990, this number will increase to 22.
      By .the end of September 1989, an estimated 95,391 people were vaccinated; by the end of 1989, the Center - at its current success rate- will have
 vaccinated some 180,000 people inside Afghanistan.
             ‘ '
      AVICEN puts trust in and relies on Afghan staff to implement its programs. -Training (of vaccinators, field trainers and, supervisors) is, therefore, an
                                           152
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991        HIIUMIliBHlHl .              VOL.4 N0.2
 essential aspect of their approach. The implementation of its program in Afghanistan and tihe success realized has been based on the tailoring of its activities to meet i the present conditions there. AVICEN practices "an active neutrality" and works with ' all parties, ethnic and religious groups. It maintains relationships with the population in agreement with parties and commanders.
      AVICEN. plans to improve the output per. vaccinator team and reduce costs of vaccinations. Also planned are: a survey of vaccination coverage, a serological study (if funding can be found), and pilot projects in other areas of preventive medicine and public health- goitre. Vitamin A deficiency, health and hygiene training and dai training- inside Afghanistan.
 FUNDING: French Government, European Community, UNICEF, UNDP and UNHCR.
                   CARE INTERNATIONALE
     The presence of CARE INTERNATIONALE in Pakistan is for the sole purpose of providing a base of operations for support of Afghan refugees who have returned to Afghanistan and displaced persons within Afghanistan. The major purpose of support is to provide food security for a limited period of time to Afghan families engaged in rehabilitating their homes, land and general environment.
     The means of providing food is initially through food-fof-work projects organized and managed by local shooras and those entities’ cooperating with and supporting them. As needs, change, food-for-work may develop into a combination of cash- and food-for-wor^.
 FUNDING: donations of individuals, private companies, foundations and IRC.
                                      CRS
 CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (CRS) is an international relief and development NGO with headquarters in the United States and projects in over fifty countries worldwide. CRS has been active in Pakistan since 1956. Initial involvement with Afghan refugees relief in Pakistan began in 1983, with CRS as a funding agency. However, since 1986, CRS has implemented Pakistan-based refugee projects.
     CRS has three projects for Afghan arefggees in Pakistan. Two projects are in the health and' sanitation sector, one based in Baluchistan and the other in Mianwali. These two projects concentrate on providing sanitation facilities to the Afghan refugees, in health education and the training of community health workers, sanitation outreach workers and traditional birth attendants.
     The combined achievements of these two projects are 10,000 latrines constructed, 188 male community health workers trained, 288 female community health workers trained, 350 traditional birth attendants trained, and 20 outreach workers trained.
 JANUARY -MARCH , 1991_____________MUHH tKBIll                    VOL.4 NO.2
      The third relief' project, based in Baluchistan supports Afghan refugee training and income generation. This project provides training in the production of clothing and related items to needy Afghan women and disabled men, and also offers them a marketing outlet for their production. Since the inception of the project in 1966, approximately 2,000 Afghan refugee women and 50 disabled men have participated in the project..
      An agricultural project is in the planning stage for inside Afghanistan. As foreseen, the project will provide seeds, fertilizer and rehabilitation of irrigation systems.                     ■[
 FUNDING:  US Government and UNHCR.
                                           CFID
 THE COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (CFID) is based in Washington, D.C. and overseas development and relief • programs on three continents. Its programs in Pakistan and Afghanistan are commonly known by its earlier name, MERCY FUND.
      The CFID employs more than one thousand people j,n Pakistan and Afghanistan.
      CFID first began refugee relief work in Peshawar in 1986, and .now runs mobile ob-gyn clinics treating nearly 50^000 refugee women each year. Three mobile units, with Afghan women doctors and female support, staff, each week visit 18 camps in the Kohat, Peshawar and. Mardan Districts and work out of semi-permanent clinic sites.
      CFID are also pioneers in mihe-awareneSs education, having produced innovative and self-explanatory educational tools designed for illiterates without access to teachers. They ran the first-ever mine-awareness training program for men and womtjTn- in Shamshattu refugee camp, teaching hundreds of families safe ways of escaping the hazards of mines on their eventual return to Afghanistan.
      Across the border* CFID delivers tons of food and clothing to the displaced' around Jalalabad, allowing them to survive near their homes and not add to the burden borne by Pakistan's refugee camps. CFID also runs first-aid clinics in several sites in Nangarhar and Kabul Provinces.
      In May 1989, resistance forces asked .CFID to manage enormous state farm complexes outside Jalalabad. Originally built by the Soviets in the 1960s, these farms contain nearly a million olive, trees and extensive citrus orchards. The potential cash value of the crop' ^conies, close to $50 million per year and represents pre-war Afghanistan's fourth largest export commodity.
      Today CFID staffers are clearing irrigation canals, rebuilding locks, weeding and otherwise ensuring that the endangered trees survive. CFID agriculturists are also devising ways of processing and marketing the crop.
 FUNDING:  US Government, USAID and private donations.
                                           154
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991 . WGHflNJtHAD  VOL.4 NO.2
                        DACAAR
 DANISH COMMITTEE FOR AID TO AFGHAN REFUGEES (DACAAR) is a consortium set up to aid Afghan refugees which is composed of four Danish NGO's:       Danish People's
 Relief Organization, Danish Association for International Cooperation, Caritas Denmark and Danish Refugee Council.
      It has run its own projects in Pakistan since 1984 and during 1988 began to plan a rehabilitation program for Afghanistan.
      The DACAAR sewing project in the refugee camps gives an income to 747 Afghan women from embroidery and tailoring by producing items for export, local sales and UNHCR contracts. Mobile teams teach embroidery and new designs as well as looking after quality control of the work done by women in the camps, and a six month course trains women to work in the finishing workshop in Peshawar.
      DACAAR employs refugees in construction teams for site planning and the' provision of improved access roads in the camps. They took over the UNICEF water supply project in 1986 to improve and maintain shallow wells and handpump installations, and they also build bathrooms and produce health education materials relating to water and hygiene.
      DACAAR are also responsible for the maintenance of all piped water systems to refugee camps which have been installed by the NWFP Public Health Engineering Department. In 1988 their factory in Swabi began production of Indus handpumps, including a large number for UNHCR.
      Plans are now being developed for DACAAR's work in Afghanistan in irrigation, drinking water supply, roads and construction, in the provinces of Kunar, Logar, Ghazni and Paktika. A graduate training scheme for engineers and foremen is being developed in Pakistan.
      An example of DACAAR's activities is the construction of a suspension bridge in )Chazana Camp. This camp, 25 kms. north of Peshawar, is divided in two by the Kabul river. Refugees could not reach the island part of.the camp by foot and the water, supply pipeline was constantly being damaged by flood waters. DACAAR decided to build a suspension bridge funded by a Swedish group. This was very much a pilot project, *and was a new area of work for the members of the shallow well construction team/who worked on the bridge. The bridge spans 50 meters with a width of 1.2 meters and its reinforced concrete supporting columns carry a steel cable from which a walkway of mulberry wood is suspended. The bridge was opened in November 1988.
 FUNDING:  Danida, the Danish Refugee Council, the Europeat Community and UNHCR.
 THE DOMESTIC ENERGY SAVING PROJECT (DESP) was established in 1984. The aim of
 the project was to develop and disseminate energy- saving cooking and baking technologies for Afghan Refugee households in the RTVs'(Refugee Tented Villages), in NWFP.
                                           155
JANUAKY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
      In recent years the project has also become involved in the training of masons and the construction of clay-domed houses in the camps- the rationale being that this innovation would also lead to a saving of wood. At the same time it would be a useful preparation for the repatriation of Afghan refugees. Women .have always formed the most important target group of the prpject.      ,
      From the time the project was established, it was intended that technologies developed should be transferable to both the Afghan and Pakistani populations of NWFP. Furthermore, it was planned that repatriating refugees would take the technologies developed with them to Afghanistan.
      A sub-project in the framework of "The Second Phase Income-GOnerating Project for Refugee Affected Areas" is also being implemented.
      At present the project is working mostly in Afghan RTVs in different parts of NWFP. Since its establishment, about 100,000 households have adopted one of the project technologies; this includes Pakistani households who live in the vicinity of RTVs. Of special importance are the almost 750 bakeries which have been established with the support of the project. These have played an important rolo In footling him rnFugoon, onvlnq funl. and the provision of income-generation opportunities.                                       -
      The project is now considering how to expand its activities to Afghanistan. Apart from pilot dissemination activities, the emphasis during the first months will be on the collection of information. The collection of information (as well as later dissemination activities) will be conducted in cooperation with other agencies who have more extensive experience in working in Afghanistan. This approach reflects the opinion of the project that environmental protection is an issue that cannot be handled by one agency only, but should be a shared responsibility of all groups involved in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
      In 1990, the project was expected to initiate a' training and research program in the field of low-cost housing and construction as part of the preparation program for repatriation. ,
 FUNDING: German  Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), UNHCR, a consortium of
           European countries and the world bank.
                                             DCA
 THE DUTCH COMMITTEE FOR AFGHANISTAN (DCA) is based in Peshawar, with its head Office in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, under the name "Stichting Afghanistan Comite Nederland."
      Since 1985, DCA has largely concentrated its assistance inside Afghanistan through cross-border assistance projects. Operations started with cash-for-food assistance mainly in northeast Afghanistan (Panjshir). This type of assistance was, Qver the following years, extended to 15 areas in north, east and northeast Afghanistan.
      Beginning in 1988, other types of.assistance were planned in order to meet
                                             156
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO,2
 new requirements caused by the changing political-military situation. An increasing demand for more structural types of assistance in the veterinary and agricultural sector was emerging and there was need for programs to be designed to begin rehabilitation of the agricultural economy.
     A major constraint for the farmers was their loss of livestock, including draught animals, caused by the war, epidemic diseases and slaughtering. Rehabilitation began in the veterinary sector by developing a system of preventive animal health care in the rural areas.
     DCA entered the first phase of the project in September 1988, with the establishment of the Veterinary Training and Support Center (VTSC), an institute training approximately 90 vaccinators and 40 paravets a year for various NGO's interested in integrating animal care into their agricultural programs. The training component of the VTSC provides refresher courses for Afghan veterinarians who want to work inside Afghanistan. The support component provides standardized field kits for each level of veterinary assistance, ranging from vaccinators and paravets to complete field units (consisting of an Afghan veterinarian assisted by paravets). DCA has established four field units that integrate the different levels into one coordinated structure making it possible to cover large areas and to react quickly to major out-breaks of animal diseases. By the end of 1990, DCA was expected to have established 10 additional field units.
     The second phase of DCA assistance started in the early part of 1989 and involves both veterinary-related projects- distribution of draught animals and milk cows, and breeding programs for livestock- and those related to other sectors of agriculture, such as irrigation, seed and fertilizer, and tractor power. Ideally, these different sectors of assistance will be integrated where DCA has established a veterinary health structure. These rural reconstruction schemes will be supervized in the field by veterinary staff of the field unit and additional specialists in agriculture, irrigation and animal husbandry.
 FUNDING: Dutch Government, UNDP, FAO, and private donors in the Netherlands.
                                        EIL-Q .
 THE EXPERIMENT IN INTERNATIONAL LIVING (EIL) is a non-profit NGO headquartered in Brattleboro, Vermont, USA. Its operations in Baluchistan are one facet of world-wide activities involving refugee resettlement in third countries, language training, teacher and teacher-trainer education, assisting indigenous, non-governmental agencies• to strengthen management, cooperative and implementing capabilities arid human resource development.
     In Baluchistan, EIL implements, and manages projects that focus on Afghan refugees, assistance through primary and middle school teacher training and materials/curriculum development; agricultural assistance/income generation; and a women's integrated income generation program.
     The Education and Materials/Curriculum Development Program, started
in
   JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              ftIGIIflN JiHAQ                   VOL.4 NO.2
   1987, employs men and women trainers who provide pedagogical and content training for some 180 Afghan village teachers. Six Education Resource Centers, permanently staffed, provide back-up, -field monitoring and material support to teachers. The Quetta' staff provides in-service training of trainers monthly. A locally appropriate training manual has been created for both male and fefnale teachers. In addition, Pashtu arid Dari textbooks are translated and produced; approximately 6,000 of these texts have been printed and distributed this year.
” At least 6,000 students in grades 1-3 have been reached.
        The agricultural Assistance/Income Generation project covers most activities likely to be engaged in by agriculturalists and livestock owners. Through August 1989, material and technical support was provided to 5,800 families in kitchen gardening and livestock. Ten Agricultural Support Centers provide supplies, at cost or marginally subsidized rates; veterinary services , are provided, utilizing a pool of skilled stock assistants. About 10,000 animals (plus poultry) are treated gratis per month.
        Other areas of assistance involve poultry distribution and subsidized poultry feed to refugee families, the development of water sources for irrigation and livestock use, support to especially needy families in the form of inputs and advice. Also, tree seedlings are raised in small nurseries by families who are paid for their work thus creating income.
        In spring 1989 an Integrated Women's Income Generation project was implemented. Starting with traditional female activity of handicraft/embroidery production, EIL successfully demonstrated that women can become income ‘ generators without detracting funds from more standard male programs. Currently, 150 women are engaged in this activity which aims at self-financing, sustainability and replicability inside Afghanistan.
   FUNDING: UNHCR and the US Bureau of.Refugee Programs.
158
     JANUARY-MARCH. 1991____________flfGHflNJfHflO              VOL.4 NO.2 [
              BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
    1.   THE HOLY QURAN: TRANSLATION AND COMMENTARIES VOLUME V (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Late Abdallah Yusuf Ali; translated by: Sabahuddin Kushkaki; publisher:
    CCAR; 450 pages.   ••
    CONTENTS:  Translation of Arabic text and commentaries -of sections
    21-25 of the Holy Quran.                                              '
    2.   JEHAD VERSES IN THE HOLY QURAN (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR: Abdul Sari Ghairat; publisher: WUFA; 142 pages.
    CONTENTS: The Quranic verses on Jehad have been translated and short commentaries have been provided.
    3.   THREE HUNDRED HADITH (SAYING OF PROPHET MOHAMMAD,
          PEACE BE UPON HIM. PASHTU & DARI)
    COLLECTED BY: Maulana Beshar, Mawlawi Fayez, Mawlawi Burhani, Mawlawi Salim,
    Maulana Kashaf; publisher: Daresh Book Store, Third print (first published in
    Kabul in 1967); 238 pages.
    CONTENTS: The 300 saying of the Holy Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him,
    concerns the five fundamentals of Islam: (i) faith in God, (ii) offering all
    regular daily obligatory prayes; (iii) observing fasting during the month of Ramadan; (iv) offering of Zakat; (v) pilgrimage to Makkah by those with sound financial position once during their life time. The book also deals with personal and social obligations of Muslims.
    4.   THE FUTURE OF ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN: JUDICIAL AND LEGAL ORDER OF THE FUTURE SOCIETY OF AFGHANISTAN:SECOND SEMINAR. (PASHTU & DARI )
    PUBLISHER: CCAR; 480 pages.
    CONTENTS: Articles and discussions by Afghan Scholars in a seminar held in
    Islamabad 4-7 June 1990 about the future of judicial and legal issues in Afghanistan.
    5.   THE AFGHAN UPRISING AND RESISTANCE (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Abdul Hafeez Mansoorj publisher: Jamiat-e- Islami Afghanistan; 119
                                        159
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
     pages.
     CONTENTS: Collection of  articles by the writer under the titles of Afghanistan
     on the cross-road of world conquerers; the history of Afghan jehad; the Supervisory Council (of northern.Afghanistan)j the victory of Islam; the role of Afghan economy in its war against the Soviets; Russian war tactics in Afghanistan; the danger threatening our revolution.
    6.   RANDOM TALK (PASHTU. DARI)
    AUTHOR:  Late Mawlawi Saleh Mohammad Kandahari, introduction and footnotes by
    Mohammad Maasoom Hotak; 121 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of poems and proses containing social and ethical themes.
    7.   THE RETURN OF THE WIND (DARI)
    POET: Meerwais Mawj;published by WUFA; 75 pages.
    CONTENTS: A collection of poems on social and jehadic topics.
    8.   THE FORMER AFGHAN MONARCH H.M. MOHAMMAD ZAHER SHAH’S WISHES (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR: Abu Al-Weqar Azad Paktiawal; 84 pages.                        *
    CONTENTS: Reviews  the prevailing Afghan situation, assails the present jehad
    leaders as well as some of their supporters and proposes:; Zaher Shah, the former King, high ranking officials of his time, all the refugees and mujaheddin as well as the Khalqis and Parchamis ought to establish joint Islamic government and they should all repent their past deeds.
    9.   SALAHUDDIN AYUBI (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Dr. Ijaz; translated by: Naseruddin Jamal; publisher: Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 75 pages.
    CONTENTS:   The life and achievements of renowned Muslim conquerer Salahuddin
    Ayubi.
    10.  IMPERIALISM AND NATIONALISM AND PATRIOTISM (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR: Stana Gill Sherzad; publisher: The Afghan Mellat Party; 197 pages;
    CONTENTS:  Table of contents; (1) Imperialism and nationalism; (2) Fascism and
    nationalism; (3) Marxism and Nationalism; (4) Islam and nationalism; (5) Afghan nationalism.
    11.  SARAJ-UT-TAWAREEKH. VOLUME I. II (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Faiz Mohammad Kateb; publisher: AIG Education Ministry; 377 pages. CONTENTS: Afghan history from the reign of Ahmad Shah Baba to King Abdur Rahman.
                                          160
    JANUARY-MARCH, 1991              fltCHUNJl.HAU        __________ VOL.4 NO.2
    Khan. The book was written under the order of King Habibullah Khan.
    12.   PITY FOR THE LEADERS AND THE PUBLIC (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR:  Dr.. Farooq Azam; published in the AIG Education Ministry Press; 17
    pages.
    CONTENTS: A satirical short story about the inefficiency prevailing among the
    present Afghan leadership and the pathetic condition of the common man.
    13.   PLANT MORPHOLOGY AND ANATOMY (DARI)
    AUTHOR:  Parvaiz Naik Ayeen, publisher:   AIG Ministry of Education; 386 pages.
    Published as a supplementary text book.
    14.   VERDICT (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR:  Mohammad Abubakr-e-Siddiq; publisher:    "Membership and Information
    Committee (of Salafis); 22 pages.                                             -
    CONTENTS: Text of a verdict issued by a number of ulama about the leadership
    (emarat) of Mawlawi Jameel-ur-Rahman. The verdict says:       "This man is a
    legitimate Amir, and the Kunar emarat (stet) is legal and Islamic. Obedience to him and execution of his orders are obligatory on all Muslims and rebelling against him is punishable with death sentence.
    15.   DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SHIA AND SUNNI SECTS (DARI)
    AUTHOR:  Mohammad Asef Mohseni; publisher:   Harakat-e-Islami   Afghanistan; 36
    pages.
    CONTENTS: Insists on Muslim unity and solidarity. First details issues on which
    the Shias and Sunnis concur and then lists their differences and concludes that these difference should not hamper their drive towards unity and solidarity.
    16.   SLOW TEARS (PASHTU)
    POET: Mohammad Maasoom Hotak; 105 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of jehadic and satirical poems.
    17.   AN ASSESSMENT OF PRESENT AFGHAN CONDITIONS (DARI)
    AUTHOR:  Sayyed Hussaini Anwari; publisher:  Harakat-e-Islami   Afghanistan; 17
    pages.
    CONTENTS: Text of a speech by Anwari in which he has analyzed present social and political conditions prevailing in the country.
    18.   NEW ARABIC GUIDE (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR:  Abdul Bari Ghairat; publisher:"Islamic Jehad"; '134 pages.
                                          161
    JANUARY-MARCH. 1991             flfGHANJIH1IB                    VOL.4 NO.2
    CONTENTS: Letter  writing styles; Quranic words and expressions and their
    translation.
    19.   A LOSS OF INHERENT VIRTUES (A MYSTICAL DISCOURSE. DARI)
    AUTHOR: Mawlawi Ataullah Faizani, publisher: The Madrasa of Tawheed; 136 pages.
    CONTENTS: (1) The evolution of intellect and the manifestations of spirit; (2) Resting place of the Soul and the Abode of Satan. These two topics have been discussed in dialogue.
    20.   SHARP PAINS (PASHTU)
    POET: Mullah Assadullah Hanafi; publisher: students' Union of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan; 196 pages.
    CONTENTS:   Collection of jehadic, religious, and nationalistic poems of the
    writer,
    21.   INTERPRETATION OF BAIDELS'S QUATR1NES (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Mohammad Abdul Hamid "Qandi Agha"; publisher: Mohammad Ehsan Aseer; 82 pages.
    CONTENTS: Interpretation of five chapters of poems by famous Dari poet, Merza
    Abdul Qader Baidel.
    22.   NARCOTICS AND THEIR PERILS (PASHTU)
    WRITTEN & PUBLISHED by the "Anti-Narcotics Project for Afghanistan"; 35 pages.
    CONTENTS: (1)  Intoxicating material; (2) Problems of narcotic in modern world;
    (3)   Un-healthy environment infests diseases; (4) Intoxication and Islam; (5) Health information; (6) Ways to prevent addiction to intoxicating material.
    23.   THE ROUGH DIMENSIONS'OF THE EAST (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Rashid Nala; 129 pages.
    CONTENTS: The author's view points vis-a-vis current social issues expressed in poetry.
    24.   BASKET OF HOPES (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR: Aiwazuddin Siddiqi; 71 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection  of 10 short stories dealing with the problematic life of
    the Afghans in recent years.
    25.   DO YOU KNOW NAJIB? (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Sediqullah Rahi; 79 pages.
                                            162
    JANUARY-MARCH vJ_99j____________
    CONTENTS: The writer is the brother of the Kabul regime President Najibullah. He first defected to the mujaheddin and then to the west. Topics covered: Najib as a teenage; the start of his political activities; his marriage with a "KHAD" prostitute; Najib the murderer; other crimes of Najib.
    26.   BABA KHARKASH (AN OLD MAN WHO DIGS UP PRICKY BUSHES)
          IN EXILE (PASHTU DARI AND GERMAN)
    COLLECTED & EDITED BY: Dr. Sayyed Abdul Aziz Najibi; published by the "Project
    of Political Refugees of Kabul University (in Germany); 221 pages.
              /
    CONTENTS:  (1) Tales ,and stories in Dari language; (20 Tales and Stories in
    Pashtu language; (3) Children choruses; (4) Quadrine poems in Dari; (5) Oral Pashtu literature; (6) Famous expression and idioms of Dari language..
    27.   TEARS IN THE MEMORY OF A TRAVEL COMPANION (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Malekzad; Publisher: Danish publications, Tehran; 14 pages.
    CONTENTS: Prose and poetry in the memory of Us tad Khalilullah Khallili and Abdul Malek Faryabi.
                                                163
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN
NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICALS
^     \v ‘ ^   \ /
   / f __   \   I  I  .
 D
 c
v                                  $        IX^
      L*—n <.,. on _w
 U&fe'-"-

 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991 flfGHAHJtHflD    V0L.4 N0.2 1
 Arman- e-M ujah e d
                        FEBRUARY
            2
REPORT: Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzin,
leader of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan has said in connection with the Gulf war, "The responsibility of the bloodshed in the Gulf rests with Saddam only, because it was the occupation of Kuwait which led to the war there. He said, Saudi Arabia also committed a crime by inviting US forces to the holy land whereas they do not allow the Muslims to stay there at the end of the Haj pilgrimage".
COMMENTARY: "Efforts against the AIG is tantamount to support for the Najib regime. Some people have started making remarks against the AIG because they have lost their personal profits in-fhe name of their respective organizations when the ■sAIG was established. On. the one hand, the Pakistan government attracted these organization towards the AIG, and on the other, it allowed anti-AIG activities. In order to strengthen the government, leaders pf the organizations ought to have been more honest and to have transferred their assets to the AIG.
                           Azadi
                        DECEMBER
            24
EDITORIAL: "Cultural activities and
International Organizations". Mention was made in a function recently of a feature film "ZINDAN" which was produced by refugee artists under the auspices of a foreign organization and was released after a year of working on
 it. The director of the film, who is also the administration officer in the refugee committee of a mujaheddin organization, expressed regret that the mujaheddin groups failed to delegate authority to people in accordance with their specific field of knowledge and talent. There was also regret expressed over the fact - that foreign agencies are getting easy access to all the mujaheddin resources and control our cultural activities. If w6 continue to be so careless and indifferent towards our cultural and educational issues, it is quite possible that our spiritual and intellectual values and honors may be tampered with by foreigners.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Nawaz  Sharif, the Prime
 Minister of Pakistan told the correspondent of the daily Mashriq: "We shall not accept any initiative on Afghanistan without the consent of the people of Afghanistan. Pakistan has contacted the US and Iran about the Afghan problem".
 - The Nangarhar mujaheddin forced the Kabul regime troops to retreat from the Kama district 15 February.
                25
 EDITORIAL:  Under the title, "A few
 words about the media," the editorial says, "It is natural that everyone should have a different taste and should organize his life accordingly. But it will be very unfortunate to impose one'sown taste upon others with the impression of whatever he likes has no flaw whatsoever. There are others who, for their personal interests, entitle themselves to interfere in the affairs of other people under the strong belief that it will be a sin if their views are not respected. Unfotunately such an attitude has been prevailing in the media run by the mujaheddin. Instead of forging ahead towards the common goal of weakening the enemy, they are trying to pin-point
165
JANUARY-; MARCH * 1991
Ml
VOL.A NO.2
each other's faults. The main difficulty is that some of our newspapers are under the direct control of other countries or this or that alien network and for this reason, instead* of praising their own pioneers of the path of truth, they are hailing the others and are making out of them towers of honor".
                                              NEWS ITEMS:
- Prof. Rabbani welcoming Sadruddin Aga Khan's resignation has hoped that the new UN representative for Afghan reconstruction will discharge his duties in a just and fairer ' manner.
   Sufi Qurban, a prominent member of the Jamiat-e-Tslami Afghanistan,, has said that the Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat-e-Islami have worked out a joint plan for the capture of Faizabad, Badakhshan.
                  29
: EDITORIAL: "The  mujaheddin delegation
 to the Soviet Union:" In response to an earlier invitation from the Russian Federation, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi had. already decided upon sending a delegation to the Soviet Union to .pave the way for direct contacts with them. Those in favor of this visit argue that it would provide an opportunity for the mujaheddin to brief the Russian leaders on recent events. At a time like this when the    enemy is actively busy
 hatching new conspiracies, the trip of the delegation to Russia will only harm the political dignity and prestige of the mujaheddin. In order to maintain peace and order in the ranks of the mujaheddin  and for     keeping 1 their
 political posture intact, it would be better if the trip were cancelled".
 REPORT:  According  to figures released
 by ANA on the occasion of the
        . '              •     l
 anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, a total of 2,180 Kabul
 regime troops have been killed and another   2,910 wounded during     the
 current Afghan year while 882 of them have been taken prisoner. Out of a total of 8,218 military personnel who have defected to the mujaheddin during this period, half of them count for the abortive Shahnawaz Tani coup. The mujaheddin casualties for the same period were 790 dead and more than 900 injured. Seventy-seven jet aircraft and 14 helicopters were also shot down. During the year the mujaheddin had the Torkham, Speen Bbldak, Kabul ^-Kandahar and the Salang highways also under their control.
                30
 EDITORIAL: "Security measures in muja-
 heddin offices should be reviewed." It is noticed quite often that the guards at the gates of mujeheddin offices do not take their jobs seriously. Those who call at these offices, and who are generally either mujaheddin or refugees, are searched at the entrance
                                  I
 with no . mannerism at all. Their disrespectful treatment of the callers is usually done in front' of our Pakistani brethren in carefree manner. Lack of discipline and proper security measures will provide the opponents of jehad and the Russian lackeys with, ample opportunity to indulge in acts of revenge without hindrance. These guards should stay inside the offices and carry but their job efficiently,
 NEWS ITEMS:  As the anniversary of
 Russian invasion of Afghanistan • (27 December) draws closer, in their operation on the Herat-Islamqala Highway, the mujaheddin have destroyed nine security posts and have killed 145 malitiamen.
                 31
 NEWS ITEMS:  According to reports from
 the Pakistani Commissionary for Afghan Refugees, 300,000 Afghans have taken refugee in various parts of the
166
JANUARY“MARCH* 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 NWFP daring December and January, from Afghanistan.
   Ayatullah Mehdawi, speaker of the Coalition Council of Afghan Shias: "Hezb-e-Wahdat (stationed in Iran) has been treated with the same rash manner as Nasr" .
 - According to a report published in a Pakistani daily news paper Jesarat the US has altered its policy regarding the Afghan problem. According to its new policy, the US no longer supports Zaher Shah in his efforts to solve tbe issue. It would rather give the mujaheddin yet another chance to topple the Najib regime by military means.
                                  JANUARY
                 1
 EDITORIAL: Eversince the start of  the
 our jehad, a number of our Arab brethren have expressed their sentiments with the cause of- the Afghan jehad in various ways: In addition to benevolent Arabs, however, there are. others who cherish un-Islamic and imperialistic objectives in the guise of Arab brotherhood, with us. Such elements endeavor to sow seeds of discord among the Afghans by various ’ means. Organizations with which our Arab brothers are cooperating ought to supervize their work closely.
►
 ARTICLE: "A discourse about secret
 contacts between Iran and the athiest Kabul regime". It is a translation of an article on this subject by Rafiq Afghan, well-known Pakistani journalist who says "according to reliable sources, the Iranian authorities not only knew of Najib's trip to Geneva and Italy and the objects of these trips, but colluded in some stages of these developments".
                 2
 EDITORIAL: "Our  mujahed Arab brethren
 and the Satanic Arabs". Under this' title the editorial says, "We must note that some Arabs are hot committed to Islamic ideology and are actively engaged . in hatching plots and schemes in order to weaken the revolutionary spirit of the Islamic jehad of Afghanistan. Another misconception practiced by these elements is discrimination towards non-Arabs. In an orphanage a month or two ago an Afghan orphan girl was insulted just because she had drunk water from a thermos flask used by the Arabs. When the little girl asked her Arab women teacher the reason for the insult she was told that she was an Afghan and not allowed to use that thermos. In short, Arabs who have not yet grasped the.full message of Islam are still adhering to traditions of the age of ignorance which prevailed in their . countries before Islam. They are dealing with Afghans with arrogance and unwarranted manners and discriminate between Arab and non-Arab. Surprisingly an American, Russian and or another western, when in contact with Afghans, learn enough Pashtu or Dari whereas some of pur Arab brethren cannot speak a single word of our languages after 10 years of working with us. The reason is clear:        The
 Arabs are under the influence of their nationalist and dicriminating principles, which, are contrary to Islamic spirit.
 REPORT:                               %
 - Hundreds of families in Jauzjan have been displaced during the freezing season due to attacks by the Kabul regime forces. Children, women and old men are struggling against hunger arid cold.                                  ,
    Yasser Arafat leader of PLO /ays: "TJhe final victory will be that of Najib. For this reason he has sent Najib a sword engraved with a verse from the Holy Quran pertaining to
167
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991        RlCHAM JIHAD                    VOL4n0.2
 "victory".
                   3
 EDITORIAL:  "Control  of the mujaheddin
 caravans":  Quoting Pakistani sources
 we had written 2 January that nearly 300 mujaheddin and refugees were killed between Badakhshan and Chatral within a week. A similar tragedy had occured in winter 1986 when a caravan of 400 mujaheddin suffered heavy losses in the highlands of Topkhana, Badakhshan. Some of them were killed by snow-storm, some were caught in an ambush by Russian troops and a large number of them were taken prisoners. The latest incident is more or less similar to that one. Border posts and the mujaheddin deployment offices are responsible for the safety of the mujaheddin. They must discharge their responsibilities in the best possible manner and must not issue orders for combat unless they are quite sure of safe journey to the battle fronts.
 NEWS ITEMS: The Presidential Palace and the Russian Embassy in Kabul were hit by rockets 3 December, 1990.
                   6
 EDITORIAL:  "Our brethren are assisting
 our enemies" is the title of the editorial under which it says:       "No
 other news item during the past fortnight has been sp repulsive as the news of the four billion dollar Saudi aid package to the Soviet Union Instead. of causing any surprise or resentment in our circles, our people should be told to view this aid aS $ normal but anticipated phenomenon ..."
        I ;                      * ...
 NEWS ..ITEM: Teachers of the Abu Hanifah High School demostrated in- front of the (AIG) Ministry of Education 1 January demanding their salaries. They were shouting slogans of "down with the inefficient government". Dr. Farouq Azam, the Minister of Education,
 finally     appeared     before     the
 demonstrators and       explained   AIG
 financial difficulties. The teachers continued their demonstration shouting that those responsible should resign their posts and the AIG be dissolved.
                 7
 EDITORIAL:  "Stop  creating Vaccum in
 publicity". The US and USSR propaganda machines, fearing the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, have adopted two different policies about the mujaheddin victories and defeat of the enemy in many parts of the country:
 (1)  They either ignore- them or pass over them lightly.
 (2)  They relate these operations to party in-fighting.
      Why our mujaheddin organizations fail to tell the truth in the face of such false propaganda? Their dead silence ' causes a publicity vaccum which serves enemy interest.
 NEWS ITEMS:    The Laghman mujaheddin
 killed 80 military personnel of the atheist Kabul regime.
 - The former USSR Foreign Minister had declared prior to his resignation that, by sending troops to Afghanistan, the Soviet Union became enemy of the entire humanity;
                 8
 EDITORIAL: "  The situation is ripe for
 change". Thie impending war in the Gulf with the involvement of the US and its allies on the one hand, and the Soviet internal crisis, on the other, indicate that the political support of the puppet communist regime ‘ in Kabul is gradually vanishing. Najib's recent interview with the BBC indicates that the Kabul regime was ready to give all ministerial posts to the opposition and keep only the KHAD Ministry to itself.
168
JANUARY-MARCH,
1991
VOL-4 NO.2
 The internal position of the Kabul regime together with the pre-occupation of the super powers elsewhere has provided the mujaheddin with the best opportunity. The time has come to coordinate our operations throughout the country by engaging enemy forces everywhere. Those who continue the stagnation at this golden moment and
 cause further delay in toppling the Kabul   regime,  will not be able to
 escape  future    blames  or public
 judgement.
                  9
 EDITORIAL:  "Economic   blockade can
 topple the regime before the end of winter." The editorial considers the famine and hard winter prevailing in Kabul      this year. It  says, "The
 mujaheddin do not prevent food supplies from reaching Kabul so that' the inhabitants are not faced with a severe famine. Under present conditions, when the Kabul regime uses the inhabitants of Kabul as       a human shield, the
 mujaheddin ought to reconsider their favoritism in this regard".
 NEWS ITEMS: Sources from Hezb-e-Islami
 and Jamiat-e-Islami of Afghanistan Ootn have refuted alleged reports by the BBC' of intermujaheddin clashes in ’Parwan.
                 10
 NEWS ITEMS: Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan in a meeting with some mujaheddin leaders: "Issues  related to
 the Afghan Jehad tops the agenda list of the Afghan government".
 - The mujaheddin carried out successful operations in Parwan 7 and 8 January. Thirty five troops were killed or wounded andHahother four captured if) these operations.
                 12
 EDITORIAL: "Peter Tomsen speaks for the
 mujaheddin" According to published news items, Peter Tomsen the US envoy for the mujaheddin affairs, has said that a group of Afghan mujaheddin will be sent to Saudi Arabia to take part in the defense of the Gulf region. At the beginning of the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, there were rumors that 2,000 mujaheddin would be sent for this purpose but later it was assumed the AIG was no longer interested in the matter. But Tomsen's statements in the US about mujaheddin's readiness to go to Saudi Arabia indicates as if the mujaheddin are in harmony with the colonialistic design of the US in the Gulf. The fact is the mujaheddin have been gravely offended by the presence of. the US troops there and are impatiently awaiting the end of this disaster. We sincerely hope that the mujaheddin leaders clarify their stand regarding this affair.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Prof. Sayyaf in Akora
 Khattak School: "No power in the world
 can stand against the objectives of our jehad".
 - A Muslim Boldier of the Kabul regime defected to' the mujaheddin 6 January after killing an officer and his guard and bringing with him 30 klashnikovs.
    Mawlana Hassan Jan, member of the Pakistan National Assembly, has said, "The war _ in Afghanistan is a war between Islam and blasphemy and the mujaheddin are fighting not only for Afghanistan but also for the prestige of the entire Muslim community".
                13
 NEWS ITEMS: The Kabul, regime offensive on Mohammad Aga, Logar, during the last three days has been a failure. The mujaheddin / in their counter-attacks forced the Kabul forces to retreat. They killed 10 Kabul regime officers and troops.
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 - Municipal authorities of Moscow have imposed food rationing on Moscow citizens. This includes . meat, sugar, butter, flour and bread. Informed sources report that the present situation is unprecedented after World War II.
                  15
 REPORT: ' "What is Operation SALAM doing?" Over 10,000 Afghans have so far been trained for mine clearing operations. The UN has purchased two demining machines, costing half a million dollar each. Upon arrival in Pakistan the machines will be sent to Afghanistan. Zia Rizvi, assistant chief of Operation SALAM, has said the machines will expedite demining operations which will in turn bear an impact on the repatriation of refugees and the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Demining operations have already started in Kunar, Paktia, Bamian and Ghazni provinces. In Kunar a 13-kilometer stretch has already been cleared from mines. Enayatullah Eblagh, who leads bhese operations, said another 4.5 kilometer area in Paktia has also been demined. However, in Ghazni and Bamian the operation began only last July. Experts say, manual demining alone will take about 10 years to complete the job, whereas, machines will greatly accelerate the work.
                 16
 EDITORIAL:  "Subh-e-Pairuzee (of the
 AIG) must not close". The journal, Subh-e-Pairuzee,    which had a
circulation of 15,000 has not been published for the past three Veeks..The Subh-e-Pairuzee was a popular and successful paper and its staff were working earnestly and diligently for its further development. The closing down of this paper as the publication organ of the AIG can be attributed to a lack of interest in cultural affairs
                                                                                            170
 by government authorities. As a useful organ, Subh-e-Pairuzee should still continue publication even if the entire government offices will have to close.
 NEWS ITEMS: In a clash between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime agents 9 January, 100 militiamen were killed in Ghor province.
                17
 EDITORIAL: "A request from our veteran
 brethren of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan":A number of our veterans of the Islamic movement gathered in Chamkani last week. The meeting was important as it was attended by those who have witnessed the development of jehad and Islamic revolution from their inception. But there are two points worth mentioning: (1) Only  150 members
 from each mujaheddin group were invited to attend. In our opinion this was not in conformity with the spirit of Islamic revolution since the role played by each group, in jehad varies and So should be the number of their participation in the meeting. (2) The participants should have taken utmost care that meetings of this nature are not converted to an / arena for vengeance and/or, those with ambitions, should use these meetings as a means for exerting pressure on other groups.
 ANNOUNCEMENT: The* mujaheddin who have
 committed themselves to fight for the sacred cause of Islam and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and who wish to make jehad their permanent occupation, should be honored with enrolement in the rank of Sepah-e-Mujaheddin-e-Islam. This army will surely turn into a powerful guard of Islam. For further information, volunteers can apply to the following address as from 21 January: -
 SHAMSHATU, NUSRAT MYINA, PESHAWAR
JANUARY-MARCH# 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 HEZB-E-ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN,   (CENTRAL
 OFFICE) DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION # SECURITY BRANCH.
                  19
 NEWS ITEMS: Using heavy artillery, the mujaheddin attacked the security belt at Kunduz near Seh Darak and Qahwa Khana 3 January. In this attack eight persons were killed which consisted of military, police and KHAD personnel. Another four persons were also killed;* and two vehicles were destroyed.
                  20
 EDITORIAL:  "Do  not Forsake Iraq":
 Though the Iraqi government and Saddam himself have anti-Islamic sentiments, he is now in a position that the Islamic movements throughout the world must stand on his side. The cruel aggression on Iraq by a number of colonial powers has played with sentiments of all Muslims alike but their silence on this issue, offers Saddam the role of a saviour and muja-hed in the Muslim world despite his past record.
 NEWS ITEMS:    Shaikh Mohammad Asef
 Mohsini: "The US has enlarged the Gulf
 war and has intruded upon Iraq contrary to all international norms. As I have lived for a long time in Iraq,I am well aware of the anti-Islamic sentiments of Saddam .and his Baath party, but we have to praise' and support him for his daring stand against the US".
                  21
 NEWS ITEM&:  The mujaheddin of Sufi
 Payendah Front.in their operations on a major Kabul regime military post at northern Salang 23 January, occupied the post after capturing its occupants of 40 troops•
 INTERVIEW:   Major Mohammad Yusuf,
 ISI retired senior officer, in an interview with Takbir has said that the
 (Pakistani) Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees and other officials related to refugee affairs have played a negative role regarding allegations against the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees and have hot taken the least measure to counter these allegations. In actual fact, there is no other organization- not even the police- whose employees may be so obscene and indecent in treating the refugees     as   those     of the
 commissionary. It would suit them better if we name them "An enemy Organization to the Afghan Jehad", because their staff treat the refugees as if they were their slaves aqd they paid them charity from their own pockets. These employees are so mean that as soon as they hear that a certain refugee has gone for jehad inside Afghanistan, they go to the appropriate camp under the pretext of supervision,' abolish his ration card and deprive his family from legitimate rations. Upon his s return from jehad, the refugee manages to obtain a duplicate - of his ration card only through substantial bribes. The staff of the Commissiohary are not acting as they do for their mean nature alone, but to annoy the mujaheddin and force them to quit Pakistan. It is for the sake of colossal dividends which they received that they would rather have a small post in the Afghan Commissioner1s office than a high post in the government.
               22
 EDITORIAL:  Discussing the Iranian
 material aids to the Kabul regime,the editorial says, "Iran's relations with the • athiest Najib regime is a basic problem that needs to be scrutinized* The people of Iran have deep religious ties with the Afghans. At the present, when Iran has succeeded in its Islamic revolution, it can be of basic importance to the Afghan jehad. In the Opinion of spme of our mujaheddin,' any step Iran takes can prove significant
 v
 JANUAKY-MARCH. 1991          JlfGIIIlHJIHAD               VOL.4 NO.2
 for them. We mast harmonize oar own policy in accordance with changes in the policy of Iran and express reaction to every decision       Iran  takes   in
 connection with the Afghan issue.
 REPORT: Sayyed Noorullah Emad, deputy
 leader of Jamiat-e-Islami and Secretary of the AIG Election Commission, has said that, apart from education and public health, all other AIG offices have been closed. He has blamed lack of funds and ineffectiveness of the work for the closure. On the other hand, the AIG President in an interview with the VOA, while criticizing the donor1 nations, said i "They are all busy with the war in the Gulf. But .the Afghan issue is also important and their aid should continue". According to rumors efforts made by the AIG Finance Minister for attracting US aid have failed and he has been denied continuation of any further aid.
                 23
 EDITORIAL: The closing down of  the AIG
 offices has materialized.The AIG originally was a jehadic body and the aim was to represent the will of the nation to a large extent. Therefore, all the pros and cons related to the issue of AIG are related to jehad and it is only right to say that the dissolution of this government should take palce in an observed' and. respectful manner. In the past, particularly when the alliance of three parties was being dissolved,there were tell-tale signs of misuse^ and   embezzlement of   property
 belonging to mujaheddin organizations which, we hope, will not be repeated. The preservation of the public property or the defense of jehad objectives and' aspirations   both fall under   the same
 category.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Sayyed Noorullah Emad,
 Deputy Jamiat-e-Islami leader and Secretary     of  the     AIG   Election
 Commission . has said,  "The   election
 procedures have been postponed until the spring because of the severe cold weather in Afghanistan which prevented the supervisory delegations to reach their destinies in time".
               24
 NEWS ITEMS:    Twenty thousand AIG
 employees have been laid-off. Many of these were not employed because they were needed but their appointment had’ political motives.
 - The AIG Ministry of Reconstruction . has asked for another week of respite to pay its employees.
    According to Radio Kabul, Esmat Muslim, who had earned national recognition as the commander of the militia force of the Kabul regime, has been killed. The reason or motives behind this murder was not disclosed.
               26
 NEWS ITEMS: The Kabul regime has re-
 shuffled the commanding ranks of the military units stationed around Kabul. General Imamuddin, a staunch supporter of Najib and member of the t Parcham faction, has replaced General Azim Zurmati as commander of forces in Logar. The changes are in concord with the general trends now being observed! in Russia- a shift towards orthodox communism.
               27
 NEWS ITEMS: Regarding the closing down of the AIG offices, the daily Jang writes: "Eighty per cent of international assistance to the mujaheddin has been cut. The AIG ministers are living in houses with monthly rents of Rs.
 20,000 each. The Prime Minister has moved to the refugee camp.Monthly rents for the Presidential offices and that of the Prime Ministry are Rs. 80,000 and Rs. 60,000 repsectively• The AIG is facing serious economic difficulties
'2^
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
 because of the Gulf crisis. Various ministries have decreased the number of their employees. Up to the present moment a total of 20,000 employees have been iaid-off. A larger part of the aid to the AIG came from the U$ and Saudi Arabian governments."
     Prof.   sayyaf,     the AIG . Prime
 Minister, condemned US bombing of innocent Iraqi Muslims and said that the Gulf war was imposed by the enemies of Islam. "The Christians availed this opportunity provided by the rulers of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait ' and Iraq", he said.
 - The following are the achievements on the educational fronts in Kapisa and Parwan:
 No. of No. of        No.  of     No. of
 Schools Classtes Students Teachers
   84       224         8,700      600
 No. of Dar-ul-Hefaz
   30       ...           700       60
 No. of Dar-ul-Uloom
   10       ...           500       15
                                                                                                     \
 There are also about 30 Dar-ul-Qurans that also teach Islamic tenets and literacy courses. Short-term courses in ideology, science, politics, math, Arabic and English are . also offered, particularly during idle winter, months. The courses are generally attended with great interest. The "Jehad Lycee" in Kohistan offered 12 graduates last year who are now studying in higher educational institutions in Peshawar.
                 28
 EDITORIAL: "Experiences gained from the AIG": The first AIG obligation was to
 bring about a distinction in the ideological foundations of the mujaheddin. The present experience proved that
                                                                                        VOL.4 NO.2
 policies pursued by nationalists and liberals cannot fit with the progressive Islamic ideology purused by the mujaheddin. Policies pursued by those influenced by western thoughts led the government to a place not acceptable to progressive Islamic ideology. However there were progressive Islamic elements in the AIG, but not because of ah, agreement between the two but due to a number of political compulsions. However, with the mendate of the AIG coming to an end, the mujaheddin will be in a better position to decide for the future.
 INTERVIEW: Gulbuddin  Hekmatyar, leader
 of Hezb-e-Islami, is reported to have
                                                                                                    *
 said in an interview with the Takbir magazine, "There are three groups involved in the Afghan conflict:    the
 present regime, the former rulers and the mujaheddin. The people of Afghanistan will not tolerate Neither the present or the former rulers or a coalition of the two. The majority of the nation will' accept those opposed to Zaher shah and Najib both. Najib has now been placed under strong mujaheddin pressure from all sides. He has been panic stricken by incessant mujaheddin attacks and, according to information, will respond possitively to any of our proposals. But, as I have declared time and again, Najib1s fist move must be to step down f rom ipower .X i transitory • government will then "arrange general elections in Afghanistan and transfer the political power to representatives of the people. In my opinion the first step in this direction would be for all parties (Russia, Najib and the mujaheddin organizations) to confirm
                           i
 the formation of an interim government. Decisions will then be taken as to who can take part in this government.
                                                 30
 EDITORIAL:  "Harmony between Hezb-e-
 Islami and Jamiat-e-Is^ami"• observers believe that the harmony created
 between Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat-$-Islami on the basis of cultural, political and military agreements this year, has been unprecedented during the years of war. The two parties came closer together automatically at the time when the AIG was being established without any pressure of mediation by a third party . This harmony between them was the cause of concern to forces opposed to the Islamic jehad of Afghanistan. The idea of harmony and cooperation between the two parties in the past was based only on sentiments and mottos but now, with the expiration of the. AIG experience, has assumed -a' practical shape,
 NEWS ITEMS:     The Kandahar mujaheddin
 shot down a Kabul regime helicopter at Shahr-e-Safa district, 24 January,
 - Radio Tehran reports that Iran has decided to open a cultural house in Kabul. Meanwhile, Radio Kabul announced that the measure has been taken upon the request by the Kabul regime, EDITORIAL):  "We must not publish works
 by pro-western or nationalist elements ' in the mujaheddin press". It is well known that the mujaheddin have always talked of an Islamic government and have rejected any coalition with either pro-Western or pro-Eastern elements. It is now the duty of the publishing organizations and other mujaheddin establishments to strictly adhere to this rule regarding contacts with western, leftist and nationalist elements. Rejecting them in our slogans, but welcoming them at our receptions and, conferences and filling our newspaper columns with their poems will not be in conformity with the slogans and aspirations of our jehad.
  REPORT: Ajmal Khatak, the new leader of the ANP, is reported to have told a Pakistani newspaper in an interview, "in our opinion the Afghanistan issue can only be solved through peaceful and not military means. We are against
      * *»• 1  7 ' ‘     •.            . ’ f -
 that the problem be solved peacefully. We have never insulted the Afghan refugees, on ' the contrary we have always looked upon them as our brothers. When they had to take refuge in our country because - of the tragic events at their homeland, then we considered them as our guests and we do not wisli to see bloodshed continue among them.
      "In my opinion three groups are Involved in the Afghan political problem:   the ruling party, the
 pro-Zaher Shah group and the mujaheddin. If you leave any of them out, the problem cannot be solved. I believe that a. new Afghanistan ought to be constructed from a mixture.of, these three sides which will be founded on Islam, independence and Afghan traditions",
                                                   31
 EDITORIAL: "Political relations between the Liberals and Nationalists". Despite the. fact that the mujaheddin have consistently rejected western,, eastern or nationalistic ideologies throughout the history of jehad, the presence of such elements were sometimes felt but it was difficult to identify them and these elements themselves were not able to harmonize their activities. During the time of the AIG and in recent year the liberals and nationalists were able, for the first time, to hold an official and public meeting in Peshawar in which their well known personalities, both within and outside the mujaheddin groups, participated. The meeting held at the Peshawar •International Hotel, and upon official invitation of the AIG, was typical of the sympathy prevailing between some mujaheddin leaders and pro-western and liberal elements. Following this
JANUAKY-MARCH. 1991            flfCHAMJIHflP                  VOL.4 NO.2
                                      any nation that supports war, be It the US, the USSR, India or any other country. It is the stand of our party
JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991           AfGHflN JtHflll             '       VQL.4n0.2
                                       yielded positive- and constructive results. Future^organizations will last only if the degrees in power of each
 so-called •'Afghanistan's intellectuals/ meeting"* the activities and contacts between members of the "opposition" accellerated, whereas the continuation of cooperation between members o'f the AIG deteriorated further. It was as a result of the independent' efforts of the liberals and the nationalists that the program for meeting Najib in Geneva was planned and some important mujaheddin leaders actually met Najib personally with the cooperation and mediation of Iran."
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Mujaddedi,. the AIG
 President, told the Jang correspondent 30 January that the AIG was not dissolved but had ’ only laid-off - its employees because of financial problems. He added his government was established by a competent council and this council alone is authorized to dissolve it.
                                FEBRUARY
                 2
 EDITORIAL:  "Mujaheddin Organizations
 must prevent Extravagance". It is observed that most of the refugees hold their wedding, condolences and other 'ceremonies with the same pomp and fanfare which they did when in Kabul". The editorial considers this extravagance not in harmony with prevailing conditibns and suggests that the mujaheddin organizations select cheeper places for such gatherings which could also be used for holding educational and training programs.
 NEWS ITEMS: The employees of the AIG
 Ministry of. Information are _alleging that while some employees have been laid off, others continued to work.
                 3
 EDITORIAL: Equality in sharing power
 has been one of the reasons for the AIG standstill and . the principle has not
 nf.the muiaheddin is recognized.
 *     Prof.  Burhanuddin  Rabbani, lea-
 der of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan has told the Takbir correspondent in an interview, "it is true that foreign aid to the Afghans have ceased since the withdrawal of the Russian troops from Afghanistan and this is true even in the case of humanitarian assistances. But the mujaheddin are now in a position : to continue the war until final victory and to solve their difficulties successfully, provided the ..Russians no longer interfere in Afghanistan and allow the Afghans themselves to determine their political future themselves".
                  4
 EDITORIAL: As reported in. this issue of the Azadi,‘ some propaganda papers, undoutedly distributed by the Najib regime- were discovered in Kabul and the surrounding areas. The papers, which carry the emblem and arms of the AIG, depict some perversive and insulting language alleged to have been used by the AIG President, as leader of one of the mujaheddin groups,against Gulbuddin Hekmatyar another 1 leader of the mujaheddin who was recently commanding
 a joint operation against the puppet
          \ , . regime in the Kabul area.
      Everyone knows that as a result of the harmony created between the Hezb and the Jamiat and the meeting of the mujaheddin leaders two months ago* relations among them all have taken a positive and constructive turn and; contrary 'to enemy expectations, Mr. Mu.jaddedi had been addressing the Hezb leader as 'Brother Hekmatyar" and had expressed his support for the unity and alliance of ’ the mujaheddin groups, alfeady observed during the operations on Kabul.
175
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991        * AfCIMN Jill 111)             VOL.4 NO. 2
      "Now that the enemy is straggling on a large scale to stir up differences once again and is trying to divert public opinion by using the AIG emblem for this purpose, it is necessary that the office of Mr.Mujaddedi takes steps in this direction and refute the contents of the papers circulated by the Kabul regime, otherwise many people, who are not aware of the truth behind it, may take them seriously.
 NEWS ITEMS: Heavy attacks were carried out on the Kabul regime mi-litary base at Dewalak, by the Logar mujaheddin 2 February in which they captured seven difference types of arms and four enemy personnel.              ■ ■ . ■
 - A plot for the assassination of Commander Sayyed Amir of Jamiat was foiled 10 days ago and 40 people were ■arrested by the mujaheddin in connection .with the plot,
                                                6
 EDITORIAL: "The Pre-Occupation of Satanic Forces". Since all the Satanic forces are engaged in the Gulf for their colonial interests, Afghanistan has the best opportunity ever to solve its problem and to establish an Islamic government. The mujaheddin and their organizations should use this golden opportunity. Following the defeat and the withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan, Satanic plots of world powers, led by the US, posed a great threat to the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Fortunately, the Soviet Union as a result of our liberation jehad and its public disgrace and economic and social problems is no longer capable to support and supply its puppet regime the way it did in the past. Under these circumstances it is upto the mujaheddin organizations to devote all their attentions to the battle fronts and, by means of intensified and united effort, eradicate the remains of the atheist
 regime and establish an Islamic government according to'the aspirations of our martyrs. The mujaheddin organizations must make best use of -their present resources and, with due respect . to the importance of this opportune moment, take firm steps towards liberating the oppressed nation and put an end to their sufferings.
 NEWS ITEMS: In their attack on the Shin Dand Airport' 27 January, the mujaheddin killed V 12 military personnel and inflicted heavy losses upon the airport facilities.
 -  Prof, Mujaddedi, the AIG President, told the BBC in an interview that the elections would not succeed because sonte candidates have dished out money in hundreds- of thousands to the public for casting their votes for them. Some have even threatened the voters with their arms and some have told election committees that there was no need for re-elections when they, already had an elected President.
 - Representative of the Pasdaran-e-Je-
 had: "Reports about the dissolution of
 the Islamic Coalition of 'Afghanistan are baseless." This resolutioh follows the one earlier which had announced the dissolution of the 1 Council. The announcement adds that "Fazeli" and "Hussaini" were not permanent members of the    Council and were in     no way
 eligible to cast  a vote or to dissolve
 the council.
                   9
 EDITORIAL:   Pointing to the tension
 prevailing in the coalition of Shia brethren reflected in their statements recently  the editorial  says,  "We have
 nothing  to do'  with   the relations
 between  these   groups but     find it
 necessary to say that the Coalition moved its central office from Tehran to Peshawar in -August, 1990, and occupied
176
 \
JANUARY-MARCH,* 1991    HfCllflN lIlHMl                VOL.4 NO.2
                                               13
a distinct and prominent place in the ranks of the resistance. Because the Iran based coalition, which took an independent stand on many cases, it was generally undertstood that it worked under the shadow and umbrella of the Iranian government".
      Considering its transfer as a courageous move by the coalition authorities, the editorial concludes, "It is the wish of the people that the Coalition gains further strength as an important center of the Shia mujaheddin".
NEWS ITEMS: Farid Mazdak may become the next Primei Minister of the Kabul puppet regime following changes in, the Soviet Union entailing a re-emergence of hard-line communists at the helm, of affairs.
                  12
EDITORIAL:    It says although" /the'
despatch of a mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia is a personal decision of the AIG President, it is still an act that should be rejected because the majority of the mujaheddin leaders are opposed to it on account of US intervention. It says, "it is known to the entire • world that, until its' dissolution, the AIG did not manage to establish itself inside Afghanistan and thus the decision to send troops to Saudi Arabia will be met with resentment rather than admiration".
NEWS ITEMS:    The  office of Shaheed
Afzali Frontof Southwestern Afghanistan has said in Peshawar that 67 enemy personnel were killed by the mujaheddin at Khawaja and Babaji districts, Herat, and three tanks were destroyed 24' December. In other operations 13,23 and 30 January, one enemy tank and two vehicles were destroyed and a number of troops were killed.
 EDITORIAL: It confirms a proposal put
 forward by Nuhzatyar, general commander of Hezb-e-Islami in Andarab, regarding a joint ranking delegation from the He zb and Jamiat to be sent for’ harmonizing the election process. It also Suggests that the two pioneer Islamic organizations should .hold typical elections so that others may follow suit.
 NEWS ITEMS: Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has provided* information regarding the operations on Kabul.
    Street beggars in Kabul have increased. The people are suffering from a severe cold and scarcity of food supplies. The price of flour has gone up to Afs. 160/kg.
                14
 NEWS ITEMS: Ahmad Shah Masood, the Amir of the Northern Fronts and Eng. Shahadatyar, the Commander of the north-eastern fronts of the Jamiat-e-Islami, will take part in a joint operation against the atheist regime. The report about the Hezb-e-Islami plot to assassinate Ahmad shah Masood has been refuted.In a message to Ahmad Shah Masood, the contents of which have been sent to Azadi, Eng. Shahadatyar has expressed his deep sorrow and that of other mujaheddip in the region about the attempt on his life.
                18
 EDITORIAL: "Ammunitions should not be
 Wasted". The editorial is critical of the Afghans who use large numbers of ammunition in weddings and other happy occasions. They have learned these from the Pakistanis, it says. It suggests that the practice should be discontinued in the refugee camps. This will now only save substantial amounts
                                                                             VOL.4 NO.2
 JANUARY-MARCH# 1991
 of ammunition, but will also prevent accidental or purposeful deaths, etc.
 REPORT: Speeches were delivered in the
 meeting at the Jaluzi Camp 15 February on the occasion of the second anniversary of the Russian troops withdrawal from Afghanistan'. Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister said, "it was the true Islamic faith of the nation and its yearning for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan that prompted them to take up arms against a world power and to drive them out of their country.
     • Mawlawi Khales said, "though the Russians have left, their policy towards Afghanistan has not changed. The Gulf war willN only benefit Israel, and its instigators are the Soviet Union and the US. Upon consultation with the US, the Soviet Union persuaded Saddam to oc.cupy Kuwait and by this means the road was paved for US and Israeli intervention".
                19
 EDITORIAL:   "Outstanding    mujaheddin
 personalities must take the lead in fighting unwarranted traditions." The editorial says there’ are a number of unwarranted and undesirable Afghan customs, regarding weddings, etc, that can easily be abadoned when the mujaheddin personalities take practical lead in this, direction and hold a tight control for their eradication".
                 20
 REPORT:  According to Nawa-e-Waqt, a
iPakistani    newspaper, . t influential
 mujaheddin leaders such as Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Prof. Sayyaf and Prof. Rabbani have each stated that Afghans sent to Saudi Arabia did not belong to any of the mujaheddin groups in the AIG or the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan. The move was taken only to please the US. Their statements were made in a joint
 press conference. The three leaders have added that the war has been imposed upon Iraq by a plot and the Afghan nation, which itself has fought against a super power aggression for nearly 13 years, would never support the US and Zionist brutal aggression upon another Muslim nation- Iraq. They have added that AIG had notified Iraq of the despatch of the mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia, making it clear that the contingent had no ties with the mujaheddin or the jehad of Afghanistan but the western media have wrongly introduced them as such in an effort to create discord and gap between the mujaheddin groups. We want the whole world to know that these persons have no relation with us or our jehad.
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin of the Kabul provincial council related to Harakat-e-Islami killed a number of powerful members of the Kabul regime and attacked their military positions during the second half of January.
    In a peaceful demonstration 19 February, the refugee students condemned the despatch of a mujaheddin group to Saudi Arabia.
                21
 EDITORIAL:  "Auspicious impact of the:
 position taken by three prominent mujaheddin leaders". The editorial supports the stand taken by three prominent leaders on the Gulf issue and argues that : it may stop the flow of western and Arab.. assistance to the major mujaheddin organizations in the future. The paper writes, "however, positive impacts of this stand may be so impressive that it may overshadow the.concern over the discontinuation of aid and may open new horizons". The editorial considers this move as a historic event towards the creation of harmony among the mujaheddin organizations and helpful to an independent stand of the Islamic movement.
JANUARY-MARCH# 1991     flfCIIIMl Jllllll)               VOL. 4 r-0.2
 NEWS ITEMS:•Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the dissolved AIG government, has said in an interview with the Nawa-e-Waqt, "sending of mujaheddin group to Saudi Arabia was a right decision and it was approved by the AIG cabinet by a majority of ministers. Five of the six mujaheddin organizations voted for the Saudi request. As they assist us, so will we help them... The opposition to the move by organizations serving in the AIG is not correct" he said, "because the measure was taken in the bj^st interest of the Islamic ummah and with the consent of Afghan ulama and the Supreme Court". He added, "Prof. Rabbani was in full agreement with the decision at first, but later joined Prof. Sayyaf who opposed it from the beginning. However, Hekmatyar has never agreed with any of the AIG decisions from the day it was established... It has been Saudi Arabia that hafe assisted the mujaheddin since 1979. However those who opposed the decision were recipients of the greater part of the Saudi aids".
                 23
 REPORT:  Hujjat-ul-Islam Nader Ali
 Mehdawi, the speaker of ICCA has said that at a time like this when foreign troops were present in the Gulf region, the despatch of an Afghan mujaheddin group to Saudi Arabia was an insult to the Afghans.
     While condemning the occupation of Kuwait by Iraq, he said in a press conference, "it is being said that nations acting under the US umbrella have no right to be the custodians of Islamic Holy places". The press conference was also attended by Taqaddusi, Jawaid and Dr. Fedawi.
               24
 EDITORIAL: "Why was the 22 February
 uprising crushed?". Remembering the
 historical days, the editorial says," we remember the day when the people of Kabul rose but we do not learn a lesson from it. We should have sought its spread to other parts of the country. We hope our scholars and writers take up the matter and explain the reasons why the Kabul uprising of 22 February and that of Herat 15 March, (one year before) failed. Eye-witnesses should also write what they saw and the organizers     should    evaluate the
 measures they took in detail. Let them relate the short-comings and flaws committed, frankly.
 REPORT: According to the Azadi corres^ pondent, four of the main mujaheddin leaders- Engineer Hekmatyar, Prof. Sayyaf, Prof. Rabbani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi- signed an agreement,     22    February,     which
 officially proclaims the end of the AIG and the establishment of a new harmonious mujaheddin organization. "Under this agreement the organization which was officially recognized as the AIG by the ijamiat-e-Islami, Ittehad-e-and Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, is now dissolved and another organization consisting of four mujaheddin groups is formed, which will be headed by the leaders of the four main mujaheddin groups alternately. They are also trying to include the other three mujaheddin groups in this new organization but their efforts in this respect have not succeeded yet.
 j- According to Pakistani press Mr. ,'Mujaddedi left for Germany on board a ispecial aeroplane 22 February. It is said that he intends to meet Zaher Shah land obtain his opinion oh the lestablishment of a broad-based government. It is commented that the visit of la Russian delegation to Pakistan and their emphasis on a broad-based government has prompted this visit.
179
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
       25
VOL.4 NO,2
 NEWS ITEMS: Eng.  Hekmatyar,  leader of
 Hezb-e-Islami, has assured a gathering , on the occasion of the anniversary of 22 February in Peshawar, that the puppet Kabul regime was in a helpless state of fear , and would fall down during the joint mujaheddin operation planned for the near future.
 - Eight hirelings of the . Kabul regime were killed in a mine explosion north of Bagram Airport. The mine was planted by the mujaheddin.
 - The Ghorband mujaheddin have killed 17 Kabul regime personnel during the last month.
    A number of commanders criticized Mawlawi Haggani and his associates in a press conference at Quetta which was attended by the commanders from all mujaheddin organizations. They issued 'the following resolution:   (1) Mawlawi
 Haggani has established the Commanders, Council without consultation with the mujaheddin leaders; (2) The Afghan ulama do not support Mawlawi Haggani and his Commanders' . Council; (3) The Council was established without consultation with most of the commanders inside Afghanistan; (4) The aim of establishing the council by Haggani and jxis supporters was for personal motives and not for serving the Muslim Afghan nation.
      The commanders told reporters in the conference that the establishment ■of a new political party by Haqqani and his associates, will weaken the jehad of.the Afghan people.
                 27
 EDITORIAL:    "Islamic    design for
 uniforms". The editorial criticizes the graduates of the Military Academy for wearing uniforms and neckties. It says
 we must not dress in western styles and, in particular, avoid wearing neckties. As a religion regulating all spheres of life, Islam has prescribed, the kind of garments its t followers ought to wear. The editorial suggests that steps should be taken to design an Islamic uniform' for military personnel and to do away with western attires.
              28
 NEWS ITEMS: The, Samangan mujaheddin
 of the Harakat-e-Islami executed five militiamen of the Kabul regime 16 February. The trial of another 10 of them still continues.       ^
 - Mohammad Yaquh, a mujahed from Aqcha, was shot by two gunmen at a bus stand. He was taking a bus to the Khorasan Camp 17 February when he was attacked. The killers disappeared in the crowd and got away.
                                    MARCH
                2
 NEWS ITEMS: Eng. Mogeem, employee of
 the Swedish Committee, who was injured in a bomb explosion in his office in December, died 1 March. The bomb was reported to have been planted under his desk. Nearly all members of the Swedish organization are being interrogated by ,the police.
 - A report from the Shoora-e-Ittefaq of Ghazni says that their mujaheddin killed three military officers and 18 militiamen of. the Kabul regime 14 February.
                4
 INEWS ITEMS: Skirmishes are reported
 between forces of the Shoora-e-Nezar and Hezb-e-Islami in northeastern iAfghanis-tan for three weeks. Over 30 ibf the mujaheddin of Shoora-e-Nezar were taken prisoners at the Bangi last week. Based on
    idistrict ! 180
                           /
JANUARY-MARCH# 1991       flfCllflN JfHAD             VOL .4 NO. 2
  information received from reliable Hezb-e-Islami sources. .The Azadi reporter writes that efforts were going on by the two organizations to end the present disputes in Takhar. Meanwhile, the Hezb-e-Islami leadership has issued orders to those responsible in the region to release the prisoners and take the initiative for restoring peace and understanding between the two '
> groups.
  - As a result of mujaheddin rocket attack on Kabul Airport, one aircraft has been demolished and the airport radar establishments have been damaged. Thirteen Kabul regime troops were also killed during the attack.
                    11
  EDITORIAL:   The editorial urges on
  mujaheddin to exert pressure for the closure of the Kabul - Jalalabad road.
  NEWS ITEMS:     The mujaheddin have
  besieged the center of Ghor province after occupying the Shahrak and Toulak districts earlier.
 J- Amir Gulistan Janjua, Governor of the NWFP, has said that only the people of Afghanistan have the right to decide      upon the    future of  their
  country. The government of Pakistan has supported this legitimate struggle ,of the* Afghan nation and will continue to do so until the problem is completely solved.
                    12
  REPORT:  The three-day seminar held at>*
  the initiative of WUFA President, Rasoul      Amin and other pro-western
  elements, ended 11  March. In the final
  session ,of the seminar, which nwas .opened by the NWFP governor, Benazir Bhutto, leader of the PPP, also participated. Benazir Bhutto said despite    Pakistani           support of and
  assistance rendered to the Afghan :issue, some elements were active to create difference among the mujaheddin
 groups and do not allow the problem to be solved. She said, the reduction of. international interest about the Afghan issue, the danger of establishment of a fundamentalist and Islamic government, in Afghanistan has increased. Bhutto expressed -the hope that the US and the Soviet Union would take the Afghan problem seriously after the solution of the Gulf crisis, and create conditions in the region that may stop the flow of arms. She added that Pakistan and Saudi Arabia should also join the group of nations that guarantee the arms embargo on Afghanistan. It was     due  to the
 support of her regime for the mujaheddin that the AIG was established during the rule of the PPP.'
      Prof. Mujaddedi, Mawalawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Mawlawi Haqqani, Safi the President of the Information Department of NIFA, Commander Abdul Hag, Eng. Rahim and ' some other dignitaries were' also invited to the seminar.
                13
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is related to a seminar held at the Intercontinental Hotel in Peshawar and comments on Benazir Bhutto's remarks claiming that the two super powers have reached agreement on establishing another puppet and non-mujaheddin government in Afgha-nistan. It says;, "it will not be possible to fight the US-^Soviet intrigues without following an Islamic progressive principled policy. This can be achieved only by organization adhering to principles such as the Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat^e-Islami. We must not waste time and efforts, and -instead further strengthen and consolidate the harmony that was created between these two organizations •earlier, before the Russo-American plan matures. We hope that our apathy and daily chores will not make it too late |for us when the plots are implemented.
181
veil .4 NO. /
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
                14
EDITORIAL: "Proposals regarding wedding ceremonies". ’Mentioning a previous editorial in which the paper had said, "now that wedding receptions have done away with traditional customs such as dancing and music, the atmosphere looks a. little too dull". For bringing a touch of warmth to these ceremonies the paper suggests that the hosts can select a number of persons to arrange activities such as:       talking on
particular subjects of interest, reciting poetry, quiz contests and other informative programs. Provided the host can afford it, prizes can also be given out to the winners of these contests."
     Another subject, worth the efforts of young men only, is sports and athletics which can occasionally take the form of a race and competition. The paper concludes, "at present, educational and sound.activities will not only arouse the interests of the guests but will also be helpful in raising their educational standards and popularizing jehad and Islamic values".
                16
EDITORIAL: The editorial stresses the
need for harmony between the Hezb and the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and the elimination of differences between them. The writer believes that otherwise the non-Muslims, opportunists and pro-western elements, by colluding with super powers, will try to divert the inspiring Islamic jehad of Afghanistan which has been a source of inspiration for all anti-satahic movements in the world...
    "It is now imperative for the Hezb and the Jamiat to- take a common stand against the pro-western elements and tens of other problems that; the world arrogance uses for obstructing our jehad. Silence among the big mujaheddin organizations over these issue*# has
 paved the way for the world arrogance to resort to hostile propaganda and cause further concern to the friends of jehad. For instance, people were worried that a gathering at the Intercontinental Hotel in Peshawar drew no comment from the mujaheddin organizations about the speeches -that were delivered". The editorial says that, in circumstances like this, the center . of the mujaheddin leadership must also have a timely coordinated reaction to state the position of the progressive Islamic organizations who are the principle target of these intrigues.
 REPORT: Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of
 Hezb-e-Islami, has said in a meeting commemorating the Herat uprising of 15 March 1979, "the mujaheddin will inflict the US hirelings the same blows as they inflicted upon the Russians",
     Basharat
                         FEBRUARY
                                  9
 EDITORIAL: The glorious jehad of the
 valorous Afghan nation against the internal black despotism and foreign colonialist, had converted Afghanistan into a good source of news for international media so much so that a major^ share of newspaper columns and broadcasting time was taken up by items from the • Afghan jehad. But, now the Gulf war has assumed the fore front. Thus this lack of coverage of the news related to the Islamic |revolution of Afghanistan should not be j construed as an actual reduction in |political, military and cultural events 1 that take place in Afghanistan. Collection and publication of the news of Afghan events is a necessity. However, the truth or falsehood of the news items cannot be guaranteed by
182
JANUARY-HARCH. 1991        flffillflN JtHflD                    VOl     NO.?
                                        Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, members of the Executive Council, commanders, ulama and members of the Central
 items from radio broadcasts or the press. It is upto those concerned to analyze them.
 NEWS ITEMS: The Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, in a statement has congratulated the Islamic nation of Iran on its plan to allocate, ten days for public debate on an important national topic. The statement also points out that the US and the USSR, under the pretext of the liberation of Kuwait, are actually after the destruction of Islamic wealth and the annihilation of the Muslim ummah on the peripheries of the Persian Gulf.
 - Sayyed Sajjadi, Central Council member of Hezb-e-Wahdat, has told the VOA in an interview, "Former groups such as the Harakat-e-Islami Afghanis-nistan, Sazman-e-Pasdaran-e-Jehad-e-Is-lami, Shoora-e-Enqelab-e-Islami and the Jabha-e-Mutta-hed-e-Enqelab-e-Islami of Nuhzat-e-Islami all gathered around the Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-lslami are now jointly working in the central council in Bamian.
                                  *****
                             Baseerat
                                MARCH
                                    14
IREPORT: Similar to previous years, the
 annual educational meeting was held in the courtyard of Noor-ul-Madares which was attended by nearly 3,000 persons. The meeting, held 5-7 February, consisted of eight sessions which opened with recitations from the Holy Quran. Dignitaries to the meeting included Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of
     m                  *             I
 Council of the Students Organization of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami and its officials in Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
                                      *****
                          Basheer-u l-Momenat
                                   JANUARY
                                        17
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is related to
 the start of the second year of publication of the journal and says, "A year ago on this day the Bashir-al-Momenat published its first issue from the educational and training center of the Muslim women of Afghanistan and took its place among the Islamic press of Afghanistan.
     Bearing this fact in mind that there are two sides of every revolution: blood and good tidings, the Muslim woman must" discharge her obligations in both respects to the best of her ability. It is by this means that she can make the enemy understand that the entire nation- men, women, young and old alike- are the true defenders of Islam and their beloved country. The
                                N
 Afghan Muslim women, by learning this lesson from their teacher- zainab
                                M .
 (the wife, of Prophet Mohammad)- have
                                u
 occupied and proven their rightful
                                                                                 ■ 0
 place in the revolutionary movements. They are forging ahead together with their men folks and will not stop until
183
JANUARY-MAKCII, 199.1
UN Jill
VOl A NO. 2
 they have achieved the objectives of the revolution.
     Though in our traditional society the woman is considered to only belong to the home- not bearing in mind that it is the bosom of mother which nourishes the kind of men and women who succeed in reaching the gates of paradise and utter the slogan: "Islam
 calls for revolutionary men and women. The cowardly must quit the fronts where martyrdom is embraced. There is no room for the narrowminded extremists who fail to notice the sacrifices given by the Muslim women during the history of the Islamic political struggles".
     In the opinion of a limited number of people, the Bashir-al-Momenat was ridiculed right from its inception and was even threatened, which supplied the propaganda machine of the puppet regime in Kabul with enough material to feed the best of their interests. But, with the Grace of God, and the indefatigueable efforts of our staff, the wheels turned in the interest of the most oppressed sector of the Afghan' society. The journal managed to zig-zag through the ups and downs of perpetual passes and continued its publication.
                               FEBRUARY
                                        16
 COMMENTARY: On the occasion of the
 second anniversary of the Russian troops withdrawal, the paper writes, "February 15, 1989, coincides with a
 glorious day in the history of the armed struggle of the mujaheddin against the Red Army. As the mujahed Afghan nation defeated the biggest military power by undergoing sufferings, deprivations and sacrifices, it will
 also be prepared to tolerate these until the leradication of communism and the founding of an Islamic society as its substitute. By this means it will have taken a , major step for the realization of the long cherished desire of our martyrs.
       OTHER ITEMS:
 *An article .about the virtue, of waging jehad, for the sake of God. The article has quoted Sl Quranic verse in which it has been said that God loves those who wage jehad and struggle in his path.
 ♦Hinduism and its hatred towards Islam. It says that Hindu hatred of Muslims in the sub-continent is not new, it has existed for' hundreds of years and the Hindus have always acted in a hostile manner by destroying Muslim holy places and massacring the Muslims.
 ♦A call upon mujaheddin leaders to attend to the miseries facing the refugees living in Pakistani camps.
 *A call by one of the readers of the. newspaper that the editor of the paper should also publish Pashtu items. 'Because the newspaper is completely in Dari languages and has failed to. attend to the needs of of its Pashtu readers.'
     Daneshjo
     DECEMBER
             21
 EDITORIAL: Discussing the completion of
 its second year of publication,Daneshjo concludes:  "As long as the Daneshjo
 continues its publication, it will
  JANUAKY-MAKCH, 1991
 follow the same lines and principles adopted at the beginning, i.e., to fulfil its commitments and discharge its responsibilities for the cause of Islam and the revolution unf .aulteringly. It will not permit any power to play with the destiny and honor of the revolution under whatever pretext and to sacrifice' the true meaning of Islam and our
 revolution for its own interests.
                              \
 INTERVIEW:   Mohammad Reza Kharganian
 Iranian, reporter and expert on Afghanistan affairs, who had attended a seminar in Kabul on the millenium of Ferdausi (a classic Persian poet), said upon his return, "It was a cultural seminar sponsored by UNICEF. I shall not attempt to deny that the seminar was totally void of political motives and it bore great cultural values which the mujaheddin, the refugees and the Afghan nation as a whole should observe. At any rate, cultural affairs, particularly the commemoration of Afghan poets, enjoy greater importance than politics. I am personally of the opinion that relations between Iran and Afghanistan, whether political, economic or social, take their origin from culture. The reason is also very obvious:   we are  two nations
 with common cultural,.ethnic, religious, lingual, and historical ties. The culture of the two countries can never, and under no circumstances, be separated from each other and this is away from politics. Although there is not much political relations between' the two peoples, they are not aliens to each other. This is why there should be no break between their cultural relations because this is not only in the interests of the peoples of the two Muslim nations, but it will benefit only those who have been opposed and indifferent to the cultural and literary heritages of the enlightened people of Afghanistan throughout centuries. These relations should be further strengthened and should form the basis of our future ties for the benefit of the two nations."
 VOL.A NO.2
 * Discussing the unity between Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat-e^Islami of Afghanistan   the  journal says,
 "Historically these two organizations form the foundation of the Islamic movement in Afghanistan. The hardship imposed upon the nation on account of the differences. between these two organizations during the last 12 years due to foreign factors, were in fact, unfounded, unlawful and contrary to the spirit of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan. Those elements who take pride in (Islamic) movement in both organizations are awaiting the moment when the two merge in only one administration."
       Dawat
                                  JANUARY
 EDITORIAL: Our great jehad faces a new
 problem with every day that passes. These mounting difficulties are the direct result of conflicts existing between the mujaheddin leaders and lack of political and military order in jehadic affairs. The secret of our victory lies in real unity alone. It is the duty of every Afghan patriot to work in- this direction.
 INTERVIEW: Judge Mohammad Amin Weqad
 has stated in an interview that a leadership  counc-il  should  be
 established from all the mujaheddin groups to consider the following:
 1.  How to solve the Afghanistan problem?
 2. How can the Afghans determine their destiny by themselves?
 3. How to form a government capable of earning internal and international recognition?
185
january-march, 1991       .  hiuiihhuiiihu               vol.4  no.2
                           MARCH
 REPORT: One hundred- and fifty-three
 persons have been killed, 367 wounded and 2,500 persons have been made homeless because of* the recent earthquake and floods in Afghanistan. The- earthquake has been unprecedented during the last 50 years. Badakhshan, Kunar, Baghlan, Nangarhar, Laghman, Parwan, Balkh, Kunduz and Paktia provinces were the worst affected by the quake. Reports about the floods say’ that Helmand, Zabul, Nimroz, Kandahar and parah provinces have suffered mostly. Tens of sqaure kilometers of land have been inundated and extensive loss of life and property has been caused. We must point out that the affected areas are. mostly under the mujaheddin control but international relief aids have been flowri to the Kabul regime which they have stored for their own use.
           D’jehad Hindara
                          JANUARY
• EDITORIAL: "The fall of the Russian
 Empire, but by whom?" The editorial discusses how the Afghans managed to face the Russians and inflict upon them a shameful defeat and how efforts are underway to forsake. the Afghan heroism, interpret the affair in a totally different way and instead give the credit to western diplomacy.
 REPORT: Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has
 said in a joint conference of the Councils of Mujaheddin Commanders- and Afghan Ulama,"All Muslims are proud of the Afghans because it was through them that infidelity received a defeating
 blow and Islam was glorified. It is the duty of the ulama, . commanders, mujaheddin and the refugees alike to intensify jehad so that enemy intrigues are frustrated".
                 9
 EDITORIAL:   "Another step towards
 Unification" Commenting on a joint statement of commanders and ulama, it says this was yet another step forward towards alliance and unification.
 NEWS ITEMS:
    Mawlawi Arsalan Rahmani in an interview with De Jehad Hindara:   "pur
 policy is not different to that of the mujaheddin organizations".
    "Krozlin",Russian journalist:  "the
 Islamic revolution is more dangerous than any other movement today".
 MESSAGE: 'Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani in a message in.the Gulf issue: "It is the duty of the entire Muslim ummah to take immediate measures for solving the Gulf crisis" .
 INTERVIEW:   Commander Anwar Khan in
 connection with the formation of the Council of mujaheddin commanders:  "Our
 power is derived from our jehad and the entire jehad force constitute this power. We will value the Council's decisions and interests more than our ethnic, linguistic or party relations. I am quite sure that the decisions made by the Islamic organizations are in step with Islamic tenets. Unity in the political field is as much necessary as it is in the military field". He added, "our folks are sick of discord but the present situation indicates that, with the will of God, political unity will also be estalished".
                 23
 REPORT: American writer Anthony Arnold, has said in an interview .with the VOA,
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991         flfCllflMJIHAD               VOL-4 N0.2
 "The Afghan War has deeply affected the Soviet political system and society. He has said the present reforms in Russia have been undertaken due to two main factors:  (1) the Afghan war in which
 the Russians were defeated. The US program in arming the Afghans had a major, role in this defeat and (2) the US armament program to counter that of the Russians. This race would have proved very expensive for Moscow. Thomas Gouttierre, President of International Studies in University of Nebraska, has said, "the effects of the Afghan - war on the Soviet society was more than that of the Vietnam on the US society. A close study of the Russian society will reveal that it is no longer the pre-war society or even that of the war period."
                                                30
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is written by Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani who reviews the Gulf war in the light of facts. Considering Saddam as a communist and a socialist, he mentions his "aggression" against Iran during the past 10 years and on Kuwait during the last five months. The editorial says, "The present disaster A the result of his refusal to pull out from Kuwait. If foreign troops have been sent to the region to combat Iraqi troops and if other measures have been taken, the real factor behind these disasters is Saddam. ‘ There have been many demonstrations held here and there in protest against the present crisis. What is surprising is that there were nO demonstrations of this kind at the time when Kuwait was occupied by Iraq, its assets were taken away and it was proclaimed a part of Iraq. •
      "The best way to solve the crisis would be to force Saddam^ by whatever means possible, to withdraw his troops from Kuwait and to restore its sovereignty and prestige. The presence of the US and other alien forces in the
 region should in no way be endorsed. But it is our explicit, wish that peace and security is restored in the region as soon as possible, Kuwait attains its independence and that war damages are compensated through aid supplied by richer nations".     •
                                FEBRUARY
                                          6
 REPORT: The weekly Zindagi of Lahore
 writes in its January issue, "Amazing battles have been raged against the Russians under the command of Alhaj Jalaluddin Haqqani. Commander Haqqani, accompanied by 14 other commanders, has said in an interview in Peshawar that an atmosphere of alliance and unity has been reigning all over Afghanistan eversince November, 1990 and every’ operation is carried out under a common military strategy which turns around these three, points: (1)' attacking the
 enemy at its weakest joints and slowly closing the siege on .large cities so that the inhabitants are not subjected to hardship, (2) maintaining the security of the mujaheddin supply routes, (3) uniting the mujaheddin forces * and    overcoming        their
 differences. T .
 - Dr. Shroeder Chief of the Geography and Geology Department of the University of Nebraska; says the Russians have, taken charge of natural resources of Afghanistan. He says, "Though smaller in area than the US State of Texas, Afghanistan possesses tremendous natural resources. It may not be as rich in oil and natural gas resources as the Persian Gulf, but it is many time richer than some other countries. However these resources are so far untapped. Apart from natural- gas, Afghanistan . possesses gold and other metals such as chrome, copper and jLron pres plus precious and semi-precious stones. Unfortunately, these have not been made use of until now because
187
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
ill
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 their exploitation was the sole responsibility of the Russians who concealed everything from the Afghans. The former and present governments in Afghanistan have been silent about these matters," he said.
                 13
 REPORT: The weeklyy Moscow New Times
 writes, "The ongoing operation in Afghanistan was nothing more than a massacre without victory and war against a nation. The Russian generals ordered the Soviet troops to be killed. As a result, the Russian youth were killed and even burned alive there; scorched tanks and vehicles are lying on the two sides of the Salang Highway; the Afghans now have a stock of Russian steel and iron which will suffice them for many years to come.
                                                                  "The Russian soldiers were not
 only killed themselves, but they killed a million Afghans too during the nine years of war. The Russain 40th Army in Afghanistan deployed the most destructive modern arms. We have been accustomed to hear about Afghan brutalities against Russian prisoners of war. Today we listen to stories how the Russian commandos used to cut ears and noses off the Afghans they held in their custody, or how they set fire to entire villages hustling with women and children. Not the Russian troops  alone,
 but  the Afghan  communists also killed
 the Afghans by the dozens,."
                   20
 EDITORIAL:   "Shameful defeat of the
 Russian Army". It was about this time two years ago that the shameful defeat of  the savage   and aggressive .Soviet
 'army was completed and the Russian forces had to cross the Oxus River, carrying on their shoulders the burden of this defeat after 10 years of a bloody war In Afghanistan.
     The    fact   is that.
 withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin leadership did not initiate anything that could be of real use to them". The framework of the government they established was so weak that it neither drew the attention of the world nor did it convince the nation. The situation two years after the defeat of the Russians demands firm steps towards independence without wasting time by whatever means possible.
 INTERVIEW: Alhaj Haqqani told the VO A
 in an interview that the reason for the continuation of the Kabul regime was lack of common strategy and administration by the mujaheddin and lack ,of funds.
                                        MARCH
                                              6
 EDITORIAL: "Another 'Hide and Seek'
 game of the colonial powers *in a new show".In our last issue under the title of "Another Side of the Visit of Russian Delegation to Pakistan", we had discussed that a plot which constituted an obvious threat to the prestige and glory ■ of the successful Islamic revolution in Afghanistan was being hatched. According to reports, the plot aimed at accussing the mujaheddin that they not only wanted to hoist the green flag (of Islam) in Afghanistan but over the Kremlin as well and, in their zeal and urge for a pure Islamic revolution, did not tolerate in the ranks of revolution the presence of those elements who held high positions in former governments in Afghanistan.
     News items and commentaries in the press 1 say that the Russian delegation had a plan with it which urged the recognition of the Watan Party- a secQnd name for the PDPA- by the
 mujaheddin and would have, given them a share in future flections under a so-called neutral government. And we
after the>
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991     IlfCIIIlN JtHflD                 VOL.4 NO. 2
 all know what a 'neutral government', means     under      the    present-day
 terminology.
      The Russians, in their attempts to preserve the Kabul regime; feel that (regarding, the Afghan * issue) they should somehow obtain Pakistani agreement or that of Eng. Hekmatyar, Prof. Sayyaf or Prof. Rabbani or any other leader, for that matter. But it is quite Obvious that Moscow has no other aim than to enhance its colonial designs. No one with an awakened and sympathetic conscience for Islam and Afghanistan should have any other illusion, than this*-.Only a nod of ■ .the head will be enough to render these plans successful, for it will mean' that enemy defeat in the battle field will be compensated around the conference table.
 EDITORIAL:  "Why  and for Whom are we
 waiting?". • Reviewing the "useless" delays in the jehad process and terming the failures and dissolutions of alliances and governments as a waste of time and effort, hhe editorial says; "Waiting any,longer will only be in the interest of enemies and politicians. It is now high time to reach the final goal. The conquerers of the 12-year war are ready to begin their coordinated actions throughout the country under a joint military strategy. It is hoped that, as a result of these sincere efforts, there will be a thaw in the present deadlock and the Afghan mujahed nation reach its final destination".
                                                20
 REPORT i* Joint operations of the mujaheddin forces on Khost are continuing successfully. Ten enemy pasts and large quantities of arms and ammunition have been captured and heavy losses have been inflicted upon the enemy.                      • .
                                                                  Using the "Sucker-20" rockets 16
 March, the mujaheddin destroyed the base of the Garrison's Command, the KHAD building and the main fuel reservoir of the town. The operation destroyed the radio relay station and airport radar establishments. The Kabul regime has used long-range missiles and jet fighters against the - mujaheddin positions, but so far only two mujaheddin have been killed and another one injured.
                     Jnqelab-e-Islami
            DECEMBER
                 27
 INTERVIEW: In  an exclusive interview
 with Enqelab-e-Islami correspondent. Prof. Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said in connection with the USSR invitation to the mujaheddin to visit that country that the invitation was not made by the Soviet government but by the opposition who, in their drive to make the crimes of the Gorbachev regime in Afghanistan public, wished to obtain a chain of publicity from the mujaheddin in this regard. This invitation was extended to the mujaheddin by Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation.*He added, if under the present conditions the mujaheddin are of the opinion that they would be able to reveal Russian . crimes committed in the past and its continuation by Soviet advisors as they support a criminal regime in Afghanistan, the mujaheddin would profit from their visit to Russia, otherwise it would be a futile excercize,
 * Mawlawi Abdul Haq Haqqani said in an interview with the Enqelab-e-Islami: Right now there are 15 primary schools and five Islamic madrasas in Kushk
189
 I
region of Herat.
    When asked for his opinion about the so-called national figures who wish to have a western style government in Afghanistan# Haqqani said# "Whoever opposes the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan in any form, will be considered as a Khalqi or * Parchami and we will fight them. They have no right to express/ any opinion in regard to the self-determination of our destiny. He have offered sacrifices and we have driven the Russians out of the country and shall not retreat from our stand for establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan."
                             Ihrar
                         DECEMBER
                                17
EDITORIAL: "Complete Unity, urgent need
of our Society". Considering a complete unity to be the utmost necessity under present conditions and the only means to overthrow the Kabul regime, the editorial says, "establishment of the Commanders' Council and understanding reached between the mujaheddin organizations both in Iran and Pakistan had raised great hopes towards the settlement of the Afghanistan problem. If the process had, indeed, been completed, there would be no room for the US and Soviet plots As the world powers are really afraid' of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, they had to move quickly. Najib's trip to Geneva and his stopovers in Ankara and Mashad, are part of their efforts in this direction. Their mass media made a lot of noise about Najib's trip and his so-called election plan. The mujaheddin organizations, influenced by the enemy propaganda, dropped all efforts, in the direction of unity and concentrated on
                             going forward with the implementation of
                             their owh imperfect election plans.
                             Since the plan is not suitable for all
                             mujaheddin organizations# it may
                             produce yet another 'body reminiscent
                             of the Rawalpindi Consultative^ Council.
                             And# as this election plan is ..set to
                             neutralize the effects of enemy plots,
                             it may result only in a total stalemate
                                                \
 in the jehad activities.. Elections or . other efforts can prove useful only when the . mujaheddin forces have reached complete unity.
                                    FEBRUARY
                 11
 REPORT:  In a resolution issued by
 "Fazel" and "Hussaini" on behalf of. Pasdaran-e-Jehad- and Jabha-e-Muttahed,
 the two -groups have announced the .dissolution- of the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan and have urged total and complete alliance among all
 the mujaheddin groups. When the' Coalition Council of the Iran-based
 nine mujaheddin groups was dissolved some month^ ago and replaced by the
  Hezb-e-Wahdat^e-Islami, some members of Harakat-e-Islami, Pasdaran-e-Jehad and
 Jabha-e-Muttahed dissolved the Goali-Council at the instigation of some
  elements in Peshawar. Leaving Harakat-' e-Islami aside, actually no other c/roup was left to constitute the "Coalition".
                                                          "Those responsible for the political affairs and foreign relations of
                                                          the Council, * which has now been dissolved, have said they have done
  so to maintain unity and halt mishandling and misuse of the affaire of jehad.
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991     llfllllllHJIMP                    VOL.4 NO.2
190
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
ill
 IIhN jk
        Isteqlal
                                 MARCH
 EDITORIAL: In relation to the name of
 the journal (Isteqlal), the editorial points out the importance of independence. It says, "the factor beind the delay in the final victory of the Afghan Islamic revolution can be sought in want of thinking, financial, military and political independence. The actual reason for this can be sought in the plots hatched by the satarticlc forces against the firm faith and resolution of nation.
     "The idea of independent judgement calls for learning from the experiences of others. History is the best teacher. While learning from the past, we must not yield to fanaticism.
     "Behind every successful revolu-lies free thought and independent judgement. The factors that caused the defeat of the Russians and led us to the present stage, are the independent thinking and political freedom of our nation, , and the continuation of our struggle will again depend upon the preservation of this independence.
     "The Islamic world will only attain independence when it has attained independence of thought lack, of which can be regarded as the real cause of backwardness of the Islamic nations and the Third World. Our leaiders should be independent in this respect, resolve independently and should   act likewise.  Foreign
 intervention in the Afghan problem-from individuals or nations-must stop.! Otherwise our people will not witness a happy day.
     "We hope that ’our readers may have now come to the conclusion why we have
                                                                VOL.4 NO.2
 named our1 journal Isteqlal.
        Falaq
                             DECEMBER
            29
 EDITORIAL: "Down with the Soviet Union" The editorial dwells on the 1979 invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union and its attempt for the so called "reconciliation" after their defeat and concludes: At this sensitive and critical moment it is the duty of all pioneering and fighting forces to discuss, with Islamic revolutionary awareness and on the basis of party and ideological discipline, issues related to negative approaches. We warn, however, not to take distance from the brilliant nature of the message of our resistance, i.e«, the establishment of an Islamic government; not to be too hopeful for talks and political '.manoeuvres and . to' discover and neutralize enem'y intrigues in the bud.
 REPORT: Hujjat-ul-Islam Hashemi
 Rafsanjani, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, while reflecting on the invasion of Afghanistan by the Red Army, said in Tehran University prior to Friday prayers 28 December, "The Muslim people of Afghanistan with their great jehad managed to defeat one of the greatest powers in the world and taught them a good lesson".
 - The Afghan mujaheddin and refugees in Pakistan, Iran and other countries condemned the Russian invasion of Afghanistan in demonstrations and grand meetings held on the occasion of the 12th anniversary of the invasion of our country. Resolutions were also passed during these meetings with decisions for the' continuation of jehad until the
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1991                             IKlllllllllIMMI •                               VOL.4 NO.2
downfall of the Kabul communist regime, the establishment of a. true Islamic government, safeguarding the country's sovereignty, independence and Islamic Character.
                        JANUARY
...
 NEWS ITEMS: „ In a joint mujaheddin operation at Sarobi, two Kabul regime military posts were captured and heavy losses were inflicted upon the enemy. In the operation, carried out 4 January, two tanks and several truckloads of ammunition were also destroyed.
                                                11
 EDITORIAL:  Reviewing the Afghanistan
 problem in the light of the present situation, it says, "the US political objective in Afghanistan is to put up a hard struggle against Islamic extremism and the obliteration of true Islamic movement from the jehadic and political life of the Muslim people of Afghanistan. The US, in collaboration with the USSR and West Europe, is making all efforts to pave the Way for the establishment of a western style secular state in • Afghanistan in concord with western objective. Zaher Shah seems to be the right person to head such a government. What is the duty of the mujaheddin in this context? They should join • hands in the defense of the objectives of Islamic revolution.
 NEWS ITEMS: An eye-witness from Kabul: The "Gelam Jam" militiamen have gone out of control to the extent that they are indulging in indecent and shameful acts of theft, looting and rape. This witness says food supplies are scarce and prices are ever-increasing. He puts the price of consumer gqods as: Rice * Afs. 400/kgm, wheat • = Afs. 200/kgm v,'. pptatoes * Afs: i20/kg.,  onions  = Afs.
2.00/kg.., diesel = Afs. 800/gallon and petrol = Afs. 3,000/gallon.
* The mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime helicopter in Khulm, Samangan, 19 December.
               14
EDITORIAL:   The  media of  "arrogance"
according to a. meditated plan tries convey that the mujaheddin are getting tired and    the  cause of    jehad has
reached a deadlock. Wide-spread poisonous propaganda is being spread throughout the media run by the world arrogance. However, news of mujaheddin operations and attacks on enemy strongholds  tell tales of  their valor
and earnest desire for the realization of their aspirations. Since enemy plots emanate from their satanic intentions, the Afghan nation will certainly prove that enemy "strokes" are weaker than it is thought     to be and   is unable
to overcome the determination of a nation, which values highly its faith and history.
NEWS ITEMS:  Jet fighters  of the Kabul
regime bombed the residence of the governor of Parwan 8 January. All guards, including three officers, were killed and nearby houses -were damaged. The motive beind ' the bombing_ is not known.
               28
REPORT: Sebghatiillah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, told a BBC correspondent .in an interview, "The mujaheddin condemn aggression in whatever form it may be. World nations ought to have defended Saudi Arabia and forced Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait. If the allied forces have come to the region for this purpose/ Kuwait must be liberated. If they are:    here for colonialistic
designs, it will not be acceptable."
                                                            Prof. Sayyaf told a gathering in Peshawar that he is opposed to both the
192
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
 Iraqi occupation of Kuwaitand the coalition / intervention. Saddam has deviated from the path of Islam and can be considered as an enemy of Islam.This war. will only take a toll Of innocent civilians and not of those who command it and* therefore, must be ended soon.
      Ayatullah Mohammad Asef Mohseni, leader of Harakat-e-Islami has told a gathering in Peshawar that, despite the fact that he has been aware of.Saddam's anti-Islamic nature, he supported him for his daring act of standing against the US.
      Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said in a radio message from Logar that the coalition army was killing innocent Iraqi people under the pretext of animosity towards Saddam. He has criticized US and allied operations in Iraq and has also condemned the Soviet Union for remaining silent on; the matter.
 vol.4 no.2
 lackeys are traitors and one day they will answer for this treachery.in front of the nation".
     Prof. Rabbani also, addressing the meeting said "As we are condemning the sad and bitter memories of the. past 12 years pertaining to Soviet atrocities# we should not ignore the successes achieved by the nation apd we should seek remedies for our short-comings". While criticising the fr.ee press and statements made by- some commanders. Prof. Rabbani said that in the first place their criticism was aimed at the Islamic government and parties.
                                   JANUARY
                                            7
 MEWS ITEMS: The assistant commander of an infantry detachment of the Kabul regime and seven of his troops were captured by the Logar mujaheddin.
 - An ammunition dump of Kabul regime forces in Paghman was recently destroyed by the mujaheddin.
 - two security posts were captured by the mujaheddin in Sarobi 4 January.
   Thirteen 'Kabul regime troops were killed 28 December and a radar site in Ghazni was destroyed by the mujaheddin.
                                        14
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime
 Minister, in a message to the Islamic, world issued 13 January said, "Whichever side uses ah atomic weapon in the course of a probable war in the Gulf, will not find its interests ‘immune from the revenge of faithful Muslims. Muslim/ holy places have been intruded upon only because they are in the hands, of weak and cowardly regimes indifferent toward the honor and dignity of their own people.
  11 teha d-e-Islami
                         DECEMBER
                                 31
 EDITORIAL: The paper throws light on
 the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the heroic struggle of the Afghans which led to complete defeat of the red army.
 REPORT: A  grand meeting was. held in
 Jaluzi Camp on the occasion of the anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan in which Prof. Sayyaf the. AIG Premier, addressing the gathering, said "Ours is not a short-term war, it may continue a life-time. A Muslim must encamp in the battle field and his end must also come there".
                                          Prof. Sayyaf added, "Those who have had contacts with Najib and his
193
   JANUARY-MARCH, 1991         AtGHANJtHAIl                 VOL.4 NO.2
   - The first conference of the members of Tahrik-e-islami Afghanistan was convened 10 January. Mawlawi Sultan Aziz, a speaker in the conference,
 « called for the unity of faithful elements of jehad and Islam. Other speakers included Eng. Obaidullah ^ and Haji Deen Mohammad.     *
       Generalv Fazlel Haq,-\, the former governor of the NWFP of Pakistan has demanded that the AIG be officially recognized,
   -  The Physical Training Department of 'the Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan displayed its athletic activities 24 January w;hich included wrestling, boxing, weight lifting, etc. Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister who was
  ‘also present on . the occasion, told spectators that preparing the youth for jehad was one of the objectives of the athletic activities.
   REPORT:  Shair Alam, general commander
   of Paghman Front, told a reporter: "I call oh jehad forces, particularly on those around Kabul, to mobilize for a complete alliance to enable us strike final , and decisive blows on the weakened Kabul regime forces. He added, "It is because of our uncoordinated stand that the Kabul regime has continued".
   NEWS ITEMS:  A Kabul regime helicopter
   was shot down in the Paghman area 31 December.
   - The.Kabul regime ammunition depot at Chauk-e-Arghandeh, near Kabul, has been set ablazed by the mujaheddin.
                    21
   REPORT:  Prof. Sayyaf  has said in the
   Friday sermon, "We are .neither supporting Iraq nor the US in the Gulf war. We enither like an upsurge of the Baath party nor we wish t see the unclean footmarks of the Americans on
 the clean and sacred soil of the Arabian peninsula". He added, "I had said in a conference in Makkah at the beginning of the crisis that there was no doubt that Saddam had invaded a . Muslim nation and that we should defend it and should stand against Saddam but we. should not l*et our enemies interfere with a problem that belong to the Muslims alone. We must not give them the opportunity to interfere in our affairs. The Americans should never be trusted. They are our enemies, they are the old and irreconcilable enemies of Islam".
              28
 REPORT: The  daily Jang reported 26
 January that Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister and Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, have said, despite strong US pressure, the mujaheddin will never fight against Iraqi Muslims. The two mujaheddin leaders have said the US has imposed the war on(Iraq by its aggression.
 - The 4-day seminar of Muslim students of Ittehad-e-Islami ended 24 January. A number of ulama and professors spoke in this educational seminar held in the auditorium of the late Prof.. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi. Prizes Were given out to a number of participants.
                                FEBRUARY
              11
 PROCLAMATION: In an official order on
 the Gulf war. Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, has proclaimed his opposition to the mujaheddin contingent being sent to Saudi Arabia while foreign troops are stationed there. Opposing both the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait and the coalition operations against Iraq, he said, "it is a bitter fact for all of us to know:
 1. The Muslims . themselves constitute
194
JANUAKY-MARCH. 1991
III
the fuel for this devastating war;
2. war expenses are paid. ;by Muslims;
3.  the battlefield is Muslim territory. *
4.  war command arid decision - for war" or peace are in the hands of others. These facts automatically indicate who has planned the war and who will benefit from it.
                                    MARCH
                                          4
REPORT; Addressing the Kabul region commanders 27 January, Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Premier, said, "we have rendered many sacrifices for the attainment ofr our objectives. The sacrifices will not be wasted provided the objectives are achieved. If our mujaheddin stay firm and earnestly show patience and endurance, victory will still be ours even, if we do not manage to liberate the country. I request you, therefore to be aware of the events that take place around you and do not permit the enemy to infiltrate your ranks. Your coherence and unity should not be shattered from within while it was not destroyed by tanks and guns from outside. Keep your ranks firm and stable. There may be difficulties, no doubt, but God will protect your jehad and expose your enemies to shame and disgrace.
    Prof. Rabbani leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami, while attending the condolence meeting of the late Commander Shamsuddin, Director of the. Jamiat Military Academy, said that friendly Muslim and non-Muslim countries were critical of, the differences prevailing among the mujaheddin. However, they defended every move they made themselves to create discord and separation between the mujaheddin groups. He added that the Kuwait issue must not become a source of conflict among the mujaheddin.
                                                        vol.4 wo.2
                    Jawanan-e-Musalman
    FEBRUARY
REPORT; Prof. Rabbani,leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, told students of the Abu Hanifa Madrasa, "you. should not permit anyone to exploit and stir differences between the Muslims under ethnic, linguistic and other names". '
NEWS ITEMS; Representatives of the students of the School of Religious Sciences from Mardan have been elected and introduced to the Shoora of the Muslim Youth.
-In a meeting held by the organization of the Wardak Youth at Pabbi 21 December, 1990, the participants expressed the hope that with the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan in the near future, aspirations of the Muslims and oppressed nations will be realized.
  Khurshed-e-Jehad
                        DECEMBER
           25
EDITORIAL: "Elections: A way for
solving the Differences", Stating the history of .the Consultative Council in Rawalpindi and itie consequent establishment of the AIG, the editorial says, "Fortunately, after a series of discussions and exchange of views among the mujaheddin leaders!, it was recently decided to send delegation to Afghanistan for supervising the election procedures. Welcoming the move as a good omen towards the creation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, we request the mujaheddin.
 195
JANUARY-MARCH» 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 refugees and entire Afghan society to place the interests of Islam and the
 nation above their own and work
                       v,*r
 earnestly for holding fair elections. They should also expos#,,.;, those who disrupt the elections as they are hirelings and should not permit them to play with the destiny of the nation. It should also be pointed out that, if the present plan fails due tp„ piersonal or ethnic reasons, it will cause a nationwide mistrust and disappointment and will be indeed dangerous. In that case our efforts and sacrifices for the cause of jehad would all be wasted and the responsibility to God 1 Almighty, to our Muslim nation and to the entire Muslim community will rest with our leaders.
                                        HEWS ITEMS
    In an effort to re-establish their control over the highway to Shairkhan Port, the Kabul regime forces launched an offensive on the mujaheddin positions in the area. Due to strong mujaheddin resistance/ one tank and a military transport vehicle of the Kabul regime were destroyed. Thirty troops were also killed during the counter attack. ,
    The Logar mujaheddin, occupied ‘two security posts during their attack on the Kabul regime positions at.the Babus plain.
                                                                 FEBRUARY
                 26
 NEWS ITEMS: A mujaheddin report from
 Badghis says that the mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime helicopter at Zindahish district last week. The crew
 o4. the helicopter were killed.
 - The Sar-e-Pul mujaheddift captured a security post in Aqcha, JaUzjan, on the night of 2 March,
    A Kabul regime- supply caravan.
enroute to Kabtil, was intercepted by the Samangan mujaheddin 15 February killing 135 persons and destroying four military vehicles.
                             Kausgr-l
                     ♦
                           DECEMBER
             29
REPORT: On the occasion of the
anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, the Muslim people of the country once again gathered for the materialization of the Islamic governr ment.
*    Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, criticized Saudi Arabia and Kuwait for their •assistance to the Soviet Union.
*    The Afghan refugees in Tehran held large demonstrations on the occasion, of the anniversary of Russian invasion.
                             JANUARY
             2
REPORT:
- The UN Secretary General is stepping up his diplomatic efforts for sending a peace force to Afghanistan, . In this connection he has contacted many nations including Pakistan, the USSR, US, UK and the Islamic Republic of Iran. According to his plan, no source of thesb. countries will have the right to. supply any ‘ of the conflicting parties with military assistance.
- Quoting the Al Siasah published in
Oman: "A friend of King Zaher Shah has
denied the . news published in some Pakistani papers, claiming that Zaher Shah had visited Saudi Arabia. However,
196
JANUARY-MAKCII,
W1
1
VOl -4 NO.?
  he has confirmed' that Abdul Wall the King's son-in-law is currently in Saudi Arabia. According to a government authority, the delegation has arrived in Jeddah upon the invitation of the Saudi government. The delegation is here not only to meet high-ranking government authorities but also to hold talks with some mujaheddin representatives- and political figures in Saudi Arabia.
                     5
      Mawlawi Mohammad' Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, told an AAP reporter:  "I  am sorry  to
  note that some foreign aid eventually ends up in the hands of thief s". Khales, who had just returned from Nangarhar, said that he supported the AIG election plans. He had / previously rejected these plans.
  - A retired official of the ISI of Pakistan told a Jang correspondent that the AIG was established with. US pressure and without the consent of the mujaheddin. "If it is agreed that the mujaheddin 'should sit with Najib at the conference table, then why did they suffer all the .tolls in the first place," he said:
 and Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, met with , the Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati in Islamabad 3 January. Khales in this meeting spoke on the history of* the Afghan jehad and the efforts made by the super powers to create obstacles against achievement of its objectives. He also expressed gratitude for the friendly assistance of the Islamic Republic of Iran to the Afghans. While stating Iran's continued support of the mujaheddin, the Foreign Minister said, "The super powers intend to deprive the mujaheddin of their legitimate rights in political area. It is for this reason that you should have a logical answer, acceptable to the public with careful examination of what the UN submits as a political solution of the Afghan issue".
 - A joint meeting of the mujaheddin leaders, ulamai and commanders was held in the AIG headquarters. Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, did ..not attend .the meeting but sent a message to the Ulama and commanders inviting them instead to discuss the related problems at his residence. EDITORIAL:   It calls upon the jehad
 leaders that they should not1 be deceived in engaing themselves in Ifutile political games undertaken by imperialists and enemies• of Islam for1 solving the Afghanistan issue and as a result of. this deprive themselves of the pulbic and jehadic support. "Our' people,' who are by natrure sincere and clean in their hearts, has hoped for something that they have not attained. Nevertheless, they have accepted you as the' founders of jehad and veteran friends of Islamic struggle and resistance in Afghanistan and stood in ranks behind you, when they saw that at least you were thinking about the interests        and. welfare of the’
 country and in what you know you were sincere; they were praising you as, leaders of » jehad, amirs and great, pursuaders of the Islamic ummah and
      The Council of the Union of Afghanistan Ulama in a protest letter to Prince Abdullah, the Minister for Security of Saudi Arabia, has. said that the, invitation by Saudi Arabia to US troops to be stationed in Saudi Arabia was as much a cause for regret as was the cruel invasion of Kuwait by Iraq. The message also points out to the four billion dollars aid package of his government to the USSR and considers it as unfaithfulness to the Afghan jehad.
     A number ,of mujaheddin leaders, including Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Prof., Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, .Mawlawi, Mohammad Younus Khales, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi
197
 JANUARY-MARCH* 1991       HIUllHH ULilMU                 VOL-4  NO.2
founders of Islamic movement. This was one of the most sincere gifts of our people to you. But what happened that all of a sudden these hopes of our people and families of our martyrs were sacrficed as a result of your disputes and rivalries?"
                                                 9
NEWS ITEMS; The Prime Minister of Pakistan met some mujaheddin leaders. Pakistan Foreign Ministry sources say that the authorities explained the present sensitive situation regarding the Afghanistan issue to the Afghan leaders and asked them to devise a practical and effective plan acceptable to all the mujaheddin. Qazi Hussain Ahmad, leader of Jamaat-e-Islami of Pakistan, called the attention of the mujaheddin leaders to the importance of unity among them. "Lack of unity", he said, "will naturally encourage the super - powers to implement their own plan".
    The State Committee for Tarif, Reforms have urged the . government of Pakistan to suspend Afghanistan's trade through Pakistan. The committee has said that, gnder present conditions when the Torkham-Jalalabad and Chaman-Kandahar roads were closed to traffic, the present transit trade was conducted through smuggling. Therefore the transit trade to Afghanistan through Pakistan should be suspended until the liberation of Afghanistan.
                  12
NEWS ITEMS: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, said on the death anniversary of Fazl Ali Mujaddedi, "In. order to overthrow the AIG, some circles have threatened me with murder. Even from the start of this government some forces have taken steps to weaken and defame a government established by the -ulama and mujaheddin commanders in the eyes of the public and the world. I am not prepared to hand-over
 this trust to others without their decision, "he said.1
 -> Peter Tomsen, the US envoy to the mujaheddin, speaking to newsmen in the US; "After the fall of Najib, the administration of Afghanistan will be handled by a council". He said although the US and USSR have reached in general an understanding on the Afghan issue, there were still differences in some, areas. He added that 40,000 refugees returned to their homes in Kunar, Kandahar and other border provinces in 1990.
 - Analysis by a senior and experienced
 member of the I SI:  All  foreign aid to
 the Afghan mujaheddin will end within the next six months. The situation is now such that the fundamentalists are gradually pushed back so that the moderates occupy their place in both political and military fields. In my. view a situation like this will lead to serious clash between the two factions. The official. Brigadier Yusuf
-added, the US will allow the USSR to ‘have privileges in Afghanistan.
                                                   16
 NEWS ITEMS:   A  Kabul regime Embassy
 member in London has told newsmen that the regime diplomats would remain in Baghdad for the prestige of - Iraq which was on good terms with the Kabul regime for many years.
 -  A Russian writer; of a book - "The Secret war of Afghanistan" - has said, "We saw in Afghanistan a broad horizon of God-worshiping and spirituality"..
 -  The AIG Prime Minister called on the people of Saudi Arabia not to permit the enemies of Islam, in the mask of "friends", to exploit Islam and Muslims from the sacred Arabian territory.
                                                              The daily Independent of London writes some foreign organizations are
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 decreasing their efforts for Afghanistan under pretext of the Gulf crisis.
 - Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of pezb-e-Islami Afghanistan/ has called for an elected government in Kuwait.
     Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in a meeting at Shamshatu once again expressed his opposition to election plans.        ■
     Nawaz Sharif# Pakistan Prime Minister# told an Iranian correspondent that Pakistan wanted an Islamic government in Afghanistan with a broad base.
 a Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) intends to transfer the^ party offices inside Afghanistan. Haji Deen Mohammad,deputy leader of the party said, "The Pakistan government has twice in the past cut its assistance to Hezb-e-Islami:   once
 during the initialling of the Geneva Accords and next when we opposed the general elections and attacked Kabul. Hezb-e-Islami intends to establish large scale education and training facilities inside Afghanistan and to lead military, operations against the Kabul regime positions from closer areas.
                                                19
 REPORT: Qazi Hussein Ahmad# leader of
 Jamaat-e-Islami of Pakistan, has told a Jang correspondent, "No matter what kind of government is established in Afghanistan by the mujaheddin# it will be friendly to,Pakistan".
 - Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor# leader of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan# considered the Gulf war as a disaster to the entire Muslim community.
 (EDITOR1S NOTE:  The remaining part of
 this 12-page Edition has been dedicated to the events in the Gulf).
                 23
  REPORT:  In   an interview with a
  Pakistani weekly in Urdu, Prof. Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-lslami# has said# "We shall oppose any suggestion* for a change in Afghanistan inspired by foreign countries, but we welcome any moves undertaken by the Afghans themselves without foreign intervention, moves which are not against Islam. An international conspiracy for the return of Zaher Shah is underway. No matter who takes over under plans of this kind, we consider him opposed to our sovereignty and freedom".
  - Mrs. Nasim Wali, wife of ANP leader, speaking to magazine Zendagi: "We shall not utter the name of Pashtunistan henceforth. We will not utter, it any-’ more. Khan Abdul Wali Khan has never mentioned it either. The mention of Pashtunistan gives one the notion that we desire to form a separate country".
     Rafsanjani during Nawaz Sharif's visit to Iran: "Regarding the solution
  of the problems of the oppressed Afghan nation we need not wait for others. We can take effective measures with each other's cooperation".
                 30
  NEWS ITEMS: The  US assistance for the
  mujaheddin during 1991 will amount to US $60 million. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG Prsident said, "despite ^ssura-ces given by the US and Saudi Arabian Ambassadors in Islamabad about the flow of aid to the resistance movement, suitable contributions have not yet been made".
                                                          Benazir Bhutto, former Pakistan Prime Minister, has said in an interview with The New York Times that-the solution of the Afghan problem was only possible through holding general
januaky-march, 1991
VOL.4 no.2
elections.. From the present facts in the Afghan society and from the mujaheddin and refugee reacions, it is necessary to hold general elections and establish a government acceptable to all by coming to an understanding with the AIG, Pakistan, Iran; Saudi Arabia and even the Kabul regime".
- Peter Tomsen,, the US envoy to the. mujaheddin, commenting on the Gulf war and some mujaheddin support of Iraq said "Saddam Hussein is a close friend of the Kabul regime, and amicable relations existed between the two regimes during the past 12 years. The rockets which were given by the Soviet Union for use on innocent and Muslim people of Afghanistan . are now being used against Saudi Arabia"'.
                             FEBRUARY
              2
NEWS ITEMS:The TASS news agency reports that the Ambassador of the Kabul puppet regime told a press conference in Moscow that the Afghan issue would be solved at the same time as' that of the Gulf. He said, "The US and the Soviet Union have reached an agreement on the Gulf and Afghanistan problems".
   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, said at a reception held at the Iranian Cultural House in Peshawar, "The decision to send the Afghan mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia was taken by five mujaheddin organizations. They will never be under the command of "'the US, but will perform their duty of defending the Holy places under the command of their Muslim Afghan, and Saudi Arabian commanders". .
- Karim Meesaq,■ the Mayor of Kabul and former Minister of Finance of the Kabul regime, has defected to Germany. He had gone to Germany pretending that he was sick but has now refused to
 return to Kabul. Meesaq, a Hazara, was a staunch supporter and adopted son of Taraki but is . strongly opposed to Parchamis, particularly Sultan Ali Kishtmand. He was, also a veteran founding member of the PDPA Central Committee.
 - Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami, in his comment upon the Gulf war said, "The US - crimes in the war against Iraq have gone further than the liberation of Kuwait and are aiming at the total destruction of the Islamic world. The people of the world have noticed how the US and its allies, contrary to .international norms, are bombing the innocent people of Iraq under the pretext of punishing the Iraqi regime.
     Qazi Hussain Ahmad leader of Jamaat-e-Islami 6f Pakistan has told a joint conference of the Afghan refugees and Peshawar citizens, "The US is trying to exploit the Afghan jehad for its aims in the Gulf war. World arrogance both in the East and the West is afraid of an Islamic Afghanistan and hence will not allow the establishment of an Islamic government there by the powerful mujaheddin". He added, Islamic movements.in Afghanistan have a common principle and have been launched to achieve a common Islamic objective." But "un-foftunately", he said, "with the passage of time, the enemies of Islam wanted to split these movements into (rival) sections".
 t A report published by a Pakistan Embassy source in London says that the Iraqi Ambassador in Islamabad had met, at least, with two of the mujaheddin leaders and had asked them to oppose the despatch of the mujaheddin group to Saudi Arabia on the basis of the amicable relations that had existed between them and the Iraqi, regime. The Iraqi Ambassador to London denied
200
JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 reports about the presence of Iraqi aircraft in Kabul and added that no such aircraft had landed in Kabul yet.
    In a resolution issued 'with the stamp of the jabhay-e-Muttahed-e-Enqelab-e-lslami and the Pasdaran-e-Jehad-e-Islami Afghanistan in Peshawar 2 February, two of the council members namely, Hujjat-ul-Islam Abbas Fazel and Hujjat-ul-lslam Sayyed Naqibullah Hussaini, who have called themselves chiefs of the political office and foreign relations department of the council respectively have announced they are leaving the Islamic, Coalition Council of Afghanistan. They have said that their groups would, however, continue their political and military activities 'independently v and their active presence would be felt alongside other mujaheddin groups.
    Agha Shahi, a former Pakistani Foreign Minister, has said that the super powers have agreed to cut arms to the Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime.
                                                  9
 REPORT:  The first contingent of the
 mujaheddin joined the multi-national forces in Saudi Arabia. Informed sources in Islamabad sa-y that . a 350-strong mujaheddin contingent left for Saudi Arabia in a chartered aircraft 8 February. According to an AIG resolution, the Afghan contingent will only take part in the defense of the Holy places under the Saudi Arabian command.
                                      •
 - Mahmood Wayezi, the Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister, told his Soviet counterpart, "Iran wishes a Sovereign?- ' Islamic . and independent Afghanistan according to the aspirations of ’ the oppressed people of that country".
   \       -    ;   .        f
                                                                  An international conference on
 Afghan reconstruction is due to open in NY 9 February. Delegates of the 25 relief organizations for Afghanistan have been invited to the conference by the Afghanistan Liberation Committee.
 - The AIG Information Ministry claims that the decision to send the mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia was personally taken by AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi.
                13
 NEWS ITEMS: The  New York Times writes
 that the despatch of the mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia will not only raise the Saudi prestige among the Muslim nations but will also have a notable effect in resolving the Afghan problem.
    A Soviet parliamentary delegation has said in Pakistan, "Russia is prepared to sack Najib".. An English newspaper published in Lahore has said that the Russians fear that an unprecedented bloodshed, may follow if members of the tWatan Party are not included in the future political system of the Afghan society. The paper adds that the Soviet delegation had also met with Hekmatyar*, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, but the report has not been confirmed or denied by the Hezb.
                16
 NEWS ITEMS: A Pakistan Foreign Ministry source, who did not disclose his name, said that, according to previous understanding between the Kabul' regime and Pakistan, the present staff of the Kabul regime diplomatic mission in Peshawar will be increased by. another three diplomats. They are Abdul Hakeem, F;Lrst Secretary, and. another two persons under him that will take up their posts soon. Another source has said that the First - Secretary has already resumed his work in the General Consulate of the regime.
201
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 - Prof.Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister and leader of Ittehad-e-Islami, has paid in a gathering at the Jaluzi Camp, Peshawar, on the occasion of the second anniversary of the Soviet troops withdrawal, "the mujaheddin did not launch their jehad only to expel the Russian troops or to bring the defamed former rulers back to power, but . to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan' and will continue the war until their objective is achieved.
                                               20
 REPORT: The daily Le Figaro, published
 in Paris, writes, "the Kabul regime, is trying to improve relations with Iran and Pakistan. Mrs. Nusrat Bhutto, a Senior Minister in her daughter's cabinet, Benazir Bhutto, was personally in charge of relations between Kabul and Islamabad, The' Kabul regime, by endeavoring to make good with Iran, can have amicable relations with one of its neighbors and taking into account, the Islamic character of Iranian struggles which has been supporting -'the majority of Islamic movements in the world, the Kabul regime can also claim to have Islami character.
     In their rally, 19 February, thousands of students and pupils in Peshawar condemned the despatch of the Afghan mujaheddin force to Saudi Arabia and urged the AIG to order'them back to Peshawar.           -          -
    A French newspaper reports that three of the mujaheddin troops have so far been killed by mortar fire from the Iraqi troops.
 - Dr. Esrar Ahmad, leader of Tahrik-e-Islami Pakistan, has said, "the despatch of the mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia is a colonial plot to create discord among the mujaheddin/
VOL.4 NO.2
                                                 23
EDITORIAL: "The end of the Gulf war ana the Afghanistan Problem". At the beginning of the Gulf' War waged by the US and its allies against Iraq, we had come, more or less, to the conclusion that the US and the Soviet Union had also reached an understanding on the Afghanistan issue. . Now that the world arrogance is appraising the results of the war, signs of such an agreement are clearly visible. A visit recently by a Russian delegation to Islamabad, the surprise visit of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi to Europe, Najib's visit to Kandahar and,Helmand provinces and his invitation to the former King and the struggle on the part of the mujaheddin commanders to replace the AIG with the Council of Commanders, are events that can be related to each other when thoroughly studied.
      "A report from the US State Department 23 February said that a US delegation has been sent to Islamabad for the same purpose and it is expected that the delegation will meet ranking Pakistan government authorities. The US and the USSR' are speaking of the following four political alternatives for the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan:
1.  extension of the present AIG;
2.  establishmnent of a broad-based government that may include the Kabul communist party;
3.  convening of the Loya Jirgah and paving the way for Zaher Shah's return;
4.  establishment of a military council consisting of the mujaheddin commanders and some Kabul regime military officers. ;
      "It is not clear which of these •alternatives may be favored by the world arrogance; however, they are trying hard to achieve one of these".
202
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 NEWS ITEMS:    "The  . AIG President's
 unexpected visit to Europe". The diplomatic sources in Kabul say that Najib is ready to vacate the Kandahar and Helmand provinces as soon as. possible and thus pave the way for calling of traditional Loya Jirgah Which rnay include Zaher Shah and some other political groups.
 -  Sheikh Rashed-al-Ghanushi, leader of •the Tunisian Islamic Movement, told the
 Kausar in an exclusive interview, "a realistic stand of the mujaheddin leaders, doing away with egotism and a common military strategy, will be the means of success for the Afghan Islamic revolution".
 -  In an interview with Al-Ahram newspaper of Egypt, some of the mujaheddin, included in the multi-national force stated, "we have been sent here to defend Makkah and Madina and had no idea that we will be sent to the battle front."
    Eng. " llnkmat ya r, loader of Hnzb-o-Islami, told a Friday congregation at Nasrat Maina.that a major attack on the Kabul regime military positions has beer) planned in which all the mujaheddin forces will take part. With the down-fall of the puppet regime a mujaheddin administration will be established. He also supported the AIG election process.
                  27
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin leaders met with Hu j jat-ul-Islam-wal-Muslimi.n Mehdi Karobi, President of the Iranian Parliament. Mawlawi Mansoor is reported to have briefed the Iranian visitor on the present situation in Afghanistan and to have asked for Iranian support of the mujaheddin at this sensitive stage. Hujjat-ul-Islam Karobi said that the Afghan mujaheddin should learn from the experiences gained by the Iranian
 Islamic Revolution .and should not allow the enemies of Islam to continue their interventions in Order to divide the mujaheddin.
    Afghan  students and pupils    in
 Peshawar   held demonstrations    26
 February. The reports add that the demonstrations were organized by students related to some fundamentalist mujaheddin groups’ against the decision of the AIG President. to send a mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia. The demonstrations were opposed by the political and security authorities of the NWFP government.
 - It is reported that the four ICRC .employees  were taken hostage     by
 Commander Asadullah of the Hezb-e-Islami. Ahmad Rasheed, a Pakistani journalist, writes that according to an ICRC source,, who did not wish to disclose fiis name, in a letter to the ICRC, Commander Asadullah had demanded a ransom of Rs. 16 million. The report,
 has . not been, confirmed by any other source.
    Hujjat-ul-Islam-wal-Muslimin Mehdi Karobi, chairman of the Iranian Islamic Council, in a meeting with the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad has granted Rs.     34 million aid to the
 families of the martyrs and orphans of the Afghan jehad.
                                         MARCH
                 2
 REPORT: On the day when cease-fire
 between the US and Iraq was announced, a number of mujaheddin organizations belonging to the AIG expressed their support for the AIG decision to send a mujaheddin force to Saudi Arabia. One of our reporters writes that members of the Hezb-e-Islami had penetrated the hall in an effort to disrupt the session. But as part of the security
103

JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          MfiUlINJIHAD                 VOL.4 NO,2
 measured that were adopted for th6 session, the participants were asked to show their identity cards. Those carrying Hezb-e-Islami identity cards were driven out of the hall and were beaten by the organizers of the meeting. In the fight that broke out between members of Hezb-e-Islami and others, shots were fired injuring two of the participants. Shots fired by the security guards seriously wounded a 15‘year-old student, Sayyed Rasool, who . later died in hospital. Hezb-e-Islami members, responsible for information and security, were, meanwhile, handed over to the police.
      Mohammad Shah Fazli assistant to Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami of Mawlawi Mohammadi, stated during the meeting that the AIG move to send troops to Saudi Arabia was concurrent with the Islamic Shariat and those opposing did not have public support. At the time the participants were returning by cars, stones were thrown at the mujaheddin and refugee groups opposing the move, causing injury to a number of refugees and Pakistan security personnel•
                                           6
 NEWS ITEMS:     Hezb-e-Harakat-e-lslami
 Afghanistan announced its dissolution and        merger        with v     the
 Hezb^-e-Wahdat-e-Is lami 5 March. The 'Harakat lias been dissolved through the majority vote of its Central Council. The merger of the two parties has resulted in the further strengthening and consolidation of unity and fraternity among the mujaheddin of Islam. The report adds that all office facilities of the Harakat have been placed at the disposal of the Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami Afghanistan.
 - The bodies of the three mujaheddin, killed in Saudi Arabia, have been transferred to Pakistan, One of these coffins, which belonged to Abdul Qadeer
 s/o Mohammad Yousuf . from Takhar Province, was received by his uncle Dr. Labib and was later buiried in Peshawar cemetery.
 - President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran has said in a message to the Afghan Shias, “the entire mujaheddin forces must reap the gains of their glorious jehad by means of unity and an dynamic diplomacy".
                    9
 NEWS      ITEMS:       Prof.Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, the AIG President, has told the BBC in an interview, "Our forecast that elections would not succeed has ■now been actually proved. The public argue that war conditions aye prevailing and it was not time for holding elections. The present government is capable of liberating Afghanistan",
    Hekmatyar leader of Hezb-e-Islami, hag said, "There is difference of opinion among the Islamic ulama regarding the right of franchise for women".
  - Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni says, "the women do have the right to vote. Only the communists, who are responsible for the killing of 1.2 million Afghans, should not be allowed
  to take part in the elections".
         »
       Mawlawi Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, says "only the ulama and true Muslims should be permitted to vote. Others are deprived. In Islam-woman cannot .become President of the country and has, therefore, no right to vote. J N believe that unless they alter their view, the Shias, who are against Abu Bakr and Omar, also have no right either.
  - The AIG Minister of Defense Mohammad! Nabi, presented the AIG’congratulatory message to the Saudi Ambassador ini Islamabad. Quoting a "Saudi Foreign
204
  JANUAKY-MAKCH, 1991         HIUllHIll
 Ministry source, the newspaper Akkaz quoting a high ranking Saudi Foreign Ministry official, has said that the, Saudi government has also replied to the AIG .message and has assured the AIG that a reasonable cash assistance will be made available to the AIG.
    Saudi Foreign Ministry sources say that the mujaheddin groups opposing the despatch of the mujaheddin forces to Saudi Arabia, have assured the Saudi Embassy in Islamabad that, by doing so, they had no ill intentions towards the Saudi government.
                                              13
 REPORT: A seminar, held by the WUFA at
 the Peshawar Intercontinental Hotel, ended 11 March. The opening session of the seminar was attended by Mir Afzal Khan, the Chief Minister and Amir Gulestan Janjua, the Governor of NWFP, and a large, number of ulama and local and foreign writers. The last session of the three-day seminar, under the chairmanship of Siddiq Saljuqi, was also attended by Benazir Bhutto, former Prime Minister and leader of the present opposition coalition in Pakistan Parliament. In her detailed statement, Bhutto spoke with clarity about the Afghanistan problem. The seminar ended with a statement by Rasoul Amin, President of the WUFA. Thanking the participants, he said that funds for the seminar was provided by the Pakistan Commissionery for Afghan Refugees, a German organization, the Asia Foundation and was assisted by the Pakistan Foreign Ministry.
 - Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has stated in a gathering (venue arid‘ time not given) that major obstacle for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan was the position taken by the super powers. Fearing a threat from the mujaheddin, the US by maintaining the present condition in
 lUW                   VOL.4 NO-2
 Afghanistan, provides Najib with the ability to stay on. He added, "according Oto the US, the mujaheddin victory can be a big threat to its imperialistic designs. Because of. some mistakes in the past, the mujaheddin have not gained total victory until now. The main factor was the AIG and’ the shooras held in Pakistan which diverted attention from the cause of jehad. If the mujaheddin had carried out their operation on • Kabul with complete unity, the puppet regime would have fallen long ago".
                                  Kausar- II DECEMBER 22
 REPORT: Engineer Qutubuddin Helal,
 President of Political Affairs of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in an interview in Peshawar 17 December rejected any kind of peace talks and understanding with Najib. He said, "Najib has, so far, sent a number of messages to Hekmatyar for peace talks but Hekmatyar has said that there were two roads for Najib: (1) Either repent
 from his past deeds or (2) accept responsibility of the consequences when the mujaheddin overthrow his regime. Helal denied all secret deals with Najib and also rejected any kind of understanding with Zaher Shah.
                                       NEWS ITEMS:
    General Azimi, a ranking military figure in the Kabul regime, has admitted the mujaheddin operations have intensified under Hekmatyar,
    According to The Times (of London), a Russian delegation has met the former King in Rome.   «
    Fourteen military vehicles were set ablaze by the mujaheddin fire in the Pul-e-Charkhi district of Kaibul.
205
   V
 JAW1AKY-MARCH, 1991          MGIMII JIHAD '                 VOL.4 NO. 2
               29
EDITORIAL:  "27 December The  Pit of
Trial":    Discussing the Russian
invasion, the struggle of the Afghan nation and the eventual defeat of the Russian forces, the paper urges the mujaheddin leaders to come forward with fresh decisions and... take steps for; a true unity in. accordance with public expectations. Otherwise, those responsible for the grave consequences will answer for their deeds to the nation.
                                         NEWS ITEMS:
   The Afghan refugees condemned the ‘Russian invasion of 27 December, 1978, of Afghanistan in large gatherings.
   The Kabul regime forces have faced disgraceful retreats through the mujaheddin operations in many parts of the country.
                                   JANUARY
                 5
NEWS ITEMS: The commandant of the 8th
Division of the Kabul regime forces was captured by the mujaheddin together with 28 troops at Mohammad Aga, Logar.
- A special program iri memory of over
15,000 Russian officers and troops,who were killed in the Afghan war, was broadcast by Radio Moscow. On the occasion of the New Year ;Russian leaders once again stated that the invasion of Afghanistan was a great historic mistake.
   Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islarni» reports by i wireless from the battle fronts: "The solution
      f                         .
of the Afghan problem is possible through transfer of power to an interim government".
                                                           Twenty-four Afghan refugees were
 frozen to death in Baluchistan.
 - Mawlawi*Mohammad Younus Rhales: "The
 mujaheddin will never share power with the puppet Najib".
 - Najib is pleased with his contacts in the past. He has said these contacts will continue and seems satisfied.
                12
 NEWS ITEMS: Kabul city is in a complete black-olit because of a mujaheddin attack on the hydro-electric power station of Sarobi.
 - The mujaheddin have completely wiped out the third security belt around Kabul.
    Fuel reservoirs at Sarpooza of Kandahar were exploded by the mujaheddin 7 January.
 - Serious food shortage threatens the citizens of Kabul. The communist Kabul regime is saving food supplies for feeding its military forces.
 -The puppet Najib regime has arrested 150 Khalqi officers who were allegedly collaborating with the mujaheddin. One hundred and thirty-five of these officers belong to the AAF.
                19
 NEWS ITEMS: In their recent operation
 at Panjwai district, Kandahar, the mujaheddin have shot down, a helicopter and have killed 30 militiamen.
 COMMENTARY: The present Iranian policy
 towards the jehad of the Afghan people is chilly and hostile. The Shia organizations also do not approve the present policy adopted by the Iranian government. Since the Afghan mujaheddin are struggling for their legitimate rights, it .is the duty of all Muslim nations- particularly Iran- to support
206
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      fllGHflM JIHAI1                 V0L.4  NO.2
 this sacred jehad and assist the mujaheddin in . all possible areas. On the contrary it is observed that during the last 12 months Iran has been, offering so-called humanitarian help to the Najib regime, whose criminal acts are known to all.. The 45-minute stopover by Najib in Mashad and. the holding of a press conference in honor of this criminal and murderer and his secret meetings with Iranian leaders, can all justify our claims. It is now quite clear that Iran has deviated from the path of Islamic brotherhood and'Has trampled Islamic ' values. Lately Iran has again shown its generosity by supplying the Kabul regime with, food and drugs. This new trend in essence, is a clear sign of opposition to the mujaheddin and their legitimate jehad.
.We ask Rafsanjani whether he can submit any Islamic answer at all to the aid offered to a communist regime which has a clear non-Islamic nature and to Najib who has actually risen against Islam and the Quran?
      Aid of this kind to a regime on the threshold of collapse and which has slaughtered millions of defenseless people, has no political value whatsoever but can only be attributed to a poor faith. We are-quite sure that such a policy will, not affect the spirit of our mujahed people but will only pave the way for world-wide recognition of anbi-Tslamic policies of Irani leadership.
                 26
 NEWS ITEMS: One general and three Other officers of the Kabul regime forces in Logar have surrendered to the mujaheddin during a successful operation. Thq general had already contacted a commander of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) before the operation was commenced. Meanwhile, the Parwan mujaheddin captured three security posts at Qarabagh district and killed and wounded 12 troops.
 COMMENTARY: "The AIG and its ever
 increasing problems": by M.S.Mirzad:
 "The A,IG was basically established for a short time and ought to have paved the way for general electron inside Afghanistan within six months and the' establishment of a broad-based Islamic government in conformity with the wishes of all mujaheddin forces and the entire Muslim nation". Noticing a lack of interest by mujaheddin forces towards the AIG, the Hezb-e-Islami pulled out from it and a denial by Mujaddedi of the provisional nature of the AIG, the paper concludes, "It would be better if the AIG were dissolved and another and more comprehensive plan submitted to enable all jehad forces to take part in an administration with minimum dependency on foreign sources.
     FEBRUARY
                                            2
 NEWS ITEMS: On the night of 17 January the mujaheddin exploded an armS depot at Sia Sang, Kabul. Mujaheddin sources, quoting reliable reports reaching from Kabul, 'have said that the explosions have destroyed 64ET klashinkovs, 21 mikarovs, . 84 rockets, two PK-341
 pistols, 12 heavy machine guns, four GAZ trucks, two water tankers, two ZIL trucks, one jeep and. 12 sets of communication equipment.
 COMMENTARY: "Our people have been put
 out of patience from poverty and wandering and are awaiting final victory. Every refugee has been hoping every day' for the victory and for returning . home soon and now* 12 long years have passed with such hopes not being realized. It has been this every day waiting that has added to their patience and edurance".
                                             9
 REPORT: A commander, who  has just
 returned to Peshawar from Badghis, told the Kausar correspondent, "thirty five
207
  JANUARY-MARGH, 1991     IlfGHAMJfHflD                   VOL,.4 NO.2
i per cent of the- natural pistachio groves in the province have been destroyed because of the war and bombardment by the Kabul regime air force and pistachio production has been reduced to 50%. At present these products are exported to Iran and Pakistan and the price has gone up to Afs. 1,500/kgm. The reduction in the pistachio production level has badly affected the’ economy of the inhabitants," he added.
                                              16
  NEWS ITEMS:   A Soviet parliamentary
  delegation recently arrived in Pakistan fot talks on issues of mutual interests including the Afghanistan problem, the delegation met some mujaheddin leaders in which it pointed out that the Russians Vere ready to sack Najib provided the Watan Party took part in the elections.
  - The ' despatch of the 300 mujaheddin group to Saudi Arabia drew different reactions from the mujaheddin leaders:
       Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, has called it as national betrayal considering the acute need.for the defense of our own Islamic frontiers and at this critical moment when the armed jeha,d is still continuing in the country.
       Prof. Sayyaf and Prof. Rabbani, the AIG Prime Minister and leader of Jamiat-e-Islami, respectively, have strongly rejected the decision as unrealistic.
       Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales compared the US troops deployment in the Gulf to that of the Russians in Afghanistan and said that to defend such an aggressor was not Islamic.
                                              23
  EDITORIAL:  "22 February, a day to
  commemorate". The editorial remembers
 the courageous uprising of 22 February, 1980, and praises the valorous, citizens of Kabul. It then discusses the differences . among the mujaheddin
 r                   1
 ranks and calls for their elimination.
 NEWS ITEMS: In  a surprize attack in
 Badghis province the mujaheddin have captured 1,500 pieces of different kind of arms.
    Our students and pupils expressed their condemnation about the despatch of the mujaheddin forces to Saudi Arabia and the presence of foreign troops in the region.
                                          MARCH
                                                 2
 NEWS ITEMS:   The Farah mujaheddin
 occupied four Kabul regime security posts last week.
    The Kabul regime committed yet another crime last week by firing a SCUD missile on Panjshir killing a large number of the mujaheddin and the local inhabitants.
 - Large scale demonstrations were held by the Afghan refugee students and pupils 26 February. The demonstrators shouted anti-American slogans expressing their hatred against the US aggressive policy in the Gulf region and against their hirelings and supporters. The majority of the demonstrators are reported to have belonged to fundamentalist organizations. Pakistan police used tear-gas to disperse the crowds.
                                                 9
 NEWS ITEMS: Hujjat-ul-Islam Jawaid has called a Radio Tehran report about the dissolution of the Harakat-e-Islami and its merger with Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islamir as strange and regretful. He added that the merger of only three persons with
208
 januaky^makch, 199V         flfGHflNJtHilD              vot .4 no.2
 the Wahdat party at the instigation of the_Iranian Foreign Ministry, cannot be interpreted as a‘ dissolution -of Hezb-e-Harakat-e-ISlami. "Its Executive Council <• and’ Supreme Council under Ayatullah Mohseni are still active and have not undergone any change•" he concluded.
 - Mustafa Shabli, in charge of the mujaheddin in , the US office, has been killed in a terrorist, act. In a reception held to commemorate the martyrdom of Mustafa Shabli, Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, while ; condemning brutality of the world arrogarfee, led by the US, forecasted an early mujaheddin victory.
 - A military commander of the Kabul regime with 20 of his armed troops surrendered to the Koh-e-Safi mujaheddin 23 February.
   Letva-e-Jehad
                                JANUARY
               14
 EDITORIAL: " The future of Afghanistan
 and Western Propaganda". The editorial blames the Western propaganda.for:
 - Considering our jehad as the war of
 independence.
 - Considering the jehad dependent on western assistance,
 • <- Treating western organizations' humanitarian*' ■ assistance to the Afghans of utmost importance.
 - Trying to bring Zaher Shah back to power.
     The editorial says, "We pray tp God to paralyse this, process of western propaganda. We strongly, believe that the party of "God will triumph over
                                                                               . 209
 the forces of evil”.
 ...NEWS ITEMS: The Mohammad Aga district
 in Logar together with 23 enemy posts were conquered by the mujaheddin 24 December.
      Mesbah
     DECEMBER
                                         30
 EDITORIAL: "An invasion that still
 continues": The paper reviews the
 Russian invasion of Afghanistan right from the beginning and relates the present troubles to it. It says, "But colonial agents have not stopped their intervention and have adopted new approaches by inciting hatred and discord. This caused the escalation of deceptions and continuation of murders. They decided to find ways for ambushing Islamic forces? and they played tricks upon us by engaging us among ourselves for their own interests.
     The mujaheddin and refugees condemned the Russian invasion of Afghanistan in meetings and demonstrations held on the occasion of the 12th anniversary of this invasion.
 - An enemy offensive on the liberated Khanabad district in Kunduz was repelled by the mujaheddin. Over 100 enemy troops were killed during the fighting.
 - Electrons between the candidates of Hezbre-Islami and Janiiat-e-Islami of Afghanistan are to begin in Baghlan.
 REPORT: "Zaher Shah and peace prospects for Afghanistan". Reports say that the super powers have agreed on the return of Zaher Shah to Afghanistan and the eventual elections to be held under his
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      flfCHflM JHUD
 supervision and that of the UN. The US is exerting ever-increasing pressure on Pakistan to come to a consensus on this process. But, due to strong opposition by the some mujaheddin leaders to this approach, . . Pakistan is reluctant t.o„ accept the scenario. With further insistence from the US and Saudi Arabia, however, it is probable that Pakistan will abandon its present posture. The mujaheddin have rejected all deals with either Najib or Zaher Shah. Though the mujaheddin insist upon continuation of their armed struggle but have not completely ruled out a political solution that may bring peace in accordance with the aspirations of the Muslim people of Afghanistan, the downfall of the puppet regime and the transfer of power to a neutral organ acceptable to the mujaheddin. Therefore, Pakistan and Iran can really play an effective part by cooperating with the Afghans to set up an Islamic government in the country.
                              JANUARY
                                     14
 NEWS ITEMS: Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar
 leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in an interview with the Takbir magazine:"The only solution of the Afghan issue is the resignation of the Najib government and the transfer , of power to the mujaheddin. Elections can then be held within six months and whichever party wins the elections will automatically form the future government. It is our objective to see that the US-USSR plan for replacing Najib with Zaher Shah does not succeed".
 - Sayyed Ahmed Gailani revealed to the Executive Council of the NIFA 8 January that he met, Najib in Geneva. Upon hearing his fra'nk statement, the Executive Council was enraged’ and demanded further explanations. Gailani said that similar meetings took place between Najib and Sebghatullah
VOL.4 NO.2
Mujaddedi as well as between Najib and Hezb-e-Wahdat in Mashad, Upon hearing these statements, Dr. Farouk Azam and- other members of the Executive Council considered the Gailani - Najib meeting an act of great unfaithfulness to the cause of jehad and the Afghan nation and demanded . a firm policy statement by the NIFA on the issue.
REPORT:  Afghans residing in the west,
particularly the supporters of the. former King, are busy working on the establishment of a political organization- the Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Melli which will represent all national and democratic forces. According to the mujaheddin sources, Sardar Abdul Wali, Dr. Yusuf, Abdul Hakim Tabibi, Samad Hamed, Kushkaki, Tani and others are currently meeting each other in European countries in an effort to form the administrative framework of this group. Similar to the political grouping of Rastagari Melli, which was formed in Kabul by a supporter of the King, the establishment of this political organisation will only benefit the puppet Kabul regime. (EDITOR'S NOTE: Kushkaki, who operates the CCAR in Islamabad, has been staying in Pakistan and has no connection with activities alluded to in this report).
                                                29
REPORT:  A source from the Supervisory
Council told Mesbah in Peshawar, "A plot against the life of Ahmad Shah Masood, Chairman of the Council, has been discovered and neutralized. The plot was discovered on short notice 21 January. Three persons involved in the plot have been detained. It is most probable that the plot was hatched by the KGB and the Kabul regime."
- Prof. Ata 'Mohammad, assistant commander of Zabihullah Shaheed Front in an interview with Mesbah said: "The mujaheddin are really tired of the intra-mujaheddin armed conflicts not
210
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 only in Balkh but all over Afghanistan. Undoubtedly these conflicts will further weaken their combat power and will be in the interest of ,the Kabul regime only. He added, he welcomed the agreements reached between Hezb-e-Isla-mi and Jamiat-e-Islami recently.
 REPORT:The USSR had transfered 2.5 bil-i lion cubic meters of' natural gas from Afghanistan to' Russia. The- payment to the Kabul regime has been done at' the rate of $12/1000 cu. meters of gas, extremely below the international rates and even below the rates at which Russia sells its own gas to the West., Furthermore, the payment is bartered with SCUD rockets and napalm bombs.
   A transport plane of the Kabul regime which was air-lifting ammunition from Herat to Badghis was shot down 22 January by anti-aircraft fire of the Herat mujaheddin.
                              FEBRUARY
                                       14
 NEWS ITEMS: Alauddin, the Jamiat
 Commander in the south-west region, in his exclusive interview with Mesbah said, "under the present conditions harmony and unity among the mujaheddin commanders belonging to different organizations is very necessary".
    Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has a new plan for the establishment of a interim government. The plan says that one of the seven mujaheddin organizations should honestly announce its readiness not to take part in the new government and take the responsibility of establishing the new government. Members of this organization, from peon to leader, will have no right whatever to participate in the government. He himself expressed his readiness to undertake such a task.
 - Dr. Sadeq Yousuf, the Mufti Aazam of Central Asia, said at the International Islamic University in Islamabad that the Afghan jehad served a positive and useful purpose not only in Central Asia but throughout the .world. He added, "all Muslims and oppressed nations honor the Afghan mujaheddin".
                                        MARCH
               3
 EDITORIAL: "The Need for Harmony at
 Present Critical Stage". The editorial argues that as a result of changes that have taken place after- the Gulf war which benefitted world arrogance, the US has once again taken-up the Afghanistan issue as part of its strategy and the world arrogance, as a whole, is trying to achieve its goal by sowing seeds of discbrd among mujaheddin forces. The editorial concludes, "at a time when the atheist conspiracies have reached their climax, it is in the interest of our jehad to work towards total unity and discipline. This is a responsibility of the mujaheddin and refugees alike, particularly of the influential personalities who can play genuine role in this context".
 NEWS ITEMS: In their operations in
 Samangan, the mujaheddin have captured 15 enemy 'troops and officers. Four enemy tanks were destroyed during the operations and big quantities of arms and ammunition also fell in their hands.
 - A Russian soldier, who had defected to the mujaheddin six yearsr ago and had adopted Islam, was killed by a mine in Helmand 3 March.
    Four enemy security posts in Samangan were captured by the mujaheddin 22 January. The mujaheddin also seized 20 klashinkovs, ' one 82mm gun and one rocket . launcher. They killed six troops and injured another.
211
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 four.
                        Mahaz
                      FEBRUARY
                             23
 EDITORIAL: "Muslim Ummah on a major
 trial". Reviewing the Afghanistan tragedy and later the Gulf crisis, the editorial writes, "the Gulf issue is-a. great challenge and’requires tremendous efforts on the part of the Mu'slim ummah. While endorsing the measures taken by leaders of the Islamic countries in this regard, we pray tp God to eliminate all causes which may lead to their destruction " and ' to establish an atmosphere under which the Muslims may help each other with honesty and true Islamic faith".
 COMMENTARY: The Russians tried, by all possible means, to (eradicate the Islamic culture of the people of Afghanistan but their efforts took exactly an opposite, turn and their own atheist culture was shattered instead.
 REPORT: Sayyed Hussain Anwary,President of the Kabul Provincial Council visited the Sarnia Primary School 2 January, and said in his speech, "I am very grateful to God to have enabled us to open this school in our efforts to serve the children of the refugees. I appreciate the efforts made by the staff of the school to raise the educational standard of the pupils".
VOL i 4 NO.?-
     Mujahed
    DECEMBER
           22
EDITORIAL: "Najib's Futile Efforts":
Discussing; Najib's trip to Geneva, the' editorial rejects his claims of meeting with some mujaheddin leaders and cPncludes, "Those who attempt to find a peaceful solution to the Afghanistan problem by secret deals with Najib are really heading for humiliation. With due regard to this principle, the. mujaheddin must press for unity and urge the Soviet Union to stop interfering in the Afghanistan affairs and, instead, embark on serious and effective talks.
MESSAGE: Pof. Rabbani, in a message
addressed to the ulama, commanders and dignitaries of election constituencies has said, "I pray that God Almighty may keep you safe. I sincerely hope that the last vestiges of communism and blasphemy will hie shattered in the hands of the true and faithful sons of our country and that the way will be paved for the establishment of an Islamic government there. In an effort to reach this end, the delegations formed by the Central Election Committee for supervising the elections, are on their way to fulfil their obligations. I am hopeful that you will extend them all possible cooperation towards the establishment of the Shoora of ahl-e-hal wa aqd.
REPORT: Addressing the final session of the seminar held by the CCAR in Islamabad on the future of Afghan economy. Prof. Rabbani said, "We are more in need of the techniques of economy than its philosophy. For the reconstruction of our country we require a lot of things. But, prior to anything else, we must train Our people
           Masooliat-e-Zan
  e- Muslaman JANUARY
 212
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
ill
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 to give priority to home products. We should not continue to purchase finished goods from abroad and only sell our raw materials to foreign countries. We must have am. economic program of our own. I praise the CCAR in holding this seminar ..."
 INTERVIEW:   Returning from a mission
 inside Afghanistan# Sufi Qurban Mohammad Qasser has told the Mujahed reporter:
 - Badakhshan commanders have drawn a joint plan for the overthrow of the Kabul regime#
     14,000 students were enrolled in 129 schools and madrassas in the province,
     reconstruction plans were being implemented in the .south-east of Badakhshan.
                                                  t
 * Sayyed Ikramuddin# Deputy Amir of Takhar, told the Mujahed reporter that the secret of final victory by the mujaheddin laid in (l1) alliance# (2) * strategy and (3) combat. To fight without a political program, will not yield effective results# he said.
                     31
 EDITORIAL:   "The bloody memory of 27
 December (1979)". The paper reviews events related to this title.
 REPORT: PrOf. Rabbani,leader of Jamiat-e-Islami, told an Iranian reporter# "Every contact and cooperation of the mujaheddin groups with communist elements must be condemned and rejected".
    "What ought to be done for an all-out victory" was the title of a round-table conference held by the Association of Writers and Speakers of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan convened in the offices of the Association at Faqirabad in
 Peshawar 21 December. Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad threw light -in the meeting on various aspects of jehad. Other speakers included:
 -  Deljo Hussaini - who said# It is on account of the Afghan jehad and the valorous people of Afghanistan, that Russia is on the verge of a revolution today. As for the solution of the Afghan problem it is necessary that a revolutionary council consisting of all mujaheddin' groups be formed.
    Sabahuddin Kushkaki:    The US does
 not like what the West considers to be a radical Islamic government to be established in Afghanistan by the mujaheddin.
    Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan:        We
 should not waste time and energy on less important matters such as the right of franchise for women and should first of all overcome our difficulties.
 - Mohammad Nasim Faqiri: Though' many
 obstacles have been created by our enemy and the world powers to prevent the total victory of the mujaheddin# we must admit that we too are responsible for our problems.
                                                      /
 - Eng. Abdul Rahim:    The Soviet  Union
 and Saudi Arabia should be told and their consent obtained about the real objectives of an independent and Islamic government in Afghanistan, of the future.
                            ' / f
    Dr. Abdul Hai:    An Islamic council
 consisting of mujaheddin leading fig-gures should be established with the authority to lead them until final victory.
 - Dr. Najibullah Lafrai:   I  admit that
 we are responsible for part of present problems but we should not allow our enemies to utilize them against the mujaheddin.
  I
 JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991
 * The Iranian Ambassador to Islamabad
 told Al Jehad correspondent:     "The
 mujaheddin should also resist the US interventions in the same way as they fought against the Russians",
 *  Commander Sufi Mohammad Rasool said in an interview with a Mujahed reporter* The formation of a regular Islamic army is inevitable for achieving our final objective.
                                    JANUARY
                 10
 REPORT:    The     second roundtable
 conference of the Association of Afghan Writers, and speakers was held on "Jehad Problems, at the 12th. anniversary of ..the-Russian Invasion of Afghanistan". The opinions , of the participants • are briefed as follows:
 - Mawlawi Mir Hamza: "The Kabul regime
 has survived not because of its strength but because of our weaknesses"
 - Qazl Mohammad Amin Weqad: "A single
 leadership should be established and a council be formed by agreement".
 - Del jo/Hussaini: "We must not try to
 rub off the duty of jehad from the minds of the nation. The jehad must go on until complete victory".
      Huj jat-ul-Islam Mehdawi:    "A.
 revolutionary council must be established which would form a single command for the mujaheddin".
 - Sabahuddin Kushkaki:   "The Afghan
 problem will not be solved unti understanding is reached among all credible elements of the Afghan society".
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Burhanuddin ‘Rabbani
 leader of J&miat-e-Islami told the Mujahed, journal in an interview, despite a number of considerations, "the Islamic society of Afghanistan
 VOL.4 no.2
 supports general elections. The nation has reached a new stage and looks upon its problems from a new angle. No revolution can be contended with an unsuccessful leadership.. We shall not permit the super powers to interfere in our decisions about our destiny".
                                                  17
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is critical of two main defenders of the Afghan resistance namely Saudi Arabia and Iran. The paper expresses regret and astonishment that Saudi Arabia should extend a $ four-billion aid to the murderers- of ' the Afghans and Iran assist the Kabul regime with supplies ■worth 60 million rials.
 &EPORT:   Prof.  Burhanuddin Rabbani,
 leader of the Jamiat, said in his statement 27 December, "There was a time when NATO shuddered from the mention of communism but, after the defeat of the Russians in Afghanistan, Islam- not the Warsaw Pact- is their sole enemy".
 - The second round-table conference of the Association of Writers and Speakers of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan was convened on the occasion of the 12th anniversary of the Russian aggression on Afghanistan. The following are the highlights of the speeches:
      Dr. Najibullah Lafrai:    If the
 example of the Supervisory Council can be adopted as. ■ a model in other battle fronts,- the downfall of the Kabul regime and the final victory of the mujaheddin will draw- closer.
      Dr. Abdul Ha^i:      we need a
 united, strong and entrepreneur political and military establishment.
 - Mohammad Nasim Faqiri; The largest combat force was in the hands of the Jamiat-e-Islami and Hezb-e-Islami of Afghanistan; but in the resolutions
214
 suitable shares which resulted in thexr disappointment.
      Eng. Abdul Rahim:  If a government
 other than that of the mujaheddin is established in Afghanistan, not only the security of Pakistan but that of the whole region may also be endangered".
 -    -Mohammad Amin Ferotan:   "We must
 understand and cons-ider the sensitiveness of the world powers in respect to our Islamic Revolution and jehad".
      Mawlawi Mir Hamza: The fact that the Kabul regime is still breathing is not the result of their strength but: it is due to our weakness".
                                                26
 REPORT* Prof. Rabbani in an interview with the Takbir weekly:     An   Islamic
 meeting must be convened to seek ways for solving the Gulf war.
 - Prof. Rabbani told a gathering at the Abu Hanifa Madrasa towards the end of last month, "our revolution has reached a decisive stage. We must try to frustrate unwarranted propaganda against the revolutipn and to see that unity is maintained between Muslims and the Afghan nation. We must not permit anyone to sow.: the seeds of discord among ds under linguistic, tribal or other pretexts. The Jamiat-e-Islami is the only organization that can form an axis for the unity of all Muslims. It maintains strong forces in the battle fronts, all over the country and pan play an effective role towards unity in Afghanistan.
              •p *
 COMMENTARY t "Was the AIG Really
 Needed?" By Esmat Qanay:   High ranking
 AIG officials have said the government -organs will no longer be hble to remain
 open because of financial problems. Though the AIG wasted two years of our struggle and crippled our forces- as we had to wait for AIG action to improve the jehadic affairs. Furthermore, the AIG brought about a kind of mistrust at an international level in' regard to our jehad. This government, established under the auspices of weaker elements of jehad and founded on mistrust, should have from the outset made an all-out effort towards stregthening of the battle fronts after the withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan. Strong diplomatic efforts should have been exerted for the recognition of this government prior to its formation. The Jamiat-e-Islami, which owns more than half of all the mujaheddin fronts inside Afghanistan, had a number of
 reservation at the time when the AIG was being Established; yet it' supported it. But this government failed to Secure the recognition of the nation as i a whole. Now that the government has dismissed many of its personnel but has not yet announced its dissolution, we. pray that that the mujaheddin leaders may be able to convert the present deadlock to an actual dynamism in jehad".
                              FEBRUARY
                4
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 Jamiat-e-lslami in an interview with the Takbir journal: "The media in the
 West has adopted a hostile posture against us. The mujaheddin have now no differences among them. It is not true when they say that the mujaheddin have lost their value in Afghanistan; in fact they possess the strongest force in the country. We do not know what role the Muslims may play in the Gulf crisis or how effective their efforts will be. But we cannot remain indifferent towards events in'the Gulf because the Muslims are the limbs of a
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991       IlfllllllN JiHAII                   VOL.4 NO.2
passed by the Consultative Council they have not received proportional and
215
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          fllllllANJ[HAD              VOL.4 NO.2
 single body and the crisis in the Gulf is the common affair of all the Muslims. We shall offer them whatever may prove effective".
 - Nasim Hejazi, a reputed Pakistan writer . has told the Mujahed in an interview:   . "The mujaheddin of
 Afghanistan are the forerunners of the entire Muslim community. Any nation that wishes to stay alive, must follow the foot-steps of the Afghan mujaheddin".
                  13
 EDITORIAL:  "Sending  forces to Saudi
 Arabia and our stand". At the time Kuwait was captured by Iraqi troops it was felt that the holy places in Saudi Arabia will also be threatened. It was for this reason that the. -mujaheddin leaders, similar to other Islamic nations, expressed readiness to send forces to Saudi Arabia. It was later observed that conditions in the Gulf took another turn. Foreign air forces, led by the US, dropped thousands of bombs on Baghdad and other Iraqi •Cities".         '
    Mentioning the mujaheddin friendly relations with.. Saudi Arabia, the editorial concludes, "the decision .to send the mujaheddin forces to Saudi Arabia has been taken personally and without prior understanding. We wish before the plan was implemented, the various aspects of the move were studied - so that present conflicting stands (by mujaheddin) would have been avoided".
 REPORT:   Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani,
 leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, received a warm welcome from the authorities when he visited Sudan recently. He met Omar Hassan-al-Bashir, the President of Sudan, 16 January. The President told him, "we have always supported the Afghan mujaheddin in
 their legitimate struggle and continue to do so in the future. Their Islamic jehad and the sacrifices they have offered for this cause is a source of ^>ur pride. You have defeated the biggest military power in the world with the strength of your true faith. The resistance of the Afghan mujaheddin and the defeat of Russian forces in Afghanistan were factors in the defeat and collapse of world communism".
    The Sudanese Foreign Minister in a reception which he held in honor of Prof. Rabbani said, "as the result of the meeting between Prof. Rabbani and His Excellency the President of Sudan, the opening of the Afghan mujaheddin embassy in Sudan has been approved".
 -  A reception was held 6 February on the occasion of distribution of certificates to graduates of the Military and Police Academies and the Military School fo the Jamiat-e-Islami. Prof. Rabbani, while presenting the certificates also gave out pistols and other prizes to outstanding students.
                25
 REPORT:   Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 Jamiat, while presenting, certificates to the graduates of the Jamiat's Military Academy, said in connection with the Gulf crisis, "Islamic leaders must act seriously for the solution of their problems. It is really a great accomplishment when revolutionary organizations, nations or individuals achieve their objectives by overcoming a set of problems.
 INTERVIEW: . Ata Mohammad, an assistant commander from Balkh> said in an interview that a war based'on Islamic faith and principles will not only not make us tired, but we will gain further experience as it continues.
    i                »    ’
 - About the flow of natural gas from
216
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991                             fifClillNJIUII1                                       VOL.4    NO.2
 Sheberghan to the Soviet Union, he .said, "it had stopped for a short while after the Russian pull-out from Afghanistan, but it was later resumed through new contracts between the Russians and the Kabul regime. The pipelines have been cut many times during the war but were repaired every time with the help of the Russians. However, cutting the pipeline permanently will not be possible due the flat nature of the terrain.
   Mujahed Ulus
                                                   JANUARY— FEBRUARY
 INTERVIEW: Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, a
 former Afghan Deputy Premier, has said, in an interview with the VQA,, "we have committed many mistakes during the last two years which have caused disappoint-ment to a number of our mujahed brethren. Furthermore, with the passage of time, we have been depending upon foreign financial aid to a large extent and have been instrumental in Creating misunderstanding and discord among oar-selves. It is now necessary to use the present situation to good, ends and, by relying upon God and out' inherent endurance, gather strength with the understanding of all patriotic elements so that . the Kabul regime either falls in peices or, at least,' is unable to obstruct the achievement of our jehad objectives.,
 - Wulusmal, the Editor of the Mujahed Ulus, told the VOA in an interview that the AIG and the entire mujaheddin leadership had lost their power to initiate things and were no more capable of finding a solution to the Afghan problem. "The present leadership is not in a position to tow the wrecked ship to the shore. He said, "the refugees could not be repatriated safely and honorably under such a
 leadership". "It is therefore necessary ... that, as a first step, a seminar is held in a European country such as Switzerland   in   which all Afghan
 scholars and intellectuals, and some mujaheddin commanders, participate and work for convening a Loya Jirgah which has been      an   authoritative body
 throughout the Afghan history ... There is no doubt that under present conditions, it will be difficult to convene the Loya Jirgah without the UN financial support. With whole-hearted cooperation   of   the UN Secretary
 General, there might be a way out from present quagmire".'
 REPORT: Another meeting of the Afghans
 in California, was held in Los Angeles 5 January. The meeting, attended by a large number of Afghans, was opened with recitations from the Holy Quran. Sultan Mahmood Ghazi from Washington D.C. and Naim Majrooh from Peshawar were also invited to this meeting. Amanullah Mansoori, the Chairman of the meeting,     after      welcoming    the
 participants, suggested that a monthly bulletin be published by the group consisting of news about the jehad in. Afghanistan     and . other related
 activities.
      Ruqya Habib, representing the •Afghan women and on behalf of the women attending the meeting, while expressing appreciation for being invited to the conference, praised the role of the women in jehad and their important status in Islam.
      Dr.Hasan Kakar said,"at present and as a first step it is necessary that all the Afghans were united. The initiative of the former King and those of Dr. Mohammad Yousuf and this conference should all be coordinated."
      Naim Majrooh supported Dr. Kakar in saying that at present foreigners held the key for the solution of the Afghan issue in their hands. Hq said our second problem was lack of proper
217
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 organization. The plan offered by the King was talked about in all circles in Pakistan, Every meeting which I attended, I was told by the participants that, unless we formed the. central core of a movement, they could not help us. In my opinion a delegation should be formed as soon as possible to go to Pakistan and begin the move from there," he added.
     Hussain Ali Yar read out the contents of a letter which, he said, was written by the Shias of San Diego, California. They had wished that the future' leadership would heed the rights of Shias,
                               FEBRUARY
               22
 INTERVIEW: Sayyed Ahmad, Gailani, leader
 of NIFA, was asked in an interview , whether he had met Dr. Najib in Geneva and had discussed with him the
 Afghanistan issue. He said: "I. shall
 not try to add anything to the contents, of my interviews with' 'the VOA or the BBC. I am very sure that I have not done anything which may be contrary to the interests of the Afghan nation. At the beginning of jehad I made a pledge ,to the Afghan nation which I respect uptil the present day. I am obviously of the opinion that a system should be established in Afghanistan which will manifest the will of the people".
 * Sayyed Eshaq'- Gailani in an interview with the "Mujahed Ulus" in connection with the Election Law. of the AIG said: The legislation of any law is the sole responsibility of elected parliament. Since the AIG in Peshawar has no lawful jurisdiction to legislate laws and there is no elected parliament either, therefore, the AIG Election Law is not legal and is to be rejected . . . The so-called AIG Election Law has deprived an overwhelming majority of the nation to participate in the elections and-, therefore, cannot be called general.
 free and neutral. This "Law" does not entitle the refugees in Europe, America and other countries to participate in elections despite the* fact that many Afghan scholars, political and social leaders are living there. The law also deprives . our women, who form the majority of the population, from voting and this is undoubtedly,unjust. Another important fact is the opposition expressed to this election law by the majority of our people and the Shia mujaheddin organizatidns in Iran.
 * Ulusmal in an interview with the VOA is reported to have said, "There is a proverb in Pashtu saying, 'you may quit a village but not its traditions'. Contrary to general rules, and regulations in the neighbouring countries, the mujaheddin organizations in Peshawar are trying to deprive the people of Afghanistan of their legitimate rights. No one will ever accept
■their practice of electing representatives according to their own favors, neither will anyone agree that women, who form more than half of the population, should not take part in elections.
      Other subjects dealt with in this edition of the paper are:
 - The' people's mission vis-a-vis national problems.
    The former King's, peace plan.
    Eye-witnesses during the Daoud regime.
    The AIG and its ceremonial fetes in Peshawar.
 * The paper, in a comment has praised the CCAR for holding seminars on the principles of the Afghan society. The comment is in relation to the recently published book by the CCAR on the basic laws of the future Afghan society based!
218
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
HnHMMHHi
VOL.4 NO.2
on its first seminar.,
    Neda-e-Haq
                        JANUARY
           27
INTERVIEW:   Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor
leader of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said in an exclusive interview with the Nawa-e-Waqt journal, "the US and the Soviet Union are both conspiring; against the Afghan mujaheddin. Some powers dare talk about re-instating Zaher Shah in Afghanistan. But the Afghan nation will never agree to it". He added, "the hands of Na jib are, stained with the blood of hundreds of thousands of Afghans. Similar number or more have been orphaned, widowed or disabled. Sitting with him around a conference table would be tantamount to treason to the Afghans and the jehad". He added, "we have been assured to some extent during, our talks with Iranian leaders that they would continue their support of the mujaheddin and would not change their Afghan policy.".
  Neda-e-Adalat
                          MARCH
EDITORIAL: I am grateful to God
Almighty that the first issue of Neda-e-Adalat, the organ of the ICCA, has risen in the vast horizon of the publications to keep us company and bring a touch of delight to our sorrowful hearts.' Another victory is that the center of the ICCA has now been established in Pakistan. Among the aims and objectives of the ICCA are: beloved Islam? jehad against the
atheists and colonial powers; the preservation of independence and territorial integrity of . Islamic Afghanistan? establishment of a \ proud
   and Islamic society; unity . of the society under true Islamic faith and the formation of a just and fair Islamic society.
        "The ICCA is prepared to enter into discussion with all Islamic groups or individuals, who may have had a reasonable share in the Islamic revolution, in order to secure and maintain unity among the oppressed and destituted Afghan nation and by this means e„arn the good pleasure of God Almighty and gain the relief and comfort of the Islamic nation.
                                     Nesa
    JANUARY-FEBRUARY
                          I
   REPORT: In a meeting on the occasion of the 27 December, * Fatemah Yasar in a speech stated, "The Afghanistan problem
   would have been solved immediately after the Rdssian withdrawal if,'
   along side their alliance, our leaders did not have (detrimental) ties with
   other countries? if they haid not for-, saken spiritual values? if they had not
   been lured to- material goods; if they had sympathetic, wise and experienced advisors around them and if they had not driven away all the honest folks' away from them".
   INTERVIEW: The mother of. Shaheed
   Shariatyar, whose husband and three sons have been martyred, told the Nesa correspondent, Sayida Payez, "I shall never pardon' the Khalqis and Parchamis for killing of my children. I, together with my children and grand children,1 will fight them until our last breath. If I have, lost my three sons, it does not mean that I have lost everything. I have prepared myself to take up arms' an£ fill their place in the battle field and fight until the end",
 219
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 Payam-em Ittefaq JANUARY
                 3
 REPORT: Hujjat-ul-Islam Mehdawi the
 Speaker of the ICCA responsible for the work of the Revolutionary Council of Islamic Unity of Afghanistan said in answer to a question by a correspondent of the Ittefaq journal, "Regarding unity among the mujaheddin both the Iranian   authorities   and   Shia
 organizations have exerted efforts. "From among the Shia organizations, the Revolutionary Council of Islamic Unity and Harakat-e-Islami had opened offices in Pakistan, though the Harakat also had an office, in Iran and was a member of the eight mujaheddin organizations in that country. The Ittefaq (jouncil was also invited to join the Wahdat (Unity) party. We accepted the offer and- the coalition in Iran had nine members. Without any consultation, members of a specific organization went inside Afghanistan and raised the voice of Il'ezb-e-Wahdat-o-lQl'ami from Bamian and Iranian authorities too supported the move. We did not wish to have an imposed unity of this nature right from the outset and we are still against it. The so-called Wahdat party remained as it was in Iran and we transferred the Coalition Council to Peshawar without dissolving it.
     Four main groups i.e. Harakat-e-Islami, Shoora-e-Enqelab-e-Ettefaq-e-Islami and a greater part of Pasdaran-e-Jehad and Jabha~e-Muttahed are represented in this coalition. There are a few more groups that have friendly ties with us and which, I presume, will soon join the coalition. Those who claim that the ICCA consists of only a limited number of members, do so on account of- their own
 narrow-mindedness and envy. "We are on very good   terms with Sunni groups and
 will try   to improve our relations in
 future".
 REPORT: A four-day seminar was held in Islamabad   under the  auspices of  the
 CCAR 29 November-2 December, 1990, on the future of Afghan economy. The seminar was attended by a number .of scholars. Mehdawi, a leader of the ICCA, read out his comprehensive article on usury in the last day of seminar which was      hailed by:   the
 participants.
 Payam-e-Islam
                           DECEMBER
                                   20
 EDITORIAL: "The Leadership and Election
 Crisis": "The Afghanistan crisis has now reached a complicated and dangerous point and has split the national policy into opposing and irreconcilable poles more than ever before. After the withdrawal of the Russian troops from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin and their leaders failed to unite politically or militarily. It was on account of lack of a common front and political! strategy, that hopes for the overthrow of Kabul regime did not materialize. The regional and international supporters of the Afghan resistance, partly because of the factors mentioned here and partly-because of the crisis in the Gulf, diverted their attentions from one to the other. The jehad forces not only disagreed with each other in combat, but have drifted even farther from each other by fault or intention in an unprecedented manner. This chronic disunity has deprived the resistance forces to create a nationally acceptable leadership. This has even strengthened the belief that they are. not capable of reaching an understanding with each,
220
JANlJAKY-MAKCll, 1991
VOL.4 NO.?
 other.. Since they have failed- .-. to establish a Strong and stable political order capable of securing law and order in war-torn Afghanistan, it is better for them to quit. Rivalry between the foreign supporters of the Afghan mujaheddin and their divergent interests vis-a-vis Afghanistan have further aggravated the situation.
     The Afghan policy is today faced with two problems:
 1. The problem of leadership among the Islamic resistance.
 2.  Legitimacy of the Kabul regime.
                                     JANUARY
                   3
 EDITORIAL: The editorial reviews the
 Soviet aggression and its eventual
 defeat in these words, ‘'After the retreat of Russian forces from
 Afghanistan and the changes that were brought about inside the Soviet Union
 and Eastern Europe, the US expressed, interest in rebuilding East European
 economy and it was then that the Gulf crisis started. With the downfall of
 communism and the internal crisis inside the Soviet Union, the West lost its zeal for the mujaheddin and dropped them from the top of its list of favorites.
                                                                                            >
    x "The military weakness of the mujaheddin in overthrowing the Kabul regime and lack of suitable replacement for the regime has complicated matters even further. The AIG which Was at first thought to constitute this replacement, was unable to bring the mujaheddin together under- its political and administrative set-up. It strengthened the view that the mujaheddin are only forces of war and void of
 capacity for the establishment of a political system and must make way for the establishment of a broad-based government in which the Kabul regim^; would be included. This has given rise to suggestions for return of the former King to Afghanistan and a coalition of rival groups under him. The Kabul regime is apparently also interested in his return and India, a former friend of the King, is trying hard to usher a US-USSR harmony on the subject. India has shown special sensitivity towards the establishment of a mujaheddin government and their friendship with-Pakistan and is, naturally, in favor of a government in Afghanistan which would safeguard her interests as before. Saudi Arabia, which has established political relations with the USSR after Iraqi occupation of Kuwait and has assisted the Soviet Union to rebuild its fading economy, will probably take the side of India.
      "In view of this argument, there is apparently no obvious course for the mujaheddin or Pakistan to follow but to continue the war as before.
      "Under present circumstances, the mujaheddin should not take the side of the Arabs in the Arab-US rivalry with Iran. They must work towards their internal unity and ' the unity of Pakistan and Iran on the Afghan issue. Pakistani and Iranian views on the Gulf crisis are very close to each other and their similarity of view on the Afghan issue Will prove useful and effective as well. A common military and political stand of the mujaheddin groups and a concerted support of Iran and Pakistan will be more effective in bringing the mujaheddin closer to their final aims".
                                                  17
 EDITORIAL:  "Changes in International
 Politics and the Afghan problem". The editorial discusses the changes in the
221
.JANUARY -MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 internal and foreign policies of the Soviet Union, its relationship with Saudi Arabia, the US access to the Gulf region and some other recent changes,' The paper urges the following measures to be.taken by the mujaheddin:
 ■*' new and military harmony bn the battle front,              '
 - formulation of joint and practical operational progress under prevailing military conditions inside Afghanistan.
   establishment of joint and harmo-neous political front supported most of all by Pakistan and and Iran.
   Military dynamism and political efforts on regional and global scale to end the present deadlock and avoid further despair.
             30
 EDITORIAL: "The Gulf War and the future
 of Afghanistan". The war has diverted public attention in the Islamic world from the Afghan problem, the Kashmir and Palestine issues. In the first place the war annihilated the AIG which is a serious setback for the mujaheddin vis-a-vis the Kabul regime. Whatever ,the results of the war may be, one thing is quite clear right from the outset that in the eyes of the world in general and that of the Islamic countries in particular, the Afghan problem is no longer important and will not be dealt with seriously. It is now •upto the mujaheddin leaders to seek ways and means to keep the jehad banner hoisted and halt the Russians and the Kabul regime to use the present political and military situation for their own ends.
  Payam-e-Jehad
                             JANUARY
 EDITORIAL: "The Revolutionary Council". "The AIG of the seven mujaheddin groups
 in Peshawar is broken up in pieces and practically does not exist any longer. Its Prime Minister says he has not gone to his office for months. The President himself is very annoyed and does not know to whom he ought to bestow this trust. Members of . the government have differences among themselves. .Its chief Justice has had a meeting with Najib, etc.
      The mujaheddin leaders are trying to form another government with each group thinking of regaining its prerogatives instead of strengthening the foundations of the revolution. Some ulama are meeting in Peshawar in an effort to bring about improvements, but nobody is sure of the results of these meetings. Foreign governments also have proposals based on their own interests. The Kabul regime is also at the point of total collapse. All have reached a complete deadlock.
      In our opinion the establishment of a new government will prove to be only a repetition of previous mistakes-with the same old fate- and even our neighbors will not be prepared to recognize it. Elections which have been embarked upon during this hard winter will be very strenuous but, at the same time, an excercise in futility.
      The establishment of a government according to expectation of .all* mujaheddin groups and leaders is beyond the power of the present, leadership for nobody* will be prepa.red to accept anything short of the top most.
 1    The other problem is the fear that
 a continuation of£ present situation will tarnish t*ne reputation of the mujaheddin leaders. Because their own disputes .and, 'outside interferences are so many that the government will never bp. able to solve- them. Arid thus enemies of the revolution will argue tha/t the present mujaheddin leaders are
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 inefficient and lack authority and we should search for other leaders to replace them. It would be better for the Peshawar and Iran based mujaheddin leaders to form a revolutionary council in which they are all equal. The council may have a speaker to be rotated every three months, for instance. The council can then determine members of the interim government from among other members Of ■ the mujaheddin organizations and transfer the executive power to them. In this way, if the government held any, good record, the credit will go to the leaders and if it failed, at least the reputation of jehad leaders will not be tarnished. In that case if one day one of these leaders may have to assume a leadership position he will be doing so with a clean record. The revolutioary council should be exempted from the monopoly of seven parties and should have a broad base to embrace all jehadic groups and should enjoy trust and good virtues of its own. Its sign of success will be that it should work independently, not influenced from outside particularly the four nations (names not given)-. It should not involve itself in rivalries prevailing among these countries. Do wfe possess . the political and moral maturity to take a step like this.
 INTERVIEW: Major Yusuf, a senior former ISI member is reported to have told a Jang correspondent! "The stand adopted by the late General Zia has dragged the Afghan jehad to total destruction". He has deliberated Zia's mistakes as follows:
 1. The year 1987 was in favor of the mujaheddin but General zia, by a tip from the US, took away the ISI responsibility from General Akhtar which affected the Afghan jehad. By this means General Zia wished to earn himself a reputation in the forthcoming victory (then atj sight.
 VOL.A NO.2
 2. His second ’mistake was to replace
 the Stinger anti-aircraft missiles by the British obsolete Blow Pipe missiles.                 '
 3. The conditions laid down in the Geneva, Accords were actually those proposed by the Soviet Union a year earlier which were rejected by General Zia at that time, but, under pressure from the Muslim League and June jo, he agreed to th’e Geneva Accords.
     FEBRUARY
                4
 REPORT: While attending the condolence
 ceremony of the late Sayyed Mohammad
 Shah Anwary at the Hussainia Hall in' Peshawar, Ayatullah Mohseni said, "The
 thought of "Presidency" is driving every one crazy. The actual cause of the jehad has fallen into oblivion and
 rivalry has taken place among the commanders on the regional and tribal, basis. Foreigners and the communists
 are trying to prevent the establishment of art Islamic government in the country. Why should we be separated? We do not want“^differences between the Sunni and Shia. Those who wish to create conflicts between the Afghans on the basis of religion during the war and after our victory and during reconstruction, God will not forgive them and will curse them for ever. Whether Shia or Suryii, we follow the same Prophet and the same Quran.
   Shafiq, a television cameraman who has just returned from a trip to Afghanistan, has said regarding the
 role of Hezb-e-Wahdat that the party is very unpopular and totally rejected in
 the north of the country» specially at Char Kent, Mazar-e-Sharif. The people
IICIUW11
223
JANUARY -MARCH * 1991     RIGHflN JEHAD                   VOL . 4 NO. 2
do not want this party because they are of the opinion that, some members of the party have had disreputable past. In regard to elections he ;~said, "I have interviewed a number of commanders who are of the opinion that elections were not suitable at this critical moment because the people will not be able to excercize their right to vote freely. Every group is active in the interest of its own party. Elections will only be possible when a strong interim government is present".
                   Payarh-e-Mujahed
                      DECEMBER
                            31
REPORT: In a public gathering on the
occasion of the anniversary of the Soviet aggression of Afghanistan, Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, said, "It is very unfortunate that the mujaheddin die of hunger, whereas many Islamic nations assist the Soviet Union with billions of dollar aid by a mere hint from the US. It was only a few weeks ago that a $ 4 billion aid
package to the USSR was approved by Saudi Arabia part of which is being given to the Najib regime in the shape of arms and other supplies. The Kuwait government in exile which was the victim of aggression by Saddam Hussein and with which we have already expressed our profound sympathies, has also given $500 million to the Russians. Part of this money will also undoubtedly go to Najib. We are being killed today by the help of money from Islamic nations".
                  Payatn-e-Shuhada
                                           DECEMBER
                            22
ANNOUNCEMENT: A party under the name of
 Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami was formed from the merger among many Afghan groups based in Iraft. Harakat-e-Islami proposed conditions for participating in the alliance, but it met deaf ears and it was falsely announced that Harakat-e-Islami has also joined the new organization. Due to the unimportance of such an announcement,we did not even bother to refute these lies. A responsible person of this party, Sadiqi Naily, was assassinated by unknown elements sometime ago. Radio Kabul blamed Harakat-e-Islami for this without losing any time. The spokesman of this party in interviews with the BBC and Radio Mas’had also played the same theme and 17 December Radio Tehran too, put the blame on a military commander of- Harakat-e-Islami. In this connection, Harakat-e-Islami is offering the following facts to the Muslim people of Afghanistan:
 1.  Harakat-e-Islami has no hand at all in this murder.
 2.  It is probable that the murder has been committed by the Kabul regime because it was this regime which broke the news immediately and put the blame on Harakat-e-Islami.
 3.  The fact that the Hezb-e-Wahdat accuses Herakat for this murder Clearly manifests the weakness of mind and faith of the speaker and responsible authorities of that organization.
 4.  As to why the Iranian Foreign Ministry. authorities have issued permission for the broadcast of this news item from Radio Tehran and Radio Mashed, we have yet not come to a satisfactory answer.
 5.  Another of their members was killed in Gulran, Herat, some years ago. Immediately the blame fell upon Harakat-e-Islami, but was later found out that the allegation was false.
224
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 6. We are prepared, to a send a joint delegation to Afghanistan to
 investigate the case.
 MESSAGE: Shaikh Mohammad Asef Muhseni,
 leader of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, has sent the following message to Dr. Velayr.ti, the Foreign Minister of Iran ASSALAM-U-ALAIKUM Radio Tehran broadcast of the assassination of Sadiqi Naili and charging Harakat-e-Islami with . this murder has resulted in armed attacks' on members of our party by the followers of Wahdat-e-Islami■ inside Afghanistan. Reports reaching us state of clashes taking place between members of the two groups. First of all, we urge you to investigate those who have approved the broadcast of this news items prior to full investigation of the ‘ case. Secondly, we demand that a combined team of both parties be sent inside .Afghanistan for thorough investigation of the murder so that the assassin is identified. But if it is necessary, Radio Tehran should be ordered to retrieve this news item until fact are known and further bloodshed' of the Shias is avoided.
     Rastgoyan
                           FEBRUARY
                                   20
 EDITORIAL: "Repeated. mistakes by the
 Pakistani authorities in connection with the Afghan problem". Because of the presence of the largest group of Afghani refugees and center of mujaheddin. leadership in Pakistan, the policy of Pakistan will have a marked effect upon the jehad of the oppressed Afghan nation against the atheist and puppet regime. A true non-intervention policy of Pakistan in our internal affairs will be very effective in the establishment of a true leadership in the couptry harmonious with the wishes of the Afghan nation. On the contrary.
if this non-interference policy is not maintained for some 'negligible shor-lived interest of the host country, not only the 12-year long sacrifices will be rendered useless but will also result in dangerous threats to the host country itself."
NEWS ITEMS: The AIG ministries have not been dissolved.
- Kabul citizens are threatened with famine.
                             Sada-e- Afghanistan
                                  JANUARY
EDITORIAL: "A Game of Words": The
election 'stuff' has plenty of •customers in the political market nowadays and it is for this reason that cries for elections , are raised from every nook and corner. Friend and foe, acquaintant and stranger, burglar and the proprietor, each one shouts elections.
     "It is at times like this that ambiguity fills the political vacuum and it becomes hard to differentiate between good and bad, democracy and dictatorship, humanitarianism from manslaughter. In short, words change their true meanings.
     "Tricks were played in the past with words like, equality, democracy and justice. This is why many will take distance from whatever that may have •democracy' or 'democratic' interwoven in its meaning". The editorial then discusses the differences existing among the mujaheddin leaders on the election issue and later throws light on how we may hold true elections.
REPORT: The Voice of Afghanistan,
operating from Canada, interviewed Abdul Rahman Pazhwak, former . Afghan diplomat regarding the Gulf crisis in which he said, "it is with the Grace of God that the attention of the US and the USSR has been drawn to the Gulf issue, otherwise they might have reached an agreement on the problem on
225
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
Afghanistan which might have been harmful to us. It is not necessary that the US and the Soviet Union should serve as 'guarantors' for Afghanistan. A conference of the permanent members of the Security Council should be held in connection with the Afghan issue in which representatives of all parties, including Khalq and Parcham (only as a party and not as a government), could also participate".
    Dr. Rawan Farhadi in his interview with the same radio said, "it is difficult to foresee the results of the Gulf war, however, its prospects for Afghanistan are not very promising. During this time (the Gulf war) an event • took place which passed unobserved: The Russian military force
wishes to hold control of the USSR and by this means, revive its prestige .to some' extent after the Af ghafl'i&tah problem and the events in east Europe". Farhadi considered Schevardnadze's resignation a sigq of the ever-increasing power, of the military in the Soviet Union, and said, "since Gorbachev is an opportunist, he will probably take..the side of militants; As the Soviet Union obtained $ three billion from Saudi Arabia it is now supporting the Saudis",
    Regarding a Gorbachev-Bush meeting he said, "their consensus on the Afghan issue will prove effective for Afghanistan only when the Soviet Union, with due regard to its shattered economy, decides to     reduce its
assistance to the Kabul regime.
                                                         Shahadat
                            DECEMBER
             23
NOTE: Effective from  2 December, 1990,
the Shahadat has been published three times a week. The current political and military .situation truly calls . for a quicker publication of news of the
fronts. Enemy activities' are also ever-increasing. With their skillful plots, they are trying to plunder the. results attained so far by the Islamic revolution. It * is the responsibility of the Muslim press to reveal these conspiracies in time. The Shahadat will accept to publish jehad news and statements from other mujaheddin groups and organizations. Works of writers helpful to the enlightenment and encouragement of our people to solving their problems will be published. The policies     of    the Hezb-e-Islami
Afghanistan      however, are only
reflected through its editorials, commentaries or "Party statements."
              NEWS ITEMS
    The      general      session     of
    Jabha-e-Muttahed-e-lnqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in the Islamic Republic of Iran in a declaration has condemned the invasion of Kuwait -by . Iraq and the deployment, of US military forces in Saudi Arabia and has hailed the struggles by the PLO.
    On the day when Kama in Nagarhar fell to mujaheddin 17 December, eight ranking military officers and 66 troops and militiamen of the Kabul regdme were also killed in that province.
    An ammunitition dump in the Rishkhor Division of Kabul regime military force was completely destroyed by the mujaheddin 17 December.
    The Wardak mujaheddin captured two security posts and killed 35 militiamen during an attack at the end of November, 1990.
    A security post was captured and five militiamen were killed by the mujaheddin 16 December. On the same day, an ammunition depot together with - 41 military trucks, were destroyed by the mujaheddin of Kandahar.
226
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
    Four military transport vehicles were destroyed by the mujaheddin in Parwan and Kapisa during 16-17 December.
                                               25
 NEWS ITEMS:    Eight security posts
 around Herat were captured by the mujaheddin 19 December.
    The Kabul regime military bases in Jauzjan province came under fierce mujaheddin attacks 13 December.
    A jet military aircraft of the Kabul regime was shot down by the mujaheddin at Khulm district, Samangan 18 December.
    According to news reaching us 24 December, large enemy military centers in Logar have fallen to the mujaheddin.
 - An ammunition dump in Kandahar was destroyed 15 December.
                                                               A Kabul regime security post in
    occupants were captured by the mujaheddin.
    The Ghor mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and a military vehicle 9 December.
                                             27
 MESSAGE: In a message from the battle
 front Eng. Hekmatyar has said, "Our people do not want Zaher Shah or a coalition government. Before launching the present campaign, I warned Najib through a UN envoy that we do not wish to see Kabul showered with bombs or to cause.anyofurther bloodshed. But if, he continues his intransigence not to.step down, then we. will have no alternative and the responsibility will, rest him. . If, on the other hand,
 surrenders to the mujaheddin, he will be treated according to the general amnesty. If he is overthrown by the mujaheddin, he would- face dangerous consequences. Najib sent a negative answer And this prompted our immediate actions. Instead of commenting upon the present exchange of messages, Najib refers to the meetings two years ago and is under the false impression of possessing a propaganda tool against the mujaheddin. My argument is:      Why
 should the question of these meetings be taken-up after two years and at this particular moment when Hezb-e-Islami is planning its organized operations upon Kabul and adjoining provinces? You must also mention the issues that were discussed in these meeting and say what was our position? What did you say? And under what, name did our mediator appear? The fact is that prior to the Russian withdrawal, Najib and his party were panic . stricken and tried to arrange contacts through various means.
 He believed that they could not stand against the mujaheddin and, therefore, should come to an agreement with the strongest mujaheddin organization -to ensure their lives and protection. He established .contacts through Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Libya and the PLO leader. Our response in each case was that talks should only concentrate upon their surrender and the application of' the general amnesty plan. Abu Khaled, • the so-called religious advisor to Yasser Arafat- an advisor who himself has not the least awareness of the Muslim prayers let alone other tenents of Islam- brought the message that Najib and his party members had agreed % to discuss these points. Believing that the envoy of a great liberation organization must be fully trusted, we sent a delegation to Baghdad for this purpose. Najib's delegation insisted upon the formation of a coalition government with the allocation of as many ministerial posts to his party as they wished- a position they had taken
on
he
JANUARY'MARCH. 1991
 in their previous requests which had always been turned down. As before# our delegation rejected their demands and
 told them that they were ready to discuss the amnesty plan in case they wished to surrender to the mujaheddin#
 otherwise the continuation of talks would be useless. Some time later Abu
 Khaled came to Peshawar and asked for a meeting with me. Knowing the purpose of his mission, I did not meet him as I
 had earlier received a message      from
 Najib threatening that if Hezb-e-Islami .did not agree with the formation of a
 coalition government, he would be forced to invite Zaher Shah and Hekmatyar would be responsible for any
 consequences. Najib*s messenger had also said that if I agreed with this coalition government proposed by Najib#
 he     would not talk      with    other
 organizations. I told the messenger that I would take the responsibility if
 Najib would only be capable of encouraging Zaher Shah to return, he must be indeed a fool to have the courage to return to Afghanistan. Yasser Arafat had told me in front of Benazir Bhutto and a number of her cabinet members and advisors, 'You are the leader of a great party and for this reason you should take the initiative of bringing the war to an end. Najib
 and his colleagues are members of your nation, you should have mercy upon him. Let a coalition government be established and then followed through general
 elections. Your party will win. If this does not seem feasible to you, then you can agree to the return" ,of Zaher Shah. The solution of the Afghan problem and the cessation of the war depend upon your agreement.* I told him that in our country there were two things that were totally impossible: The formation of a coalition government with the Najib group and the return of Zaher Shah".
VOL.4 NO.2
                                     JANUARY
                1
 EDITORIAL: "Sensitive and Decisive
 moments for the Afghan jehad". Now that the US and the USSR have concluded that the mujaheddin forces are not prepared to accept Najib, they have come out with a new plan aimed to bringing Zaher Shah back to head the government during the transitional period and then to hold elections under the UN auspices in which the PDPA will also participate. It is obvious that the US and the Soviet Union have two main objectives, in their initiative: To avoid the victory of the Islamic urevdlution of Afghanistan and to protect Najib and his friends.
 INTERVIEW: Mohammad Daoud Askaryer,
 commander of the first contingent • of the mujaheddin forces in Numan, Parwan, has said in an interview with the Shahadat, "Whenever I do not hear the sound of mujaheddin gun being fired on the enemy, I feel my heart is no longer functioning." He- added;- his contingent received monthly regular salary, boarding and complete logistic supplies.
               6
 NEWS ITEMS: The Khyber sFrontmu jaheddin captured nine v security posts of the Kabul regime 1 January.
                                                    In an attack on Kabul regime , military positions in Laghman, the mujaheddin killed or injured 85 troops.
 t
 - The Paghman mujaheddin performed a rocket attack on Najib's residence and the Russian Embassy in   Kabul 27
 December.
                                                     An officer of the Kabul regime, together with two of his men, were
                                                   228
JANiJARY-MARCM, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.?
 killed in Ghazni 29 December.
   The mujaheddin killed 26 December' four militiamen in Ghor province.
    During a successful attack in Kandahar by the mujaheddin 21 December, a Soviet adviser was injured together with an Afghan general and two troops. ■
                 10
 NEWS ITEMS:     The mujaheddin have
 recently captured two security posts at Sarobi on the road to Jalalabad.
 -  Three hundred and forty Kabul regime troops and soldiers have been killed by the mujaheddin in the course of last month.
    Three Kabul regime officers and seven troops surrendered to the Kandahar mujaheddin 29 December.
 -  An enemy post in Parwan fell to the mujaheddin 6 January.
                 15
 MESSAGE: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has publici-cized his six-point peace program for the Gulf crisis:
 1.  Simultaneous, unconditional and proportional pull-put of foreign forces from the Gulf and Iraqi forces from Kuwait under the supervision of Islamic countries.
 2.  The pull-out should take place under supervision of a delegation from Islamic countries,
 3. Deployment of a mutually acceptable force in place of the Iraqi forces in Kuwait.
 4. Creation of conditions for general elections and the transfer of power to an elected government in Kuwait
 immediately after the Iraqi pullout.
 5. Settlement of disputes between Iraq and Kuwait upon understanding of the two governments under the good offices of Islamic countries.
 6, ' Following the settlement of the Gulf crisis, nations concerned in the region should meet to mobilize their forces, already strengthened because of the Gulf crisis, for the liberation of occupied territories from Israel.
 NEWS ITEMS:   The Samangan mujaheddin
 destroyed two enemy tanks and 21 transport vehicles 31 December.
     In their operations on Bagram Airport 10 and 11 January, the mujaheedin destroyed four Sakhoi jet aircraft and killed five officers.
                                                    20
  REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
  Hezb-e-Islami. in a message from the battle field has said, uWe strongly condemn „the US and allied aggression against Iraq and consider it a brutal step against a Muslim nation. It is not an action against a certain ruler but against an innocent nation. The Muslim ummah must not remain ’sclent against such atrocities and must take steps to prevent further bloodshed. The stand taken by the USSR proves that athiest can never be friends of Muslims. They are supplying the Kabul regime with all kinds of arms to enable it kill the Afghans, but against an obvious aggression against Iraq they back the aggressors. Rulers who used to name the ^ US as the great Satan, have either taken sides with them or have remained indifferent. It proves that they were not earnest in their slogans. Those who differentiate between Israels1 aggression on Jordan and the US aggression on Iraq are either lacking coipmon sense themselves or are under the impression that their people are ignorant. Israel
229
JANUAUY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 has resumed the        shape of    a US
 gendarme in the region and acts as a drawn sword against the Arabs.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Due  to conflicts between
 members of the Kabul regime, rumors regarding a cabinet reshuffle are very strong. Reports reaching from Kabul say that Najib wishes to replace Abdul Wakil by       Majid   Sarbeland ' (both
 belonging to Parcham) as Foreign Minister and Aslam Watanjar (Khalq) by Abdul Haq Olumi (Parcham) as Defense Minister. It is also speculated that Raz Mohammad Paktin, Minister of Interior (Khalq) may either be replaced by Manukai Mangal or Yaqubi the Minister of KHAD.
 NEWS ITEMS:    Thirty-six troops, and
 militiamen were killed or wounded during the mujaheddin attacks on Paghman and- Shakar Dara districts 11’ January.             '          *
    The Baghlan mujaheddin during a successful operation 8 January destroyed two tanks and nine transport vehicles of the Kabul regime forces.
 - General Azim Zurmati, commander of the Kabul regime forces in Logar, has been accused by the Kabul regime of collaboration with Shahnawaz Tani. His forces had suffered a serious defeat after his 85 officers and troops were captured by the. mujaheddin.        *
    In their operation in Baghlan 19 January, the mujaheddin captured 41 army 'personnel and a large quantity of ammunitions.
                  24
 EDITORIAL:   "The revolution needs
 further awakening of our Muslim Nation”. It discusses the war in the Gulf, the supply of aid to Russia and the f Kabul regime by friends of the Afghan jehad and difficulties caused by lack of assistance to Afghan mujaheddin and refugees and says, "The revolution
 calls for patience, steadfastness in the face of difficulties and a firm stand against the enemies".
 NEWS ITEMS:    In their successful
 operation on a Kabul regime military stronghold at Chamtala on the outskirts of Kabul 13 January, the shakardarah mujaheddin killed 61 ranking military officers and 41 troops.
 - The officers and one soldier of the Kabul regime have surrendered ‘to Logar mujaheddin.
   The students of the Poly-Technic institute of the Kabul University and other establishments of higher learning in Kabul went on a strike for, the first time and did not attend final examinations.
                                                 27
 NEWS ITEMS:  In their attack in Ghor
 province 24 December# the mujaheddin killed 65 military personnel of the Kabul regime, including deputy political* chief of KHAD and the commander of an important post. Three of the mujaheddin were also killed during this operation and 12 were wounded.
    In their operations, lasting a fortnight, the mujaheddin killed four pilots of the ^AF and captured another two of them.
 - A mujaheddin source reported to the. Shahadat that General Mohammad Hashim, an active member of KHAD, was captured together with his vehicle and guards during operations on Mohammad Aga, Logar, and executed after being tried by a court operated on the battle
 'field.           •  • '
                                                   29
 INTERVIEW:  Dr. Abdul . Qayyoum Fedawi,
 member of the Coalition Council and Acting Chief of the central Office of
230
JANUARY-iflARCH, 1991            HIUIIHHlILIIJlU                  VOL.4 NO.2
 Jabhay-e-Muttahed-e-IslamivAfghanistan, has said in an interview in Peshawar, "As we refused to join the Hezb-e-Wahdat, the Islamic Republic of Iran closed our offices there. Therefore, in an effort to continue the jehad and to preserve our organizational identify and poliical independence, we transferred our central office to Pewshawar." He added, "Hezb-e-Wahdat, established only recently, contrary to our wishes has been handled only by a limited , number of people. Members of other organizations and groups were deprived even of free expression of opinion. Wahdat's delegation to Iran refrained from submitting their Constitution to the leaders of ,the mujaheddin groups and were expecting us to accept them without knowing anything about them. We considered this against the interest of the country, Islam or our revolution". He went on, "some groups did not merge with Hezb-e-Wahdat at all and have kept their separate identity. Only a limited number of some other groups joined the Wahdat after breaking with their own organizations. As the Hezb-e-Wahdat was established with such :a poor performance- though some of our members also joined it- we and some .other members of the present Coalition Council joined hands together and constructed the Council and transferred its central offices from Tehran to Peshawar".
                  31
 NEWS ITEMS: The Zabul mujaheddin shot
 downn enemy helicopter at Shahr-e-Safa 26 November. It had left Kandahar for Qalat when it was shot down.
    In their attack on Pul-e-Alchin# Kunduz, 18 January the mujaheddin destroyed two Kabul regime security posts.
     The Koh-e-Safi mujaheddin have-/killed nine troops and injured another 29 in their attack on the Khawaja
 Rawash Airport, Kabul.
 - In their attack on security posts at Khawajaghar district 23 January the mujaheddin killed eight militiamen.
     FEBRUARY
             3
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin attacked the security posts on the Balkh - Jauzjan road 22 January in which 12 troops and militiamen were killed and another nine captured. In another attack in Takhar 29 January, the mujaheddin killed or wounded 12 soldiers.
 - In their operation on Kunduz Airport with heavy artillery 19 January, the mujaheddin killed or wounded 21 militiamen.
   The Logar mujaheddin attacked the security posts on the Saudagar Pass 22 January in which one person was killed and another one captured.
             5
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin are reported to have occupied an important enemy post in Ghazni 22 January and to have killed a number of communists in the attack. Mieanwhile the Takhar mujaheddin destroyed sevent tanks killing or injuring 70 troops and officers.
    In tbeir operation in Ghor 23 Jartuary the mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and three transport vehicles of the Kabul regime forces. In this operation the commander of the military post and 61 troops ,and militiamen were also killed,.
 - Thirty soldiers and officers of the Kabul regime were killed 9 January when the mujaheddin' attacked their base at Tutum Dara, Kabul province.
JANUARV-MARCH, 1991        HfGIIIINJI HAG             VOL.4 NO.2
               7
 EDITORIAL:   "Why should there be
 opposition to elections?" Holding elections was one of the AIG objectives since 1988. However it did not materialize. Some months ago the election commission of the seven mujaheddin organizations agreed that election delegations should make the people in every polling station inside Afghanistan- responsible to elect their representatives until the end of the year in any manner they wished. 'Election process got "'under way, delegations were sent to some provinces , and people in some polling stations even elected their representatives. But there are now rumors that despite a number of shortcomings in the election plans, the future Shoora will have a strong mujaheddin representation and those who have *had equal representations in the Shoora will be left alone/and of no use to their masters. Also this shoora will not represent those who have fled to European countries. It is for this reason that imperialists are struggling to render this plan also ineffective. It was only yesterday that One Of- the leaders told a western radio 'correspondent, "The elections are not practicable because some commanders were imposing their own representatives upon the people". The leader has added in his interview,. "We now have the Council of Commanders, the tribal council and the Alliance of Ulama has also been established. All these can form the traditional Loya Jirgah which will in turn select an interim government".
                                               10
 REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
 Hezb-e-Islami told a gathering prior to Friday prayers in Nusrat Maina, "Peshawar 8 February that the US was the biggest enemy of Islam. He also blamed those who have sent the mujaheddin
contingent to . Saudi Arabia to fight against another Muslim nation under the US command. He said, "Our own country is in the atheists' grip and the jehad is still waging... Instead of intensifying the jehad inside the country, they are sending their forces to foreign countries. If he is really brave, he should have sent them to Kabul to free his own country. We clearly say that the US is the greatest enemy of Islam. Those who indulge in such acts by placing the mujaheddin under the US command are in fact (tTfe) hirelings".
                                                 12
 NEWS ITEMS:    Four  officers  and . 12
 militiamen with some light and heavy arms were captured by the Samangan mujaheddin -4 February.
      The   mujaheddin captured two
 security   posts       and killed eight
 militiamen in their attack on kunduz 28' January.
 - Twenty graduates of the Military and Police Academy of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan received certificates 6 February.
                                                 21
 REPORT:  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Prof.
 Rabbani,   two     prominent mujaheddin
 leaders, have said in an interview that they had nothing to do with the despatch of the mujaheddin group to Saudi Arabia. They are reported 'to have said in a press   conference of leaders
 of world Islamic leaders, "the war has been imposed upon Iraq dnd the decision to send the mujaheddin group .to Saudi Arabia has been taken by those who have no practical and effective part in our jehad". They added, "the AIG Prime Minister and Foreign Minister were also opposed to it". Prof, Sayyaf's representative to the conference said,
1 "the decision was taken by the AIG
232
JANUARY-MARCH* 1991          HfGllflNJtHflD              VOL.4 NO.2
 President Sfebghatullah Mujaddedi and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani', leader of NIFA, who were pro-Americans right from the start".
                                         MARCH
                  3
 REPORT:   Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,
 leader of Hezb-e-Islami, told a congregation of Friday prayers in Nasrat Maina, Peshawar, 1 March, "Islamic nations must , solve their problems themselves and the US has no right to take a mandatory role on their behalf". He said that he did nibt consider the outcome of . the Gulf war •a victory for the Americans and wished that their downfall began from here. He added that the hatred created among the Muslim ummah towards the US as a result of the present Gulf crisis, will finally cause their downfall and frustrate their sinister designs.
 * Report about the election results in Laghman:   The Election Supervisory
 Delegation arrived in Laghman 1 March and started holding polls in all five eletoral districts of the province. Although the mujaheddin were busy carrying out operations in the center of the province and the Kabul regime troops were shelling the area in an ■ effort to disrupt the polls, elections were held peacefully. The results are as follows:
 -  Qarghaie district: Hezb-e-Islami: 6;
    Provincial Center: Hezb-e-Islami: 7;
    Harakat-e-Islami: 3;
    Alinagar district: Hezb-e-Islami: 6j:
    Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami:  3 and
 Ittehad-e-Islami: 1j
 -  Nooristan district': Hezb-e-Islami:
 7;         Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami:
 Ittehad-e-Islami:  1; and Jamiat-e-
 Islami: _1.
 - Alishing district: Hezb-e-Islami: 5,
   Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami: 5;
 TOTAL: Hezb-e-Islami: 31
       Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami: 12 Ittehad-e-Islami: 1 Jamiat-e-Islami: 1.
     The share for the refugees was 4 representatives, election for which was riot held. But, as all the Qarghaie inhabitants. 'v held      Hezb-e-Islami
 member-ship cards, it is understood that the four refugee shares will go to the Hezb.
                                    Shahid
                                DECEMBER
                                            27
 MESSAGE: In a recent message to the
 valorous commanders and the entire Afghan nation about the present political situation, Eng. Hekmatyar has said, ^'Though the foreign ministers of the US and the Soviet Union did not succeed to issue a declaration at the end of their recent talks on the Afghan problem, they have agreed to replace Najib with Zaher Shah. The pro-western elements, vfrho awaited such an opportunity, also have come to an understanding with Najib and have jointly sent a a messenger to the Amir of Hez-be-isla-mi Afghanistan in which they have made the following points:
 - The USSR, the UK and Najib have agreed upon Zaher Shah's return.
 - Zaher Shah will head the provisional government until elections are held and a new government is elected.
 - Zaher Shah and members of his family will no longer take part in the affairs of the elected government. Zaher Shah is ready to accept all
233
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1991         flfCHilMJIHAD                VOL.4 NO.2
    terms put forward by Hezb-e-islami. "Our reply to this was":
 -  ' Najib must quit unconditionally.
    Najib ?ind his ruling party, who have been responsible for the murder of 1.5 million Afghans, if embrace Islam and repent... on their deeds in the past, will benefit from the general amnesty. They will have no role to play either in the provisional government or . the elections. •
    Zaher Shah and other similar elements will not be accepted even for a single day.
 -  The ’ new government that replaces thatXof Najib will have no member of the present Kabul government or the previous governments under Zaher,
    S.hah. Elections will be held within six months and power will be transferred to the elected government .
       Under present sensitive conditions, the following require positive attention:
, i Our operations must be intensified.. We must deploy our forces ftio'fltly
    around Kabul and other important places, and they must be placed on alert.
    Further harmony was needed ibetw.een the various fronts.
 -  We must be completely ready to cope
    with any emergency.
    Those Kabul regime officers who have established contact with the mujaheddin must be made aware of the
    situation. They should, also be encouraged to revolt against the regime and/or defect to the
    mujaheddin. They should also be told that, if they did not join our side prior to the regime's down fall, they may face harshness later.
                           JANUARY
            26
    In his message, sent from the battle front 16 January, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,leader of Hezb-e-Islami, has said, 'M>7e strongly condemn the US and its allies' aggression against Iraq and consider it a savage move against a Muslim nation. The issue at stake is a savage attack on a nation, not clash with a particular regime or its rulers. The Americans have no right to bomb and kill an oppressed and innocent nation just because they had conflicts with
 the regime in Iraq".
             *
    Hekmatyar has added, "The Muslim ummah should not keep silent against these savage atrocities. They should take measures to prevent the bloodshed of the Muslims by the Americans, otherwise the arrogant US leaders will behave similarly against another Muslim nation in the future."
                          FEBRUARY
             23
 NEWS ITEMS: Major operations were
 carried out on the’ Bagram Airport and related security posts 4 February, in which 16 military personnel and 17 pieces of arms were captured by the mujaheddin and one communist was executed.          1
 - The mujaheddin of Sar-e-Pul captured a main militia post- near the Sar-e-Pul bazar 31 January. A number of militiamen, belonging to Rasheed Dustom group, were killed in the operation and 11 of them were taken prisoner.
 - The mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime security posts in Baghlan 6 February killing eight troops and wounding another 11.
234
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991          IMMJINIII)                   VOL.4 NO.2
 Subh-e-Pairuzee
                   \
                          DECEMBER
             25
 MEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin recaptured
 the Kama district near Jalalabad 17 December. Eight high ranking officers and 19 troops and militiamen were killed in the operation and another 22 were wounded.
 - Nine soldiers were captured by the Kunduz mujaheddin 19.December and many others were killed. .
 - In their joint operation in Herat, the mujaheddin liberated eight villages and captured 18 posts from the Kabul regime forces.
             27
 EDITORIAL: "Twelfth anniversary of
 Invasion and Oqcupation by The Criminal Russia". Discussing the history and the factors leading to the Russian intervention and the continuation of the rule of its lackeys in Afghanistan, the editorial says, "We can say with utmost certainty that the sacrifices made by the heroic. Afghan nation wii^l: not remain without result. As the blood of the martyrs of the Afghan . jehad eventually forced the invincible Russian monsters out of the country, so will we manage to break other deceitful plots of world infidelity. Our holy war will, finally,, emerge victorious despite all tricks played by its enemies".
 REPORT: In a meeting of the / senior
 members of the Islamic unity, the AIG Premier Prof. Sayyaf said, "We haVe often said that profane governments are not the supporters of the Afghan jehad:
 they are only the true friends of their own inauspicious and sinister aims. The enemies of Islam the world over are doing all they can to prevent the Afghan mujaheddin to take over power in Afghanistan- and establish Islamic government".
 * "Drugs are detrimental to the Society" was the title of discussion in a commanders' meeting in which Prof. Rabbani said, "To fight against drugs in the Islamic culture is a duty that must be carried out decisively and consistently".
                               FEBRUARY
              15
 REPORT: AIG President Prof. Sebghatul-
 lah Mujaddedi has despatched a group of some 300 mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia February 8 to defend holy places there. The measure has • been taken by Prof. Mujaddedi and some other mujaheddin leaders personally. The case was not debated in the recent AIG cabinet sessions. It ought to be mentioned that following the occupation of Kuwait by Iraq, the AIG decided to send a group of 2,Q00 mujaheddin in order to [express sympathy and cordiality to ' Saudi Arabia*, but the plan was not carried out then for administrative reasons,
 - According to reports,at least two of the mujaheddin leaders- Prof. Sayyaf, the AI<3 Premier, and Prof. Rabbani the AIG Minister for Reconstruction- do not agree with the plan under the present situation.
 - In an official announcement. Prof. Sayyaf has expressed his opposition to the thie despatch of the mujaheddin contingent to Saudi Arabia.
 - Kabul University students demonstrated 8 February against communist educational syllabus being applied in
235
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
11111
 the University.
   The AIG High Council of Ministers decided 16 January to send government employees on leave w.e.f, 21 February
 until further notice. The. cabinet decision was taken afte^ a long debate because of AIG financial problems arising from the Gulf crisis which would maks it impossible to finance the battle fronts and the AIG offices^ at the same time. Therefore, apart from those whose presence in the office was inevitable, other employees and wage workers will have to be laid-off until
 further notice. There will also be a 20% reduction in the salaries of those who have to stay.
 COHMENTARY; "Is the AIG really fallen?" Discussing the establishment and credibility of tfte AIG, the editorial
 blames publications regarding the fall of the government. It also criticizes yUese publications for their apparent Islamic and friendly attitudes and, at the same time, their enemy-like tones.
 It says, "the government has been established by a legal authority and, with the help of God, no power in the world will gy^er be able to topple it. The AIG political, cultural and
 military strength is Qp the increase and we are positively sure that it will finally replace the Najib regime".
 NOTICE:  We  should  like to notify our
 readers that, on account".of financial
 and budgetary problems, the Subh-e-Pairuzee journal has stopped publication from 27 December, 1990. This edition of the journal has exclusively been issued to commemorate the second
 anniversary of the shameful defeat of the Red Army and its withdrawal from
 Afghanistan. It will start publication again as soon as the present financial crisis is over.
I Wal-Fajr
                           JANUARY
                                    12
 REPORT: An emergency meeting was held
 at the Presidential offices 6 January to bring about improvements vis-a-vis the future of Afghanistan. The meeting was attended by mujaheddin leaders, and their deputies, ulama and commanders. Mawlawi Zakeri, leader of Itteha-d-e-Ulama in a statement said, "The Pakistan government is always creating discord among mujaheddin leaders and commanders and does not permit supplies and arms to be distributed through the . mujaheddin leaders and is giving them directly to the commanders. It does not recognize the AIG which was established with Pakistan's consent and gave Ahmad Shah Masood, a Tadjek Panjsheri,. thousands of truckloads of supplies and millions of rupees".
     Sayyed Nurullah Emad, another speaker, said: "At this critical moment
 it is not advisable to_^speak about nationality or linguistic issues. I did not expect to hear such things from Maiwlawi Zakeri in this or in any other meeting. The supplies that were given to Commander Ahmad Shah Masood actually belonged to seven northern provinces. If these supplies were given to any of the commanders adjoining the Pakistan borders instead, nobody would have made any mention of it at all. The criticism by Mawlawi Zakeri of the commanders or the government of Pakistan all pointed to what he called Tadjek Masood. As a Muslim I appeal to you all to refrain from such remarks in the name, of Islam and in the name of the blood stained people of Afghanistan".
     Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad said, "Since the AIG has not given shares to other Muslim, this government in the opinion oof many people is considered a government in the monopoly of a few."
                                            236 .
    JANUARY-MARCH 1991
237
       CHRONOLOGY OF AFGHAN
              EVENTS
        JANUARY-MARCH 1991
                       JANUARY
                             t
* Leaders of seven Afghan mujaheddin organizations will meet the President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan, Prime Minister Mian Nawaz Sharif and the Chief of Army Staff.of Pakistan General Mirza Aslam Baig in Islamabad in the first -week of January, 1991. ,• •
V -
  consensus among the Afghans for reaching a political settlement. He said our policy rests on two pillars: political settlement in Afghanistan and support for the mujaheddin until the Afghans have won independence and a sovereign status. (MLM)
  * PPI has reported that the mujaheddin rocketed the Presidential Palace and Soviet Embassy in Kabul 27 December.
  .(MLM)
      It has also been learnt that, before their meeting with the President and Prime Minister of Pakistan, the leaders of seven Afghan organizations will have a meeting among themselves in. Peshawar. The meeting will also be attended by Pakistani politicians who support the Afghan jehad. (JG)
 *  Addressing a public meeting in Peshawar, 31 December, the Secretary General of , Jamiat-ul-Ulema-e-Islam, Mawlana Fazlurrehman said the US is not interested in Islam, rather it is interfering in Afghanistan for the sake of its own interests. (JG)
                   2
 *  Speaking at the joint session of the Parliament 1 January, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan Sahibzada Yaqoob Khan said Pakistan was consistent in Its commitment to a poltical settlement of the Afghanistan issue and it has taken initiatives itself and supported international efforts for seeking a
 *  PPI reported that the mujaheddin
 pounded outposts of Abbazak, Lpgar, with heavy artillery as a result of which   three posts    fell      to the
 mujaheddin 31 December (PT)
 *. In an interview with MIDIA in Islamabad, 1 January, the AIG Interior Minister Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales said, "The mujaheddin will never sit together with the national traitors and foreign puppets and neither will they make a joint commission with the detested Kabul regime"i (PT)
 *  AAP reported that the Afghan
 mujaheddin on the eve of the 11th anniversary of Soviet aggression conducted guerrilla operations in Parwan, Baghlan, Laghman, Samangan, Kuduz and Kandahar provinces.             ' \   ;
      In the operations over 100 Kabul troops were killed or injured. (PT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin and refugees staged demonstrations in Peshawar 27
238
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 December on the eve of 11th anniversary of Soviet aggression to express their indigination against' Russia. (PT)
 * Talking to the Jang on wireless from
 inside Afghanistan, leader of Hezb-e-
 Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar
 said that attacks launched against
 Kabul regime under his command late
 last year were not simply aimed at
 putting pressure but to realize the
 desired objectives. He said the
 operation was delayed because of
 consultations with other parties. (JG)
              \ • •
 *  A number of mujaheddin were killed in an avalanche when 300 of them were making their way to Badakhshan. A report says that only 50. mujaheddin returned to Chatral at the end of their mission. Seven of the returnees, who were seriously injured, later died in hospital. (BBCPS)
                                                   3
 *  As many as 36 travellers of a bus bound for the Helmand province in; Afghanistan were frozen to death in- a. harsh cold winter, early January, MIDIA reported yesterday. The report added that a total of eight children werfe frozen to death recently in the Surkhab and Suranan tentage camps of the Afghan refugees in Baluchistan, Pakistan. (MLM)
 *    According to ■ latest reports, provided to the Pakistani Government by the reliable sources, the Najib administration is currently busy in the formation of a Tribal militia force. Apparently the Tribal militia force will be deployed on Afghanisan borders mainly to check further arrival of Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The sources have said that young men from various tribes are being recruited in
 the Tribal Militia Force with the main
       ... . . ....... --- •
 intention that tribal clashes on the Pakistan-Afghan        borders       will
 VOL.4 NO.2
 generate tribal hostility among various, tribes living in Pakistan and Afghanistan and thus pave the way for mainly political gains in the refugee circles. (JG)
 *  Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime, has rejected.Zaher Shah's plan for a government of neutral elements. He said these elements had no power in Afghanistan and will not be capable of maintaining law * and order in the country.' He added, effective power was in the hands of the present regime and those of the opposition and only these two can ensure peace in areas under their control. (BBCPS)
                 4
 *  The mujaheddin captured nine security posts of Kabul regime iii Logar and adjoining areas and killed 23 Kabul troops 31 December, reports ANA. Besides, the mujaheddin also captured an ammunition dump, 23 kl*ashinkovs and five wireless sets from the Kabul troops. (PT)
                                                                                                    ' I
   Clashes have been reported from the outskirts of Kabul between the Hezb and Jamiat-e-lslami Afghanistan. A Hezb-e-Islami commander Khadem. Mohammad was killed in the clashes. (PT)
 *  In his inaugural address at the talks between the foreign ministers of Pakistan, Iran and Turkey, Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif said in Islamabad 3 .January, "We must continue to cooperate to find a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan which is acceptable to the people of that country so that its independent, sovereign Islamic and non-aligned character , is fully restored". (MLM)
 *  Two Kabul regime bombers dropped four bombs in Ghulam Khan, North Wazi-ristan 2 January. However it did not entail any losses. (JG)
239
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 *  A German newspaper, published in
 Frankfurt, in an article writes that Afghanistan has been divided into three relatively balanced powers:         Five
 million of them are living in urban areas under the control of the Najib regime; another five million live in areas under the control of the local commanders; the remaining five million live in areas under the control of the local commanders; the remaining' five million are ruled by the mujaheddin leaders in Pakistan and Iran. For the peaceful solution of the Afghan issue, a consensus would be necessary among these three parties. (VOG)
 * Pakistan has expressed concern about Najib’s stopover in Mashad. During a meeting between the foreign ministers of Iran and Pakistan, the Iranian Minister has assured that Iran’s stand on Afghanistan has not changed. (BBCFS)
 * Abdul Rahman Pazhwak, former Afghan permanent representative to the UN, has said in an interview that the report submitted to the UN on human rights in Afghanistan by its representative,
 I
 Armacora, cannot be accepted as a true statement of the human rights situation in Afghanistan. Armacora has either met with official authorities in Kabul Who would, naturally, conceal the facts or the general public who woul.d fear telling the truth. Furthermore, a reporter in Kabul must submit his report to the Kabul regime authorities for censorship before he in permitted to publish it. (VOAPS)
                    5
 . * Addressing a press/ conference 3 January at Karachi Press Club, a leader of Hez.b-e-Islami Afghanistan, Haji Ali Jan said both the super powers are creating obstacles ip the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan for their ulterior motives. "Inspite of supplying several million dollars aid
 every month the Russians have failed to prove Najib’s position and now they have agreed with the US plan to reinstate Zaher Shah”, he added. (NTN)
 *  A conference was convened in Islamabad under the aegis of Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba in connection with the martyrdom of Arif Ahmad at Khost Front while fighting Kabul troops. Speaking on the occasion, the speakers paid rich tributes to Arif Ahmad and said the legend of rendering sacrifices and martyrdoms of the Islami-Jamiat-e-Talaba continues in Afghanistan. (NWT).
 * In an interview with ANA, mujaheddin commander Abdul Hamid who fights in Logar has said, due to mujaheddin’s
 :fierce attacks in the province, the Kabul regime forces have been forced to adopt defensive positions. (NWT)
 *  The mujaheddin in their attack around Chel Zeenah, Kandahar, have killed 21 troops and destroyed a tank and an oil reservoir. (VOAPS)
 *  The. Herat mujaheddin in their attacks on Kabul army Division 17 and the No. 4 armored division of 18 •December killed or wounded 40 troops and destroyed an armored tank. (RIIA)
                  6
 * Two Russian planes entered Afghan ' airspace and dropped bombs over the mujaheddin positions in Dashdan, Surkhgunbad, Qaraighzal villages of Dawlatabad in Balkh 1 January. A large number of civilians were -killed or wounded and a number of residential houses destroyed in these operations. The news of attacks was i conveyed to the MIDIA by a mujaheddin commander Enzir Gul. (NTN)
 *  In a statement from inside Afghanistan, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami
240
JANUARY-MARCH* 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said the current mujaheddih attacks have frustrated Najib, his lackeys and parties which are afraid of mujaheddin's takeover in Afghanistan, reports ANA.The statement says, the present cohesive and organized attacks will be continued till the fall of Najib and, therefore, no question of talks arises with him. (MLM)
 *  A team of supervisory council for elections comprising . 173 people has left for south west provinces of Afghanistan to supervise the on-going elections process in the region, a source of Election Commission of the AIG said. MIDIA reports that election has already started in some districts and cities controlled by the mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin carried out separate attacks on Kabul troops' positions at various sites of Kandahar 27 and 28 December. In the attacks, an oil depot of the Kabul regime was set ablaze while heavy losses were also caused to their arms and ammunition. (PT)
 * Five Kabul troops have defected to
 Pakistan and surrendered to the Pakistani - authorities in Chaman 5 January. (JG)      . ,
 Amin Weqad, Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzen and Noorullah Emad.
      The Afghan religious scholars said the Afghan issue was at a very critical stage. They were of the view that some forces were now hatching conspiracies not to allow the Afghan people to decide the future of their,* country under ‘ Islamic principles. They said some forces are trying' to impose their own decision on the Afghan people. (NWT)     ,
 * During operations on the Kabul regime positions in Logar two January, the mujaheddin captured two security posts. Ten troops Were also killed. (VOADS)
 * Ali Akbar Velayati, the Iranian Foreign Minister, met Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in Peshawar 3 January. Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad were also present during the meeting. The Iranian Foreign Minister expressed Iranian support for the Muslim people of Afghanistan in their struggles for the attainment of their legitimate rights. (VOADS)
                7
* Six Afghan mujaheddin organizations have adopted an agreement to accept the decision of the religious scholars about future of Afghanistan. In this connection a gathering of the Afghan religious scholars was held in the office of the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in Peshawar 5 January. The meeting was also attended by the AIG Defense Minister, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Interior Minister Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Amir of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and three other mujaheddin leaders, Qazi
 *  Addressing a press conference 6 January in Hyderabad a leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Haji Ali Jan said the Soviet Union should immediately abandon its support to Najib government in Afghanistan if it wanted to avoid further disintegration of its own country. He said power blocs are creating hindrances in the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  Five persons were killed and six others wounded when a bomb went-off in Kandahar city 5 January, reported Radio Kabul. (JG)
241
 JANUARV-MARCH. 1991
 * Sahibzada Yaqoob Khan, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, in his first statement after the takeover by Nawaz Sharif as the Prime Minister of Pakistan, has said the resignation of Najib was essential for the solution of the Afghan problem. He added that his country will continue its .support of the mujaheddin until Najib was overthrown. (BBCFS)
                    8
 *  In a news report The Nation asserted that UNHCR is being persuaded by "a set of its weighty officials" to fix a date, preferably first quarter of the next year, after which more than three million Afghan nationals staying in Pakistan would be stripped of the "refugee status". (NTN)
 *  Addressing a public meeting in Faisalabad 7 January, a PPP leader Fakhar Zaman accused the IJI government of being indifferent to the Kashmir and Afghanistan issues. (NTN) *
 *  Leaders of Peshawar based seven Afghan resistance organizations have returned to Peshawar from Islamabad after meetings and consultations with the Pakistani officials. Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has gone back to the Logar war front. In its cabinet meeting, the AIG will chalk out a coordinated program to further intensify the war against, the Kabul regime inside Afghanistan. According to reports reaching Pakistan, the Kabul regime is planning to open a new war front in Jalalabad so as to diminish mujaheddin pressure on Kabul. The Kabul government is reported to have shifted several missile launching pads from Kabul to Jalalabad. This will enable the Kabul troops to shell mujaheddin positions in Jalalabad outskirts as well as the mujaheddin positions sieging Kabul city. (JG)
 vol.4 no.2
 *  "We saw snow-fall in Kabul but. did not witness rockets lightening Kabul, city". This was stated by a member of the ANP Central Committee, Zahid Khan,after his return to Rawalpindi from a four day visit to Kabul. (NWT j
 *  It has been learnt that leaders • of
 the AIG called on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 7 January. In the meeting they are reported to have expressed the view the^t had the late General Ziaul Haq's policies been continued, the Afghan jehad would have achieved its logical aim. But, due to change in Afghan policy after the death of Ziaul Haq,    the Afghan jehad has  met
 a serious set   back.. They urged for the
 revival of President Zia's policy on the Afghan issue to redress the grievances of the" mujaheddin and refugees. (NWT)
 *  The mujaheddin attacked 4 January
 the positions    of Kabul    troops in
 Balamala and Karghai in Paghman. Two militia officers and 20 soldiers were killed. The mujaheddin also destroyed an ammunition    depot of     the    Kabul
 regime. (NWT)
 *  It has been reported that two
 officers 'and   seven    soldiers of  the
 Kabul regime    have     defected to  the
 mujaheddin in    Kandahar.   They    have
 brought with them a wireless set, three klashlfikovs, a heavy machine gun, two pistols and large ’ quantity of ammunition. (NWT)
                   9
 * In a surprise attack on Kabul troops positioris, the .mujaheddin have captured a strategic valley in Murghab, Badghis. In the operation they killed 15 Kabul troops and wounded four others. The report adds that the remaining. Kabul troops fled. A huge quantity of arms and ammunition was also captured bjf the mujaheddin. (PT)
242
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
mu
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 *   Differences'* between the Khalq and Parcham factions of the ruling party in Kabul have been further intensified which will shake down the foundations of the present government in Kabul. The differences intensified when the brother of formei: President Karmal, now a a Deputy Prime Minister, Mehmud Baryaley, asked Najibullah to allocate Prime Minister's office and the Ministries of Finance, Industries and Commerce to the Khalq faction of the party. President Najib has so far not heeded the demand. The ANA reports that Najib has recently arrested 150 officers of Khalq faction while another 35 Air Force officers have also been taken into custody on the charges of having contacts with the mujaheddin. (JG)
 *  The US Ambassador for the Afghan
 Mujaheddin Peter Tomsen and the US Ambassador to Pakistan Robert Oakley met the AIG President Sebghatullab Mujaddedi and some other Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Peshawar. It has been reliably learnt that during the meeting, the American envoys briefed themselves about recent ■ talks of the Afghan mujaheddin leaders with the Pakistani officials. It has also been reported that a joint committee has been set up to distribute and supervize foreign aid to the mujaheddin. The committee will be headed by Sebghatul-lah Mujaddedi and the US Ambassador to Pakistan or vhis representative will be a member of the committee. It may be recalled that foreign aid for refugee^ and mujaheddin is currently being distributed by the Pakistan government. (JG)             ..
  *; The Kallar Sayyadan poi4 -
     ' ■        .    .              ~j.ce   in
  Rawalpindi district
           . .            .ias   arrested  two
  Afghan cih- -     .     , .
           ,-o.iisens in Kahuta area who were
  fo1-*  t       t
  -mPV in selling items of daily use. (NWT) *
10
  * Three boys and a girl were killed
 when a toy bomb which they found on the bank of Lalpura river in Nangarhar went off. The mujaheddin said that the bomb was one of the thousands of similar devices which were spread throughout the province by the Kabul regime recently. (PT)
 * Sheikh-ul-Hadith Mawlana Hassan Jan, MNA has paid glowing tributes to the people and government of Saudi Arabia for providing liberal assistance to the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. He was addressing a graduation ceremony of the students of Saudi Red Crescent Society for Afghan refugees in Peshawar. (PT)
 * Naeem Pervez, advocate of Peshawar, has launched a Legal Aid Committee in Peshawar to- provide free legal advice to the Afghan refugees. (PT)
 *  The   AIG       President Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi met the American and Saudi Ambassadors in Islamabad 9 January find discussed regional as well as international issues including the Afghanistan problem. (JG)
 * There is a possi*- ’           . ...
                                                                                     ^xiity of holding
 direct   talks       between the  Soviet
 Ambassad^ to Pakistan Victor     Yakunin
 ana pr«3,minen^. Afghan mujaheddin leaders j-n the   near       ‘future. When Soviet
 Embassy personnel were asked about a meeting between the Pakistan Army Chief of Staff General Mirza Aslam Baig and thg Soviet Ambassador in Islamabad, they said the. meeting was part of an effort £0r seeking a political solution fSj the Afghan issue. (JG)
 * Australia has announced to provide wheat worth $400,000 for Pakistan-based Afghan refugees under World Food Program. The AIG sources in Islamabad have quoted the Australian High Commissioner as saying that his country will continue aid to Afghan refugees. (NWT)
 *  The US envoy for the Afghan
243
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991       ■  MIMIUIJ1H11I1               VOL.4 NO.2
 refugees Peter Tomsen has said the Afghan mujaheddin have supported the freedom of Kuwait and they have expressed desire to send a squad to join the forces of the United States and other 27 countries for the liberation of that country. Talking to VO A correspondents he threw light on various aspects of. the Afghan issue and said the US and Soviet Union have agreed on creating an independent Afghanistan and on the right of self-determination of the Afghan people.
 (NWT)
 * A general and 22 troops of the Kabul regime were killed and more than 50 wounded when, the Afghan mujaheddin raided a supply convoy of the Kabul regime near Jabal-us-Seraj recently. (NWT)
                   11
 * In a rocket attack from Kandahar cantonment by the Kabul regime forces, 40 people were killed and many wounded. With the explosion of rockets, havoc was spread in the populated areas of Herat Bazar, Arg Bazar and Jada-e-Kan-dahar. Dozens of houses- were also razed to ground. (PT)
  * Sayyed Nader Ali Mehdawi, spokesman of the Coalition Council of Afghan Shias, in an interview with AAP in Peshawar has said the Afghan mujaheddin are ready to talk to Soviet Union as they consider Moscow an important factor in Afghan crisis. He outrightly rejected .* holding of talks with Najibullah and described him as a Soviet stooge. (PT)
  * The Peshawar-based Afghan refugees and mujaheddin groups in a public meeting near Peshawar 10 January demanded early withdrawal of non-Muslim troops from Saudi Arabia and stoppage of interference in the Afghan affairs. The speakers on the occasion expressed concern over the deployment of
 non-Muslim troops in the Gulf and condemned Iraqi aggression of Kuwait.
 (NTN)
 *. The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi says that he has been given threats to quit the office of the AIG President otherwise he will be assassinated. Addressing a gathering of the Afghan religious scholars on the occassion of death anniversary of one of his relatives in Peshawar, he said he was bestowed with this trust by more than five hundred religious scholars and prominent mujaheddin commanders and "I will continue to discharge my obligations until an alternative arrangement is made". (NWT)
                 12
 * Sayyed Nurullah Emad, Secretary of the AIG Election Commission, told the BBC in an interview that the trip of supervisory delegations to, remote and cold regions of Afghanistan has boon postponed because of a severe winter and the closure of transport routes.. Other delegations for supervizing elections have, however, reached their destinations. (BBCPS)
                 13
 *  Najibullah the Kabul regime leader has bestowed the golden star medal and the title of "Hero" upon General Jalal Razmendah who was killed by the mujaheddin earlier. General Shamsuddin and two other officers- Gul Mohammad and Sayyed Qaher- also ■ killed during clashes with mujaheddin, were awarded the title of "Heroes". (RA)
 *  A leader of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) has said in an interview with the ANA that the issue of sending mujaheddin contingents to £j^udi Arabia to join the multinational forces has sa far not been discussed at the AIG cabinet meeting; (MLM)
244
JANUARY-MARCH.
VOL.4 NO.2
                   14
 *  A Soviet Foreign office spokesman, while commenting on Pakistani Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqoob Khan's statement, at a press briefing in Moscow, said that expression of good intention on the Afghan issue could be regarded positive only if it is followed by positive steps. Yaqoob Khan had recently spoken of the intention of Pakistan to hold consultations with the Soviet Union on Afghan settlement, says a press release of the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad. (PT)
 * In view of the growing tension
 in the Gulf, a number of offices established for the Afghan refugees under USAID program have been closed in Peshawar. It is learnt that majority of, the Americans in- Peshawar did not want to go back  to  their country.      They were
 of the view to remain off the scene for
 about a fortnight even after the deadline of 15 January and, if they found situation dangerous, then they would leave for the United States. However the US officers in Peshawar have sent them forcibly to the US. (JG)
 * The Rawalpindi police has arrested
 an Afghan citizen on the charges of kidnapping  a     two year old       boy from
 satellite town 13 January. The accused is reported to be an accomplice of a group which        is involved        in  the
 kidnapping of children. (NWT) *
 aids, have reduced armed clashes inside Afghanistan to some extent. The report adds that the Kabul regime has, however, not succeeded to attract opposition political groups or the armed mujaheddin faithful to these groups, particularly those in Pakistan.
 (BBCFS) .
                   15
 *  In an official declaration issued in Peshawar 13 January, the AIG Prime Minister Prof. Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf took strong notice of the deteriorating situation in the Gulf and warned the United States, its allies f and Iraq against the flames of war in the Arab peninsula and called upon the Muslims to be ready for a long battle against the forces of tyranny, reports ANA.
 (MLM)
 *  The AIG's election program has failed and the 138 delegations sent .to various places in 20 provinces of Afghanistan last month did not even reach their constituencies. As a matter of fact, most of the members of these teams had remained in Peshawar throughout this time. It is said that they would themsleves nominate a number of people from each constituency at their own discretion. The delegations were said to have been given necessary funds for expenditure as well as other items for their use inside Afghanistan. (JG)
 * On the occasion of the fourth anniversary of Najib national reconciliation policy, the Kabul regime has published lists of.‘those mujaheddin who have allegedly surrendered to the Kabul regime or are currently considering the offer to surrender. Official sources believe that the Kabul regime agreements .concluded with local commanders, mostly through financial
  * Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has demanded the immediate withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait and
  multi-national forces from the Persian Gulf region. He added that enemies of
  Islam are widening differences 'among the Muslims and like to see Muslims
  fight each other and die in their own feuds. (nwtT
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
                  16
 * About 300 Afghan teachers staged protest demonstration .15 January in front of the office of the AIG President in Peshawar to press for the payment of their salaries. The demonstrators raised slogans against the AIG for its failure to pay salaries to the teaching staff for the past three months and pelted stones on the main gate of the President's office. (MLM)
 * The deputy Chief of Jamiat-ul-Dawat-Elal-Quran-Wa-Sunnah, Mawlana Ghulam-ullah Khan has demanded a Quranic solution to the Afghan issue. In a press release in Peshawar, he lauded the efforts of Pakistan Prime Minister and recalled the role of his Muslim League party against the imperialist forces before independence. He also warned that the US and the Soviet Union would further exploit the situation in Afghanistan which would mean that both Afghanistan and Pakistan might face dire consequences at the hands of super powers. (MLM)
 *  In their operation on the Rishkhor Garrison, near Kabul,^ the mujaheddin have destroyed an.arms and ammunitions dump. In their, attack on Baghlan, the mujaheddin have killed 10 troops and injured another 15. One hundred and twenty troops were also taken prisoner. (RP)
                  17
 *  According to a Soviet Embassy press release in . Islamabad 16 January, the head of the Information Department of the Soviet Foreign Ministry, Vitaly Churkin, focussed on the fourth anniversary of the national reconciliation of the Najib regime. Churkin said that 3,800 natipnal reconciliation commissions and about 50 local bodies have been established in Afghanistan
 during this period. He claimed that as many as 120,000 opposition group members and two thirds of the field commanders have so far abandoned armed activities. (MLM)    *
 * ' The AAP sources said that Afghan resistance leaders had directed the. mujaheddin to continue their normal operations but major campaigns should be deferred due to the situation in the Gulf. (PT)
 * The mujaheddin attacked a Kabul regime military convoy between Parwan and Kabul destroying 30 trucks. They destroyed a tank in Bagram killing eight troops. Another seven troops were killed in Baraki Barak, Logar province. (RPDS)
                18
 * While inspecting the 54th midshipmen
 commissioning parade of the PNA in Karachi 17 January, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif., said that turmoil in Afghanistan will not be over unless a broad-based government is established there.    also said that
 every possible effort would be made to ensure a just and peaceful solution of Afghanistan issue. (NWT)
                19
 *  Addressing Dyadyal pressmen in Chakwal 18 January, a leader of Afghan mujaheddin Ayatullah Asef Mohseni has called for adopting a joint strategy to create orte platform for all parties to brighten the chances of a settlement of the Afghanistan .issue. He said the Soviet Union was still backing the Kabul regime despite its own internal economic problems. (JG)
                20
 *  Rpcket fire on Kabul 20 killed 11 persons. (RA)
January
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 21 January the ANP chief Amjal Khattak has said that all the Afghan people and depressed people affiliated with both the parties of Afghanistan war wanted to get rid of the fighting and wished reconciliation. Therefore, he emphasized, the government should find out a way for reconciliation in Afghanistan. He said that neither the Soviet Union nor the US could solve the issue by force, (PT)
 * Sudan has recognized the AIG. (NWT)
 *  A demonstration was held for the first time in Kabul against the Gulf war and in support of President S.addam Hussain of Iraq. Afghan, Pal'esteniari and Iraqi students took part in the demonstration. The Kabul, regime has said they have nothing to do with the demonstration. (NWT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin and the ulema
 have expressed indignation over the US-allied forces blatant aggression against Iraq and have demanded immediate halt of the air raids on innocent Iraqis. They said that the jews had     conspired to crush the
 military power of Muslims and had thus madly attacked Iraq after disuniting the Muslims. (MLM)
                                               23
 *  In an interview with ANA in Peshawar 21 ■ January, a leader of Afghan mujaheddin Mohammad Amin Waqad has expressed deep sense of shock and indignation over the merciless bombings of US and allied forces on civil population in Iraq. He said that in the current war the military might of the Muslim countries is being destroyed. Hei called for the withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait. (MLM)
 * Hedayatullah Amin Arsala, the AIG Minister for Finance, has said in an interview, since Kuwait, a main donor, to the AIG and other donors like Saudi Arabia and the US are engaged in the Gulf War, the AIG funds are running out and this is why thousands of civil servants have been laid off. (BBCPS)
                24
 * Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the mujaheddin, has stated that rumors regarding a cut or decrease in US aid to the mujaheddin are baseless. He added : that the matter did not hang on the Gulf War whatsoever and the US will continue its assistance to the mujaheddin as in the past. (VOAPS)
 * Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, has said in interview with the BBC, "The AIG has not dismissed its employees but has given them temporary leave. They will receive all their dues as soon as funds are available". (BBC)
                25
 * Under an agreement signqd between Pakistan and the chief of mission of UNHCR 24 January in Islamabad, Rs. 432 million will be made available during 1991 for the Afghan refugees. In addition an amount of Rs. 23^966,500 is to be spent by UNHCR for procurement of medicine, vehicles, shelter and other relief'material. (PT)
 * The Nation writes in a news analysis 251 January that, after first signal of having increased its grip over Soviet foreign policy, Moscow has reassured President Najibullah of Kabul regime of continued military and economic aid through 1991 and the chances of a Soviet-US -peace settlement have now been seriously jeopardized. (NTN)
 * The VO A has interviewed a number of the mujaheddin leaders in connection
247
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      HIUllHIl JttlHl)                VOL.4 NO-2
 with the Gulf situation with the. following results:
 - Prof. Mujaddedi, AIG President:   "If
 the presence of the coalition forces in the Gulf is to liberate Kuwait from Iraqi occupation we will consider it as a benevolent move. But we will oppose it if it is meant for Strengthening their influence in the region".
 - Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf,the AIG Prime
 Minister: "Saddam Hussein has deviated
 from the path of Islam and is now considered an enemy of Islam. Iraq's atrocities in Kuwait calls for its support by the entire Muslim world. The defense of. the Holy sites of Islam in Makkah and Medinah is the duty of all Muslims but because of the US deployment of troops in the area only innocent Muslims will be killed.
     Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami■ condemned the allied forces for their military operations on Iraq, and the Soviet Union for its silence. He added, "On the one hand, the USSR is supplying Najib with arms and,on the other, it keeps silent while the coalition forces are attacking Iraq"'
  - Shaikh Mohammad Asef Muhseni: "Since
  I have lived a few years in Iraq, I am well aware of the anti-Islamic sentiments of the Baath Party; Nonetheless, I support Saddam's valorous and daring stand against the US". (VOADS)
                   26
  * Ii\ view of war in the Gulf, the Afghan mujaheddin have suspended their extensive military activities. AAP sources say that the Kabul regime had also appealed to the mujaheddin not to attack its airports and in response assured not to bomb the Afghan.targets. Rejecting the appeal the Afghan mujaheddin have, however, decided to
 follow their own policy in this inspect. C NWT)
                27
 * According to a press release of NIFA issued in Peshawar 26 January,the Front has reiterated its pledge, to continue the struggle against the Kabul regime and support the AIG. The press release also said that the Front will not participate in any settlement short of the full control of military and para-military establishments of Kabul regime. (PT)
 * Nine rockets hit Kabul 27 January killing seven persons and wounding another eight. The rockets have been fired from the north and mostly hit the fourth, 10th and 11th districts of the city. (RA)
 * A BBC report from Kabul said that heavy snow fall and the economic blockade of Kabul have caused severe shortage of food supplies particularly bread and meat. Meanwhile, the Indian government has decided on a weekly airlift to Kabul of 15 tons of meat.
 (BBCPS)
 * Benazir Bhutto, the former Pakistan Prime Minister, has said in an interview that the UN Secretary General should be invited to negotiate with the Kabul regime, Pakistan, Iran, the AIG and the mujaheddin commanders to pave the way for fair elections in Afghanistan. (VOADS)
 * The Pakistani Charge d' Affaires in Kabul• was summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 27 January and was handed a strong protest note alleging that Abdul Saboor, Second Secretary of the Afghan Consulate in .Quetta, was threatened by armed men 23 January in his house. (RA) .
                 28
 *  Talking to a delegation of Pakitani ulama in Asadabad, Kunar, the Afghan mujaheddin leader Jamilur Rahman hjas
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO."2
 said that unity was the urgent need of the hour for the success of Afghan jehad. He said that the reconstruction of mosques and government buildings destroyed during Soviet occupation was in full swing in Afghanistan. (NWT)
                  29
 * It is reported that General Mohammad Hashem, a senior KHAD official, was executed 9 January at the completion of his court hearing. The general and his body guards were arrested by the mujaheddin at Mohammad Aga 4 January. The mujaheddin sources stated that the Kabul regime blames General Azim Zurmati', the commander of the Logar forces, and have labelled him as a collaborator of General Shahnawaz Tani, the former Kabul regime Defense Minister. (VOAPS)
 *   The Logar mujaheddin attacked security posts 23 January killing '19 troops and five officers and destroying one tank. Two mujaheddin were also killed during these attacks. In another clash between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces at Dewalak 10 Officers and troops were killed. (VOAPS)
 * MIDIA has denied reports that the AIG has closed down all its offices and the employees working there are dismissed. Nevertheless, since the mujaheddin could not finance the expenditures of the battle fields as well as the AIG offices to a satisfactory level, it was decided by the AIG cabinet to reduce the number of employees to the minimum level possible. Employees who are laid off are not fired? rather they are put in a waiting list. Whenever the situation improves they will be invited to resume their work. (PT)
 *  Figures released in Washington say that US government funding for the
  Afghanistan cross-border humanitarian assistance program in 1991 will be nearly as high as that of the previous year and the total amount allocated is $60 million. (PT)
  *  The Afghan 'Charge d* Affaires in Islamabad,Qudratullah Ahmedi discussed international Situation particularly; the Gulf war and the Afghan issue with ANP leader Khan Abdul Wali Khan in Rawalpindi 28 January. (NWT)
  *  The Afghan resistance sources say that., as part of program to shift the AIG offices to Afghanisatan, the Interior Ministry has been shifted to a liberated area of Nangarhar province, and the Home Minister Mawlawi Younus Khales will now be working in his new headquarters. A liaison office of the Ministry will, however, exist in Peshawar. The sources added, the headquarter of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) is also being shifted to Afghanistan. (NWT)
                   30
  *  Sabahuddin Kushkaki, who runs the CCAR, in an interview with the VOA in Islamabad seeks the closure of the majority of AIG offices due to political and economic factors. He has stated that the government was ineffective and did not achieve the objectives it' had laid down. x. The present situation in the Gulf as well as in East Europe added to the AIG economic problems, he said. He said an effectlvp way for bringinq about a united approach for the resolution of the Afghan problem wo'uld be
  to establish a task force of independent minded Afghans from all over the country - people known for fairness -to workout an agreement for the interim period among all credible elements of the Afghan society. (VOADS)
  *  The general commander of the
          ■./ v-
249
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991           MRU JIHRII                  V0L.4N0.2
 mujaheddin forces in Laghman has stated in an interview in Peshawar with the BBC that the Supervisory Election delegation had arrived in Laghman but vfaced difficulties regarding elections. . The public were insisting upon freedom of choice, whereas the parties were insisting to elect persons of their own choice. (BBCPS)
 * According to statistics released in Washington by the US government,. a substantial decrease has, not occurred in US humanitarian aid to Afghanistan for 1991. Sixty million dollars have been earmarked for 1991 which is about the same as that for last,-year. (VOAPS)
                    31
    Afghan mujaheddin sources report that a prominent commander of Kabul regime militia Ismatullah Muslim- died in Kabul 30 January. Radio Kabul reported that the commander died due to illness but did not mention the nature of his illness. Ismatullah Muslim fought against Kabul regime troops and the Soviet troops but later joined 'the' side of Kabul regime alongwith his group. He was promoted to the rank .of General by the regime. (MLM)
  * Allama Mohammad Madani, leader of Tahaffuz-e-Harmain Shariffain Movement has said in a statement that the Afghan jehad bad given a great impetus to Muslims in India and the Soviet Union which led to the strengthening of the liberation movements in both the countries. So the imperialists took the vengeanc by hatching a plan for the Muslims to fight against each other.
  (NWT) *
  * The Kabul regime has sent a strong protest note to the Sudanese government on the establishment of political ties with the AIG permitting the mujaheddin to open an embassy in Khartoum, The Kabul regime statement says that the
  Sudanese government has taken the step under strong Saudi pressure and Islamic extremists inside Sudan. Sudan is the fourth nation that have so far recognized the AIG. (VOAPS)  '
  * Tribal elders, ulama and commanders of the Noorzai tribe of Afghanistan have established an 80-membe.r council to eliminate conflicts between the mujaheddin and to partake in the establishment of the future government. The office of the council is presently in Quetta which will eventually be transferred to Afghanistan. (VOADS)
                                   FEBRUARY
                                            1
  * The Par Eastern Economic Review
  magazine, quoting Afghan sources, says
  that Najibullah is tired of his
  repeated demands for aid from the USSR.
  As a result of this, he has lately'
  admitted to the Soviet Ambassador in
                        4
  Kabul that he seeks . a suitable replacement for his regime. (VOADS)
  * Mohammad' Anwar, a commander in the Kabul area and member of the Council of Commanders, has said in an interview, "Despite decisions taken in the Council’s meeting earlier that operations on Kabul be postponed until the end of the year, the mujaheddin have performed a number of operations on^ the Kabul regime positions around the city. In attacks carried out by Hezb-e-Islami all the mujaheddin have taken part." (VOAPS)
                                            2
  * Sayyed Abdul Hamid Sajjadi, member of the Central Council of Hezb-e-Wahdat -e-Islami, has said in an interview in Peshawar that in areas under his party's control, security prevailed and there was ' no conflict between the
250
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 parties. Regarding elections he said, "Representatives of Wahdat Party mast also be included in the delegations of the seven mujaheddin organizations. Otherwise the elections will have no legal bearing",. (VOADS)
 * The AIG Minister for Information Dr. Najibullah Lafray, has said in an interview with The Nation that war in the Gulf had affected the Afghan war along with other countries of the world and every one, including, the Afghan mujaheddin, had to accept its political and5 economic impacts. He said that the Afghan mujaheddin were deadly against the USA and the invasion of allied forces on Iraq. He said "we support the Muslims whether they were Iraqis or Kuwaitis". He said the Soviets were still interfering in the affairs of Afghanistan and providing aid to the illegitimate Kabul regime and unless it was stopped, the war would continue in Afghanistan. (NTN)
         3
  *  The Afghan mujaheddin attacked 27 January the Shindand Airport killing or injuring 12 Kabul troops and severely damaging vital installations. (PT)
  *  In clashes between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Logar 23 January five Officers and 19 government and militiamen- were killed. In another clash at Mohammad Aga, the mujaheddin
 •killed three officers and 12 soldiers of the Kabul regime forces. (SADA-E-WAHDAT)
        4
 * Dr. Najaf Ali Hasibi, President of the Inter-Parliamentary group of the Islamic Republic of Iran, has sent a message to the Kabul regime parliament asking them to support Iran's efforts to stop the war in the Gulf. The Kabul regime parliament, while thanking Iran for the message, has endorsed Iran's! stand on the issue and has promised all possible cooperation. (RA)
   * A Kabul regime spokesman said 2 February that four people have died in and around Kabul and many more are feared dead in isolated regions of Afghanistan as a result of severe cold, Weather and earthquake. At least 18 provinces have been, hit by the quake, he said. (PT)
                    5
 * AAP, reports that the Afghan mujaheddin attacked a military convoy 27 January at Tangi Tashqurghan, Samangan, and killed four Kabul troops. Forty of them joined the mujaheddin alongwith their arms. Earlier, the mujaheddin attacked a mobile Kabul force in Pul-e-Khumri, Baghlan, near Salang Highway. The Kabul troops fled away leaving, behind large quantities of arms and ammunition. The mujaheddin are also reported to have conducted a mortar■ attack 29 January on Bagram Airbase when transport planes carrying military supplies were landing. The mujaheddin forced these planes to go back, (PT)
  *  A huge fire in the transportation
  headquarters of the Kabul regime Defense Ministry in siasang of Kabul city 26 January inflicted heavy material losses to the Kabul regime.. Financial losses to the regime are estimated to reach millions of dollars. A number of officers and soldiers on duty have been detained by the Kabul regime.,(MLM).                     ,
  *   A press release of iAcbar Resource and Information Center (ARIC) says that aid to Afghanistan would continue during the current year and the. commitment to the- Afghan people would be carried out and work on relief and reconstruction projects would be implemented. All of ARIC'S 62^-meiriber agencies in Pakistan are open and operational and had not been closed due
251
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 to the Gulf crisis. (NTN)
 *  Prof. Sebyhatu L Lab M u j a d d e rj 1, the AIG President, has said in an interview that elections would not yield positive results because of the difficulties which the AIG faced in this regard right j from the start. He added the most logical solution for the Afghan problem was to convene a Loya Jirgah in which all Muslim Afghans living under the Kabul regime controlled areas may also be represented. (BBCPS)
 *  Commander Mulla Malang, of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) in Kandahar said in an interview that alliance between the various mujaheddin groups in Kandahar, Zabul, Helmand and Uruzgan was working satisfactorily. (VOADS)
 *  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, the mujaheddin commander in Paktia, has said, despite the fact that Saddam Hussain and his party side with the Russians and their puppet regime in Kabul during the Afghan war, the Afghan mujaheddin condemn the coalition bombardment of Iraq. "Though they do not support the presence of non-Muslim forces in the Gulf, they demand the immediate withdrawal of Iraqi troops from Iraq", he said. (VOADS)
                    6
 *  An unsuccessful attempt on the life of Wali Khan, a famous Ahmadzai commander related to the NIFA, was made in Peshawar 2 January. He was recently engaged in establishing . tribal councils. (VOAPS)
 *  The Kabul regime forces launched an offensive on the mujaheddin positions at Khwaja Qala, ...near Herat city,, in their counter attack, the mujaheddin destroyed three tanks and captured a commander of the attacking force. (VOIRA) *
 * Rockets, fired by the mujaheddin on
VOL.4 NO.2
 Kabul 5 February, injured 11 persons. The rockets which were fired from the east hit the 5th and 11th districts of the city. (RM)
                   7
 * According to reports, Abdul Karim Meesaq, member of " Politburo of the PDPA and Minister of Finance during the rule of Taraki, has defected to Germany. . Hunar Ghairat, another Politburo member has fled to Norway. Rumors are mounting about Kishtmand also resigning soon. (VOAPS)
 * NWFP Chief Minister, Mir Afzal Khan and Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, have exchanged views on matters of mutual interest especially Gulf war in the Frontier House 6 February. An official source told The Nation that Chief Minister asked Hekmatyar to support Pakistan's foreign policy related to the Gulf war and also ' Prime Minister's peace mission. (NTN)
 * The AIG Minister for Information,
 Dr. Najibullah Lefrai, has said in a clarification that all employees of AIG have received full salaries up to the last days of their work. He also hoped that the AIG economic problem would be solved in    the                    near future and  the
 laid-off employees would resume their duties. He said the economic crisis was not linked   with the Gulf situation. He
 also said   that                    the mujaheddin were
 against the attack of allied forces on Iraq and bombardment of the civilian areas and    they                   were not against any
                            ..x •-
 particular country. (N,rrN)
 * Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghani^, tan under Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor in a resolution, while condemning the present Gulf war, has demanded the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait and those of the coalition from the region. The resolution states that by pounding
252
 JANUARY-MARCH# 1991        ftIGMN JIHAD                  V0L.4 NO.2
 Iraqi forces in the region, the long-cherished desire of Zionism- to obtain supremacy over the Arabs- will be realized. (VOIRA).
                    8
 *  Reliable sources’ say that Soviet Ambassador to Afghanistan Pastokhov has reached Islamabad from Moscow. The diplomat has given clear indication during his deliberations with the Pakistan's Foreign Office high officials that Moscow is willing to play an effective role in a. peaceful and final settlement of the Afghanistan problem and take into consideration the mujaheddin's stand in this regard* The foreign office sources say that, reiterating keeness in a peaceful solution of the issue, Pakistan has made it clear to the Soviet diplomat that it will not accept any solution which was not acceptable to. the people of Afghanistan. (NWT)
 * The Kabul regime Foreign Minister,
 Abdul Wakii, arrived 7 February on. a three day visit to New Delhi for talks with Indian leaders on bilateral and international issues. Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Igor Rogachev, also arrived in New Delhi for two days of. high level discussions with Indian leaders on the Gulf war and bilateral issues. (PT)          *
 *  Prices of daily use things in Kabul have increased by 20 to 30 percent as heavy snowfall blocked almost all supply routes to the city. Airlifts from India are, however, continuing and Kabul is receiving most of the essential commodities from India. Petrol is the worst affected commodity and huge lines are seen on petrol pumps. (NTN) *
 *  The AIG has opened its diplomatic, mission in Sudan after Sudan announced official recognition of the AIG. (NTN)
 *    Quoting Sayyed Ahmad Gail'ani, leader of NIFA, the Far-Eastern Economic Review writes in its 24 January issue that in his opinion there are yet three problems to be solved in connection with the Afghan issue:
 - Washington and Moscow still differ on minor points in their formula for the issue,
     Pakistan has some reservations regarding the proposed plan,
 - The Gulf crisis has engaged all the parties concerned except the Afghans.
 (VOADS)
 * Floods have destroyed 1,024 houses in Kandahar city and another 231 in the surrounding areas of the city. In Nimroz province, 300 houses have been destroyed and 65 villages washed away leaving 8,000 people homeless. (RA)
 * The Iranian Charge d' Affaires in Kabul has presented to the ARC a check for Afs. 2,000,000. (RA)
                    9
 *    Talking to AAP a mujaheddin commander, Sayyed Rahman, has said after his arrival from Kabul to Peshawar that the mujaheddin killed 20 troops and captured 12 others and seized one tank and a gun 7 February. In their most organized and integrated operations over the last 12 years, «the mujaheddin are now positioned only 21 kilometers away from Kabul, the commander said. (PT)
 *    AIG President, Sebghatullah mdjaddedi, has in a statement expressed his grief and sorrow over the loss of life in recent earthquake in which many people were .killed and hundreds of houses were destroyed in Afghanistan. He has also in a condolence message to President Ghulam Ishaq Khan expressed his sorrow and sympathy over the losses
253
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 caused by the earthquake in Pakistan. (PT)
 *  The AIG has sent its first contingent of. militarily trained mujaheddin to play its role with the allied forces in Saudi Arabia and the contingent left for Saudi Arabia 8 February. (JG)
 *  Diplomatic sources say that the Soviet Union has supported the concept of the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan with relatively less effective role for Najibullah and his PDPA regime and has assured to accept as guidelines the UN resolution. This indication was given by Soviet Ambassador to Kabul,Pastokhov during his meetings with certain Afghan leaders in Pakistan. Foreign office sources told the Nawa-i-Waqt 8 February that Pastokhov's diplomatic 'mission can be an important one but he has not brought any new formula as to lead to a decisive initiative for the settlement of the Afghanistan problem. (NWT)
 *  Representatives of 25 American and European organizations, which are taking part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan, met in N.Y. 9 February to discuss their programs for this purpose. . Special envoy of the UN-Secretary General, representatives of three other UN organizations,- the representative of Pakistan to the UN and some mujaheddin representatives made statements in the meeting. (VOAPS)
 *  Two5, persons were killed and another five injured when two rockets hit Kabul • 9 February. The rockets were fired from northwesterly direction * (RA)
 * Dr. Rawan Farhadi, an Afghan Scholar and former diplomat, in an -interview, regarding the appointment of "a new Foreign Minister Of the USSR and the resignation of Chevardnadze has stated that the change indicates that
 the military and the KGB have now the upper hand. For this reason we should expect that - the Soviet policy towards Afghanistan may be hardened in the future * (VOADS)
                  10
 *   Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of
 Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has strongly criticised the despatch of an Afghan
 contingent to Gulf to join the US-led coalition        forces against Iraq.  In a
 statement 9 February, he said that those who sent the mujaheddin under the US pressure, were, credulous and very weak in their belief. He said it is surprising how the Muslims who fought against a "super intruder" and presented          the sacrifices of.  five
 million Afghans           could dare fight
 against their own Muslim brethren alongside agressor under the US banner. He said that the allies were paving the way for Israeli hegemony in Gulf. He added, it was because of the anti-mujaheddin policies of the US that Najib was prolonging his rule. (MLM)
 *   Addressing "Meet the            Press"
 program of Lahore Press Club 9
 •February, ANP President Ajmal Khattak said the Afghan problem could be solved in    the light  of Afghan         people's
 traditions of freedom and belief. He also said that   after the        so-called
 understanding with Soviet Union, the US wants to establish its hegemony over the world in the name of new world order and pave the way to an Israeli superiority in the Middle East. (NTN)
 *   Opposing the AIG President's
 decision to send Afghan mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia the AIG Premier, Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said in a statement in Peshawar 9 February that he believed the war against Iraq by western powers was not for the liberation of Kuwait but aimed at imposing their hegemony
254
JANUARY-MARCH, 199V              Ilf Mil______________________v0L.4 tl0.2
                                      of every support of the Afghan mujaheddin in this hour of trial. (JG)
 over the region and the Muslim nation. (NWT)
 * Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General’s special envoy for Afghanistan, has said in a conference in NY on the' reconstruction of Afghanistan that the solution to the Afghan problem can be achieved by leaving the Afghans alone. He added that it was possible that only one side might win the war but that would not solve the problem. He added, "until and unless intervention in the Afghan affairs is stopped, there will be no solution to the problem". CyOADS)
 * One person was killed and another injured when four rockets hit Kabul city 10 February. The rockets came from northwesterly direction. (RA)
                   11
 * In their operations in Qala-e-Siddiq
 area 5 February, the Paghman mujaheddin killed 10 persons, injured seven others and destroyed one tank of the Kabul regime. In their operations on security posts around Bagram Airfield 3 February, they killed, or wounded five troops; Forty regime troops, including Officers, joined the mujaheddin near Tangi Tashqurgan, Samangan. In their' heavy weapons fire in the same area the mujaheddin killed four soldiers and another 11 including 10 officers, were wounded.  Also the mujaheddin attacked
 Kabul ■ troops near Aibak killing one soldier. Five Persons were wounded and nnn deserted. (PT) 1
 *  The   Saudi                Arabian Embassy in
 Pakistan has said in a             clarification
 that the A1G contingent like Pakistani troops in the Kingdom have been put under Saudi command. (PT) *
 *   The   AIG   President  Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi disucussed tfte latest Gulf situation with the Saudi Ambassador in Islamabad 10 February and assured him
*  The Information Department of the Kabul ' regime Prime Minister's office has reported that Eng. Abdul Samad Saleem and Mohammad Anwar Arghandehwal, have been appointed as deputy premiers for economic and cultural affairs respectively. New appointments have also been reported for the Ministries of Planning, Statistics and Civil Aviation. (RA)
*  Commander Mohammad Anwar has said in a conference in NY on the reconstruction of Afghanistan, "the UN programs' for the refugees have failed because Afghans have not been consulted prior to their implementation. They should have been consulted whether or not conditions for their repatriation were suitable". He added that the AIG did not succeed because of its inefficiency and it was for this reason that the Commanders’ Council' was formed primarily for exerting pressure on the mujaheddin leaders for alliance. "This council represents the entire nation",, he said. (VOADS)
                  12
*  AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has said in an interview that departure of the Afghan mujaheddin for Saudi Arabia was part of the process to support the policies of the Pakistan government. He said that a total of one thousand mujaheddin would proceed to Saudi Arabia. (PT)
*  The AIG will soon implement a phased program for banishing ' cultivation of POPPY and production of opium and other narcotics. (PT)
*   Reports from Kabul say that unprecedented severe cold weather for the last decade plus scarcity of foodstuff and fuel, high prices of commodities and lack of attention
255
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 by the Kabul, regime to the locals have made the life of people difficult in the city. (PT)
 *  In their attack on the Kabul regime security posts in Poze-e-Eshan, Baghlan, 6 February, the mujaheddin killed eight and injured 11 militiamen and destroyed two tanks, two army vehicles and two posts. (PT)
 *    The Afghan Mujaheddin Bar Association in Peshawar has condemned the war in the Gulf and called on the warring sides to declare immediate ceasefire. (PT)
 *  Addressing a Friday congregation1 •• at yhamshuLu rotiujoo camp U February, the Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that America and her allies have come to the Gulf to wipe out the strong war machine of Iraq and eliminate any future threat to Israel and the US interests in the region. (MLM)
 *  The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said in an interview that it would be hard to believe that the former King Zaher Shah would be able to do anything for Afghanistan now that he has been away from the country for many years and, therefore, was not familiar with the current situation in the country. "There are completely different people in Afghanistan now," he said, "and his peace plan will never work out". (VOADS)
                   13
 * Engineer Qutbuddin Hilal of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan' told ANA in an intorview 11 February In Peshawar, a final shape has been given in'a meeting chaired by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar inside Afghanistan recently, to preparations for going ahead with the second phase of jehad operations against the Kabul regime after the melting of snow. He
 said that all the commanders will launch a joint operation against fehe besieged regime forces in Khost. (PT)
 *   Col. Ahmed-al-Robayan, a Saudi military spokesman said in Riyadh 11 February that more than 300 Afghan mujaheddin belonging to the provisional government of Afghanistan have joined the US-led. coalition forces fighting to liberate Kuwait. (PT)
 *   The SNS (Society for National • Salvation) which is a pro-Zaher Shah organization has criticized the recent appointment by Najib of one of its1 members as a Deputy Premier. It said that Mohammad Anwar Arghandehwal had not consulted other members prior to his appointment to the post. Meanwhile, the SNS has announced that it has not formed any coalition with the Kabul regime. (VOAPS)
                  14
 ♦Commander Ahmad Siddiq of the Shaheed Afzali Front has said in an interview with the VOA that, after the differences among the mujaheddin were resolved in Herat, they launched a joint attack op military establishments in which they occupied a strategically important post east of the city and the Babaji locality in the northwest. He added that fighting continued despite severe cold. (VOADS)
 * Speaking at a reception given in honor of the visiting eight-member Soviet parliamentary delegation in Islamabad 13 February, the Chairman of the Senate Wasim Sajjad said that an-appropriate climate now existed in both Pakistan and USSR to make joint efforts for a final resolution of the Afghanistan problem and, therefore, the Soviet leadership should play its role in the establishment of a broad-based and acceptable government in Afghanistan. He said Pakistan would make all possible efforts to help in securing
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991      IlfCHfld JIHAO                  VOL.4 NO.2
  the release of Soviet POWs. (PT)
  *   The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has denied reports that He had held any meeting, wxth the special Soviet' envoy and Ambassador to Kabul. However, an AIG spokesman told AAP that the Afghan mujaheddin and the' Soviet government were the real parties to the Afghan dispute and Dr. Najib was nothing but a Soviet puppet. Therefore if . the talks at any stage were initiated between the mujaheddin and the Soviet government it should not be a matter of surprise. (PT)
  *  In an exclusive interview with ANA. in Peshawar 13 February, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has said that US and India had reached an agreement to destroy Pakistan's atomic capabilities after winning the war in the Gulf. He said, the’ US will either., provoke India or. both India and .. Israel to destroy Pakistan's atomic program. He said, that the US would never put up with any active leadership or a strong government in any Muslim country. In reply to a question', he disclosed that a terrorist plan had been hatched against him. (MLM)
  *   United Nations Disaster Relief Organization (UNDRO) reported 12 February that more than 500 people have been killed and some 57,000 .houses destroyed in Afghanistan in recent earthquake and floods that followed it and total damage was estimated at $ 88. (MLM)
  *   An opinion poll conducted by an Afghan agency (name not given) among the Afghan resistance in Pakistan and in some border districts of Afghanistan near PakistanrAfghan borders revealed that a great majority of Afghans were opposed to the participation of mujaheddin in the war against Iraq.
 . (MLM)
 *  At their talks -in .Islamabad 13
 February, the    Chairman   of Pakistan
 Senate Wasim Sajjad and the leader of the visiting     Soviet   parliamentary
 delegation, U.K. Sharipov agreed on the need of making joint efforts to find out an early peaceful solution to the Afghan problem.  (NTN)
 *  Two Kabul     regime     troops have
 defected and reached Chaman. (NWT)
                 15
 *  Addressing a joint press conference at Peshawar Press Club 13 February, commanders of the northern provinces of Afghanistan opposed the (AIG sponsored) elections and formation of new government in Afghanistan on the basis of these elections and said that such acts would delay the solution of Afghan issue, prolong the war and increase
.bloodshed in Afghanistan. They said the only solution of the Afghan problem was impartial election without any foreign interference under the supervision of Loya Jirgah in which representation .should be given to people of all walks of life* They backed ,the plan of the former Afghan King Zaher •Shah for the solutionof Afghan issue. (PT)
  *   Leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, in a statement in Peshawar 14 February, vehemently condemned the US and allies bombing of the civil population of Iraq and called it a naked aggression against the innocent Muslims Of Iraq. He said that the US wanted to destroy Iraq and was not there to liberate Kuwait or defend Saudi Arabia. Referring to Afghans joining the allied camp, he said that those who were sent to Gulf were not mujaheddin as they had not taken part in jehad in Afghanistan. "In fact they were mercenaries sent by the supporters of former Afghan monarch Zaher Shah," he added. (MLM)
257
JANUARY“MARCH, 1991
 *  In a number of resolutions passed at a big public meeting held in Peshawar 14 February in connection with the anniversary of the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Afghan mujaheddin expressed their determination xto continue their jehad till 'the removal of the Kabul regime. Addressing the meeting, the AIG Premier Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf said that our jehad was launched to uproot communism, put an end to the rule of the atheist in Afghanistan and establish an Islamic government. About Gulf, he said the US had not sent its troops for liberation of Kuwait or defense of Saudi Arabia but for the oppression of the Iraqi Muslims to wipe out any threat to Israel. (MLM)
 > Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, told a gathering at Jaluzi Camp, Peshawar on the occasion of the second anniversary of the Russian troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, "The war was not launched to expel the Russians ' from Afghanistan and to reinstate former ruleifs but for eradicating atheism and for establishing an Islamic government. The country will only become free when these objectives are achieved". (BBCPS)
 *  Dr. Rawan Farhadi, Afghan scholar and a) former diplomat in an interview with the VOA has said, "as the armed conflict goes on in Afghanistan, diplomatic developments and efforts are also necessary to solve the issue. The mujaheddin must form a political delegation for talks with the Soviet Union in which they must make it clear to the Soviets that the continuation of Najib regime is not in the interest of the Soviet Union as well. He added, "Najibullah must repent and compensate for his past crimes. This could be easily achieved if he and his party relinquished power. It is not for him to express concern over the future of Afghanistan. The people of Afghanistan hold Najib responsible for the past
                                                                                        voL.4 no.2
 only. The future is        none of his
 business". (VOADS)
                  16
 * An ICRC source has said that the ICRC has budgeted Swiss francs 47,557,400 for humanitarian programs for victims of the Afghan conflict during 1991. (PT)
 *  The Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan of Hekmatyar has categorically refuted a report under the title "Soviets ready to dump Najib" appearing in some Pakistani newspapers. The Chairman of the political Committee of Hezb,, Qutbuddin Hilal, told ANA that meetings by mujaheddin leaders with Soviet delegations in the past were only aimed at releasing Soviet POWs held by the mujaheddin and no formula was ever discussed for the solution of the Afghan problem. .(PT)
 * K The AIG Supreme Court. has defended the decision of the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi for sending mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia and termed it a part of Muslim Ummah’s responsibility of protecting the Holy lands of Islam. (NTN)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have dislodged
 Kabul regime troops from a number of places at Salangi in the Baghlan province killing and wounding a number of the regime troops    and capturing a
 huge quantity of arms and ammunition. The mujaheddin also destroyed three posts at Bagram Airport 11 February and captured many Kabul regime troops with their arms and two tanks. (NWT)
                                       »
 * On the occasion of the second anniversary of the USSR troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the VOA held interviews with mujaheddin comman~ ders on reasons of Najib*s ability to remain in powers
258
JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
-  Jalaluddin Haqqani, Chairman of the
Council of Commanders:    The mujaheddin
enjoyed full support and cooperation during the presence of Russian troops# while, this cooperation with us faded away afterward. On the other hand, the Russians have continued their massive aid to the Kabul regime.
-  Sayyed Hussain, general commander of
Shoora-e-Ittefaq-e-Islami:   Foreign in-
tervention, differences among the mujaheddin groups and lack of a single leadership are the reasons for Najib's stay in power.
    Dr. Shahrukh Gran, a NIFA commander: The mujaheddin have scored a number of victories during the last two years which has forced the Kabul regime to remain confined in large cities. Lack of unity among the mujaheddin, inefficient arms and' changes in war tactics have all been factors for the continuation of Kabul regime.
-  Ehsanullah, general commander Hezb-e-
Islami (Hekmatyar) in Logar:     "During
the past 12 years both East and West have been struggling for the establishment of . a political-.system in Afghanis-5: tan . for their own benefit. If these interventions are stopped, the people of Afghanistan will manage to ,solve the problem by themselves". (VOAPS)
                    17
       . . \
-* The Canadian High Commissioner in Islamabad has announced a contribution of Rs.    500,000 for relief to the
 victims of earthquake in Afghanistan. The funds will be provided to the UNOCA for its emergency relief efforts. (MLM)
                                                              * The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has said in an interview with the daily Okab that the participation ,of the Afghan mujaheddin in defending the Saudi Arabian Kingdom is an Islamic
 obligation a'nd the mujaheddin have been sent there to fight against Iraq. (MLM)
 * The highest policy-making body of the ruling Watan Party of the Kabul regime- the Central Council- in its full session in Kabul 14 February expelled two prominent hard-liners in a move seen by observers as a warning to potential opponents of the regime’s reform program. According to Radio Kabul, the two men were found guilty of "creating disruption in the party ranks". They are^Abdul Karim Misaq and Hashmatullah Kaihani. (MLM)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have fired-six missiles on Kabul killing eight persons and injuring three others. (NWT)
                 18
 * Forty Kabul regime troops fled to Chaman 17 February and have been detained for investigation. (JG)
 * Addressing a big public meeting at Bannu, a. leading tribal leader, S.M. Habib Kha:n, has said that the people of Pakistan had given shelter to Afghan refugees on humanitarian grounds and not for indulging in activities against the aspirations J of the Pakistani nation. He said that Afghan leaders who had despatched their people to Saudi Arabia had done no service to Islam. (MLM)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have, in their joint operation in Qala-e-Adam Khan, Ghazni, killed at least three officers and 18 militiamen 15 February. All the enemy installations were exploded in the operation. Eight klashinkovs, one mortar, two grenov machine guns and a huge quantity of ammunition were also captured by the mujaheddin. Also near the center of Samangan province, the mujaheddin attacked a Kabul regime supply caravan in Posta-e-jano area 15 February and burned four military
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 vehicles and killed 14 persons on board. Three mujaheddin received light injuries in the operation. (PT)
 * The New York Times wrote 7 February
 "Hardliners who have again prevailed.in
 Kremlin, have succeeded in convincing
 the Soviet leadership that complete
 retreat from Afghanistan will be
 tantamount to dishonor to the 150,000 ' .. .•
 Soviet troops~ who fotaght in Afghanistan
 and a serious threat to the Soviet
 republics of Central Asia. It is on the
 basis of this argument that the USSR
 has strengthened its support of the
 Kabul regime and has, lately, increased
 the number of its military advisors to
 Kabul, On the other hand, the CIA in a 1
 long struggle has apparently convinced
 the State Department that the US
 government must exert further effort by
 helping the Afghan mujaheddin to enable
 them gain a military victory. (VOADS)
                   19
 * Talking to an ANA correspondent in Peshawar 17 February, a mujaheddin commander, Faiz Mohammad J^Han, has said that the strategy for recapturing Khost cantonment is being devised. He said that the plan is expected to be • executed early next month. (PT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have conducted a rocket attack and hit the headquarter of the Kabul army in Kunduz province where petrol reservoirs were destroyed. In' addition to other losses, three Kabul troops were killed and many others injured. The security post of the cantonment was also destroyed by the rocket fires. (PT) *
  * Afghan leaders, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and the AIG representative. Prof. Yasser, have said in a joint press conference of the Islamic Movements that the Afghans leaving for Saudi Arabia do not belong to any of the AIG party or
 Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar). They said that a nation which had fought for 13 years against foreign forces and was still engaged in struggle against the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul could never support foreign aggression against Iraq. They said that the view point of the AIG and the mujaheddin was that the war had been imposed on Iraq under a deep-rooted conspiracy. They said that Iraq had also been informed that the Afghan nationals leaving for Saudi Arabia had nothing .to do with the Afghan jehad or the mujaheddin. They said that false introduction of these Afghan nationals was only Slimed at creating misunderstandings among the Afghan groups. (NWT)
 * The BBC, quoting a Kabul regime
 Presidential spokesman, has said that while reviewing its foreign policy in the context of US intervention in the Gulf, the highest policy making body of the Kabul        regime - the Central
 Council - has decided to improve relations with Pakistan. (NWT)
                      •  o
 *  A number of Afghan experts, interviewed by the VOADS, are of the opinion that an end should be put to the present situation in Afghanistan:
    Dr. Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai,Professor of anthropolgy at John Hopkins University: "Since none of the parties can gain total victory over the other by military means, a political solution to the Afghan conflict is the only alternative. A referendum should be taken in the refugee camps and the people themselves, should be given a chance to choose their future ruler.
 - Dr. Anwarul Haq Ahadi., Professor in Road Island State University of the US: Any political solution will be both practicable and desirable whether1it is achieved through elections or a coalition. Since the majority of the
260
   JANUARY-MARCH# 1991                                flfGlIflMJiHflll                                         V0L.4   NO.2
 Afghans oppose a coalition government, general elections under UN supervision will be the best way put, '
 - Mohammad Hassan Wulesmal, editor of
 the Afghan Wules journal:    It is the
 last days of the AIG, the apprehensive people of Afghanistan should make a fresh move.
 - Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former Prime
 Minister:  Unfortunately, there is no
 other organization at the present to substitute the AIG, but there is every hope that the Council of Commanders will gain strength and take independent measures in this direction.
 -  Peter Tomson, US envoy to the mujaheddin:  "We have not worked out a plan
 for the final victory of the mujaheddin. We only wish to help the Afghans attain their right to self determination". (VOADS)
                    20
  * In their sudden attack at the border cantonment of Khost in Paktia province, Afghan mujaheddin have killed eight army officers and several men of Kabul regime. A spokesman of the mujaheddin told AAP that Kabul regime .conducted bombing raids over mujaheddin in Bari area and four mujaheds were killed and 22 were injured. (PT)
  Mujahed, the official organ of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, as saying that, under the present conditions, despatch of mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia would be
  misused as a propaganda means to defame the mujaheddin and to portray them as pro-American and pro-Western elements and to allege that their real goals are different than those which they have claimed so far.' If the war stops and a peace-keeping force consisting of Muslim countries is formed, the
 mujaheddin are ready to be at the forefront and go to the region in large numbers. Furthermore, the editorial says, "sending of mujaheddin . to Saudi Arabia for defense of that country became superfluous once the allied forces came there." Appreciating the assistance provided by Saudi Arabia the Mujahed says "the mujaheddin will not let Saudis" down in case they really need their help. Superficial acts and those just for show> however, will not be of any benefit and positive effect". (PT)
 *  Several thousand Afghan students from various schools , and colleges staged a protest demonstration in front of the office of the AIG in Peshawar 19 February to condemn the sending of Afghans to Saudi Arabia and the ruthless bombings of Americans and-allied forces on the innocent Muslims of Iraq. Earlier the students gathered near Khyber Teaching Hospital and staged a demonstration. They were holding banners with, ani-American and anj ti-Russian slogans. The, speakers also urged the Iraqi government to withdraw its troops from Kuwait so that opportunity for the destruction of the Islamic ummah is not provided to the enemies of Islam. (MLM)
 *  In an interview with The Nation the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has defended his government's decision to send Afghan mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia and said the decision was taken by the AIG cabinet by a majority vote. He said they were grieved over the* killing of the civilians of Baghdad and condemn such atrocities. The AIG President said that a number of Western countries had assured them of increasing the assistance for the mujaheddin to enable them liberate their homeland. He said the Afghan people would not accept any sort of pressure for the implementation of Zaher Shah formula under which an
261
 interim body would rule Afghanistan for a limited period during which Afghans would elect a permanent government through general elections. He said the mujaheddin groups should form a broad-based committee for selecting members to the Loya Jirgah and that Jirgah should choose a body for running the affairs of Afghanistan. He said representation should be given to all Afghans including mujahed commanders, elites, ulama, intellectuals and Afghans living in European countries. (NTN)
 *   Speaking as chief guest at awards giving function to Afghan nationals held at Pak-German Institute in Multan, Tariq Farooq, Commissioner, Multan Division, paid glowing tributes to Afghan mujaheddin for fighting against a super-power for achieving freedom.
 He also appreciated the usefulness of their training course and hoped they would deliver the goods when they return home. (NTN)            g
  *  Mohammad Gul Ariwal, former AAF officer who is now Chairman of the Union for Afghan Military Officers in Peshawar, has said in an interview that there were a total of 4,362 registered and some 500 non-registered Afghan officers living in Peshawar as refugees. He added, the gnion was established to assist the officers and to play its part in plans for the solution of the Afghan problem.(BBCPS)
                     21
  * The administration in the liberated Kunar province has been reconstituted after inclusion of Hezb-e-Islami. (PT) *
  *  Addres.sing a press conference at , Quetta Press Club 20 February on his return from Kabul, Sajid. Tareen, Central President of Pashtoon Students Federation said that Kabul regime President Najibullah had agreed to lay
 foundations of a broad-based government and suggested three options:    establish
 broad-based government by giving shares to warring groups; hold elections or decide the fate of war by convening a Loya Jirgah. He said during his meeting with Najibullah, he found him ready to accept any formula for restoring peace in the war-torn Afghanistan. He said a number of followers of former King Zaher Shah had been inducted in the government and talks with Zaher Shah were continuing to save Afghanistan from further destruction. (MLM)
                                            ) • ■ •
 *  In a resolution co-sponsored fay Pakistan and the Soviet Union and unanimously adopted at the 47th session of the UNHCR at Geneva, preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political liberty and the non-aligned and islamic character of Afghanistan has been declared essential for a peaceful solution of the Afghan issue. The resolution also said that free and fair elections should be held in Afghanistan. The resolution has urged all the , countries to provide more financial and material resources to the UN coordinator for Afghanistan for early repatriation and rehabilitation of Afghan refugees in their country,
 (JG)             '
 *  Abdul Sattar Seerat, former Afghan Minister of Justice, has said in an interview regarding the solution of the Afghan problem, "A team from the mujaheddin groups or from promujaheddin elements representing all the cultural and geographical units of Afghanistan; should be formed and entrusted with the task of preparing a list of about 300 Afghans or more, from: representatives of mujaheddin organizations commanders; representatives of other pro-jehad -and organized Afghan groups; representatives of Afghan Islamic scholars both inside and outside Afghanistan; politican Afghan figures
262
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
 living in Afghanistan and abroad; tribal and kochi elders and other effective elements in the Afghan society. An emergency meeting of these elements can then be convened either inside Afghanistan     (security conditions
 .permitting) or in a neutral country, such as Switzerland, under the auspices of the UN. (VOADS)
                   22
 * Sayyed Nurullah Emad., Deputy Chief of the AIG election commission, when asked by the BBC correspondent that some mujaheddin leaders who were pro-election in the past consider it superfluous now, said, "In a meeting, a week     ago,   attended    by    Prof.
 Sebghatullah Mujad(dedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi various aspects of election process were discussed.lt was decided in the meeting to go ahead with elections despite present difficulties". (BBCPS) *
  * ANA reports that a military post, one kilometer east of Kandahar city, was captured by the Afghan mujaheddin during their attack on the regime forces 15 February. The commander of Topchi military post, Abdullah Khan, and a major, namely Hasan, was among those killed in the operation while a military officer,' Abdul Qadeer, surrendered to the mujaheddin with a number of other regime , personnel. Mujaheddin    destroyed one    tank and
  captured a number of assorted weapons in this attack. Other reports say that the regime airforce has been repeatedly bombing the Mazgeen and Surkhab areas in Logar for the past five days while Mir Bacha Kot of Kabul province came under aerial attack for the past three days. Heavy ferial bombings are also reported        to have been    made on
  mujaheddin    positions  in  Kandahar.
  Meanwhile mujaheddin repulsed an attack
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 of the regime forces in the Qala-e-Malik area of Logar province 16 February inflicting heavy losses to the regime troops. One mujahed was killed and another wounded. Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan is also reported to have attacked the regime security positions in Sarobi and destroyed two electric polls disrupting electricity supply to Kabul city 18 February. (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime forces are said to have launched a SCUD missile on Sarobi martyring four mujaheds and injuring three 16 February. The regime's jet-fighters have also, bombed the mujaheddin position around Khost. As a result, two mujaheds were martyred, two sustained injuries and number of houses were destroyed. Another report says that the regime's air force inflicted material losses to the locals in Sorkhab and Mir Bacha Kot districts of Kabul province 15 February. No details about the casualties have been reported*. ( PT)
 *  An Afghan national, Jalaluddin, has been convicted by a special Pakistani court after having been charged with terrorist activities. (MLM)
  * There were deadly explosions in Kabul during the night 21 February. One rocket hit the building of the regime's Ministry of Information and Culture and another one the Afghan Secret Police Office. (NWT)
                  23
  * Addressing a Juma congregation at Shamshatu refugee camp in Peshawar 22 February, the Chief' of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, hinted towards signing of an agreement between all the jehad leaders for the formation of a joint council so as to remove the puppet regime in Kabul and establish an Islamic government there, reports ANA. He also said that a decisive attack
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 will be launched against the Soviet backed Kabul regime simultaneously all over Afghanistan in joint collaboration
 and active support of all the jehad parties and its elements. He said that he supported the current election ' process of the AIG as a result of which an elected Shoora will be inducted to formulate the structure of future Afghanistan. About war in the Gulf, Hekmatyar said presence of US troops on the sacred Saudi soil was like the erstwhile presence of Russian troops in Afghanistan. He said that the prime object of the US in imposing the devastating war on the Muslims of the region was to quell the Islamic uprising all over the world. (PT)
 *  A statement issued by the UNHCR Islamabad office says that the budget for the Afghan refugees had been reduced by 30% as compared to the last year, and the Commission has approved a $20 million assistance for refugees for the current year. However, the shortage would be .made up by other resources. According to the sources, a separate amount had been allocated for the earthquake affected Afghan people.
 ( PT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have .destroyed
 several defense installations during their operations in Farah and Herat provinces in the third week of February. They conducted a rocket attack at Shindand military airport 17 February and destroyed a part of the runway and killed or injured eight Kabul troops. In Herat province, they attacked a mobile army unit and at Tor Ghundi destroyed a vehicle killing the occupants. (PT)                    , *
  *  An Afghan mujaheddin-’ commander, Shamsuddin, 45, died of heart attack in Peshawar 22 February. A MIDIA report says the commander had played an active role in the uprising in Herat province in March 1979 besides rendering
 valuable services to train mujaheddin.
 (PT)
 *  Four officials of the ICRC- all Swiss- have been held hostage for more than five weeks by kidnappers in Afghanistan. The agency’s headquarters dismissed a suggestion 22 February that the kidnapping might be linked to the war in the Gulf. (MLM)
 *   The AIG President Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi left Peshawar for Germany 22 February. He was accompanied by his son Abdullah Mujaddedi" and advisor Hamid Karzai. During hiis visit he would also visit some other European countries including Italy to discuss repoijfts of Soviet-Pakistan compromise on the Afghan issue. He would also meet, some of his party men to discuss a compromise for setting up a broad-based Afghan - interim       government    in
 Afghanistan. Reliable sources say that during his stay in Germany, the AIG President would meet with former Afghan Prime Minister, Dr. Mohammad Yousuf and ex-deputy Prime Miunister, Dr. Samad Hamed to discuss with them recent developments after meetings between Soviet Union and Pakistani officials.
  (NTN)                  -
  *  The ICRC reports that four of its employees were arrested by the Kandahar mujaheddin 12 January. Motives behind this action or the name of the organization to which the abductors belonged were not disclosed. (VOADS0
  *  Seven ground-to-ground missiles were fired on Kabul during the last 24 hours causing some damage. (RM)
                 24
  *   A spokesman of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) has said ’ his organization will use its good offices to secure the release of the four ICRC members who according to him "were arrested in
  264
                                                                                                                         I
  JANUARY -MARCH, 1991                                               flffiliflM  JlHflll                                                     VOL. 4         NO.  2
 Kandahar city without consultation with anyone. (VOADS)
 * . The UNHCR office in Geneva has issued statistics regarding ‘ the "■ repatriation of Afghan refugees upto the middle of February as follows:
   From NWFP 9,050 families, and
   From Baluchistan 4,594 families.
 * Four ground-to-ground missiles hit Kabul city 24 February causing injury to three persons. They were fired from north and northeasterly directions. (RA) .
                  25
 * Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 24 February, Speaker of the Iranian Islamic Consultative Assembly, Hojjatul Islam Mehdi Karoubi, said that it is consistent stand of Iran that the fate of Afghanistan should be determined by the people of Afghanistan without any foreign interference. He denied that the Kabul regime ruler, Najibullah, had ever visited Mashad in Iran. (PI)
 * The governing body of the WFP has approved food assistance worth $116 million for 3.35 million registered Afghan refugees is Pakistan for the year 1991. (PT) *
 *  Talking to The Muslim at Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan headquarter in Peshawar,' the ICCA member Hojjatul Islam Syed Mohammad Ali Javed said that sending mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia was useless as Iraqis were Muslims and would never insult the Holy shrines there. He said the US came to Saudi Arabia to fulfil its long awaited designs and its success in the war would bring a hard time for the Muslim ummah. He said the UN was influenced by super powers and could not make independent decisions. (MLM)
  *  In an. interview with The Nation the’ AiG Minister of Information, Dr. Najibullah Lafrai, said that the contingent of Afghan mujaheddin sent to
... Saudi Arabia to join the allied forces / was r*ot sent at the decision of AIG. It was the decision of some mujaheddin organizations to send the* contingent. On the prevailing situation in Afghanistan,- he said the Kabul regime ruler Najibullah was trying to get support of the neutral personalities of Afghanistan. He could not unite the Perchamis and Khalqis and many Parcha-mis and Khalqis had been removed by the Waatan Party. He named Karim Meesaq (Khalqi) and Hashmat             Kaihani
  (Perchami) who have been sacked from the party. He said that the former head of Khalqis, Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoi, was under house arrest and Mohammad Aslam Watanjar has been made the head of Khalq party. (NT^)
  *  In their joint operation on the Kabul regime military positions in Farah 20 February, the mujaheddin captured four posts, destroyed four armored tanks and killed 48 troops. Another 30 soldiers were taken prisoners. (VOIRA)
  *  Nine agreements were signed between the Kabul regime "and the Soviet Union in Kabul 25 February. The agreements are all in connection with the presence of Soviet experts and advisors in Afghanistan and the continuation of Soviet supplies to the Kabul regime (RA)
                  26
  *  An alliance of eight-party of the Afghan mujaheddin in a press conference in Quetta 23 February rejected the launching of a n^w party under the title of National Shoora by Mawlana Jalaluddin Haqqani and said it would damage the jehad in Afghanistan and destablize the unity of Afghan
 265
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *  Some 100 Soviet soldiers are still held by the mujaheddin in Afghanistan, Radio Moscow reported 25 February. (MLM)
 *  The Muslim has - learnt from the diplomatic sources in Islamabad that in a shift- in Soviet policy due to war in the Gulf,the Soviet Onion has increased supplies of surface-to-surface missiles (SCUDS), ammunition for long-range artillery, air-to-surface missiles and other equipment to the Kabul regime. (MLM)
 *  The . AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has received another formula from the American-based former Afghan intellectuals and bureaucrats to resolve the Afghan issue. For setting up a broad-based interim government before an elected government, the new formula has suggested an interim government for a fixed period under the leadership of the former King Zaher Shah. According to the document, an Afghan jirgah, held in California, USA, has also approved this formula.
 (NTN)
 *  A number of Afghan mujaheddin commanders in a joint press conference at the Peshawar press club 25 February unanimously backed the peace plan of former King Zaher Shah of, Afghanistan, which, he is reported to have submitted to the UN. (NTN) *
 *  The US State Department 1990 Report on Human Rights in Afghanistan says that "human rights in regime controlled afeas improved in 1990 while resistance groups have attacked, tortured, killed or imprisoned persons opposed to their programs". (NTN)
 *  A bomb went off in the central office of the Swedish Committee, for Afghanistan (SCA) in Peshawar 25
 February injuring an employee seriously. The SCA began operation in Peshawar in 1982 and the number of its employees has now reached 313. (VOAPS)
                 27
 *  Benon Sevan, coordinator of UN
 assistance for Afghanistan has said in an interview that he needed a cash sum of US $  94  million  to implement the.
 UN programs. He added that if the amount were not placed at his disposal, he would have to cancel some of the projects. (VOADS)
 * A 7-day meeting of commanders of the southwestern Afghanistan ended Quetta 17 February. Two hundred and fifty commanders attended the meeting. Meanwhile, a number of Kandahar commanders held, a press conference in Quetta in which they expressed their resentment over the. meeting adding that such meetings would only add to the differences among the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
 * Hujjatul Islam Sayyed Abdul Hameed Sajjadi,.a spiritual leader and member of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, was killed in a traffic accident near Lahore 25 February. He was a member of the
,Central Council of the party. (VOADS)
                 28
  * The office of the UNOCA has revealed in a document that Afghanistan needs US $232.4 million for the current year for emergency relief and rehabilitation and reconstruction. Priority has been given to projects in agriculture, food aid, mine clearance, voluntary repatriation and health that will cost $169 million. (PT)
  * As many as 120 Kabul regime troops were reported to have been killed and injured during 'the fightings between
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 rival Khalq and Parcham factions of the ruling party in Afghanistan. Meanwhile in their swift operation .in Khairkhana area of Kabul city the mujaheddin have killed and injured 12 Kabul troops and captured a heavy vehicle and sizeable quantity of arms. Three mujaheddin were killed and seven sustained injuries in the cross-firing. (PT)
 * During current visit to China of Pakistan Premier Nawaz Sharif, both countries have said the solution of the Afghan issue depended on the establishment of a broad-rbased government by the Afghans themselves without outside interference. (JG)
 * Najibullah, the Kabul regime leader, has decided to bestow henceforth "Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani" and "Ghazi Amanullah Khan" decorations and "Ghazi Mohammad Ayub Khan" and "Mulla Mushk-e-Alam" medals upon those who perform outstanding services. (RA)
 * A strong bomb, planted in Kabul for detonation has been discovered during the last 24 hours. (RMDS)
                                      MARCH
                                             1
 *  Eng. Qutbuddin Helal, chief of the Political Committee of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), has said in an interview that the arrest by one of their commanders of four ICRC members in Kandahar earlier, was not politically orientated. He added, "If the charge gainst him is confirmed, the commander will be sacked from the organization". (VOAPS)
                                *
 *  Dr. Mohammad Moosa Safa, Prof, of Sociology at a Washington D.C. University^ in an interview enumerated the
 'factors for the stay in power of the Kabul regime: (1) The defense power of
 the Kabul regime was under-estimated
 at the time when the Soviets were leaving Afghanistan and the Russian assistance to the Kabul regime was not taken into consideration; (2) Though the Afghan mujaheddin achieved miracles during their guerrilla warfare but had no experience of how to capture a locality or how to defend it later.; (3) The mujaheddin leadership failed to establish a single command in order to harmonize its operations against the Kabul regime forces.
      Regarding  the  discord  among  the
 mujaheddin leadership, he said, the conflicts are personal and not ideological because they all insist upon the establishment of an. Islamic state in the country. (VOADS)
 * An      Afghan student was killed  and
 more than three dozens were detained at party jails after a brawl at the end of a rally jointly organized by ANLF of AIG President Mujaddedi and .NIFA of Pir Sayyed . Ahmed Gailani to express jubilation over the liberation of Kuwait and support the despatch of an Afghan contingent      to the  Gulf.  The
 rally,      held near Nishat   Mill   on
 Charsadda Road at the outskirts of Peshawar 28 February, proved a failure.
(PT)             7                     
                 mm                    
* Afghanistan    resistance   movement 
sources say that the Afghan mujaheddin 
 destroyed an ammunition depot of the Kabul regime in Khairkhana, Kabul city, 25 February. The Afghan mujaheddin also repulsed an attack in'Qala-e-Hakim area killing four regime troops and injuring a number of others.         In
 Samangan, the mujaheddin captured *two security posts at Tashkurgan Pass. The regime troops did not offer any Resistance and left behind a huge quahtity of arms and ammunition. The Afghan mujaheddin also arrested 12 Kabul regime troops in Pul-e-Khumri,
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 Baghlan, last week. (NWT) '
 * The Kabul regime war planes dropped 1 March bombs on mujaheddin targets at Yawar, Khost district in Paktia's unpopulated hilly areas. The regime troops also resorted to artillery fire and fired three SCUD missiles. There was no loss in men and material. (NWT)
 * The mujaheddin have destroyed an ammunition and arms depot in. Kabul., Meanwhile the mujaheddin captured two security posts in Samangan and have killed 12 soldiers in Baghlan province.
 (RPDS).
 * Five persons were injured when a rocket hit Kabul 2 March. (RA)
                     3
 * Addressing a huge Juma congregation at Shamshatu refugee camp in the outskirts of Peshawar 1 March, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said the long resistance of Iraqi people and its troops proved that even a small nation could defend itself against the aggression of a super power. It has also encouraged smaller nations that a small country could stand against the coalition of . .32 countries. He said America arrayed a coalition against Iraq to eliminate the perpetual danger to Israel and enforce a new security order in the Gulf in pursuit of its own interests. Reciting a verse from the Holy Quran, he said Jews and Christians could never be friends of the Muslims. Hekmatyar said the arrival of allied army in the Gulf is a .dark chapter of the Islamic history and a great danger to the Islamic ummah. He said the Gulf war has laid dowri the foundations for the decay of American superiority because it spread great hatred amongst the Muslims all over the globe against the US. He expressed his indignation over Afghans who celebrated the American victory in
 the Gulf. He said such people failed to celebrate the defeat of Russian army in Afghanistan. (PT)
 * The French daily Le Monde, commenting on the situation in Afghan-tan two years after the ^withdrawal of Russian troops and disc.ussing the political and military aspects of the Afghan issue concludes, "Under the present conditions, the people of Afghanistan, one-third of whom have taken refuge outside the country, have lost all hopes. Prospects for a peaceful solution are not visible because a large quantity of arms is in the hands of the people who have fought a lorig war during the years". (VOADS)
 *- In their operations on the Kabul Airport the mujaheddin have destroyed one aircraft and killed 13 troops. (RP)
                 4
 *  Upon his return from a recent trip to Kandahar, the VGA correspondent has said in Quetta that food materials were very expensive e.g. flour Afs. 320/kg; cooking oil Afs. 1600/kg. Sugar and some other food items were simply not available. (VOAPS)
 * According to resistance sources two
 groups of the Kabul trpops, belonging to Khalq and Parcham factions, opened fire on each other in Herat 27 February after similar clashes in Shindand and Aibak city. Thirty troop* were killed or injured in the latest incident. The Khalq faction troops are reported to have     captured a  tank, four army
 vehicles     and a    lot of arms and
 ammunition of the Parchamis. The clashes are reported to have spread to Pashtun Zarghoon east of Herat in which the Gul Khan and Zazi militias were also involved. In the course of a guerrilla operation 25 February a security post in southern Herat was wiped out. Commander Zalmay and three
268
 JANUAKY-MARCH, 1991            flfCHflHJfHflB                VOL.4 NO.2
troops were killed. The mujaheddin captured arjns and ammunition from the damaged security post. Meanwhile, the
 AIG Ministry of. Information has denied a Radio Kabul broadcast alleging that
 10,000 mujaheddin have joined the Kabul regime in Faryab. (PT)
                    5
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG president, in a message to Sheikh Jaber-tal-Ahmed-al-^Sabah and the Crown. Prince <?f Kuwait has congratulated them on the liberation of Kuwait. (VOADS)
 *  In clashes between forces . of the Khalq and Parcham factions in Herat, Shindand and Aibak 120 troops are reported to have been killed. (RP)
 *  Afghan students of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar), Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan (Sayyaf) and Jamiat -e-Islami (Rab-bani) in a press conference in Peshawar 4 March strongly rejected allegations that they had chanted slogans against America or the AIG during a rally arranged by Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), NIFA and ANLF 28 February. The latter have threatened to sabotage the functioning of three AIG component parties unless their leaders apologized for beating and detaining them illegally. (MLM)
                   6
  *  Unidentified persons threw two hand-grenades at the central office of the UNHCR in University Town, Peshawar. One of these bombs went off while the second was defused. (VOADS)
  * The VOIRA has said in a commentary, if the Soviet material and military supplies to the Kabul regime is reduced, it would not be able to live another day. (VOlRA) *
  * Radio Tehran has reported that the
second session of the Afghan Shias, held in Tehran 2-6 March, has urged unity among the people of Afghanistan and the withdrawal of foreign forces from the Gulf region. (VOIRA)
   * A US diplomat in Islamabad has said
   that they had told the Soviets to put back on the agenda t the talks on a settlement in Afghanistan. The diplomat said the subject . was raised but not discussed: in the last ministerial
   meeting of the two countries which was dominated by the Gulf problem. The US and the Soviet Union have agreed that the settlement be based on elections in Afghanistan. (PT)
                   7
   * Twelve Afghan ulama, in a press conference in Peshawar, h-ave expressed their support of the Zaher Shah peace initiative.’ A number of commanders from Nangarhar, Kunar and taghman- provinces had also supported the plan a week ago.
   (VOA)
   * The Iranian radio and television has
   announced the Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan headed by Mohseni, has merged with the Hezb-e-Wahdat which includes a number of Iran-based mujaheddin groups. The report adds, after the merger of the two parties all the offices of Harakat-e-Islami in Iran have been closed. The Harakat, while denying the report, has said that its offices were closed by Iranian security authorities. (BBC)                               '
   * Reliable sources say the Indian
   Deputy High Commissioner, Range Chari and other officers of Indian High Commission-     received briefing on
   Afghanistan issue 6 March in Islamabad. Foreign office sources say the Indian High Commission had requested for this briefing after the war in the Gulf is over and Pakistan's well-known stand on the Afghan issue has been made clear to
269
JANUAKY-MAKCH, 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 them. The sources say Soviet dip-mats were, also briefed recently on the issues. (JG)
 *  The unprecedented widespread rains in Afghanistan have claimed 115 lives during the past few weeks in Nimroz and Farah. Rains have also badly damaged about 5,000 houses in the area and hundreds of people have sought refuge on the nearby mountains. (PT)
                     8
 *  About one third of the employees of the provincial Commissionerate looking after the Afghan refugees have been sacked and March 31 would be their last working day. Another batch is likely to be relieved by the end of the current fiscal year. The total strength of the employees was about 6,500. (MLM)
 *  Five Kabul regime troops have, escaped from Paghman valley and joined the mujaheddin 6 March carrying with them their arms and ammunition. Meanwhile the mujaheddin are reported to have attacked security posts at. ^ufaid Khak, Wardak, and captured eight Kabul troops. At Jalalabad front also the mujaheddin launched attacks at the security posts and captured five Kabul regime troops. Two others were killed and several injured. (PT)
 *  The AIG election plan inside Afghanistan has not been welcomed by the public. The announcement was made by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President in an interview with the BBC correspondent in London. (BBCPS)
 *  On the occasion of the International Women's Day 8 March, President Najibul-lah of Kabul' has pardoned a number of women convicts and has ordered their release from jail. (RA)
                     9
  * The Afghan mujaheddin are reported
 to have liberated, the town of Chasht-e-Sharif, 160 kilometers east of Herat city. The mujaheddin also captured the ammunition left behind by the fleeing Kabul regime troops. (JG)
                   10
 *  In a public meeting held, in Quetta
 under the auspices of Harakat-e-Enqela-b-e-Islami, and NIFA, the mujaheddin leaders have congratulated the people of ; Kuwait on the liberation of their country.  (PT)
 *  Talking to the personal representative of UN Secretary General on Afghanistan in Islamabad 9 March Prime Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, said that a solution to the Afghan problem should be acceptable to its people and ensure the Afghan refugees' return home safely. The two sides discussed the Afghan issue especially in the light of Secretary General's initiative for seeking a political solution. (NTN)
 *  A three-day seminar under the auspices of WUFA on the reconstruction of the administrative, political and judicial system in Afghanistan, was opened by the NWFP Governor. The seminar is attended by scholars from Afghanistan, Pakistan, the US, the UK, Poland, Germany, Turkey and Bangla Desh. (VOA)
 *  An aircraft containing relief supplies from India to the victims of
>, the recent earthquake and floods in Afghanistan arrived in Kabul Airport 10 March. .The supplies are said to be worth US $ 100,000. The Indian government will also send to Kabul regime BGf' thousand tons of wheat . (BBC)      •. ^
 *  Fazl Haq Khaleqyar, Prime Minister of the Kabul regime, met the ICRC
                                                            ■representative in Kabul 10 March. He explained to Khaleqyar ICRC programs
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
                                                                            VOL.4 NO.2
 in support of the Afghan Red Crescent and relief work to victims of recent floods and earthquake and requested cooperation of the Kabul regime. (RA)
 *  The Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan declared 8 March that the perpetuation of Najibullah regime in Afghanistan can be done away with only by setting up a united shoora consisting pf- all parties in the Afghan Jehad and.establishing a command center. The Harakat also suggested the establishment of a Shoora of all parties outside Afghanistan to control. and watch the political interests of all the parties. It also
 called for the establishment     of an
 Islamic government consisting of good Afghan Muslims. Rejecting.the (Western style) elections the Harakat demanded Islamic elections under Islamic laws. It said that women are free to vote and could take part in political activities. (MLM)
                                               12
 * In a mujaheddin attack, on the. Khost Garrison, 12 soldiers have been killed and a number injured. Three mortar gun's were destroyed and a quantity of
 arms and ammunition were seized by the mujaheddin and four regime troops defected to them. (RP)
 *  According to a decree issued by President Najibullah of Kabul on the occasion of the fourth anniversary of his National Reconciliation Policy, another 95 prisoners have been released from Pui-e-Charkhi. This brought to 186 the number of prisoners, released under the decree. (RA) *
 *  "Markin", a representative of the' International Red dross, w'as released by the Hezb-e-Islami 11 March, but three other members of the ICRC are
 still in custody. The four ICRC members had entered Afghanistan 12 January. (RM)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar, Qari' Abdul Wahid and seven other Afghan ulema said that the ouster of Najib clique was an important phase of Afghan jehad and unity among the Afghan organizations participating in Jehad was utmost necessary to attain this end. They said that those who insist on. general elections were not
 (aware of . the; political situation in
 the country. General elections could be held after the elimination of puppet regime. They said that foreign intervention could be stopped in the region after establishing an Islamic system in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  twelve Kabul troops were killed and injured in Paktia province. In Khost the mujaheddin hit the military installations in the cantonment by rocket during the first week of March and also destroyed three mortar guns. Four Kabul/ troops defected from Khost cantonment and handed over sizeable quantity of arms and ammunition to the mujaheddin. (PT)
 *  A MIDIA reporter in Kabul who has just returned to Peshawar reported that the Kabul people refused to attend, the funeral of Esmat "Muslim", the militia commander and the Kandahar people want to blow up his grave. Esmat died in a hospital in Czchoslovakia and his body was brought t-o Kabul. (PT)
 *  Addressing an international seminar on "Rebuilding Afghan Political and Legal Institutions" arranged by Writers Union of Free Afghanistan in Peshawar 11.March, the former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto, has said disappointment with the AIG performance, conflicts- with-in major resistance groups and western fears against
?71.
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991           MMI JtHflD
 Islamic fundamentalism have led to sharp decline in international support and sympathy for the Afghan mujaheddin. She said that the AIG has failed to make any significant progress for holding elections in the liberated areas of Afghanistan. About relations between Kabul regime and Iran, she observed, these have been steadily improving, especially in the last two years as Iran is no longer averse to a settlement process in which Iran, Hezb-e-Watan (ex-PDPA) including•Afghan ruler, Najibullah, have a. role. She said that Pakistan should- have a fresh larger view of Afghan conflict by honoring the Geneva Accords in letter and spirit together with a vigorous pursuit of a peaceful political settlement of the Afghanistan question. (PT)
 * Pakistan has lodged a strong protest with the Kabul regime on blatant violations of the Pakistani territory by the Kabul regime, troops in which one SCUD missile was fired in Terri Mangal area 29 January. The Kabul regime troops also fired 25 February on Ghulam Chakmanni in Kurram Agency killing three Afghan refugees. (MLM)
 * The NWFP Governor, Amir Gulistan Janjua, has submitted to the President a report regarding Afghan refugees' repatriation and arrangements for Afghan refugees who are willing to go back to their country. (JG)
                                              13
 * The US State Department in its annual report regarding human rights situation in Afghanistan writes, "those suspected of opposition to the government are either tortured or executed. The youth are dragged to military conscription by the use of force and people are searched for no reason". While condemning the use of SCUD missiles and other destructive
                                                                                         VOL>4 NO.2
  arms by the Kabul regime, the report also accuses the mujaheddin for the violation of human rights. (VOAPS)
  *  Mohammad Ibrahim Taherian, the Iranian Charge d'Affaires in Kabul, met Wadeer Safi, the Kabul, regime Minister for Civil Aviation, and discussed with him resumption of Ariana flights to Tehran and Bandar Abbas and assured him agreement with Ariana flights to Iran. (RA)
  *  The Afghan mujaheddin are reported to have conducted rocket attack 5 March on the surroundings of Jalalabad Airport killing to Kabul regime troops and capturing, three others along with their arms during swift operations. The mujaheddin also seized 101 klashinkovs. (PT)
  *  In the historical Afghan city of Herat the UNESCO is planning to repair old monuments which were badly damaged .during the Soviet bombing and shelling. The AIG is reported to have already agreed with the plan. (PT)
  *  A protest meeting, held under the auspices of Provincial Union of Afghan Refugees' Headmasters in Peshawar 11 March, expressed indignation and deman-ed a probe against the Assistant Com-issioner of Afghan Refugees, Education Department for having allegedly insulted a theology teacher. (PT)
  *  In its report about human rights situation in Afghanistan an American human rights organization, "Asia Watch" says that during the attacks and battle between Kabul regime forces and the mujaheddin, innocent people are being killed. The report also says that old men, women and children fall victim to the mine blasts planted by the Soviets and the destructive weapons being used by the regime forces. The organization has, however, admitted
1 that in comparison to the past, when
272
 JANUARY-MARCH# 1991          ftfUlWNJ((iAO               VOL.4 NO-2
 Soviet troops were present in Afghanistan, torture and execution of prisoners without trial has reduced to some extent. (MLM)
 *   Sources close to the Afghan mujaheddin say that three people were killed and 17 others injured during clashes between Khalqis and Parchamis in Herat city 8 March with damages also to the houses. Five people are also reported to have been killed and many others injured in clashes between rival groups of the Kabul regime militia in Pashtun Zarghun and Shindand areas of Herat and Farah jSrpvinces, (NTN)
 *   The daily Nawa-i-Waqt in an editorial 13 March on " .a recent statement of Pakistan's former Premier Benazir Bhutto implying that the Afghan mujaheddin should come to a compromise with Najibullah regime in Afghanistan says, the people of Pakistan faced SCUD missile attacks, bomb explosions and loss of lives of their innocent countrymen and .their dignatories and offered sacrifices side-by-side with, their Afghan^ brethren* In doing so they, not Only wished an independent Muslim neighbour, free from Indian influence, but also to impede the thrust of communism in the region. Although the major objective of Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan has been achieved, a government acceptable to the Afghans remains to be established. The Afghans have a right to exercise this choice and it will be acceptable net only to Pakistan but to the world as a whole.
 (NWT)
                                                T4
 *  Afghan refugees in southwest Asia constitute the world's largest group, with , some 3.2 million refugees in Pakistan and 2.8 million in Iran, says a UN report. Of the some 15 million refugees worldwide, at least 75 percent are women and children. in some.
 countries women and children constitute . 90 percent of the refugees. (PT)
 * Addressing a gathering in Peshawar, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, said the US was frightened of a mujaheddin government and, therefore, it was trying to maintain a status-quo by helping Najib to remain in power. He said the US considered mujaheddin's victory in Afghanistan as 1 a threat to its imperialist designs. He said the' mujaheddin would foil the super power conspiracies and establish a truly Islamic order in Afghanistan. He said the current revitalization of Islamic
                                        ' I
 movements in Kashmir, Palestine, Afghanistan, Jordan, Egypt, Algeria, Sudan and other parts of the world predicted that the next century will be the century of Islam and the Muslims.
 He said the US was out to crush the Islamic movements in different countries and unleash a reign of subversion against the Muslim leaders. (MLM)
 *   Mohammad Ibrahim Kandahari, a prominent Afghan astronomer and former government official, died of heart attack at the age of 75 during a trip to Paris. (VOADS)
 *  According to Radio Kabul, in the
 mujaheddin operation on Herat 80 rockets were fired killing' five persons and wounding another ,        30. .  No
 material damage has. been reported. (VOAPS)
 * Commander Abdul Haq has told the BBC in an interview that three other powers have been added to the mujaheddin organizations already existing. They ( are the commanders, tribal leaders and. the ulama. (BBCPS)
                  15
                                                             Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 14 March, the chief of
273
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 Harakat--e-Islami, Ayatullah Mohsni, proposed the creation of a supreme jehad council in the Kabul area under the united command of commanders of all participating mujaheddin and establishment of a revolutionary council outside the country for leading the politics of the country. In case this was not feasible, the alternative could be creation of an independent interim government of well-known Muslim Afghans with ’ no affiliation to a specific party. He ruled out the possibility of Zaher Shah being accepted in any capacity as an interim arrangement for solving the complicated problems. He said the news aired by Radio Tehran about the dissolution of his organization was baseless and false "and this matter had -no affect on our jehad activities". (MLM)
 * Dr. Abdul Majeed, a well-known Kabul regime personality and five other persons defected to the Badghis mujaheddin 28 February. Meanwhile, Abdul Rahim another Kabul regime supporter in Baghis, defected to ther mujaheddin 4 March together with 80 klashinkovs, 9 maohineguns, three vehicles , and 10 cases of ammunition. (VOIRA)
                   16
 * The US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister indicated 15 March that they had. reached broad agreement on .the question of Afghanistan, security in the Gul'f and‘efforts for'an overall settlement of the Middle East problem. They told reporters common ground on issues with linkages were established during t?heir talks . The Soviet Foreign Minister, Alexander Bessmertnykh told reporters after his second meeting with the US Secretary of State James Baker, that the main subject of their discussion was the future of Soviet-American relations. (PT)
 chief
 Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said the mujaheddin are ready for a decisive attack on Kabul. He said the Kabul regime troops were no more willing to fight for Najibullah who had now been compelled for recruitment of militia from other provinces. He also said this winter Najibullah had arrested three of his security men and high ranking army officers. (NWT)
 * The mujaheddin in their operation on government, positions at Khost destroyed the city's radio station. Rockets were also fired on Khost Airport. (BBCFS)
 * General Mohammad Ishaq Tookhi, one
 of Najib's aides, has told the BBC in an interview in Germany, "we have met with representatives of the moderate mujaheddin groups including those of Sebghatullah Mujadd4di". (BBCFS)
                 17
 * Talking with AAP in Peshawar, the chief of Haratfat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Ayatullah Asif Mohseni, has said that the so-called peafce formula of deposed Zaher Shah was not acceptable for Afghans who are the only ones who can solve their problems. He said that setting up an interim government with the collaboration of all organizations was the first step towards solving the Afghan problem. He said the interim government can hold general elections afterwards. (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime has announced, a ceasefire with the Afghan mujaheddin during the month of Ramazan, says BBC quoting a speech on television by the regime Defense Minister Aslam Watanjar. He said the regime troops will not act unless attacked. The mujaheddin have so far not reacted to the offer. Meanwhile the Kabul regime authorities have confirmed rocket attack 15 March by th£ mujaheddin and said that it did not cause much losses to them. (JG)
The
of
Hezb-e-Islami
JANUARY“MARCH, 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
 * Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, in a gathering at Shamshatu held on the occasion of the Herat uprising of 15 March, 1979, said, "we condemn the shooras which are formed by' hints from foreign powers to split the nation and cause bigotry and fanaticism among them. Instead we must strengthen our fortifications against the Kabul regime". (VOAPS)
                   18
 * The AIG has rejected an accusation by Mohammad Ishaq Tookhi, an aide to Na jib, that he had met AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in Europe. (VOAPS)
 * A number of military establishments were destroyed when the mujaheddin attacked the Qargha Garrison in Kabul. In another attack in Parwan,. one tank and two military vehicles were destroyed. (FP)
                   19
 * MIDIA reports that due to mujaheddin attack in Badghis 6 March, the 7 5 th division of the Kabul1 regime forces surrendered to the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin also captured 12 transport vehicles and 93 pieces of. arms. (VOADS)
 *    Nia.matul1.ah Aziz i, Chief of
 Jamiat-e-Islami communications, in the
 southwestern region, has said that
 Ismail Khan, the region's general
                      ♦
 commander, has rejected the Kabul regime offer for a ceasefire during the month of Ramazan. (BBCFS)
                   20
 *  . Resistance sources report that during the mujaheddin attack on the old Khost Airport, two tanks and an armored car were destroyed and 21 soldiers killed. The report adds that it is the
 first time during 12 war years that the mujaheddin tanks have reached Khost proper. (VOAPS)
 *     Following     joint    mujaheddin
 operations against the Kabul regime forces in Khost, Abdul Wakil, regime Foreign Minister, has asked the UN Secretary General to take necessary measures for stopping these operations which, he has alleged, was assisted by Pakistani troops. (RA)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have captured Khost Airport in Paktia province and
 7,000  Kabul regime besieged troops in Khost garrison have offered to surrender. Mawlana Mohammad Yaqub Shariatyar, a spokesman of the Mujaheddin Military Council, has told the AAP that general amnesty’ has been announced .for those . who surrender unconditionally.A The mujaheddin shot down two helicopters killing their pilots and the crew. They also destroyed four tanks and 13 armored vehicles and captured one tank and three armored vehicles. After capturing the airport, the mujaheddin are now, advancing towards Bagh-e-Sahra Airfield to prevent air operations from there, the spokesman added. (NWT)
  *  The kith, and kin of Soviet POWs in Afghanistan have demonstrated in front of the Soviet Foreign Ministry in Moscow and demanded necessary measures Cor seeking release of their PQWs. Meanwhile the Soviet Foreign Ministry has set up a commission headed by a
■Vice Foreign Minister to ensure the release of their POWs. (NWT)
  *  ANA reports that, in their major operation in Khost 18 March, the Afghan mujaheddin have captured 15 military v posts including the strategic Surnami Post. They also killed 45 troops including 15 officers, arrested 20 others and captured two tanks. Fifteen mujaheddin were killed and 20 .injured
I in the operation. (JG)
275
 * The Afghan mujaheddin are increasing their pressure on Khost military garrison, reports BBC. The Kabul regime has, however, refuted claims that they have lost control ‘of Khost Airport. (NWT)
 * In the wake of fierce fighting in Khost city between Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime troops seven hundred Afghan families have crossed into Pakistan border area of Miran Shah. (NWT)
 * Ten Afghan mujaheddin were killed and one injured when their Toyota pick-up hit a mine , planted by Khad agents at Kashkai?- in district Surkhrood, Nangarhar province, reports MIDIA. (NWT)
 *   Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan has described as false the news broadcast by Kabul radio that the party has been dissolved. A spokesman of the Hezb said that it was the wishful thinking of the Kabul regime. (PT) *
 *  In a series of operations to block the route of military supply convoys alohg the Salang Highway, the Afghan mujaheddin frustrated the advance of a convoy of the Kabul forces in Samangan province. In fightings between Mazar-e-Sharif and Tangi-e-Tashkurghan, two tanks and five military vehicles were destroyed and the mujaheddin seized large quantities of food and other supplies. At the same highway last week; 12 Kabul troops were killed or injured. There were no casualties on the mujaheddin side. Following the mujaheddin guerrilla operations, the Kabul regime forces started shelling the rural localities where five people were injured. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin hit with rockets the ' KHAD office in
Baghlan city and killed one official and captured two others. Khad office was totally destroyed. (PT)
*  The UN will spend $ 169 million in the current year under Operation SALAM on the development of war-ravaged Afghanistan. (JG)
                 22
*  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, in a resolution issued on the occasion of the Afghan New Year has said, "it is my expressed desire that during the new year the people of Afghanistan, the ulama, commanders and the elders unite with each other. .1 believe that a Loya Jirgah representing the Afghans should be established in order to determine our destiny. I wish that they gather together in Afghanistan and decide upon the future of the country". (VOAPS)
*  Zalmai Khaliizad, a ranking official in the US-Defehse Department, says that the present deadlock in the Afghan issue can be broken by a relaxation of Soviet support of the Kabul regime and harmonizing the military and political efforts of ,the mujaheddin against that regime. (VOADS)
*  The BBC has claimed that Pakistani1 air and land units have been seen moving along Pakistan-Afghanistan border. It adds during . the Afghan mujaheddin operations•in Khost garrison city, Pakistan military and militia have taken part. The BBC has further: added that Chinese made aeroplanes have been flown to Miranshah Airport a few miles away from Khost city, by Pakistan. An armored brigade and an artillery unit have also been stationed in the vicinity of Afghanistan border. (NWT)
*  A powerful Russian made bomb, weighing two kgs. exploded in thp house
276
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991          nlUlfflll ll
 of Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-lslami Afghanistan and AIG Minister of Foreign Affairs and Reconstruction. Rabbani was in his residence at the time of explosion at 9 PM, 2 March. Sayyed Jamal, a Security guard on duty outside the residence was killed and another guard Adil was hospitalized with serious injuries. (JG)
 * The involvement of Pakistani troops in Afghan mujaheddin's operations in Khost city was rejected in toto by Jamshed Marker, Pakistan Ambassador to UN during a 30 minute meeting with Perez de Cueller, UN Secretary General. The meeting was proposed by the UN Chief after M. Roshan Rawan, Afghan• Charge d* Affairs, handed him a letter from Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil accusing Pakistan of "aggressive adventurism". (JG)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin during their operations in Khost have captured three villages. Two mujaheddin commanders have been killeld. The leader of Hezb-e-Islami. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, is' supervising the operations. Commanders Khair Mohammad, Haji Niazi and Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani have rejected as false rumors about mujaheddin retreat from post around the old airport. They have invited journalists to see for themselves the situation adding that, inspite of Kabul'regime’s firing of SCUD missiles and bombardment, the morale of mu jaheddin remains un-affected and*high as ever. (NWT)
                   23
 *    While Pakistan has denied categorically involvement of its air or
  land units in Afghan mujaheddin's fresh operations' 'H in Khost, the-’ Kabul., regime Foreign Minister's letter to the UN Chief states, among other things, that the grave consequences arising from "continuous Pakistani aggression"
                                                                             VOL.A NO.2
 would call for an emergency meeting of the Security Council to address the situation. Meanwhile; a UN spokesman said that Benon Sevan, the Secretary General's personal representative on Afghanistan, after meeting with Soviet officials in order to-settle the Afghan problem, has returned from Moscow to Islamabad. (MLM)                  . '
 *  In the decisive battle for Khost Garrison, according to an ANA cor-_ respondent from Mirnashah, .mujaheddin captured 15 security posts and eight tanks' north of Khost city. The muja.heddin also seized three armored vehicles, 35 heavy weapons, anti-aircraft guns and 60 klashfnkovs. Fifty regime personnels were captured while two high ranking officials and dozens of regime militiamen were killed, v Five mujaheddin were also killed and 11 injured. In the south of Khost, mujaheddin captured three security posts alongwith one tanks, four military trucks, 20 regime' personnel, four officers and a cannon. Another report says mujaheddin captured, the whole of 70th Brigade of the Kabul army 21 March. While catching alive more than 40 regime soldiers, the mujaheddin seized two tanks, three armored vehicles, 25 heavy weapons and 65 klashinkovs. Twenty regime personnel were killed in this operation. A radar and wireless , installation at the Ghulang area was also destroyed by the mujaheddin. Meanwhile, in the face of mujaheddin's , intensive operations, Kabul regime has resorted to the use of brutal force including the massive air bombardment, SCUD missile, etc on mujaheddin positions. (MLM)
 *  Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former King of Afghanistan, in his New Year message has said to the nation that his plan called for the establishment of an emergency Loya Jirgah to pave the way for general elections, the establishment of an Islamic political order and
277
 JANUARY-MARCH» 1991
 parliamentary ..democracy withi'n the' framework of this order. He hoped that speedy practical steps are taken in this connection. ( BBCFS)'
 *  An important militia leader in Badghis has recently defected to the mujaheddin with 120 klashinkovs, seven machine guns, two rockets, 250 cases full, of ammunition and two transport vehicles. (VOIRA)
 *  In their attack in Baghlan, the mujaheddin have captured the KHAD offices killing one officer and injuring another three. (RPDSj
                  24
 *  Amnesty International has called on the Kabul government to end torture of prisoners and open detention centers to international inspection. The London based human rights organization has said it had report^ that the Afghan Security Ministry had held hundreds of political prisoners without charge or trial for upto' nine years in interrogation centers and prisons. Amnesty, while giving details of ill-treatment, torture and poor conditions inside the detention centers, called on the Kabul government to open up all its detention centers to full and regular inspection by independent international humanitarian organisations. (PT)
 * According to the mujaheddin reports, Jaji Maidan, 45 kms. from Khost, has been liberated together ' with a KHAD base and a large number of other security posts around khost. The report adds that 1,200 families of the district have migrated to Miranshah, Pakistan. (BBCPS) .
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, has stated in a radio message that the resistance offered by the Najib forces in Khost was negligible
 VOL,4 NO.2
 and the security belt in the north of the city has been totally destroyed with the Grace Of God. (BBCPS)
               25
 *  Most of the posts surrounding the Khost area have been captured by the mujaheddin while the battle is raging and Kabul plans are attacking. Radio Kabul has claimed that mujaheddin have been driven back and 50 of them have been killed. (JG)
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,t the AIG President^ has said in an interview with the VOA, his visit to Europe was prompted by the request of some Afghan political refugees residing in Europe for discussions on the situation in Afghanistan. He said the Libyan government had also extended invitation to him' to visit .Libya which, I accepted, though Libya had not yet assisted in the Afghanistan issue.
 (VOAPS)
 *  The foundation stone of "Balkh University ” was laid by Dr. Mohammad Anwar Shams6 the Kabul regime Minister of Education, in Mazar-e-Sharif 24 March. (RKDS)
               26
 *  A Soviet Foreign Office statement issued by Soviet Embassy in Islamabad has alleged that in the battle of Khost, Pakistani secret service officials and military experts are helping Afghan mujaheddin in their fight with the Afghan regime forces. A statement issued' from Moscow says* according to confirmed sources, Pakistani airforce planes have violated the Afghan airspace as well and Pakistani troops supported by anti-tank rockets and artillery are fighting the Afghan, forces. The statement emphasizes that pertaining to Geneva pact in
278
 regard to the Afghanistan problem, the USSR is one of the guarantors and reports that one of the two parties to the conflict is being practically provided with military aid, is a matter of great concern to the USSR. The statement goes on to say that instead of trying to solve the Afghan problemi through peaceful negotiations, Pakistan is violating the pact with impunity. (NWT)
 * The Pakistani Charge d' Affaires in Kabul, Mahfuz-ur-Rehman, has again been called to Kabul's Foreign Office 25 March to receive of protest against Pakistani troops' presence in khost aiding the Afghan mujaheddin. Pakistan has already denied the allegation as false and baseless. Meanwhile,, the Kabul government has asked the UN Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar to. send a fact finding team to Afghanistan (JG).
 soldiers were waving white flags in token of surrender to mujaheddin while Kabul regime planes are continuously pounding the mujaheddin's positions.
 (PT)    •
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, has requested the mujaheddin in a message to respect the life of the civilian population in Khost. Old men, women and children should not be killed and mujaheddin should only fight those who challenge them, he has said. (BBCPS)
 *  A Kabul regime transport aircraft, bringing military supplies to Khost, was shot down by the mujaheddin killing the pilot and all its crew. In another operation, the mujaheddin captured three security posts around Khost killing a number of troops. (RPDS)
 *  According to / AAP in London, the mujaheddin have cleared most of the mines in the security line of Khost and have entered the suburbs of Khost city. Mawlawi Mohammad Yaqub• Shariatyar, spokesman of mujaheddin's military council in Paktia, has reported that Khost Garrison Commander, Brigadier General Sher Zaman and Colonel Mohammed Awaz who happened to be inside the
 /military headquarters. Were killed when mujaheddin outran the headquarter. The spokesman repudiated VOA1s news that the Kabul regime besieged troops are supplied through land routes. (NWT)
 * The mujaheddin are advancing towards
 Khost garrison and it is now the question of clearing of"mines which has already been completed in the eastern side.               '    . s''
 *  Mohammad Younus Qanooni, Chief of Political Affairs of the Council of Commanders, has said in an interview that 300 commanders from mujaheddin organizations in Herat, Farah, Nimroz, Urozgan, Helmand, Badghis and Kandahar provinces have accepted membership of that Council. (VOAPS)
 *  The Council of Commanders reports that in their attacks on Khost the mujaheddin captured the Ozbin and Dukan posts together with the Qarar Kelai village in Shaila area killing 13 troops and capturing a tank with three soldiers. They also captured another tank north of Khost together with Soori Ghundai and the Arin posts. Five mujaheddin were killed and four wounded. The strategic Kokarak post, overlooking the Khost city, was also captured in the east.
                                                                    According to reliable sources over
 5,000   Afghan civilians, including women, children and old people have sought refuge in Pakistan border town of Miran Shah. They have disclosed on arrival that "the besieged Kabul
      The Najib regime is continuing heavy air raids and firing SCUD missiles on the mujaheddin positions around Khost. The mujaheddin cut off the over-land supply routes to Khost
279
JANUARY-MARCH, 1991      HIUHWlJ1WHII    : .             VOL.4 NO.2
 and the regime troops are now being supplied by air only* The mujaheddin^ destroyed two aircraft 'with artillery fire on the airport.
 , In the west of the city, they have captured the Armalkai., Kangai and Lali security posts. . A Kabul regime offensive on the Ghazian village south of Khost was repulsed. The. war in Khost has forced the majority of the inhabitants to migrate to Miranshah.
 (VOADS)
                  27
 * The Qaisar, Faryab, mujaheddin have captured eight militia commanders and a large quantity of arms. Five mujaheddin Were killed and another 18 were, wounded in the attack. In another attack, 18 March, the mujaheddin killed eight Kabul regime militiamen and killed another 10. Four of the mujaheddin were killed and other 12 were injured in the attack. (VOADS)
 '* The US based human rights
 organization, "Asia Watch" says that
 tens of thousands of Afghans have so
 far been killed and wounded in mine
 explosions laid during the Soviet
 invasion throughout Afghjanistan. The
 report adds that the mujaheddin are
 also planting anti-personnel and
 anti-vehicles mines without identifying
 their locations. According to the BBC,
 "Asia Watch" says that most dangerous
 mines made of rubber and plastic which
 are planted by mujaheddin cannot be
 detected by mine detectors. The report \ *
 says mine sweeping program which has started in Kabul, according to the. Russian maps has riot yet proved fruitful. (PT)
 * In Herat fighting between mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces is continuing for the last two weeks In the course of mujaheddin operations, two security posts and several enemy installations
 were destroyed while 20 Kabul troops were killed and injured. Kabul regime planes were bombing • the surrounding areas which resulted in the killing of Afghan civilians and martyrdom of two mujaheddin. Another report says 10 mujaheddin were killed when their vehicle hit a mine in Surkhroad, near Jalalabad 16 March. Meanwhile as many aS 55% students of Kabul' University have failed and are accusing ' the teachers for bribery and mal-practices resulting in poor response from the students. Teachers allege that students as well as high ranking officials pressurize the teachers to change the results. (PT)
 *  Sayyed Rasool, the former Director General of Radio Department of the AIG Ministry of Information, .. was killed by a bomb concealed in a book sent as a gift to him in Kulangar, Logar 25 March. Sayyed Rasool, 45, was a well known activist of jehad and prominent writer. He served in different capacities including as editor of Mujahed and the Rah-e-Islam and was the author of many books. He had formed a "front"’ of mujaheddin in Kulangar and frequented the interior of Afghanistan to supervise the activities of his front and the progress of armed struggle against the communists. Khad had every reason to assassinate him. (PT)
 *  The US ambassador in Islamabad, Robert Oakley,i met the President of AIG Professor Sebghatullah mujaddedi in Peshawar 26 March and discussed the latest situatidfa in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  Jang correspondent reports from Peshawar that Dr. Najibullah Lafrai, the AIG . Information Minister, has debunked a claim by the Kabul regime President that the mujaheddin attack in Khost has been repulsed. He has also rejected the claim that Pakistani
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
                                                                           VOL.4 NO.2
 troops a^e fighting with the the mujaheddin in Khost. Lasrai has reiterated Commander Haqqani's proposal for the visit of UN Observers to see for themselves the situation. He has claimed, that the fall of Khost^was. imminent, (MLM)
 *  While talking to MIDIA speical correspondent through a wirless 23 March, Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani rejected the Kabul regime allegations about the presence of foreign troops or advisors on the mujaheddin side in Khost. He invited the UN Secretary General's envoy and journalists to see for themselves the truth. Regarding the mujaheddin's unity, Mawlawi Haqqani said the Khost war was directed by a 23-member Council of the of seven mujaheddin organizations. Haqqani added, despite the firing of more than 40 SCUDS, heavy air bombardment and thousands of mines’, the mujaheddin have maintained their onward-march on Khost and have successfully driven away the enemy forces.' Haqqani called on the mujaheddin leaders to close their ranks and Vork for a united leadership. (PT)
 *  A delegation of WUFA met ' NWPP Chief Minister, Mir Afzal Khan in his office 25 March and informed him about the objectives of the Union mainly to educate the people of Afghanistan regarding the reconstruction of their country. He said that the object of the union was to counter anti-Islamic propaganda at intellectual • level, holding o* dinars, educate the people and spreaa the message of Afghan people to the entire free world. The Chief Minister, while lauding their efforts, said both pen and media could play a pivotal role in leading the masses on. the road to progress. (PT)
 * It is reported that in Upper Thakal, of Peshawar the residence of Dr. 1 Ghulam Jeelani, Security Officers of
 the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan was- attacked 26 March by unknown assailants as a result of which Dr. Jeelani, his brother and mother were killed and Dr. Jeelani's several other family members were injured. One of the assailants was also killed* The assailants could not be identified. There were different speculations regarding the identity of the assailants:   old enmity, political
 sectarial    differences     including
 political rivalry among Afghan parties. It may be recalled that recently during a bomb attack by unknown assailants on the office of Swedish Committee in the University Town, an employee of the , Committee Shah Jehan, was also killed.
 *    Pakistan    Foreign    Secretary,
 Shahiryar Mohammad Khan, in a news briefing,     , while     categorically
 contradicting the accusations of Kabul regime ragarding the involvement of Pakistani troops in mujaheddin's invasion of Khost, has said what is happening in Khost is entirely a matter of Afghan mujaheddin who are doing it on their own and as such any allegations based on. Pakistan's involvement in it is totally baseless and concocted. (PT)
                 28
 *   Afghan airforce planes heavily bombarded mujaheddin positions in and around Khost 26 March. According to a MIDIA report, Kabul planes dropped napalm and cluster bombs on mujaheddin positions. Recent Najib claim from Radio Kabul that Jaji Maidan was recaptured has been rejected by , the mujaheddin. (NTN)
 * Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and the AIG Minister of Reconstruction, while congratulating the mujaheddin for their successive victories in „ Khost, has condemned Kabul regime for dropping.
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1991                      filUHlIHtlUliUI                              VOL.4  NO.2
 SCUD missiles, napalm and cluster bombs in Khost against the mujaheddin. (NTH)
 * Latest.wireless messages, received by Al-Bunyan News service indicate that the old city airport of Khost has fallen to the combined mujaheddin forces. Khost Radio and T.V. centers have been already knocked out by the mujaheddin. Meanwhile the whereabouts of Lt. General Mohammad Ali, the Garrison Commander of Khost is still unknown. He may have been killed or fatally'wounded in the fighting. (PT)
 * The President of AIG, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, had li hour meeting 27 March with President Ghulam Ishaque Khan on the Afghan issue. He also informed the President about the recent successes of mujaheddin in Khost and other sectors. President Ghulam Ishaque Khan, while assuring AIG President of Pakistan's continuous support of the principled stance of Afghan brothers, added that Pakistan favors a representative government in Afghanistan and does not recognize Najib's puppet regime because it does not represent the Afghan people. (JG)
                           t
 * The Kandahar mujaheddin, in a series of operations, have destroyed a number of targets -25-26 March in Kandahar Airport.
      A member of the Boldak District Jehadi Council told the MIDIA office in Quetta that in their artillery attack bn the MIG regiment of the Kabul Air Force at Kandahar airport, the mujaheddin hit . a MIG-25 and damaged airport installations as well. In the attack, the mujaheddin also killed four officers and 16 soldiers of the regime. (PT)
 *  Quoting Radio Kabul, The Washington Times writes, Moscow, despite economic problems would continue its assistance to the Kabul regime. While quoting the
 USSR Ambassador to Kabul, the paper says aircrafts carrying cargo land in Kabul airport every day. This is a clear evidence of Soviet intention to support the Najib regime. According to US sources, Soviet aid to Kabul amounts to $300 million every month.(VOADS)
 *  As a result of a fierce fighting between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Faryab, Reza Khan the jnilitia commander has escaped to the Soviet Union together with a number of his men. Reza Khan Alokozai, a dignitary of* Qaisar district, had' joined the government forces earlier.
 The Kabul regime claims that Reza Khan was a commander of Jamiat-e-Islami with
 10,000 men. (BBCPS)                    . 'i
                 29
 *  The ICRC officials who were taken hostage by the mujaheddin 10 weeks ago, have all been released. The commander of the mujaheddin group which had them in his custody stated that the ICRC officials were preaching Christianity to the local people. He added that the decision to release them Was taken after the ICRC office assured him that i the preaching would not be repeated.
 (BBCF)                                    I
 *  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, a leading mujahed commander in Khost, in an interview with ANS has said that most of the strategic points around the beliegured city have been seized by the combined mujaheddin units and its fall was imminent. The veteran commander said "we're using reactivated tanks captured earlier from ■ the regime forces." (PT)
 *  Abdul Qayyum, the newly appointed Kabul regime Consul in Peshawar, has said that the government of Pakistan should keep away from Khost operations because any step by Pakistan government
282
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1991    HIBIIHU.uIBHII                    VOL.4 NO.2
may prove detrinfental to the efforts made towards maintenance of peace in the region. Daring a meeting he accused Pakistan of helping the mujaheddin. This, according to him, is against the Geneva convention. Furthermore he claimed that four days ago, Pakistan military officers and Saudi advisors accompanied by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar witnessed military operations in Khost sedtor of the battle to boost the morale of mujaheddin. The Consul claimed that like Jalalabad and Kandahar the Kabul regime troops will win the Khost battle as well. He claimed that, in Khost, Kabul regime forces have so . far captured 243 mujaheddin. (NWT) - '
*   According’ to a MIDIA■ report mujaheddin shot down a MIG-23 aeroplane over Kandahar airport killing 20 military officers and soldiers. (NWT)
*   The Kabul regime Prime Minister Khaliqyar has called for Pakistani-Af-ghan dialogue but Pakistan •has not responded. Commenting on the meeting between the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi with US ambassador, Robert Oe^cely, -he said that it was a part of US policy indicating that it is interested in the resolution of Afghanistan problem. He was asked to comment on the proposal of stoppage of arms delivery to mujaheddin as well as Kabul regime forces, he said such an agreement will be honored provided Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Israel and Egy'pt also stop aiding the mujaheddin. (NWT).
                  30
 * The I£abul regime Foreign Ministry spokesman, Humayun Mukammel, has said that the mujaheddin are retreating after heavy losses. Mukammel claimed that nearly 200 mujaheddin died in the "failed" offensive against Kabul regime
 including 120 in the nearby town of Jaji Maidan. (PT)
 *  Afghan mujaheddin sources have claimed that the Khost military base, fell to Afghan mujaheddin 26 March, after they launched a fjresh offensive on the Garrison. The Chief Of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,is also in Khost to supervise-the operations. (MLMj *
 *  Islamic Charity Projects International held a meeting at the AIG Education Ministry office at Kababyan and distributed food stuff among 700 needy Afghan refugee families for the holy month of Ramazan. Several. Afghan leaders who attended the meeting lauded the efforts of ICPI chairman for Afghan refugees. (MLM) ’
 *  The AIG Prime Minister Professor Sayyaf has. vowed that the present struggle of the mujaheddin' will continue till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He warned that the mujaheddin will never accept coalition with the "despicable" Kabul regime nor sit with it at the table and instead continue their struggle for the achievement of their cherished goal. (PT)
 *  An AFP report says three Swiss Red Cross Workers, held by the Afghan Mujaheddin, since 12 Jahuary, while on a. mission in Kandahar, have been freed. An ICRC statement said they had been held by the Commander of an Afghan faction and were released unconditionally after negotiating efforts by the ICRC in Pakistan an$ Afghanistan, (PT)
 *   The Kharan Rifles Wing of Baluchistan Corps has foiled attempts for smuggling a considerable quantity cf£ modern weapons and ammunition frqm Afghanistan to Baluchistan, Pakistan. The stock of ammunition, guarded by seven smugglers near Afghanistan in
JANUARY-MARCH. 1991
VOL.4 NO.2
Chaghi of Dalbadian, included missiles, rocket launchers, rockets, mortar bombs, klashinkovs, LMG magazines and remote control devices. (JG)
                 31
*   The US Ambassador to Pakistan, Robert Oakley gave a check for $25,000 to Benan V. Sevan, Representative of the UN Secretary General in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the Coordinator of UN Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs for Afghanistan, to support disaster relief efforts in Afghanistan. With this amount, . the US aid to this fund, will amount to over $500,000.
(PT)
*' Employees of Afghan Refugees Commissionerate will go on a pen-down Strike for an indefinite period to. protest against the recent retrenchment of the Commissionerate employees. Fazl-ur-Rehman, president of the Afghan Refugee Commissionerate         Employees
Association, in a press conference demanded immediate withdrawal of .rpt^eAChment orders and warned of a coufitry-wide agitation movement if the demand was not heeded.(MLM) *
 * More than 20 mujaheddin commanders of the Supreme Council of Khost in a meeting have claimed to have achieved their preliminary objects from the operations in khost and the regime
 posts south of Khost were now controlled by them. The mujaheddin shot down four aircraft of Kabul regime forces carrying arms and ammunition.
      Meanwhile, commander of Afghan mujaheddin, Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has said that the mujaheddin are deliberately cutting down on their attacks of Kabul regime troops during the. past 2 days so as to provide the civilians and Kabul regime troops to leave Khost city. Haqqani said it was in. the interest of Kabul regime troops to surrender and the civilians to lgave the city prior to the mujahedin's attack. Some 1,200 militiamen of Kabul regime, are reported to have already surrendered to the mujaheddin in Jaji Maidan, In a message to local shoora of commanders in Khost, Prof. B-urhanuddin Rabbani leader of Jamiat-e-Islami has, meanwhile, congratulated them for their bravery. (NTN)
      The Saudi government has invited President     of      AIG,     Professor
 Sebghatullah. Mujaddedi, to . visit that country. The visit, which is significant, will be undertaken after Eid-ul-Fitr. Meanwhile, the US Ambassador, Robert Oakley accompanied . by Peter Tomsen, special US envoy for mujaheddin have called on the AIG President. The meeting, lasting about two hours, was also attended by members of the mujaheddin's Advisory Council of Kunar Province. (NTN)
7
284