                               CHAPTER-H
                                      PRESS
                            1 June-31 December
                                       June
                           1
 .. The special UN envoy Mr. Cordovez said US and Soviet Union have expressed iheir support to Geneva process of indirect talks on Afghanistan. He thanked ’akistan government, particularly President Zia for continued support to his lission. At the same time Mr. Cordovez said Afghanistan was a very difficult and sxtremely complex problem but some people under-estimate the difficulties.
 . The Indian Prime Minister Mr. Rajiv Gandhi has said that Afghan mujahedin are not going to win and the Soviets are there at the invitation of the fghan government. And as long as Karmal feels insecure he is not going to hange his mind.
   Indian Premier Rajiv Gandhi has said Mr. Gorbachev's view on Afghanistan roblem are more positive than those of his predecessors. He said Gorbachev may Lthdraw Soviet troops if Pakistan and US give assurance of non-interference.
                          2
 . US Defence Consultant Dr.. Edward Luttwak has said US guarantee to akistan against Soviet aggression is futile, because the Soviets can strike irough their Indian proxy. He said most feasible way would be to air-drop applies direct to the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan.
 -. The United States has denounced what it called, "a large Soviet-railitari-sd fort along Afghanistan-Pakistan border and called on Moscow to remove its coops from Afghanistan.(MIM)
                          3      :
 . Four Afghan jet aircraft violated Pakistan airspace on 29th May in Badin rea..
 . A Pakistan veteran politician Khwaja Safder has said Pakistan is interes-ed in a peaceful settlement of Afghanistan issue.
                                      25
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUN&-DECEMBER
1985.’
                                         5
   8.     Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani told National Assembly today that Afghan planes have so far violated Pak. airspace
   for 615 times since 27th December 19??«He said Pakistan Air Force did not take
   any action against Afghan planes because we don't want to create more tension.(JG).
   9.     In an editorial daily DAWN has commented on -forthcoming round of Geneva talks. The paper says continuation of the crisis is not in the interest of any of the states of the region. It is bad for the super powers as well as it acts as an irritant across the whole spectrum of their relationship. (IK).
                                         6
   2q A Pakistani member of Parliament Lt. Gen. (Retd) Majeed Malik has strongly condemned unprovoked, wanton and naked Afghan aggression against Pakistan territory. He said Pakistan must act in self defence within its own frontiers to stop such raids.
   LI., UN Secretary General's special envoy Diego Cordovez has said with the passage of every day, situation in Afghanistan is becoming more complicated. He
   stressed on solution of Afghan issue as early as possible.(FT).
  12.     UN mediator on Afghanistan has outlined plans for drafting agreements to,
  settle Afghan problem. But he declined to elaborate the agreements. Mr. Cordovez stressed the urgency of the situation which was becoming mere complicated. But he said he was encouraged by his recent trip to Islamaoad and Kabul'during which all concerned acknowledged that the problem must be solved politically. (MIM).
  13.     Seven Afghan refugees were injured in an explosion in the office of Itte-had-e-Afghan refugee organisation in Peshawar. (IN).
                                        7
  14.     Pakistan ambassador to Bangladesh Mr. Tanvir Ahmad Khan has said that India being leader of NAM should speak more openly against Soviet armed intervention in Afghanistan. He said Soviet presence and war in Afghanistan are a big threat to;security of Pakistan. ,
  I                           ,
  15.     Rajiv Gandhi has said India compares Soviet invasion of Afghanistan with US invasion of Grenada. He said there is a Justification for the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan as they were invited by Karmal regime. (FT).
  16.     President Zia will go to Darosh, where he will be briefed about Pak airspace violations and incidents of firing rockets and bombing in which 12 persons martyred and 22 others injured. (NWT).
,17. Ulema in the entire Chitral valley condemned Afghan aircraft bombing which killed 12 and injured 3$ in Juna congregations on Friday last. (FT).
                                      2&
  JEHAD ANNUAL                        PRESS           JUNE-DECEMBER       1985.'
   13. A reader in his letter to Editor of The Muslim says how tragic it is to see that what Soviets could not achieve in Afghanistan after sending there 150 thousand troops and suffering probably 50 thousand dead and wounded, the Americans have got in Pakistan, without firing a signle shot. True, our Afghan policy is not dictated by US, it is run and executed by them. Morality is on the s'iae of the mujaheddin, but the US involvement in the struggle damages the cause. (MIM).
                                       8
  19. A large Soviet force has failed to break siege of the mujaheddin of a garrison in Eastern Afghanistan due to stiff resistance from mujaheddin. According to Reuter, Soviet para-troops who had landed in Kunar valley,' 30 KM from
  Barikdt garrison,have practically come tinder mujaheddin's siege. (JG).
  30. According to B))C, Babrak Karmal has warned Pakistan.not to interfere in
  Afghanistan's affairs. He said both Pakistan and Iran are training, arming
  and exporting counter-revolutionaries. (PTj,
  21 • There are 279 refugee camps in NWFP alone in Pakistan for 2.1 million re^ fugees. In these camps all necessary facilities like health, education, water supplies, veterinary services are provided. They also provide income generation schemes.                                                          '
  23., One Afghan girl was killed in the shelling of Afghan armed forces on 2nd July. 4 shells fell in the Pakistani area one kilo meter south west of Khyber Agency.
 23.   Soviet Union has expressed its support to indirect talks going to begin on 20th June to find a political solution of Afghan issue. According to diplomatic sources, Pakistan had proposed that permanent members of UN Security Council should give international guarantee for non-interference and China has shown willingness to provide such guarantee.
 24.   Afghanistan has always served as a buffer between South Asia and the Soviet Union. The Soviet occupation of Afghanistan has eliminated the buffer, making Pakistan a front line state. It has sharpened threat perceptions of the government and the people of Pakistan because Pakistan's another hostile neighbour has for-
 ■ ged close friendship with the Soviet Union. Pakistan is for the first time surrounded by the Soviet Union and India, which has created a grim situation for her.
 25.   Soviet Union has warned Pakistan that it should know that hands of those
 who play with fire can also bum. Radio Moscow has quoted Pravda to have said that Pakistan has allowed the US to use guns from its (Pakistan's\ shoulders. (NWT).
                                      9
 26. '■ President Zia has said that Pakistan's restraint should not be misread by anyone. It has the will and capability to defend its territory and its people..
                                      27
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
                                                                                 1985:
        The President said the Afghanistan problem was global. (W).
        ^7. President Zia has warned that Pakistan will be forced to reconsider its policy if Afghanistan dia not stop wanton attacks on Pakistani territory (NWT).
        28.   Referring to Afghan attacks on Pakistani territory, President Zia has said that Pakistan has faced these provocation^ with patience out of a desire to preserve an atmosphere in which a negotiated settlement of Afghan issue remained
      4 possible. (PT),
        29.   According to a latest report, two persons were seriously injured in a high intensity bomb explosion near Met office in Parachinar. (MI).
      30.     President Zia has warned that if the other Party thinks that it can weaken our determination for a political settlement of Afghanistan issue, by making attacks on our civilian population, then it is its mistake. He said Pakistani people will never yield to pressure and will not recognise the -mpgal government in Kabul. (JG).
                                            10
      31.     In an editorial, daily Jang has said that the series Of attacks on Pakistan's border areas after Soviet occupation of Afghanistan is not only a clear violation of international norms, it is against the peace and security in the entire region. It may be recalled that whenever a round of Geneva talks comes nearer, Karmal administration stepped up its activities against Pakistan.(JG ).
      3-2. In an editorial, daily Muslim referring to President Zia's warning against attacks on Pakistani territory says this is a legitimate assertion of the Head of State of an independent sovereign country. The Paper opines, we should not allow another super power to exploit the situation and induce us to accentuate tension or adopt a policy of confrontation. (MIM ).
      33.     Four Afghan ME 23 violated Pakistan airspace on 7th June in the Arandu area of Chitral district. Pakistan has lodged a protest with Kabul authorities over the incident. (MI).
      34.     The paper has written an editorial on President Zia's warning against
     . territorial and airspace Violations by Afghanistan. The paper,quotes the view point of those in Pakistan who criticised the government's restraint policy, as these violations are on the increase. But those who suggest recognition of Karmal regime, whatever reason they may have for their point of view, it can be said without any fear that they don't keep in mind the expansionist tradition of the Soviet Union. (HWTX
      35.     The .Pakistan Minister of State for External Affairs Mr. Zaln Noorani told
28
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
      Parliament that Pakistan will not allow any country to issue threats to its security nor it will be brow-beaten or pressured through any provocation (MIM )•
      36.    Mr. Zain Noorani has said that Pakistan's principled policy on Afghanistan was guided by its own national interests and was not dictated by the United States or any other country. He said Pakistan was determined to follow its policy, irrespective of threat from any quarters.(IK )•
      37.  ■ Pakistan Minister of State for External Affairs has said that Pakistan will not accept any pressure on its policy about Afghanistan issue. He said the United Nations and Islamic countries have endorsed Pakistan's principled stand.
      Mr. Noorani added that we want to prefer solution of the issue through peaceful
      negotiations. He said there is no military solution of tSis issue- (NOT
      38.    The NWFP Governor General Pazle Haq has said that Pakistan wants to resolve the crisis of Afghanistan through political and peaceful manner. It has never thought of solving the problem militarily. .
      39 A task force of non-official Indo-US experts has said the growing tension on Afghan-PakLstan border makes a negotiated settlement of Afghan conflict increasingly urgent. It says the UN should be supported as it seeks to build on the progress so far made for the political settlement of the issue. (FT ).
                                        12
      40. Three members of National Assembly from Punjab have condemned the barbaric
      bombardment of Afghan war planes on the village Sweer of Chitral.(MlM )•
      4i . Pakistan government has rejected Kabul authorities protest made on 6th
      June, in which it was alleged that on May 31, 1985 Barikot was subjected to
      heavy firing from Pakistan side of the border.
      4-3. Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, addressing a news conference before his departure from Algiers, said he discussed with Chadli Benjadid the situation in Afghanistan, beside other matters.
      43. President Zia has said that Pakistan has been working for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue because that is the only way to promote amity in the region (PT J.
     44. The Soviet forces equipped with the most modern weapons have.reached on the Pakistani border by making massacre of Innumerable Afghan civilians. Soviet troops can easily be seen from the Pakistani border area Arandu. Contingents from 8th and 11th Division of Karmal Forces are also with the Soviet troops. (NOT ).
                   ##
29
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
                                                                               198$;
                                           13
      '45» India adopted a shrewd posture on Soviet military intervention in Afghan-istan. Though the Indian leaders did not fully endorse Soviet action, they endeavoured to down-play or condone the direct Soviet military intervention. The Indian government was not perturbed by Soviet military presence in Afghanistan. What disturbed them most is the 03 decision to strengthen Pakistan's defences. They felt threatened by American aims supply to Fakistan rather than by the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan. (MIM ).
      46* Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi has stressed on the political solution of Afghan problem. He said that India is directly affected by stock-piling of arras in the neighbourhood. Mr. Gandhi did not mention presence of Soviet troops, in Afghanistan, but he said foreign intervention has threatened the region's
      security and stability. (JG ).
      1. . ■
      47. The editor of the Magazine, The Community of Washington, says there will be no change in the US policy towards Pakistan, particularly in view of Indian Prime Minister's visit to US, because of American vital interests in the region. (MIM).
    4^. American joumalist/scholar, Selig Harrison today conceded the possibility of greater American involvement in the context of deteriorating situation on the Pak-Afghan border. He also called for greater Indo-U3 pressure to secure Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. (IN).
    49*. Afghan militiamen entered Pakistani territory and opened fire and killed a Pakistani businessman ZahirAcl c.kzai in Chaman town bordering Afghanistan (MIM
    50. 3ahibzada Yaqub Khan has said that Pakistani government and the people will not hesitate from any sacrifice for the defence of their country. He assured the Parliament that beside moral and material resources, Islamic countries' and United Nationswert:with us. (JG).
    5** Reagan Administration has declared arms sales to help Pakistan to face military threat from Soviet-backed Afghanistan despite Indian objections. A White House senior official said we think that India's role as the strongest regional nation and its relationship with the Soviet Union put them to play an important part in efforts to find a political solution to the Afghanistan issue.
   52.    Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said that the government and the people of Pakistan would spare no sacrifice for the defence of the motherland against provocative and in-human violations of its territory. Referring to President Zla's remarks in Chitral, Yaqub Khan said the people of Pakistan will not be pressured into recog-
                                          30
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRE3S
JUNE-DECEMBER
1965.'
      niaing the present regime in Kabul (HIM ).
                                       14
      53.   BBC quoted a senior American official to have said US will welcome a more 3traight-forward Indian attitude towards Afghan problem. The official said US will also want India to persuade Soviet Union through its influence to sign a political agreement on Afghanistan.
      54.   President Reagan has told the Indian Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi that US arms sales relationship with Pakistan i3 directed at helping that country deal with its security problems resulting from the 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
      55.   Mr. Rajiv Gandhi has told the US Congress in Washington that India stands for political settlement of Afghanistan issue. He reiterated India's view that interference and intervention have put the security, stability of the region in jaopardy. (PT ).
                                          15
      56.   Mr. Rajiv Gandhi ha3 said that the Soviets ere in Afghanistan on their invitation. Giving interview to ABC News in Washington he said, he does not feel that the Soviet role in Afghanistan is to balance US support to Pakistan.
            On the other hand Senator Gordon Humphrey has said, "we hold the Soviets to be invaders and a3 such find no analogy,"
      57.     The savage Soviet military campaign against villages has greatly disrupted the rural communities that had been supporting Mujaheddin. The Soviets have created a state security apparatus of some 30000 personnel controlled by KGB and they may have infiltrated into the ranks of Mujaheddin. Through Sovietlsation of educational system, Soviets are training the future generation of Afghan leaders in the Soviet Union. The increased border violations have two main purposes, firstly to attack rebel bases and secondly to increase pressure on Pakistan. (PT ).
      58.     Four Afghan MIG-23 entered into Pakistani airspace and dropped four bombs in Arandu area of Chitral. As a result, one man was seriously injured.(NWT ),
     59.    In an interview on ABC TV, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi repeated India's view that Soviets had been invited into Afghanistan and there was interference from Pakistan by Mujaheddin against the Afghan government. He said a really non-aligned government in Afghanistan is not possible without Soviet pull-out. (MIX )•
     160. Giving an Interview to ABC TV, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi said Soviet forces will not go back as long as the foreign intervention continues in Afghanistan (NWT).
                                          31
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
                                                         20
        76.    The UN Special envoy Mr. Diego Cordovez said today that fourth round of Geneva indirect talks would consider specific documents containing definite instruments for the solution of Afghan issue. But he said he could not give details. He said he is greatly encouraged by the reiteration of the two side3 for a political solution.
        77.    Commenting editorially, on Afghan plane3 violation of Pak airspace and shelling on its territory, The MUSLIM says in this connection, we feel helpless not only because our government is not taking any serious action against these barbaric attacks but also because our innocent village people and Afghan refugees on Pak-Afghsn border are being harassed and killed. Paper says it is time our government paid serious attention to tile matter of utmost importance. (MIM ).
        78.    UN Secretary General Mr. Cuellar has said that the US and Soviet Union have expressed support to UN sponsored efforts for the solution of Afghanistan issue. But he said we cannot see any outcome from exchange of views between the two countries on this issue, because they did not hold talks, they have just met,
                                        22
       ,79. Pakistan has been informed of diplomatic’ efforts on more than one level regarding settlement of Afghanistan issue. However some informed sources believed that recent contacts would have good effects' on the efforts for political settlement.On the other hand a US spokesman has refused to comment on exchange of views between top diplomatic representatives of the Soviet Union and United States (JG).>
       90. Commenting editorially, the paper says in our view the main benefit of holding direct talks with Soviet Union would be that it would help remove doubts and suspicions about interference in Afghanistan's internal affairs by Pakistan and some otter countries in the heart of Soviet Union. The paper says positive outcome can be expected from the forthcoming fourth round of Geneva talks, because for the first time since Soviet invasion, the two 3uper powers have held talks on this issue. (JG),
                                       23
       81.    A US official said the Washington meeting (US-Soviet) was meant to give a boost to the fourth round of UN sponsored talks in Geneva. (EN ).
      82.    Speakers at the US Congress-sponsored form called for intensifying world wide pressure on Soviets to vacate Afghanistan. Che speaker said Mujaheddin would
                                                                34
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRE3S
JUNE-DECEWBER
mt
  also be assisted in their own information, education and cv '.tural activities. (MIM ).
  83.    The Pakistan delegation headed by. Sahibzada Yaqub kr.an had a detailed study of the revised package and prepared their assessment of it. A spokesman of Pakistan delegation told newsmen after the morning session that Pakistan continued to work for a political settlement in accordance with its principled'stand. ( PT ).
  84.    Fourth round of indirect talks on Afghanistan has entered an important phase. After the week-end this morning Mr. Cordovez met this morning Sahibzada Yaqub Khan end Foreign Minister of Karmal regime. (NWT.
  85.    UN Secretary General Cuellar has said the United States and the Soviet Union have voiced full support for the UN bid to settle the Afghanistan issue.(MIM).
                                    24
  86.    The Karmal regime has dismissed the Governor of Ninyarhar Province and placed him under house arrest (PT).
  87.    Pakistan has strongly protested to Afghanistan over shelling in Chaman
  town in Baluchistan province. Three persons were killed in the Afghan shelling. (NWT ).
                                    25
  88.    The US Ambassador in Pakistan, Deane R. Hinton called on Prime Minister Junejo this morning. He reaffirmed the deep US commitment for Pakistan's principled position on Afghan issue. He indicated US support for the ongoing diplomatic process under UN auspices. The ambassador expressed US administration's full support for safeguarding Pakistan's territorial integrity and national indepen-dance. (PT ).
89.      United States and Soviet Union have decided to continue their talks after reiterating their respective stands on Afghanistan problem. But according to US State Deptt. sources, there is no possibility of any decisive negotiations in the near future. (NWT).
90.      Fourth round of indirect talks on Afghanistan resuned this mcming in Geneva. Diplomatic sources say the points relating to international guarantees for Soviet troops withdrawal and return of Afghan refugees to their homeland were discussed. (JG ).
91.      Mikhael Gorbachev has said his country wants a political settlement of Afghanistan issue but we also want a friendly country on our borders, a country which is free from foreign interference. (NWT ).
35
 'V
  JEHAD ANNUAL                 PRESS        JUNE-DECEMBER    1965.'
  . 9-•   . After the end of fourth round of Geneva talks, Mr. Cordovez has described
  as useful and encouraging the fourth round. He said both Pakistan and Afghanistan have agreed that some progress has been made In the tireless and continuous negotiations. (NWT),
  93.    Governor Baluchistan Lt. General K.K. Afridi said that government would defend life and property, of the people and Pakistan's armed forces are capable of defending the country. He said Karmal government will be responsible for the dangerous consequences, if it did not stop aggressive actions against Pakistan.
  94.     According to an APP report from Quetta, an Afghan refugee is also included in those killed as a result of artillery Afghan fire in Ciiaman city. The report said the attack was made when people were offering Fajr prayer. However, morale of the people in the area is high and they are condemning this Afghan act. (PT ).
  95.     It is a most bitter fact that since the end of 1969 Tnrt-a and Soviet Union were determined to eliminate Pakistan which is an obstacle in their nefarious plans. Another important fact is that for the present Russia is fully trying to make Pakistan hold direct talks with Karmal regime and recognise it, to get a moral and legal justification for its aggression against Afghanistan. (NWT ).
  96.      An article entitled "Rajiv Gandhi's mission to Washington" in The Pakistan Times says while in Washington, Rajiv Gandhi repeated his stand that Soviet for-, ces had been invited by the Karmal government and that there was interference from Pakistan by mujaheddin against Afghanistan. He thought the Russians would accept a neutral, non-aligned Afghanistan and would welcome political settlement of this tangled issue.
  97.      The UN Special envoy Mr. Cordovez has insisted that any solution found as a result of the proximity talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan must surely be practicable. It was simply ridiculous to have a docmient which could not be implemented. (PT ).
  93. In an interview to journal "South" published by Third World Foundation, President Zia has said he does not feel any real Soviet military threat for Pakistan. He also said he is not worried over presence of Afghan forces on the Pakistan border. Speaking about attacks on Pakistani border areas, President Zia said these may be aimed at de-stabilising the Islamabad government (JG )•
 99* The UN special envoy Mr. Cordovez has described the just completed fourth round of Geneva talks as encouraging. But he warned that future progress of the negotiations would depend entirely on the two interlocutors taking some difficult
                                       36
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
                                                                     1985.
   political decisions. He said Afghanistan's shelling of Pakistan border was recorded during the talks. (MIX ).
   100.    The Baluchistan governor, K.K. Afridi has said that effective steps have been taken to check Afghan shelling and air raids on Pakistani territory. He said it has been made clear to Afghan administration that such attacks don't have any legal and moral justification and Pakistan has right to take steps to check such attacks. (JG).
                                      27
   101.    In an editorial, the daily JANG says, fourth round of Geneva indirect talks on Afghanistan has ended and Mr. Cordovez's impression that the parties concerned have to take some difficult decisions to reach a final outcome, is enough to rule out any optimism about the fourth round. In view of Soviet tough attitude on the question of its troops withdrawal and India's indifferent attitude towards Soviet presence in Afghanistan, it is evident that it is Pakistan which has to take difficult decisions, because Pakistan is most affected country as a result of Afghanistan crisis.(JG)»
 101. Daily Muslim in its editorial comments on "Geneva-IV' says it is obvious that no political settlement can be achieved without concurrence of either of the two superpowers. Referring to Pakistan's policy on the issue, the paper says there should be no reason why the nation should not be taken into confidence on the degree of progress at the Geneva talks. (M1M ).
 103.    In its editorial, the paper says, The UN envoy Mr. Cordovez has said fourth round of Geneva talks ended with an encouraging note. He said the talks were successful in the sense that the two sides had a clearer idea of the sort of questions they were expected to tackle to achieve a workable and implementable solution. (PT )•
 104.    Sahibzada Yaqub Khan said that Geneva talks were positive. But he said there is no time-framework, which in our opinion is the major breakthrough, that is actually of great Importance. He added the Soviet Union has not changed its position on the question of troops withdrawal. Regarding direct talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan, the Foreign Minister said that stage has not yet reached.(PT).
105.     A Pakistani political leader Maulana Shah Ahmad Noorani has said Pakistan should firmly adhere to the principles of non-alignment and steer itself clear of superpower rivalry. He called for direct talks with the Kabul regime to find a political solution to the Afghanistan crisis. (IN).
106.     The defunct Pakistan National Party (Baluchistan) has called upon the Pakistan government to accord recognition to Kanoal regime, so that the region cou-
37
JEHAD A1WUAL_________________________PRE3S_________JUNE-DECEMBfcR 1965;
 Id become tension-free and security of the country (Pakistan) remains’protected.
 The President and General Secretary of the Party in their joint press conference demanded shifting of Afghan refugees to camps close to Pak-Afghan border from the cities, (IN).
 107.    A guerilla leader has said the Afghan families living in the Panjsher. valley fled to caves at the upper enc! of the valley because of recent Soviet at> tack3 ana terror tactics. He called for emergency food and medicine aid. ,
 108.    Karmal regime's aggressive designs against Pakistan, particularly last Saturday's unprovoked artillery fire on Chaman city killing three persons are being strongly condemned by a cross section of the people of Baluchistan.(PT ).
                                    28
 109.   Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said that progress has been made in Geneva talks
 on Afghanistan. He said there has been no,change in Pakistan's four point policy, (jg),
 110.    Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said that a lot of work has been done in Geneva talks on Afghanistan and way has been paved for further progress. What has been done is positive and is a positive step towards a political settlement of the Afghanistan issue. He said for us the most important point is the time-table for the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. (HWT ).
 111.    BBC has reported that Afghanistan issue was missing in Rajiv Gandhi's talks in Moscow with Soviet leaders in contrast with Mrs. Gandhi's last visit to Moscow when she specifically called for Soviet troops withdrawal. (MIM ).
 112.    President Reagan giving interview to an Arab journalist said the only' solution to Afghanistan issue is the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. He said the Russian forces in Afghanistan cannot crush Afghan resistance but at the same time resistance movement is also unable to oust Soviet troops from Afghanistan. Therefore what is needed is to come on the negotiations table from the battlefield. (JG ).
 113.    Sahibzada Yaqub Khan says that Geneva talks on Afghanistan have moved forward. He says the progress that ha3 been made so far is concrete, but it Is not as great that I and you would have liked. He says nevertheless, it represents an important step towards the attainment of a political settlement of Afghanistan problem. (MIM).
                                    29
 . 114. UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar and US Secretary of State George Shultz have discussed Afghanistan issue in their talks in San Fransisco (JO,).
   115.   In a letter to editor, Brig. Ishtiaq All Khan from Islamabad writes about Prime Minister Junejo's statement about talks with Soviet Union on Afghanistan
                                      38
  JEHAD ANNUAL_____________________ PRESS         JUNE-DEGEMBER      1985.'
  issue. Referring to his words, "It is the Soviet Union that matters in Afghanistan", t(he writer says he is sure Prime Minister by no stretch of imagination means that the people of Afghanistan may be bypassed.(MIM ).
  116.    Prime Minister Junejo of Pakistan today sounded a strong note of warning to Karmal regime that Pakistan will retaliate if its territory was attacked again (PT ).
  117.    Prime Minister Junejo has described as coward act last Saturday's artillery shelling from across the border on the peaceful and unarmed people of Cha-man which resulted in the death of 3 persons. He said interference by a super power in Afghanistan's internal affairs has added responsibility to Pakistan's defence. He said people in Afghanistan were struggling for their independence.
  118.    President Reagan has said a negotiated political settlement to Afghanistan issue remains the goal of the US policy. In an interview to an Arab journalist, he said we. fully support the strong resistance of the Pakistan government to cross border intimidation. (M ),
                                   30
  119.    The Human Concern Relief Fund Society of Canada has raised 16000 dollars in one night at Ottawa mosque for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The Society sent more than 50,000 dollars for the Afghan refugees. (PT ).
 150. A meaningful collaboration between the two Super powers can lead to a lasting settlement of Afghan issue. They should keep in view the norms of humanity and international peace and work jointly to end Afghanistan crisis.
 1-1. Mr. Rajiv Gandhi has said he was opposed to all foreign presence in Afghanistan and he looked forward to seeing an independent and non-alignment government in that country. Reagan Administration officials said it was for the first time since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 that an Indian leader was willing to ^become directly involved in a settlement of Afghanistan prisis.(MIM)*
                                 July
                                                   1 .
 122.   Soviet base in Shindand is only 400 mile? from Hormuz Strait. If Afghani-istan goes under permanait Soviet control, it will not only be a threat to Pakistan but to the entire region and Europe also-. It was stated by a conservative British MP lord Brown. (PT),
 123.  Karmal's wife Mahbooba Karmal Inaugurated a "Watan Nursery", an orphanage
39