 JEHAD ANNUAL                     PRE3S        JUNE-DECEMBER 1985.
  south of Kabul, In the biggest offensive yet mounted in the six year war against Soviet occupation. (NWT ).
                                  30
  193.   for the first time in more than five years, Soviet TV showed 2g minute report on the un-declared war in Afghanistan. The report showed what appeared to be battlefield footage and heroic words from a group of Soviet soldiers. (EIJ )•
  194.   Radio Moscow and Kabul have admitted that fighting is continuing in five provinces of Afghanistan. Radio Kabul reported that government troops seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition during their actions to restore law and order in Ningarhar. (NWT ).
 195.   Mujaheddin have captured the Governor of Farah province in an ambush. Meanwhile an Afghan soldier who defected two weeks ago in Paktia province has said that at the behest of Russian masters, the soldiers are forced by the Kabul regime to get naked from 7pn\ to 5am in order to preclude their diesertions.
 196.   A number of civilians were killed and some houses damaged in bombardment by SovietrKarmal troops supported by Soviet helicopters on civil population of Darre ?ech in Kunar Province.
 197.   Mujaheddin killed or injured 50 Soviet-Karma! troops in an ambush on a military convoy heading towards Herat from Kandahar. (PT ).
                                 31
 198.   A 12 year old Afghan refugee was killed in a scuffle between the shopkeepers and some other people in Peshawar today.
 199* Heavy fighting has been reported around Kabul between Soviet troops and mujaheddin. The Soviet embassy was reported to have been hit for the third time this month, but details of damage are not known. (MIM).
                                                      August
                                  1
200.   Indirect talks on Afghanistan for settlement of Afghanistan issue will be resulted on Ath August 1985. In this round question of Soviet troops withdrawal in particular will come under discussions. (NWT ).
201.   Foreign Ministers of European Economic Community have expressed hope for a headway on the question of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan as a
                                  48
JEHAD AJ'jNDAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEM3ER
1985.
  result of current diplomatic efforts being made for this purpose. They expressed concern over the Afghan situation. (HWT ).
  10-. Pakistani tribesmen have smashed an inter-state gang of Afghan dacoits along Baluchistan border close to Afghanistan. A dacoits havebeen wounded and arrested while 17 others are in state of siege by the tribesmen. (PT ).
  103. Pakistan government has rejected Kabul authorities protest of July 29, alleging that Pakistan armed forces fired on Barikot on July ?5» which resulted in the death of one person and injuries to two others. (EN ).
                                       2
  204.  According to a Radio Kabul report Afghanistan has stopped the departure
  of Muslim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia, after the Saudi authorities created 'hurdles’.
  205.  Voice of America quoting Western diplomatic sources has said mujaheddin have completely wiped out 444 Karmal Commando Brigade, in the Panjsher Valley.
  It said hospitals have been packed with wounded people. (PT )•
  2Q6. Mujaheddin attacked a military contingent near Shirin Tagab town on 16th July. The contingent was going tcwards Faryab capital of Maim ana to Daulatabad.(NWT).
                                       5
 207.    Pakistan government has rejected Kabul's protest of August 1, on the alleged Afghan airspace violation by Pakistani aircraft on July 26 and Pakistani armed forces firing at Barikot on July 26, 27 & 29. (M1M ).
                                       6
 208.    Lawrence Iifshultz in an article in the paper says there cannot be any settlement unless and until there is a genuine stepping back from the existing policies of escalation on the part of both the United States and Soviet Union.
 A negotiated settlement implies that the regime in Kabul would be reconstituted involving a much broader political base. (MIM ).
 209.    Richard Evans in his despatch from Logar Province of Afghanistan to The Daily Telegraph says members of the Black Muslim religious sect are fighting alongside the Afghan mujaheddin. The number of volunteers from north Africa and Middle East is also on the rise. (DJ ).
49
 JEHAD ANNUAL                      PRESS         JUNE-DECEMBER 1985.'
                                     8
 210.   Mawlavi Mohammad Nabi Mohammad! of Harkat Inqelabi Afghanistan has claimed that resistance movement is at a better level in Afghanistan and they are doing well against Soviet-Karmal forces. The shortage of food supplies and arms and ammunition is the main problem for the resistance in Afghanistan (MIM )•
                                     9
 211.   An underground organisation of Afghan women, the Revolutionary Association of Women of Afghanistan (RAWA) is emerging as an effective political force in the struggle against Karmal regime. Earlier in March 85, a news item appeared in the local press saying that RAWA was working as an agent of Russian intelligence service KGB.
 212.   Two Afghan refugees were killed and two others wounded following an explosion in a truck near Peshawar. (MIM ).                        -
 213.   One Afghan refugee was killed in Afghan artillery fire in Pakistani territory. 13 shells of Afghan artillery fell in the area between Arawali and Iaka Tigga posts 22 miles from Parachinar. (NWT ).
                                   10
 214.   Relief goods including life-saving drugs worth several million dollars received for Afghan refugees are dumped at the Peshawar Airport for a long time.
 215.   Afghan Foreign Minister said in an interview that Afghanistan wants direct talks with Pakistan and it opposes "Finlandisation" of the country. (MIM ).
 216.   Mujaheddin got released hundred youth after attacking a military centre near the provincial capital of Farah near Iranian border. They killed 8 Soviet-) Karmal troops and captured the Incharge of the centre in this operation. (NWT ).
                                   21
217.    The British daily OBSERVER has expressed the hope that Afghanistan problem will soon be solved following a change in the Reagan Administration's policy. (PT).
218.    The Afghan ground forces fired 13 rounds of artillery on August 10, which landed in the area between Arawali and Lakka Tigga post, 22 miles of Parachinar.
One Afghan refuged was killed. (BN )•
                                         50
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
                                  13
 219.  Babrak K&rmal has ordered local bodies elections in Afghanistan, first time since revolution in 1976. (NWT ).
 •43. Babrak Karmal has said his country was erecting such obstacles along its borders which cannot be crossed. He said he had to separate Afghanistan from its hostile neighbours. (MLM ).
                                  17
 221.  Amir Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan Ehgineer Gultuddin Hekmatyar has arrived in Paktia province on a short visit. He will inspect the mujaheddin positions around Khost cantonment which is under mujaheddin's siege. He will also finalise the mujaheddin'3 plan to attack Zazi cantonment. (NWT ).
                                  18
 222.  The famous mujaheddin commander of Paktika province Mohammad Yar alongwith his five mujaheddin was martyred on 9th August in a clash with Soviet-Karmal troops. (NWT ).
                                                           20
 213. The emergence of a seven-party alliance of Afghan resistance forces 3eem3 to be durable, as it is based on the very imperatives of the resistance war. This united front can do what the political parties of Afghan mujaheddin failed to do.
 It is obvious that the unity among the mujaheddin forces has unnerved the Kremlin which has gone feverish in the war threats in Afghanistan (PT ).
 224.  Four Afghan aircraft violated Pakistan's airspace on August 19 in Parachi-nar area and dropped 8 bombs on Kewas village, 6 miles from the border. As a result 8 Pakistani nationals were killed and 12 injured. Fakistan has strongly protested over thi3 violation. (MIM ).
                                  21
 225.  Speaking on an adjournment motion in the National Assembly, Mr. Zaln Noorani said Pakistan had not interfered in Afghanistan's internal affairs and certainly, was not responsible for any attack inside Afghanistan (MIM).
 226.  Eleven Pakistani nationals were killed as a result of 8 bombs dropped on village Khewas In Parachinar area by 4 Afghan aircraft. Mr. Zaln Noorani has said
                                          51
                                                                                                                             !
                                                                                                                             j
                                                                                                                             i
 JEHAD ANNUAL ______________________PRESS__________JUNE-DECEM3ER       1985."
 the aim of such attacks is to undermine prospects of a political settlement of•
                                                 Afghan issue. He said Pakistan shall never submit to such crude pressure tactics.
 Mr. Noorani told National Assembly, our defence potential against such air and ground attacks is being strengthened. (PT ).
                                    22
 127. Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zain Noorani has said that unprovoked and cowardly attack by Afghan aircraft on civilians near Farachinar was a blatant act of aggression against Pakistan
 228.   Diego Cordovez has said he expects next round of indirect talks on Afghanistan would not take the process significant forward. He said it is not easy, but he is ontimistio, it can be done. (PT ).
                                    24
 229.   The UN envoy Diego Cordovez leaves for Geneva to conduct another round of proximity talks on Afghanistan problem.
 230.   Afghan mujaheddin shot down a MIG aircraft and a helicopter gunship in Kabul suburb, on August 16 by anti-aircraft gun. (PT ).
 231.   Former US President Richard Nixon met the Pakistan ambassador in Washington Mr.Ejaz Azim on August 22. The ambassador apprised-the former President of forthcoming round of Geneva talks on Afghanistan. (JG).
                                    25
 232.   . Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said the progress in the fifth round of indirect talks in Geneva depends on the attitude of the other party. He said no doubt Afghan problem is a complicated problem, but it needs to be solved as soon as possible.-
 233.   Senator Malik Faridullah Khan has told VOA in an interview that hundreds of tribesmen have left their homes due to frequent Afghan forces attacks on tribal areas. He said if tribesmen are provided modem weapons, they can-not only defend' themselves, but can also force Soviet forces to withdraw from Afghanistan (JG )•
 234.   Saudi government is to airfreight 34 tons of sacrificial meat through special flights to Pakistan for distribution among Afghan refugees in tentage villages (MIM ).
235.   Vice President of Jubba Mubarzin-e-Jehad-e-Afghanistan, Qigineer Khan
                                        52
JEHAD AfiNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
   Mohammad Sami has said Afghan people will welcome King Zahir Shah if he leads the Jehad.
   236.  The Malaysian Secretary General, of Foreign Affairs Mr. Tan Sri Zainul Abidin has reiterated his government's support to Afghan refugees in their hardships. He said his government is fully aware of their difficulties. He visited the Afghan tentage village in Kachi Garhi near Peshawar (NWT ).
                                   26
   237.  Pakistan Foreign Minister Sahibzsda Yaqub Khan held talk3 with Soviet First Deputy Foreign Minister in Moscow on matters of mutual interest. He made a stopover at Moscow on his way to Geneva to take part in fifth round of indirect talks. (NWT ).
                                   27
   238.  President of the defunct Pakistan Socialist Party. C.R. Aslam has reiterated his demand for direct talks with Karmal regime to end the hostilities between the two countries. He said early resolution of Afghanistan issue is in the interest of Pakistan. (MIM ).
   239.  A group of Afghan nationals has lifted a Pakistani truck after causing serious injuries to Pakistani truck driver and cleaner. (EN ).
   240.  Agency Afghan Press has reported that ten thousand antagonists of Karmal regime, now in Pul-e-Charkhi jail have resorted to six day hunger strike, to> demand end to inhuman torture. (PT ).
                                   28
   241.   Editor of Weekly Takbeer, Salahuddin in a report has said that fighting is continuing in 20 out of 21 provinces of Afghanistan. According to report, million mujaheddin are fighting against Soviet-Karmal troops on 200 fronts. It one further said during last six years 50 thousand Soviet troops have been killed. (JG)
                                   30
  242.   Two persons were killed, when 20 Afghan artillery shells landed near the Laka Tigga post in the Kurram Agency. (DN ).
  , 243. Fifth round of indirect talks under UN auspices has begun in Geneva, With the beginning of this round, Pakistan has achieved its objective which it wanted to accomplish, that it was not ready to have direct talks with Kabul regime
                                            53
'JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS       JUNE-DBG EMBER       1985»
   at this stage. (JG)
   244.  Severe fighting continues between mujaheddin and Soviet-Karmal troops in Gardez and Khost areas. The enemy planes have flown a large number of dead bodies of Soviet-Karmal troops to Kabul. (PT ).
                                  31
   245.  Mujaheddin have shot down five Soviet helicopters and MIG fighter bombers in Zazi war front. 50 Karmal troops defected to mujaheddin in Paktia, where a fierce fighting is going on. (PT ).
   246.  According to an AFP report, fighting in Paktia province has reached to its climax. Mujaheddin in their operations have killed 170 Soviet-Karmal troops including 4 military officers. Besides they shot down one Antonov aircraft and a helicopter,
   247.  Leader of the IS Congressional delegation Mr. Peter W. Roadho currently visiting Afghan refugee camps, has appealed to world community to give generous aid to Pakistan to reduce its burden. He said Pakistan is doing a great Job by giving shelter to such a large number of refugees.
   248.  The liS envoy at the United Nations Lt. General Walters has said there is complete identity of views between Pakistan and the liS on matters to be discussed in the coming session of UN General Assembly.
   249.   The two day impasse in the indirect proximity talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan was broken and talks were resumed on 29th August. (IN ),
                                                      September
                                  4
  250.   Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zain Noorani has expressed hope that next round of Geneva talks in December would produce a comprehensive solution of the Afghan issue (PT ).
                                  5
  251.   Sphjhgartn Yaqub Khan has said that intensity in fighting inside Afghanistan has nothing to do with Geneva talks. Perhaps efforts are being made to end the resistance in certain Afghan areas. (JG )•
  252.   Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said that 6th round of Geneva talks in December
5A