JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
 ference of November 22. They said it is difficult to believe that paper's correspondent is unable to differentiate between a Mujahed and a rebel. (MIM ).
 350.  According to 1)5 officials, Soviet bnion seems willing to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan and it is possible it may present a time frame for its phased troops withdrawal (NWT).
                               28
 351.  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said so far 11 lakh persons have been martyred in the Afghanistan war and over 45 lakh have taken refugee in other countries. He said Soviet Union is using toxic gas and chemical weapons against Afghan mujaheddin. He said India is Supporting Babrak Karmal regime and Indian advisers are assisting Afghan forces in this war. Besides this, Indian weapons are also being used against mujaheddin. (NWT).
                               30
 35-. Police has seized a dangerous and powerful bomb from an Afghan national Mohammad Arif, who was staying in Doaba-Tal Afghan refugee camp. Interrogations are being made.
 353.  Recently, a fierce clash took place in Panjshir valley between mujaheddin and Soviet Karmal troops in which mujaheddin inflicted heavy loss of life and material on the Joint forces. (JG).
                                            December
                                1
 354.  Two Afghan shells are reported to have fallen at Mohmand agency 60 kilometer inside the border. However no loss of life or property was reported. (NWT )»
                                2
 355.  In its editorial comments, the paper says the fact is that Pakistan has diplomatic relations with the Karmal regime and it officially deals with its representative, formal recognition notwithstanding. In his recent statement,
 Mr. Zain Noorani at no time, questioned the credentials of Karmal regime. In fact his statement very clearly leaves open the possibility and indeed probability of direct talks between Islamabad and Kabul at a time when an agreement is ready to be concluded.(MIX ).
                                   68
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
juNiE-tseemaER
1985;
 356.   One more German doctor has fallen prey to Soviet air-attacks on medical facilities and humanitarian establishments in Afghanistan. Alongwith the Doctor, 3 patients were also killed in Barak-Barak village, 80 kilometres south of Kabul. (PT).
 357.   Dr. Mega Frel of Sweden, a member of private organisation, International Afghan Coverage has said half of Afghan population has fled to other countries. Another member of the group, American expert Berry said Afghans are being forced to leave their homes under well thought out plans (NWT).
                                      3
 358.  Radio Kabul has acknowledged that clashes took place last week in ITangar-
 har when guerrillas attacked and captured 9 military posts of Soviet Karmal forces.                                            . •
 359.   West German Minister for Economic Cooperation, Dr. Jurgen Waroke opened an exhibition of photographs of Afghan refugees and victims of Afghan war in Bonn. The Minister paid glowing tributes to the heroic struggle of the Afghan people against heavy odds. (PT ).
                                      4
 360.   Pakistan Federal Minister for Kashmir Affairs Syed Qasim Shah while replying co a question in national Assembly has said that KGB agents may be present among the Afghan refugees. (NWT ).
 361.   A UN report says the Afghan govt with heavy support from foreign troops i3 using all military means to crush its opponents or suspected opponents without any respect fo: human rights. The report says prisoners taken by government troops are reportedly executed on the spot and opponents are tortured during questioning and they are held without trial. (MIM).
 362.   Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zain Noorani has said Pakistan can only consider direct talks with Karmal regime when an agreement is reached on four instranents about comprehensive solution of Afghan issue in Geneva talks. (PT).
 363.   Three Afghan agents and their collaborators were arrested on 3rd December when they were trying to take a pick-up across the border, after kidnapping it.
 (JG).
 36a. Informed diplomatic sources say a reason for no progress in Geneva talks is that as and when there seems any progress and any thing solid emerges, Karmal administration immediately started demanding its recognition. But according to QIC
                                         69
 JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
  decisions, Pakistan does not recognise Karmal regime, because of presence of over one lakh Soviet troops in Afghanistan. (JG).
  365.   Afghan mujaheddin claim to have shot down several Soviet combat planes and helicopters in Kandahar region. According to another report of Afghan Islamic Press, mujaheddin downed 8 aircraft, destroyed '5 tanks and other military vehicles and killed or wounded 900 Soviet Karmal troops in one week fighting at Islam Dara in southern Afghanistan. (MlM).
                                       5
  366.   Mujaheddin attacked a military base of Karmal regime in Nimroz province and killed a mmber of enemy troops. In a similar operation in southern Afghanistan, they killed 100 Soviet Karmal troops. (PT).
  367.   Minister of State for Foreiga Affairs, Mr. Zain Noorani has said Pakistan government is making efforts for an early release of a member of Pakistan Consulate in Kandahar. He was arrested when he went to office of Governor of Kandahar for an official work. (JG).
  368.   Mr. Gultuddin Hekmatyar in an interview with NEWSWEEK has said Pakistan was not allowing passage of arms through its territory meant for mujaheddin. He said 80 percent weapons were supplied by enemy itself on the battlefields inside Afghanistan (PT).
  369.   Chief of Tehrik-Isteqlal, Asghar Khan has stressed the need of early solution of Afghan issue. He said due to this problem, Pakistan's relations not only with India, Afghanistan and Soviet tinion are getting strained, but our relations with Iran are also not pleasant. In his view, if situation on western border improves, Indian threat will also end.
 370.  Mujaheddin killed 11 Soviet Karmal troops in three guerilla actions in Faryab province. (NWT).
                                      6
 371.   The Afghan envoy at the UN Farid Zarif denounced the report prepared by Austrian jurist and Parliamentarian Ermacora on human rights situation in Afghanistan. He said report is a collection of shallow and superfluous stories and a worthless manuscript. He described the report as interference in Afghanistan's internal affairs. (NWT ).
 372.   A Pakistani delegate at the UN Saeed Qadir addressing a UN committee, stressed on the solution of six-year old Afghanistan issue. He said Afghan people have been deprived of their basic hunan rights and the only way to redress it,
                                           70
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
  is. implementation of UN resolutions, (JG).
  373.   In an article, Dr, IJaz Hussain lias discussed the question of direct talks with Karmal regime. He says if direct talks means recognition of Karmal regime, it would be totally unacceptable because in that case Pakistan would Ferhaps lose the most important card that it holds. But direct talks can be conducted without conceding recognition through a declaration where-in the intention to withhold recognition is expressly stated. (MIM).
                                       7
  374.   Afghan government has put forward very tough conditions for the release of 4 WAPBA officials, kidnapped by Afghan Agents from an area near Chaman and taken to Afghanistan a few days back. These include Pakistan's commitment net- to give shelter to Afghan refugees on Pakistani soil, release of 3 Afghan nationals in Pakistani Jails on charges of sabotage and spying and 20 lakh rupee ransom.
  375.   Peshawar Police has arrested two persons by tinearthing the base of Afghan secret organisation KHAD in-Mohallah Jogah Shah. Another agent was arrested on the information provided by two persons already arrested (NWT),
  376.   According to a report coming from across the border, mujaheddin have killed Governor of Ghazni province alongwith Khad's local chief, during a gun battle last month. (MLM).
  377.   According to Radio Kabul, Ghulani Farocq Yaqubi has been appointed Chief of Afghan Secret Agency, KHAD.
  373. Five hundred tribesmen from South Waziristan who attended the Loi Jirga in Kabul, on return home, have decided to sever relations with Karmal regime.
  They also decided not to return 70 lakh rupee worth Klashinkov rifles to Afghan government (NWT).
  379. The General secretary of Jamaat-e-Islami Baluchistan Amanullah Baloch has called upon the government to restrict the activities of Afghan refugees to their camps, particularly in Chaghi district where balance of population has already tilted in refugees' favour. He said Afghan refugees indulged in arms smuggling and one can buy rocket launchers and klashinkovs there. He said officials of Afghan Refugee Organisation were also involved in corruption (MIM)
                                                                   9
330. General (Rtd.) Faiz All Chishti has stressed on the need of holding direct talks with Kabul regime and arrange Soviet troops withdrawal and return of Afghan refugees from Pakistan. He said holding of direct talks will be in Pakistan's
                                         71
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
     JEHAD ANNUAL
1985.'
      interest, if Afghanistan recognises Durand Line, as border between the two countries (nwt).
                        10
      331, Head of Jamiat-e-Islami Burhanuddin Rabbani has said a famine like situation has been created in Chore and Badghis provinces of Afghanistan. He said they have drawn attention of the free world and international organisations towards this situation, but so far, there is no response. He appealed to Muslim countries to help Afghan mujaheddin.
      38-2. President Zia has said Pakistan is expecting fresh attacks by Afghan and Soviet forces on its border areas. And he said, Pakistan is ready in view of these likely attacks. (JG).
      383. Federal Minister Syed Qasim Shah has assured National Assembly that government has taken necessary steps to maintain law and order in Afghan refugee camps and to avoid any clash among the local people and the refugees.
      384. President Zia has said he has so far not run out of his patience with regard to Afghanistan problem. Speaking about incursion from Afghanistan on western border, he. said, if Pakistan retaliates, only again Afghan people will suffer. He said uprising inside Afghanistan is totally indigenous and Soviet Union agreed that the issue could not be solved militarily. (PT).
                                                             It
     385; In an exclusive interview to PT, Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said beginning of Geneva-VI talks on December 16 are aimed at a negotiated political settlement of Afghanistan issue in accordance with the principles enunciated in 7 successive resolutions of the United Nations.
     386.   Western diplomats say mujaheddin have cut off main supply routes to Kabul including Salang Pass. Mujaheddin are also reported to have shot down 5 helicopters near Jalalabad. (PT).
     387.   President Reagan has said the clear lesson that has emerged since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is that "the Soviets can never achieve the military victory they seek". (MIM).
     388.   In an article on Afghanistan issue, Mateen Fikri writes, irrespective of the fact whether talks are held directly or indirectly, main conditions for the solution are Soviet troops withdrawal, guarantee for non-interference in Af-
                                             72
JEHAD ANNUAL
PREoS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
  ghanistan's internal affairs, Afghan refugees' safe return to their homes and right to Afghans to form their own government. (JG).
                                     12
  389.   According to a report prepared by US state department since 1979» ten thousand Soviet soldiers have lost their lives in Afghanistan. During this period over 700 Soviet aircraft have been destroyed. In the Afghanistan war, Soviets have to face loss of 30 lakh dollars daily. (JG ).
 390.   According to a TASS report, mujaheddin had captured a Soviet soldier and took him to Pakistan, where he wa3 tortured and forced to read the religious lesson. TASS says Soviet soldier was very clever, he started serving Afghans and fled by getting a chance. He reached the Soviet embassy in Islamabad, from where he was taken back to Soviet Union. (MIM).
 391.   US ambassador to Pakistan has presented a cheque of over 38 lakh dollars to the representative of UN High Commission for Refugees in Pakistan, for the-assistance of Afghan refugees. (JG).
 39^« Radio Kabul has reported that 9 people were killed and 54 others injured in an explosion of high intensity in the Meteorological Office on Khwaja Rawash Road in Kabul on December 8. The radio said Revolutionary Special Court awarded 2 students with death sentence and two others 18 and 19 years imprisonment- in explosion cases. The students belong to Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan. (PT).
 393. Mujaheddin have destroyed a part of Kabul administration's Finance Ministry by a bomb. On the other hand, due to blockade of roads leading to Kabul, Karmal regime is facing acute shortage of petrol. (NVIT).
                                   13
 394« Nafees Siddiqui in his article on US-Soviet Geneva sunmit writes that an agreement over Afghanistan does not mean that America, Afghanistan and Soviet Union shall give up their efforts to influence Pakistan. Pakistan may even become a hotbed of these efforts. If rightly or wrongly, USSR reaches a conclusion that the whole of Pakistan can be converted into a region of influence, then it will formulate its policies accordingly. And US will also like to have a foothold somewhere in this region. Then the US can make use of Confederation demand and refugees with whom it has direct relationship. They can exploit Afghan refugees at the time of their return to their homeland. Therefore Pakisw tan's real problem is not a solution of Afghan crisis but the aftermath of this solution. (MIX ).
                                         73
      JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DEC EMBER
1985.'
       395.   Mr* Diego Cordovez has said a settlement of Afghanistan issue depends on the ability of the parties to promote mutual confidence. (PT).
       396.   Eighty four persons were killed or Injured in two severe bomb explosions in Kabul. According to Radio Kabul these explosions took place at Polytechnic college and on airport. (NWT).
       397.   Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has announced general amnesty for those Afghans who are present in Afghanistan and due to certain reasons cooperated with Soviets| but are now ashamed of it.
       398.   US Chief of Army Staff General John Adams has praised Pakistan's principled stand on Afghanistan problem. He said Pakistan's stand is a source of encouragement for the free world. (JG).
       399.   Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze has had talks with the Karmal Foreign Minister Shah Mohammad Dost. Mr. Shevardnadze expressed firm Soviet
       support for the constructive program of a political settlement of the Afghan problem. (PT).
       400.   Hundreds of WAPDA workers brought out a procession demanding repatriation of 4 WAPDA officials, kidnapped 11 days ago at Chaman by armed men of ETismatullah Muslim, an Afghan fugitive, who now holds the command of border militia in Kandahar province. (MIM).
                                          14
      401.    UN General Assembly has expressed grave concern over large scale violation of human rights in Afghanistan. In a resolution to this effect, which was approved by 75 votes in favour, 30 votes against, Austrian jurist Ermacora's report on human rights situation in Afghanistan was praised. (MIM )•
      401. Five saboteurs were arrested near Cliaraan on illegally entering into Pakistan. Reports 3ay, they had come to Pakistan for terrorist acts in Baluchistan and other parts of Pakistan.
      403.    A member of Pakistan National Assembly, Sheikh Rashid Ahmad has said Afghanistan is an international problem and it is being ignored. There was no mention of Afghanistan issue in the SAARC sunmit conference and it seems that India, being a regional power, is putting pressure power, so that no positive
      step could be taken to solve this issue (JG).
                                          15
      404.    Governor NWFP Fazle Haq has said there has been flow of arms, amminition and money from Afghanistan into the Khyber Agency following the visit of Wall
                                             74
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
  Khan Kokikhel's son to Kabul to attend the 30 called Loya Jirgah organised by Karmal regime. (MIM )•
  405.   An article by Jamilla Luijekx says the Afghans are a poor but dignified nation. Their independence is so dear to them that they have resisted a super power that has occupied their country and employed most terrifying arms of destruction. Inspite of their terrible fate the Afghans are determined to regain their freedom. One should not see this war as a holy jehad of Islam against communism. On the contrary, it has become a war, over the years, against a cruel tyrant, in order to restore their own way of life and national independence.
  406.   Fifth round of indirect talks on Afghanistan issue in Geneva is going to be held next week. The western diplomats in Islamabad are doubtful that Moscow will be ready for partial withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan. (PT).
                                     16
  407.   President Zia has said Afghanistan situation has become a serious threat for world peace and stability in the region of South Asia. For this purpose, he said, solution to this issue should be found through negotiations.
  408.   In editorial comments, the paper says, that before the beginning of 6th round of Geneva talks on Afghanistan, United States has informed UN Secretary General that it is ready to provide guarantees as required by USSR for its troops pull-out. Now it is upto US® to present a timeframe for its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. (NWT).
                                     17
409.   A Soviet flag was set ablaze in front of Soviet embassy in Ottawa (Canada) by 300 people who were demonstrating against the Soviet Union, on the eve of sixth anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. (PT ).
410.   US Dy. Secretary of State John Whitehead says US wanted to include regional countries particularly India in the solution of Afghanistan issue. He said continuous occupation of Afghanistan by Soviet Union is the worst example of colonialism.
411.   According to an Afghan Press International report, 4 Soviet Advisers were killed and two injured in a powerful explosion in the Bari Kot rest house in Afghanistan. (JG).
412.   VGA says, mujaheddin attacked a large air base outside Kandahar city last week and destroyed 2 Soviet planes. (PT).
75
     JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DBCEMBER
1965.*
                                        18
      413.  The U3 Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead has repeated the US position that the only lasting solution to war in Afghanistan is a negotiated political settlement that gets Soviet troops out of Afghanistan and permits the Afghan people to determine their own destiny. (HIM )•
                                        19
      414.  Mujaheddin attacked a big convoy of Soviet Karmal troops which was on its way to Badghis province and killed 100 troops including some commanders.
      They exploded a bomb in a vehicle at Kabul airport in which 65 Afghan troops were killed. (PT ).
      415.  US Information Agency has arranged a program under which it will provide small modem cameras to Afghan mujaheddin, which will be used to make films of the resistance war in Afghanistan. (JO).
                                       20
      416.  VOA has reported that a non-government American organisation called "Free Afghanistan Alliance" has started a program for the treatment of wounded Afghan children in the Bostan City of the US. (UJ )•
                                       21
      417.  Canadian Foreign Minister Mr. Clarke visited Afghan tentage village near Peshawar. Speaking on the occasion, he said his country condemns foreign military intervention in Afghanistan. (NWT ).
      418.  Agency Afghan Press has reported that Soviet troops on 5th December encircled the Kandahar city, imposed the curfew. 18 civilians lost their lives in clashes with Soviet troops in Shehr-i-Nau, Herat Bazar and Manzil Bagh.(PT).
     419.   Food & Agriculture Organisation sources have said that one lakh 60 thousand ton wheat would be provided to Afghan refugees in 1986, under World Food Program.
     430.   European Parliament through a resolution has asked the Soviet Union to grant unconditional permission to International Red Cross to look after wounded in Afghanistan. (JG).
76
 JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985;
                                  24
 421.  Robert Richter in an article on Afghanistan writes that the choice for the Kannal regime and Mujaheddin is either a compromise'diplomatic solution or a protracted brutal struggle that has already killed many thousand people. About efforts by the United Nations, he writes, much depends on the unique personalities of UN Secretary General Cuellar and his personal envoy Diego Cordovez, who now remain the only viable diplomatic channel in this conflict. (FT ).
 422.  President Zia addressing the Joint session of Pakistan Parliament has said we want a peaceful solution to Afghanistan problem. Under this spirit we are taking part in Geneva talks, but we will not hold talks with the Kabul regime, as long as Soviet troops are in Afghanistan. (MIM).
                                  25
 423.  Initiating debate on foreign policy in Parliament Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said Pakistan has no easy options. He said he did not want to minimise the risks or costs attached to the pursuit of present policy, but he assured the House that it was the only policy which offers a reasonable prospect for finding a settlement that safeguards Pakistan's interests. (DN ).
 424.  Western observers smell a change in the Soviet attitude towards opposition forces in Afghanistan, which reflects the Soviet desire to move towards ending the conflict. Western analysts believe that despite deadlock in sixth round of Geneva talks, Moscow is anxious to arrive at a political settlement of Afghanistan issue. (JG).
 425.  In the foreign policy debate oh the Parliament, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan declared that Pakistani people could not accept as legitimate presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, nor could they recognise Kannal who was brought into Kabul by Soviet tanks. (PT).
                                  27
426.    During debate on foreign policy in the Parliament, various members opposed holding of direct talks with illegal govt, in Kabul, because it will give a legitimacy to the illegal govt imposed by a super power in Afghanistan. (JG).
427.    China and Britain have urged Moscow to set a timetable for its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. Iran has called for immediate and unconditional withdrawal of occupying troops from Afghanistan. West Germany has also called
                                     77
JEHAD ANNUAL
 PRESS___________JUNE-DBCEMBER    ,  1985»
  on the Soviet Union to withdraw it3 troop3 from Afghanistan and return the country to non-aligned independence. (PT).
  428.   On the eve of 6th anniversary of Russian invasion of Afghanistan, various covntries have demanded unconditional Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. British Foreign Secretary Sir C-ecffery Howe has asked the Soviet Union to give timetable for its withdrawal. (NWT).
  429.   A feature on six years of Soviet intervention in Afghanistan says during
  last six years, Afghan resistance has got itself recognised. The Soviet Union,
  despite its full power, could not occupy the country except a few big cities.
  Night curfew in Kabul is a routine. A large portion of Afghan army has joined
  mujaheddin. It is as better for Soviet Union as soon it realises that it cannot ♦
  enslave the Afghan people without ' their own will.(JG).
                                                               28
  430.   President Reagan, in his message on 6th anniversary of Russian troops entry into Afghanistan, said the United States is with Afghan people and it will continue to support their liberation struggle. He added that United States will continue to give hunanitarian aid to lakhs of Afghan refugees in Pakistan. (NWT )•
  431.   There have been protest demonstrations in capitals of various countries on 27th December, the sixth anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. In Bangkok, hundreds pf Muslim demonstrators encircled the Soviet embassy and hurled stones on the embassy. In Bonn, demonstrators fired on the effigy of Babrak Karmal and demanded withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan and dismissal of Karmal, In London 200 demonstrators presented a memorandvio to Soviet embassy, showing annoyance over the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, In Copen-heagen, demonstrators burnt two cars of Soviet embassy. (JG ).
 432.   Britain, China, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan and Iran have called on the Soviet Union to, set a firm timetable for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
        In New Delhi several thousand people held peaceful demonstrations on sixth anniversary of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. In Dhaka people paraded in the streets and demanded Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan., In -Islamabad several hundred Afghans attempted to march on the Soviet-embassy, chanting anti-Soviet slogans. But police blocked the road leading to embassy. (EN).
 433.   Humanitarian assistance given by UNHCR and other'World agencies to Afghanistan has diminished by 30 percent over the last two years. Pakistan at present is receiving 50 million dollars per annuo from the donors which was being sup-
                                       73
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DEC EMBER
1985.'
 plemented by Pakistan by an equal amount to meet the expenditure incurred on the refugees. (MIM).
                                 29
 434.  In an article in New York Times, Bill Bradley, who is a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence made a strong plea for US aid to Afghan mujaheddin. He said resistance has begun to demonstrate a capacity not only for protracted guerilla warfare but also using modem methods of communications to coordinate large scale counter attacks. (PT ).
                                 30
 435.  The French govt-, yesterday condemned the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and reaffirmed its support for a political solution to the Afghan problem.
 436. British Prime Minister Mrs. Thatcher has said there is no question of
 talks with Babrak Karmal, because such talks will tantamount to recognising the puppet regime of Kabul.(fT )•                                          •
                                          9