JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
  rison .town of Khost, by Soviet forces. He was killed by a machinegun fire when he and his men were recapturing an outpost taken by the Karmal troops. (PT ).
  288.  According to Voice of America, Afghan pilot Lt. Mohammad Gul Sharif who defected to Pakistan in July has said he avoided to fire on Mujaheddin groups, even if he aaw them. (NWT ).
  289.  Mujaheddin destroyed 9 military aircraft by attacking the biggest Soviet airbase near Kabul, by Saun missiles. (NWT).
  290.  Voice of America has reported that aim of recent Soviet-Karmal troops attacks in Paktia and Ningarhar was to end the seige of garrison and cut off supply routes of mujaheddin. The daily Christian Science Monitor says without 1.55 lakh Soviet troops, the Karmal regime would go away only within a few hours. (PT ).
  291.  Washington Post has carried an article written by Soviet novelist, Alexander Prokanov, which has justified the Soviet action in Afghanistan. The article says, Soviet contingent entered Afghanistan 5 years ago, when schools and mosques were being set ablaze, large number of foreign troops had entered into Afghanistan from Pakistan and an undeclared war had begun in Afghanistan. The article describing the United States as the biggest enemy of Soviet Union, says Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan in its own defence. (JG ).
  292.  Babrak Karmal has accused his government employees of abuse of powers and said they had amassed immense wealth through misappropriation and bribery. (PT
  293.    Mujaheddin killed one Soviet pilot and several other Soviet troops in guerilla activities in Kabul. (NWT ).
294.     Police has arrested four terrorists, near Zhob, close to Afghanistan border and seized a large quantity of arms and explosives, which they were taking to Pakistan for subversive activities. According to police Intelligence sources, the terrorists groups are being sent to Pakistan after imparting training to them in Afghanistan (JG ).
                      29
                      30
                      1
M M M
w w
                                          59
  JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER     1985.'
                                       2
  295.  Pakistan has rejected Kabul authorities protest alleging that between September 23 and 25, firing was made from Pakistani side into Afghan territory,
  296,   In an article entitled "Afghan Shadows Over Pakistan's Politics 1975-S5"» Ali Sikandar draws the conclusion that there is no denying fact that democracy in Pakistan has been smothered among other factors principally because of our involvement in Afghanistan (MIX ).
                                       3
  297* Mujaheddin attacked and destroyed Karmal militia headquarters in Tarin Kot, capital of Uruzgan province. In the activity, they killed 18 Karmal troops and shot down a Russian helicopter, which was bombing on the mujaheddin.
  298.   Sahibzada Yaqub Khan addressing the UN General Assembly has said Pakistan will not allow foreign pressure to affect its principled stand on Afghanistan issue. He stressed on the withdrawal of Soviet troops from that country. (NWT )•
                                      4
  299.   Foreign Ministers from various countries have supported Pakistan's stand on Afghanistan issue, in the UN General Assembly. According to reports almost all the countries stressed that Soviet troops withdrawal is the only solution of this issue. (NVTT ).
 300.   Teheran Radio has reported that Mujaheddin killed a high officer of Soviet forces in Ghazni city, when he was patrolling with his guards. (JG ).
 301.   Voice of Germany has reported that an American journalist travailing with a Muslim rebel group in southern Afghanistan was killed in a rocket attack on a truck last week.
 302.   The Afghan Refugees Commissioner in NWFP, Rustam Shah Mohmand says he sees four inter-related factors for declining assistance for Afghan refugees.
 These are donor fatigue, drought in Africa, economic problems in major donor countries and the fact that after 6 years Afghan refugee situation tends to be minimised or forgotten abroad. (IN ).
60
 JEHAD ANNUAL                  __PRESS_________
                                    5
 303.   According to reports coming from Paktia province, mujaheddin have forced Soviet-Kannal troops to retreat from Leiser and Zawar areas. After this Soviet force is again beseiged in Khost garrison (NWT).
 304.   West German newspaper Die Walt says Soviets want to achieve their objective in Afghanistan through a sustained and determined effort to create a new loyal and indoctrinated class from among the local population. For this purpose, about 45000 Afghans were sent to Soviet Union, about 6000 to East Germany, Bulgaria and Cuba between July 19SO to December 1984 (M1M ).
                                    7
 305.  UN Secretary General Cuellar has called for resolving a procedural matter 3talling UN efforts to settle Afghanistan problem. Procedural matter involves
 Kabul's insistence on direct talks with Pakistan. (PT ).
                                    8
 306.   UN Secretary General Cuellar in his report on Afghanistan has admitted that indirect talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan are deadlocked and diplomatic efforts are held-up. (NWT ).
                                    9
 307.   Pakistan has rejected Kabul authorities protest alleging that firing was made from Pakistani side on September 30 on Afghan territory at Barikot in Kunar Valley. (PT ).
 306. Jam Yousuf Ali, a member of National Assembly from Baluchistan has said there is no place for any BABRAK KARMAL in Baluchistan (NWT ).
 309.   An article entitled "hold-up on Afghanistan" says, the EEC has called Soviet attitude towards Afghan issue "insensitive". Sweden has termed Soviet presence in Afghanistan "a violation of fundamental rules of International law". Denmark expressed concern at repeated violation of Pakistan's territorial integrity by Afghanistan (PT ).
61
  JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DEC EMBER
1985.'
 I
                                      10
   310.   In his first ever interview to a Pakistani journalist, Mushahid Hussain,
   Babrak Karmal essentially liked the future progress at Geneva talks on Afghanistan with Pakistan’s holding direct talks with his regime. He said there was no stalemate at Geneva-V talks last year and that talks had entered a very delicate and complicated stage. He seemed flexible on socalled 'Pukhtoonistan' by avoiding a direct reference to this issue. He repeated accusation that Pakistan, Iran together with some other countries had launched an undeclared war against Afghanistan. Karmal said question Of Soviet troops■withdrawal is between us and Soviet Union. He said we do not question whether Pakistan government has any agreements with the United States), so, why should you be concerned or. our relations with Soviet Union. He said it is Government of Pakistan, USA,
  China and their allies who are hindering a political solution, by continuing and intensifying interference in international affairs of the DRA. Iran is trying to
                                                                                                                             ;
  export its Islamic revolution, not the Islamic revolution of Prophet Mohammad (fBUH). He said army and militia of Pakistan have repeated and are launching aggressions on DRA territory. Chinese have a great and active role. They claim to be communists, but they are friendly towards US and Pakistan. I do not understand this friendship. They are playing an important role in training bands of counter-revolutionaries. About Islam, Karmal said we are Muslims, how can we be against Islam. Vfe are for the Islam of Prophet Mohammad (fBUH) and the Khulafa-e-Rashdeen. (HIM ).
                                     15
 311.   Chinese Foreign Minister addressing UN General Assembly has demanded withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan for the solution of Afghanistan question.
 He supported Pakistan's stand on Afghan issue. Foreign Ministers of Thailand,
 Sudan and Guinea also condemned Soviet intervention in Afghanistan.
 312.   Pakistan govemmait has rejected Kabul authorities protest of October 13 in which it was alleged that 14 persons were'killed in firing from Pakistan side between 1st and 4th October at Barikot in Kunar province (NUT).
                                     16
 313.   One woman was killed in Terri Mengal area of Kurram Agency, when Afghan armed forces fired one round of artillery on October 14. (PT )•
                                    62
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DEC EMBER
1985.'
                                  17
  314. A boy Rais Khan was killed in Afghan artillery fire in Pathri Tambai area of Torkham on 14th October. (JG ).
                                  18
  315* Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani has described the allegation about presence of Pakistani militia in Afghanistan as baseless. He said BBC reported this by quoting Radio Kabul.
  316. According to State Bank of Pakistan, over 700 crore rupees have been deposited in the President's Fund for Afghan Refugees upto 30th September 1985. (NWT).
                                23
  317. Prime Minister Junejo has said during fifth round of Geneva talks, there seems to be a ray of hope that Afghan problem would be resolved.
  318. President Zia in an interview to Washington Post has said that he has no expectations from Soviet leader Gorbachev about Afghan policy. In his view, Gorbachev is following the policy of "wait and see" because currently he is involved in internal problems. (JG).
  319. President Zia has said Soviet Union and its Afghan ally have suffered 60,000 to 70,000 casualties in war in Afghanistan. He predicted that Moscow will conclude sooner or later that there is no military solution to the is3ue, and it will be convinced about political solution (NWT).
                                24
320.    President Zia has said withdrawal of Soviet troops is essential for restoring Afghanistan's non-aligned status and to enable the refugees to return to their homeland with honour and dignity. (PT ).
                                26
321,    President Zia last night discussed Afghanistan issue with IN Secretary Qeneral, Pere^ de Cuellar. He told APP correspondent Pakistan has confidence in the ability of Diego Cordovez to resolve the Afghanistan question. (MIM ),
63
 JEHAD ANNUAL______         PRESS      JUNE-DECEMBER 1985.
                            29
 322. A reader T.M. Butt from Lahore in.his letter to editor says presence of lakhs of Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Iran and other countries testify to the fact that Soviets have forcibly occupied Afghanistan. The current state of affairs indicate that Soviet Union cannot win the battle. Concludingly, he says if the Soviet Union sincerely wishes to resolve the stalemate, it should first withdraw its forces from Afghanistan. (PT ).
                      November
                            13
 323. President Zia, referring to multiple murders in Dhok Khabba in Rawalpindi, Hyderabad and other areas of the country, has said Afghan refugees were engaged in the war of liberation and elements engaged in destructive activities were paid agents of some other masters. He said it has nothing to do with Afghan refugees. (EN ).
                            16
 32/,. Western diplomats have reported heavy fighting in the Panjshir valley.
 They say mujaheddin over-ran an Afghan army post in Kabul killing several soldiers. Meanwhile a Soviet tank was exploded, due to a mine explosion near Karez Aulia. All personnel aboard the tank were killed (PT ).
                            17
325.  A Soviet spokesman told newsmen in Geneva that due to the accessibility of mujaheddin to land mines and rockets, there has been a sharp increase in the number of Soviet casualties in Afghanistan (NWT ).
                            18
326,  Twenty five Soviet Karmal soldiers were killed and 10 injured in fierce fighting last week between Soviet Karmal troops and mujaheddin in tttmroze province. (KLH ),
                  a