                                    CHAPTER-I
                                         RADIOS
                          12 November -31 December November 12
 1.   The Soviet-Kabui troops are fighting the mujaheddin in Panjsher valley. One hundred thirty dead bodies of the Soviet-Kabui troops were transported to Kabul 9 October. The mujaheddin repulsed the Soviet-Kabui offensive inflicting heavy casualties on the aggressive forces in one of the passes of Tagab. The Afghan mujaheddin ambushed three units of the Soviet-Kabui troops, capturing 11 lorries carrying fuel for airplanes.
 2.  The Afghan mujaheddin carried out a number of rocket attacks on Kabul city and the Soviet embassy in Kabul during the last week.
 3.  China has donated goods worth one hundred thousand dollars to Pakistan as an aid to the Afghan refugees.
                           13
 4.  The US envoy at the UN said the United States will support the UN policy on Afghanistan. But until Soviet Union agrees on a program for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, war in Afghanistan will not er.i nor will other solutions arise.
 5.  A group of 150 mujaheddin subjected a Soviet military base in Hasimkhel, Paktia, to ground-to-ground rocket attacks causing heavy losses in men and material. An American cameraman taking snaps of the battlefield described the mujaheddin attacks as well-planned and organised.
 6.  The US envoy at the UN General Assembly, Mr. Vernon Walters said six years have elapsed since the Soviet Union began waging brutal war in Afghanistan and they have not hesitated in the massacre of women, children, and cattle; causing damage to buildings, mosques, schools, and hospitals; and even from distorting the history, culture, religion, and traditions of the people of Afghanistan... The people of Afghanistan throughout their history of resistance against foreign aggressive'enemies have not faced such a cruel enemy ... In a bid to Russianize the young nation of Afghanistan, children of five and six years of age are removed from the laps of their mothers and are sent to the Soviet Union for a •
                                                      1
  JEHAD ANNUAL _____________________RADIOS NOVEMBER— DECEMBER 1985*
   period of 10 years. During this period they may be. indoctrinated into the communist system and the Soviet way of life. About A0,000 Afghan students have been sent to the Soviet Union since 197? ••• The Afghanistan dispute cannot be solved through military means and political talks are the only way of finding a durable solution of this dispute.
   7.   A five member international delegation which has recently returned from a visit inside Afghanistan! says the Soviet-Kabul troops are continuing their efforts for the evacuation of the villages which serve as shelter for the Mujaheddin ... The Soviet-Kabul troops are eliminating the houses and agricultural produces of the people in a bid to render the mujaheddin without food and to compel the inhabitants of those areas to flee. (VOADS).
  8.    TASS has condemned the efforts of the international coon unity to bring the Afghanistan issue under discussion at the UN General Assembly and has described these endeavours as violation, of international law' and the UN Charter. Representatives from Vietnamf Bulgaria, Cuba, Mongolia, Czechoslovakia! India and other countries who delivered speeches at the UN UOth General Assembly, said such steps are being taken to conceal the crimes and undeclared war waged by Imerialist and reactionary forces against Afghanistan(RMDS) .
                                     14
 9.   In the IK General Assembly Resolution it has been demanded that the foreign troops should be withdrawn from Afghanistan. In the resolution the name of the Soviet Union was not mentioned and all the concerned parties have been asked to exert efforts for finding an immediate solution to the dispute* The resolution w|p approved with 122 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 12 abstentions. The Kabul regime rejected the resolution and said direct talks between Kabul and Islamabad are the only solution to the Afghanistan problem.
 10.  Cementing on the UN General Assembly session. The Washington Post and The New fork. Times wrote, it is the largest number of votes cast in favour of the resolution during the last seven years of the adoption of such resolutions at the UN General Assembly. They said voting shows that opposition by the Third World against the invasion of Afghanistan is Increasing with the passage of time instead of deareasing ... Annual condemnation of the Soviet role in Afghanistan is the most dramatic example of continued opposition by the non-aligned countries which abstained from voting and this stand of India has emerged as a source at tension among the Western countries and the 101 non-aligned countries.
 (VOADS).
 11. Zm its most recent session, the Revolutionary Council of the Kabul regime
                                     2
JIHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVIMBER— DECEMBER 1965.
   debated the declaration of the regime in connection with t'<e national democratic characteristics of the Saur revolution. Speaking on the occasion, the Kabul regime leader, Babrak Karmal said the declaration should be treated as a fundamental document for political, economic and administrative dsvelopnent of the state
   institutions and people's organisations for service to the country. He said the declaration has been made for the realization of the national aspirations of the •country and larger spectrun of the masses. The policy of the government is based on the principles of non-alignment, strengthening of relations with all the countries of the world, particularly with the neighbours. The policies of Afghanistan are based on the solution of problems through political means (HMDS).
 12.   Reports about the racial violence in the main Soviet military bases in Dasht—e-Abdan, Mir Alam, Kunduz province have reached Peshawar through the resistance forces. A Soviet soldier from Tadzhekistan was executed under the directives of his Russian officers which caused an uprising among the other troops and a fierce battle broke out between the Soviet Tadzhiks and the non-Asian Soviet troops. The battle continued for the whole day using rockets and machine guns. Reports say 00 Soviet troops were killed and a large nunbar of others injured in the battle.
                                      15
 13.   In a message from Rome about the Gorbachev-Reagan 3unit in Geneva 18-19 October, the former Afghan monarch has urged that the leaders of the two countries should sincerely strive hard to sort out an overall solution of the issue with all necessary guarantees. A solution to this imbroglio should guarantee the independence, territorial integrity and right of self determination of the people of Afghanistan and restore its previous non-aligned statue. He added that throughout their history the people of Afghanistan have never yielded to
' any alien forces in any form and they are even today valorously engaged in their struggle alone with only limited resourcea against the system installed by Soviet aggressive forces equipped with the most sophisticated weapons(VDADS).
 14# Charge d' Affaires of the Iranian Etabassy in Kabul waa smmoned to the Foreign Ministry and the following protest note was delivered to him: According to the reports of the concerned officials of the Afghan government, Sharshari post, Herat province, inside Afgiianistan territory, wee subjected to heavy shelling from the Iranian soil November 4, killing two troops and injuring two others. Similarly, the residential areas in 3m* Ehms, Herat province, were
                                           3
RADIOS
JEHAD ANNUAL
 NOVEMBER— DECEMBER 1985.
  attacked^killing three militiamen and injuring another (RA).
                                     16
  15.   H»e US government has expressed the view that the prolonged Soviet aggression in Afghanistan with the most sophisticated weapons has not enabled the Russians to dominate the Afghans. Soviet, aggression is not only a threat to the peace and security of the people of Afghanistan and their property, but also it poses a danger to the customs and traditions of the people of Afghanistan. Marxist/-Leninist ideologies have been introduced in place of Islamic teachings in the schools of the puppet regime in Kabul. Books on the history of Afghanistan^ have been re-written coinciding with the Soviet views of world events. More t-hm 6/Of, of the teachers at the Kabul University are from the Communist countries. Russia plans to weaken the determination of the people of Afghanistan for resistance by eradicating the culture of Afghanistan ... The people of Afghanistan possess a secret weapon which the Soviet aggressors never anticipated. It is their spiritual force and it has been provsd to the world at large during six years of long, untiring resistance against the superior Soviet forces ... The time has come when the Soviet Union must heed the continued demand of the world • countries and withdraw its troops from Afghanistan (VOACS).
  16.   The United States and its allies have imposed a resolution on the UN General Assembly about Afghanistan which is tantamount to interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. The Kabul regime envoy at the United Nations General'Assembly Farid Zarif, asked for an immediate end to the so-called undeclared war against the people of Afghanistan which has been waged by the imperialist and reactionary forces. He called for direct talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan. On the other hand Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan of Pakistan turned down this proposal and said proximity talks are already in process (RMDS).
                                  17
 17.  Speaking on the Reagan-Gorbachev summit conference, a spokesman.for the White House S8SH the US is profoundly interested in solving the.Afghanistan dispute. Although the United_ States considers the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan as a basic .element, the solution'of the problem should also he ir: accordance with three other principles; Restoration of a free and non-aligned Afghanistan, giving the right of self-determination to the. people of Afghanistan, and the return of Afghan refugees to their country in safety l^hd dignity. On the other hand, an intellectual in the Soviet Academy said the Soviet Union is not happy in keeping its-troops in Afghanistan. He told western newsmen that
                                      4
   JEHAD AlffiUAL                     RADIOS       NOVEMBER— EECEMBER 1985,
   Soviet casualties have recently increased in Afghanistan because of the use of mines and ground-to-grovind rockets by the mujaheddin.
   18.  In reply to a question from one of its listeners about the nunber of Soviet troops in Afghanistan and the frequency of the Voice Of Islamic Revolution of Afghanistanf the VOA said it -is difficult to know the exact number of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union has described its troops as limited contingents but has never disclosed the exact mister* Officials at the US State Department and the Defense Department have changed their previous estimates arid now believe that there are 118 thousand Soviet troops in Afghanistan, whereas the present spokesman for the IUAM, Engineer Gulbuddin Kelanatyar, in a statement in New York, has described the number of Soviet troops in Afghanistan as more than 100 thousand, which coincides with the statements of a number of Afghans living abroad. About the new radio it may be said that its name is Radio Voice of Afghanistan" rather than" Radio Free Afghanistan" ar.i it broadcasts programs from Munich, West,Germany, via Short Wave on Saturday and-Tuesday, 6.15PM until 6.30PM, Afghanistan Standard Tim*.
   19.  The United States says the statements of the So via". Union suggesting a willingness for a political solution of the Afghanistan problem have been studied. The Soviet officials currently visiting Geneva ir. connection with Soviet-US summit meeting have said their forces have suffered heavy losses in Afghan-’ istan and the Kremlin wants to withdraw its troops'from Afghanistan (VOAES).
                                     18
 20.   Prime Minister Mohammad Khan June jo of Pakistan has said that the key to a solution of the Afghanistan problem is with Moscow ar.i not with Kabul. In an interview with the Chinese news agency he threw light or. Pakistan's stand towards international issues including the Afghanistan problem (RPDS-Karachi).
 21.   The Soviet Union has described the presence o^ its troops in Afghanistan as regrettable and announced that the withdrawal of these troops constituted one of the objectives of Kremlin. It was stated by' a member of the SUCF Central Conmittee a few hours before the arrival of Reagan in Geneva. He added that thA arrival of Soviet troops in Afghanistan was based cn an emergency in Afghanistan in 1979* (VOADS).
 22.   A delegation of the European Hunan Rights Organisation has visited Afghanistan and at a press conference In Paris said the Soviets want to deprive the people of Afghanistan of their natural circumference. While the peasants are 'compelled to flee, they cannot produce foodstuff nor can they, look after their cattle. The delegation has reported the massacre of chr.ldren and women,and the
 5
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
 NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1965.
 destruction of their villages. The said team is of the view that one of the main problems of the Afghan mujaheddin is non-attention in the world public opinion (TOADS),
                                    19
 23.  According to a report from the Resistance sources, nine Soviet-Kabul troops were killed in an armed clash with Afghan mujaheddin in Herat and five Russian jeeps were set ablaze. In retaliation, the communists bombarded the civil population and agricultural farms of the people in Herat. In another attack on the communist forces in Herat province, the mujaheddin killed two Kabul regime mercenaries and demolished a tank. Similarly, the Afghan mujaheddin fired rockets
 |15 November on the comnunist forces in Nimroz province killing a number of
 communist troops and destroying several of their trenches (RADIO MASHED IRAN).
 24.   The Afghan mujaheddin shot down in the middle of current month of Soviet
 MIG-21 aircraft being piloted by a Soviet Air Force General. Western sources said the General might have been captured 11 November by the mujaheddin (RADIO RIIADH).
                                   20
 25.  The Afghans living in Switzerland staged demonstrations against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. These demonstrations began 16 November and concluded
 IS November and consisted of processions on the roads and delivering speeches and chanting slogans against the Soviet Union. The demonstration of November 17 was the biggest rally. A large number of Afghan participants came from various cities in Switzerland, Germany, and France on the eve of the US-Soviet summit in Geneva regarding the six-year-long Soviet invasion of Afghanistan,in order to enlighten the public opinion of the people of Europe, the world, and particularly, the people of Switzerland. About four hundred Afghans, including children and women, took part in these demonstrations. A number of other Afghans staged hunger strike in front of the Christian Center against the Soviet invasion Of Afghanistan on the eve of the Sdviet-American summit in Geneva. (TOADS).
 26 The Afghan mujaheddin launched an attack on a big military base Of the
 Kabul regime near Mazar-e-Shari^,blasting one ammunition depot,causing several
 secondary explosions. In these explosions heavy losses of men and material were »
 caused to the communists. In these activities the Soviet Muslim troops hajling from Tadzhik tribe deployed in Mazar-e-Sharif cooperated with the mujaheddin in the elimination of that military base. In an attack on 9 November on the Shind-and airport, Herat province, the mujaheddin demolished two helicopters. Other reports say the mujaheddin shot down four helicopter gunships and an aircraft in
                                    6
 JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
  Torghar, east of Kabul (VOIRA).
  27 Resistance sources say 13 Kabul troops were killed and a number of others injured by the mujaheddin in various parts of Niraroz province. (RPDS-KARACHI).
                                   21
 J,28 Soviet-Kabul troops launched a major offensive on Logar province martyring
 a number of civilians of that area. In retaliation, the mujaheddin killed AO Soviet troops. Other reports say Afghan mujaheddin destroyed five enemy trenches, killing 15 enemy troops in Nimroz province. In these operations a godown of clothings and foodstuff was also set ablaze by the mujaheddin. (/OIRA).
                                   22
 29.   Talks at the US-Soviet summit mostly concentrated on arms control. But dangers ensuing from regional disputes in the Middle East, Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Kampuchea, Angola, and Ethiopia were also discussed. Affects of the US-Soviet Geneva summit will be witnessed within the coming months in the shape of any new trend in world disputes. However, the joint communique issued on the conclusion of the sunmit made no mention of the said disputes. (HBCFS).
 30.    The Central Committee of the ruling People's Democratic Party yesterday sacked three members of the politburo while one politburo member, chief of the secret police, wa3 appointed Secretary of the party's Central Ccmnittee. All the three members expelled from the party's Central Committee - - General Abdul Qadir, Ghulam Dastgir Panjshiri and Mohammad Ismail Danish are reported to be affiliated with the Khalq faction of the party. Participation of the Security Organization of Afghanistan has increased considerably in the political power in the country. Its chief, Dr. Najibullah, is one df the seven members of the decision making team in the politburo and has been appointed afe the Secretary of the Party's Central Committee. He will have close cooperation with the President of Afghanistan who is also Secretary General of the party. Security Organization is playing a significant role against the mujaheddin. Sevmty. percent of the war budget of the regime is reported to be spent in that direction.
                                                                     (BBCFS).
 31.    Indications prior to the US-Soviet sixnrait conference in Geneva, spoke of a change in the Soviet stand on Afghanistan. Speaking at a press conference in Geneva, a high level Soviet official said Soviet troops have suffered heavy casualties in the Afghanistan war because the mujaheddin have now been equipped
7
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER-DECEMBER 1985
 with new rockets ... One of the main objectives of the Soviet Union is the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan ... Moscow is desirous of a peaceful solution, making Afghanistan a non-aligned country friendly to the Soviet Union ... The US Secretary of State, George Shultz pointed out that considerable talks have been held at the summit ... What has appeared strange, is the unfeeling tone of Mr. Gorbachev during discussions on the war in Afghanistan, expression of his inclination to find a solution to this problem ... The mujaheddin are not very optimistic about the assessment of the United States ... Hekmat-yar said yesterday in Islamabad he thinks that infact, the compromises being reached at such conferences, further complicate the mujaheddin problems.(BECFS).
 32.   In a statement over television, a member of the politburo of the PDPA Central Committee, Najib, said the Kabul regime is determined for the socioeconomic and cultural uplift of the border tribes (RA).
                                                           23
 33.   A US official expressed the view that a change has been seen recently iii Soviet tone about its stand on Afghanistan. The US officials are however carefully watching the situation. They say Gorbachev has not yet explained the real matter or its details. It. is not known whether Gorbachev’s new tone reflects the Soviets’ restraint. The US officials are awaiting signs of Soviet flexibility in the next round of indirect talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan in Geneva on the Afghanistan issue. Despite the encouraging tone of the talks about Afghanistan, the US officials are not very optimistic about improvement of situation (BBCFS),
  34.   In his statement at a PDPA Central Committee session, Babrak Karmal said the Party has taken a series of important steps regarding the fate of the country, He said the 16th Plenum has devoted immense attention to the expansion of the social pillars of the revolutionary people and normalisation of situation in the country (RA).
  35.   A recent statement of Babrak Karmal was directed towards the expansion of the social base of the government in the war striken regions. Most of the war hit areas of Afghanistan, particularly the border regions, are administered by the tribal chieftains in accordance with traditions. The PDPA has no much members in those regions. According to the statistics released by the government itself, only one percent of the population of those areas has membership of the PDPA and the Party’s control outside the main cities is very limited. Thus the Afghanistan government cannot have an approach to the border areas without cooperation of the local people. The government officials could only convene
                                          8
  JEHAD ANNUAL         _______ RADIOS NOVEMBER— DECEMBER 1965.
  two jirgahs of the tribal chieftains for seeking legality of the government. From the viewpoint of the Afghan communists, the formation of a tribal government on the old historical pattern is considered inappropriate to the contemporary world. But Babrak Karmal has adopted a more practical and more realistic attitude for the consolidation of power which is contrary to the ideology of his government (BBCFS).
                                   25
  36.   Representatives from 19 philanthropic institutions in west European countries met recently in a northern city of England and decided to initiate direct contact with their governments to urge them for assistance inside Afghanistan, The European institutions have to date collected $ 3 million during the last several years. However this is almost insufficient in view of the expenditures being incurred :in aid to the Afghan refugees living in Pakistan. Among the European countries only Switzerland, Norway, Luxumbourg arid Belgium are officially earmarking budget monies for aid to the people inside Afghanistan. In the view of the philanthropic institutions, the peoplsf inside Afghanistan need more assistance than the Afghan refugees living in Pakistan (E5CFS).
  37.   Quoting the US Secretary of State, The Times and The Guardian write "the Soviet Union is willing to discuss the fixation of date for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan." The Time3 writes "The US Secretary of State
  said that in their summit conference in Geneva, both Reagan and Gorbachev had identical views on the importance of the peaceful solution of Afghanistan issue." The Guardian has also quoted Shultz to have said the Soviet leader has brought in some attractive and new points about Afghanistan (BBCFS).
                                  26
  3B.   The US Under Secretary of State for Middle East Affairs has arrived in
  Pakistan to apprise President Ziaul Haq of the process of Geneva talks on Afghanistan. Rumours have once again erupted about a change in the Soviet stand on the Afghanistan Issue. The US Secretary of State in his speech over televi-? sion said indications are there to say that there is a possibility that for the first time the Soviet Union might fix a specific time-table for the pullout of its troops from Afghanistan, He added that the Soviet Union has made a direct remark about the issue of its troops in Afghanistan and their withdrawal from that country. Meanwhile, speaking on US Television, adviser to the Soviet Communist Party Central Committee said if the USSR abandons its stand on the issue and leaves the people of that country on their own, bloodshed might increase even more than in the present state of affairs. If these expressions are taken
                                         9
     JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
      into account, it is observed that there does not appear any change in Soviet stand over Afghanistan issue. (EBCFS).
      39.    Reports say a military convoy moved into Kabul and at the same time explosions took place in Kabul city. A military convoy comprising 350 military vehicles has moved from north of Kabul to the west. The objective of that convoy is not clear but these activities appear to be the change of positions in view
      of the Winter Season (BBC).
                                         27
      40.    The Afghan mujaheddin have reported killing 14 Soviet-Kabul troops in Sar-e-Pul, Jauzjan province. According to another report, in an attack on the Soviet-Kabul troops in Shireen Tagab, Faiyab province, the Afghan Mujaheddin killed eight communist troops. (Teheran Radio).
      41.    The Afghanistan resistance sources say their attack on the joint Soviet-Kabul forces in eastern Afghanistan resulted in the death of more than 100 communist troops and the demolition of seven armoured personnel carriers. Three hundred tanks and armoured personnel carriers are reported to have participated in the battle. In the battle, 20 mujaheddin were martyred. Additionally 11 Kabul regime troops killed their two officers and deserted from Barikote cantonement, Kunar (Radio Ryadh).
      42.    TASS reported that at a recent session of the Soviet Presidium, Gorbachev said the USSR has always supported the independence, non-alignment of Afghanis- .
     tan an" ‘' e- establ:' s^ent of a ri-g'r which couvc* guarart-t-. non—inter’'' r tion by
     fc» ••fgr. cor? in the ir.t-_-n.<j affairs cf Afghani :‘: i (HMDS).
                                         28
     43.     Ahmad Shah Kasoud has reported that his mujaheddin fired 107mm rockets last week on Kabul forces inflicting heavy casualties and losses to the government cantonement in Panjsher and set the cantonement ablaze. In the operation, a Soviet adviser was killed. A number of tank crewmen were also killed and five government defense positions were eliminated. Eight government officers and 22 armed troops were captured by the mujaheddin. In retaliation, Soviet jets and helicopters resorted to severe bombardment of the region and a large number of troops were deployed there. A fierce battle ensued between the^mujaheddin and Soviet-Kabul troops.(TOADS).
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER — IBCEMBER 1985
                                       29
   44* An intensive operation was initiated 27 October against the mujaheddin in Herat. The Kabul regime officials summoned the people of Herat to the grand mosque supposedly to listen to important statements. But suddenly Soviet artillery post began heavy shelling on the people present in that mosque, killing SO and injuring approximately 150. In the artillery shelling, heavy damage was caused to the 300 year: old grand mosque of Herat which is the most holy shrine in Afghanistan. The Scviet-Ksb*..' propaganda machinery accused the mujaheddin of bombing the mosque. Dr. Amin Haider, who has come to Quetta, said following the attack on the Herat grand mosque, the Soviet-Kabul forces carried out heavy shelling on Herat city and its outskirts for three days and the city of Herat remained besieged for 15 days by the Soviet-Kabul troops (TOADS).
   45.   In a commentary TASS has said the US-Soviet summit in Geneva demonstrates that Soviet Union sincerely supports the endeavours being exerted by Babrak Karmal for peace (RMCS).
  46.    The Soviet Presidium has awarded the title of "Champion" to Lieutenant Nikolai Kazitsov in recognition of his valour. He was killed while fighting in Kunar (RMDS). .
  47. • 2-almay Khalilzad, a teacher of political science at Columbia University in New York City and an expert on South Asia, said the Soviet invasion, of Afghanistan has not caused any basic change in the views of India and Pakistan With regard to the security of these countries ... Strengthening of Soviet dominance in Afghanistan would result in deepening its influence in Pakistan, northern India and the Arabian Sea area. The only way to check such development is the continuation of the struggle of the Afghan mujaheddin ... The Soviet failure to imntediatly overcome the mujaheddin has perhaps resulted in gradual expansion of the war to the Pakistani borders which might be a practical pressure ar.d military action against Pakistan ... The Soviets have failed in tranauilizing the situation in Afghanistan and the increased mujaheddin capability has made them fed up. If contrary to the Soviet expectations, Pakistan indicates perseverance in its stand, there is a possibility of finding a way for a political solution-which may result in the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan (TOADS).
  48.    Soviet-Kabul troops accompanied by 900 tanks, armoured personnel carriers, helicopter gunships and MIG aircraft attacked the mujaheddin in Jaghori, martyring or injuring 15 mujaheddin (RADIO TEHERAN)
  49.    The mujaheddin repulsed a major offensive of the Soviet Kabul troops in Jalalabad. In the battle, seven Kabul regime troops were killed and a tank and
                                           11