 t
 \
 I
APRIL-JUNE./ 1991
  > !
7 i-
-n
VOL. 4 NO.3
          IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
Editorials:
UN SECRETARY GENERAL AND THE AFGHAN ISSUE
   The tempo of events vis-a-vis the Afghanistan issue after the end of the Gulf War has been such, that many quarters expect a political solution in the offing. The new efforts for finding a solution to the issue now is mostly centered around a five point plan offered by the United Nations Secretary- General. The plan is generally interpreted to be demanding a dialogue among the Afghan parties now involved in the war. In the Afghan war it is the mujaheddin, representing the vast majority of the nation, who fight the Soviet installed, regime in Kabul. And therefore, one is apt to conclude that Mr. Perez de Cuellar expects the mujaheddin to hold talks with a regime which, even according to UN standards, is a remnant of foreign naked aggression, an aggression which the United Nations itself condemned and helped to ward-off. It is indeed ironical for Mr. de Cuellar, who claims to be defending the UN Charter and standards, to be making such a demand.

     May be others would try to find other loopholes in this plan. But as far as we are concerned, the Secretary- General's plan by (1) recognizing the need for an interim period- details of which have to be worked and agreed upon through an inter-Afghan dialogue- leading to the establishment of a broadbased government (2) the meed for cessation of hostilities during the transitional period (and not before that) and (3) the necessity of an agreement to end arms Supplies to all Afghan sides by all, is more or less a realistic approach towards finding a polictical' solution to the Afghan problem.
      A 8   far as   the United Nations's       suggestion about     the
 "advisability of assistance- as appropriate- of the United Nations and of any other international organization during the transition and the electoral process" is concerend, it will be indeed not relevant to talk about it at this juncture. This issue will very much depend upon the competence of the interim government and the cooperation it ^receives   from the people of Afghanistan to pave the way for       the
I establishment of a permanent, just and durable state institution for 'Afghanistan.
7
 SHAH M. BOOK C0.
 P.0, Box 1328, Kabul, Afghanisia/i Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25886
  apkii-junc, 1991            RHJIIIIID                    vol. 4 ho.3 V
      Before going into further details about the issue, one ntayf also point out that the very recognition by the Secretary General .of\ the fact that the present order established by the communistf| administration is not acceptable to the people of Afghanistan, speaks! of the illegality of that very order and the, regime which 'is ^ responsible for implementing it.
      The United Nations and, indeed, the entire world are aware ^ of the fact that no credible group or element of the Afghan society wants to have tfce present Soviet installed government of Kabul to be a part of the so called "'intra-Afghan" dialogue. The reasons for this have been so obvious and mentioned repeatedly that Najib, for no other reason than for serving as the head of the notorious KHAD and for killing hundreds of thousands of our people ought to be tried as .... war criminal and not as partner in a negotiating table. There are a number of other renegades who have, in addition to being instrumental and directly responsible for helping the Soviets to invade out country    and collabotating with   the occupying   forces, committed
 crimes tantamount to national treason.
      We would like to prompt the Secretary General ho completely forget about the possibility of convincing the Afghans to sit with Najib. Only some weak leader or group, falsely dreaming a lust for power, might agree to hold talks with the puppet regime,of Kabul, not the vast majority of the Afghan people and their leaders. To do so will be tantamount to rendering the .most basic aims of our jehad meaningless. Furthermore, the establishment of governments comprised of opposing elements is not a prudent act and. the world in general and the UN in particular have never achieved desired results from suchplans.
      But may be the Secretary-General is right in another sense when he demands an '"intra-Afghan       dialogue"   and  agreement   on
 transitional arrangement:  Dialogue and underatadning among the vast
 majority of the Afghans who have been fighting the Kabul puppet regime. Unless an understanding is reached among Lhe groups who r.ight now speak on behalf of these people, we cannot achieve a transitional mechanism, including . the establishment of an interin) government comprised of the> credible elements of the Afghan society.
      Of   late hectic activities  have  been underway   to achieve   an
 Afghan consensus for a solution to the Afghan issue. The Iranians and the Pakistanis are specially involved in this process. It will (■ be a pitty- and, indeed, an unf orgiveable sin -if we remain ^ insensitive to the miseries of our, people and, merely for our own selfish     political ambitions,   fail to agree    on   points for   a
 transitional period in which the objectives ' of our jehad are preserved and respected. It is not right to expect the rest of the world to remain still because we are unable to sort out our problems.
 If we continue to do so, all our gains might be snatched away from us.
  AIMUL-JUNE, 1991            (NUN J111(111              VOL- A NO. 3
      lb is   also a pity  to notice^ that a number of our     leaders,
 have been making statements which speak of the weakness of their will and resolution to handle and .sort out the problems of Afghanistan by the         Afghans themselves. It        is    a well
 known reality- bitter though it may be- that for a number of reasons some of our leaders in one or another way have turned a blind eye to the genuine interests of the nation in oHer to please others or to make  moves  under the name of this or that solidarity,  which in fact/
 have been harmful to both Sides or  the very cause which they  claim to
 be advocating. For instance, recently one of our leaders, apparently trying to please the leaders of one of our neighbours told him that without the help of his country, the problem of Afghanistan cannot be solved. But he was told that it was the responsibility of the Afghans themselves to work out a solution to their problem.
      But it will be not right for us here to further prolong such complaints and, instead, not suggest ways for handling the problem a t hand•
      In our view, our mujaheddin leadership should gear their thinking towrds ( 1) a transitional arrangement and (2) a long term solution of the Afghanistan issue. In both these programs, we should be careful not to lose our objectives for tl^e establishment of a fair and just society based on moderation, of which Islam is the foremost proponent. Islam abhors all kinds of extremism.
      In the second instance, we should see that during any transitional arrangement we are. not bogged down by intra-party bickering and quarrel which have prevailed amofig our mujaheddin leadership in their alliances or the governments they have      set up in  exile. They have
 failed to reach consensus on issues and have also failed to reconcile their differences in meetings of their      own on the  basis of  normal
 procedures, and newsmen and the media      in general   have had  their
 hey-days by finding scoops in interviewing these leaders to announce their differences with their colleagues in        the   media and  pride
 themselves in doing so.
      Past experiences have shown that unfortunately our leaders have not been able to work together, and there is no reason to believe that they will adhere to each other now or in the future. Yet they want to be sure that any transitional arrangement will not exclude them totally from the realm of power or in effect becomes tantamount to a coup d’ etat against them. While, on the one hand, there has to be a transitional arrangement in which those involved are united, cohesive and competent enough to fulfill the mandates of this period, on the other - hand, there, have to be guarantees that the transitional government will step down after the fulfillment of its mandate and hand over the. administration to a government agreed upon beforehand.
      At the same time we should keep in mind that the very fact that the mujaheddin leaders have been able to remain at the head
                                                       5
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991          MIJIIMD                 VOL. 4 NO.3
of their organizations through the jehad years, by itself will not entitle them to head a government of Afghanistan or serve in' important positions in that government. It will be indeed up to the people of Afghanistan to appoint their leadership of the future through an agreed mechanism in conformity with Islamic norms. It will be therefore, tragic and, indeed, unworthy of our present leaders to resort to various tactics to make sure that they remain in power and, by doing so, also prolong our tragedy. It will instead be very prudent of them to work hard and gain power through a public mandate when the time comes for the transfer of power to hn administration after the transitional period.
     But, as far as the interim period is concerned, let there be no doubt that, if our present mujaheddin leadership- the one stationed outside Afghanistan- is unable to handle the affairs of this period, it should agree that a group of other people ought to handle the administration of this period. These people, .however, should have the
full confidence of our leaders and should have had an active role, in one or another way, in support of jehad and Islamic ideals. They should be the kind of people who are expected to handle the affairs of this period not on the basis of any thirst or lust for power but because of a necessity and trust put upon them; an honest group of Afghans, who, through a workable mechanism, will work in concordance with the leaders and with an active cooperation of commanders inside Afghanistan. And in the last analysis the group in charge of the interim period should represent all the credible elements of our society, so that no doubt is left that any particular group was trying to manipulate the trend of events for its own interests.
     Otner than foreseeing an arrangement detailed in this editorial, we honestly do not see any other way out of the present quagmire. Even if we foresee the downfall of the present Soviet installed regime in Kabul through military means, we have to have an effective transitional arrangement to handle the affairs of the country to (1) carryout the military operations effectively and either through military or political efforts replace the Kabul regime, (2) pave the way for the return of refugees, after the cessation of hostilities, (3) resort to specific and short-term programs for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the economy and ('4 ) pave the way, together with all legitimate parties, for the transfer of power to an administration which should come about on the basis of the will of our people,
WHO CAN GO TO HAJ?
     The. month of Zel-Haj (this yearfalling in June-July) is when Muslims from all over the world gather in Makkah to execute one of the five obligatory fundamentals of Islam. on such an auspicious occasion it may be right for us to spell out some of the rules prescribed for discharging this obligation, without referring to the
                                                    6
  APR IL-JUNE, 1991        fltfillflN llllll                 VOL. 4 NO.3
 philosophy and wisdom of this 'gathering of the Islamic nation from all over the world.
      The world Haj means the repeated execution of a task and in Islamic jurisprudence it means the performing of pilgrimage to the House of God- the Kaaba- in Makkah, to symbolize the respect of Muslim to it by visiting specific places in Makkah on specific times for performing specific rites.
      The Hajf in Islam is an individual obligation; The Holy Quran has ordained: "Pilgrimage to the House of Kaaba is a duty men owe to God-those who can afford the journey...", ( Surah Al-e-Emran; Verse 97) and "complete the Haj and Umra in the service of God..." (Surah Baqara:  Verse 196). Also the Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him, has
 s a i d: " 0, you poeple,  indeed Haj is an   obligation     for you, and,
 therefore, you    perform  the Haj*" It is an obligation    prescribed for
 both men and women.
      However, the performing of this obligation entails the worshipping of God by making ^financial and bodily efforts, and its fulfilment      is not easy for everyone   without paving the means
 and possibilities, and    God Almighty does   not oblige    mankind beyond
 his power and means. On the basis of these realities, the fulfilment of Haj too is pre-conditioned to a number of things some of which are related to its1 incumbencies and some to the ways and manners of its performance.
      Among the things that make the Haj incumbent on a Muslim, one is his financial capability. The Holy Prophet of Islam,peace be upon him, in answer to a question in regard to the Quranic Verse of "’...those who can afford the journey" has interpreted this to "zad" and "rahelah"* *Zad" implies provisions of the journey which includes food, clothig, lodging, servant - if one is needed- , medical treatment as well as (during the journey until returning) all other things needed for making a living.
      "Rahelah9 is related to the means of travelling- transportation-and includes air, sea and land travel, including on animals.
      All the expenses needed for the perfromance of Haj should be made from the personal resources of the pilgrim and until he is able to incur these expenses, he is not obliged to perform the Haj* Furthermore, it is necessary that these financial possibilities ought to be in addition to the amount needed for him and his family's living during the time of his pilgrimage and his return. These expenses are not confined to the basic needs such as food, .clothing and lodging, but include, means of transportation, s ervan t(s ) needed, educational expenses, tools for work to make a living,, jehad implements (when ' the community is engaged in war), and the loans which he has to pay. It is equal whether these loans and obligations are "haqullah" (God's right) such as zakat (obligatory
                                      7
  APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 tax) or expiations, incumbent alms, etc. or they are "h'aqttlabd" (man's right) such as personal loans and obligations and the money of things purchased on instalment, etc. it is also equal whether these loans are. payable immediately or later.
      Islam .attaches a very high price and importance to human dignity and prestige. Under no circumstances it allows its follower to degrade himself for obtaining something and thus burden himself with favors and obligations from others, eventhough it may entail for him the fulfilment of an Islamic obligation.
      It i,s for this very reason that it does not allow a Muslim to act covetously and in a beggar's manner to others to provide him with the offers of any kind to perform the Haj• Furthermore, it prohibits him not to accept any assistance for this purpose which might in one or another way burden him with a favor, eventhough the offer is made by his guardians or relatives.
      The Prophet of God, peace be upon him, has said:    "You and your
 property are for your fathers." Some Islamic jurisprudents, in intepreting    this, say     that only fathers are obliged                              to accept
 donation, gift, or party from his children. - Thus they say that fathers are allowed to accept th'eir children's offer to go »to Haj.
      Another pre-condition for performing Haj is the safety and security of    the route.     It should not be comprised of                             difficult
 terrain or should not be infested with robbers and rebels.
      Islamic jurisprudents have also mentioned the' creation of difficulties by governmental authorities for performing the Haj as part of the security as a result of which .these authorities- unless bribed- will   create various difficulties for the people to                           go to Haj•
 A Muslim is   not allowed   to offer bribe in order to be                             able to go
 to Haj•  For when one resorts to an illegal act                                even to perform a
 legal act, the net result will be tantamount to comitting an illegal act.
      On the basis of these explanatory remarks sending of a number of our aujahed and muhajer brethren and sisters who do not possess the financial qualifications to holy Islamic places for making the Hajt or for making demands in return for providing travel facilities to Muslims,  or                asking                bribes for allowing a Muslim to .go to Haj» are
 all contrary to the dignity of man and illegal in the eye of Shariat. Going to Haj under such conditions is unnecessary. Those who have already   performed                               the pilgrimage once (for Haj   is obligatory on
 qualified Muslim only once in his life time) and resort to degrading behaviour to enable them to go again to Haj are actually committing a more serious sin than the others.
      In  our                view, under present difficult economic conditions
 prevailing among us, going to Ha j without taking these conditions in view will further implicate us in sin and will entail lavishness and wastefulness. Instead of making such unjustified expenditures, it will be, indeed, proper for our authorities to provide aid and comfort to the mujaheddin, refugees, the hungry, the naked and those inflicted withvariouscalamities.
                                                    8
VOL. 4 NO.3
Political Dimension:
    EFFORTS TO SOLVE AFGHAN ISSUE INTENSIFY
        5- POINT UN PLAN
    During the current spring season the pace of activities for finding a solution to the Afghan issue was much faster than ever before. Main reasons for this can be sought in a series of national and international factors emerging in the jehad sector as well as the changes . taking place in the policies of the supporters of the Afghan jehad following the Gulf War:
                              NATIONAL FACTORS
   Absolute failure of the AIG plauged with defects and threatened with quarrels since its inception in 1988. The AIG could not fulfil its promises and, on the other hand, disscusions among its componen't elements grew wider and wider and ultimately these elements refused tg cooperate with each other;
    lack of a political initiative and planning: ideological gap and even separatist tendencies among the jehad groups further distanced them from each other,
    division of the jehad groups in two factions emerging as a result of the Gulf War: This led to a shift in the policies of the USA and the Saudi
    Arabia-the two major in countries helping the jehad;
- notwithstanding the ideological and political disscusions among the mujaheddin, their military solidarity and achievements resulted in the liberation of the Khost (up-graded to provincial level by the Kabul regime) and later, the liberation of the Khwajaghar (which had been serving as the center of the Takhar Province under the. Kabul regime after the fall of Taluqan) and other victories by. the mujaheddin;
~ the unprecedented successes of the mujaheddin, shook the Kabul regime severely and its after effects were witnessed by its benefactor Russia too. Hence Kremlin turned towards the USA and the UN appealing to expedite the process of finding a political solution to the Afghan problem and to remove the bottle-neck created by the Gulf crisis, in this connection,
                    THE AIG UNDER CONTRADICTORY INFLUENCES
    During the past three months, the AIG which had shrunk in practice, shrunk
- ............ .......■■■ *......
1 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                           mm
APR IL.-JUNE, 1991             DlliliAN J(IIAI)                   VOL . 4 NO.3
smaller in form and appearance, too:
   Mawlawi Mohammad Younus resigned from its Ministry of Interior. He said that he was resigning because Pir Sayed Ahmad Gailani, had met secretly with Najib, the Head of Kabul puppet regime and Prof. Rabbani with the Soviet Ambassador to Islamabad.
- The AIG President dismissed Mohammad Nader Khorram the, Public Health Minister,
under the pretext of public complaints against him and replaced him with his son Dr. Najibullah Mujaddedi.^                                              *
-  Although the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi p&id an official visit to Sam Arabia at the Saudi invitation and, according to the press reports, the Saudi government agreed to further subsidize the AIG, many AIG departments still failed to pay staff salaries. Despite this, Professor Mujaddedi said in a press conference, "The AIG- enjoys a special reputation among the mujaheddin and, after the downfall of the Najib regime, it should hold the reins of government".
     The AIG Prime Minister Professor Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, though does not sea eye-to-eye with Mujaddedi in political affairs, continued to perform his duties, though at the opposite side.
                          LACK OF INITIATIVE. GROWING SLUGGISHNESS
     The mujaheddin, while sacrificing stupendously their lives in the military field, was unable to initiative a political plan for the . solution of the Afghan imbroglio. It was expected of them to bring together the entire political and jehadic forces, except the communists, on one platform and to chalk out a plan for putting an end to the existing regrettable and painful condition of the country and playing the role of a really guiding and compassionate national force and cure the malaise of the heroic and religiously faithful nation of a country, which defeated a savage super power. It was expected that the jehad forces, by mobilizing the ulama, intellectuals, statesmen, elders, intelligentsia and other religiously faithful strata of the Afghan society, would jointly lay the foundation stone of a broad-based government in order to cut short the life span of the illegitimate quisling Kabul regime. But it could neither do this nor had the ability to mobilize all the combatant groups fighting the enemy on the bloody and flaming fronts for the last 13 years, to close their ranks.
                                       IRANIAN DELEGATION
     During the third week, of May, a delegation headed by Mujaddedi visited Iran to elicit support of the Iranian government as well as to negotiate with the Iran-based mujafteddin organizations. This delegation also included Prof. Rabbani, Pir Gailani and Mohammadi. The composition of the delegation showed that the three other parties (HIA Hekmatyar), HIA (Khaless) and IIA did not enjoy good relations with ei'ther the Iranian government or the Iran-based Shia Afghan parties.
     But the Peshawar-based parties while verbally expressing _a desire for unity
                                            10
 APR 11.-JUNE. 1991               AIRIIAN JIUflD                    VOL. 4 NO.3
 and solidarity during their visit to Iran, could riot take any concrete step. Later a Shia delegation, comprising Iran-Abased Afghan parties, arrived in Islamabad to discuss the modality of a united formula for. the solution of the Afghan problem. Under pressure of Pakistani authorities apparently with the approval qf the Iranian government, a 28 member Commission comprizing representatives of the Peshawar-based seven Parties, the1 Iran-based HWIA, as well as the HIA (Mbhseni) and some other Peshawar-based "independent groups"■, has been formed for evolving a plan for the solution of the Afghan problem.' But apparantly representatives of the Iran-based parties refused to attend the sessions until they were allocated adequate seats. The Peshawar-based groups, at the insistanCe of three fundamentalist parties, refused to heed the demand. As Sheikh Mohammad Assef Mohsani's newspaper "Jabha-e-Jehad" puts it, "the discussions of this comtoissin too revolved around the monopolistic attitude of the Peshawar-based Seven
 Parties".                                                                      _
    1     • * M , ' ) .
      After,, the Gulf War, Prof. Sayyaf tried to create unity among the "fundamentalist" parties but to no avail. On the contrary, three other parties-popularly known as "moderate" and "West-oriented,rdeclared m. a communique, that in view of the political and military developments in the Afghanistan jehad, they have decided to coordinate their political, cultural and military activities.
      In the meantime, the HIA (Hekmatyar) adopted a unique stand of its own. Although its* /representatives participated in the 28-member Commission, on the one hand Hekmatyar desires to forge unity among Kabul Province commanders for overthrowing he Najib regime and, ori the other hand, it is surmisized from his remarks that as efforts for creating political unity among the mujaheddin groups will not bear fruit, the HIA has to go ahead alone. He told a meeting, "the on-"ly party for whom all the Islamic movements throughout the world pray success at at the earliest to form-a government in Afghanistan, is, the Hezb-e-Islami". He added, "The HIA can really establish a powerful and purely Islamic government in Afghanistan".
                         POLICIES DETRIMENTAL TO NATIONAL INTERESTS
      With the intensification of the Gulf War, the fundamentalist groups of Afghanistan, following the line of the International Islamic Brotherhood, instead of supporting the Saudi and Kuwaiti stand, who have been giving considerable assistance during the Afghan jehad to the Afghan refugees and mujaheddin, supported Iraq:  Iraq had not only abstained from helping us but had
 been persistently supporting the Kabul regime and opposing the mujaheddin. On the other hand, the nationalist groups enthusiastically supported the Saudi Arabia stance which had invited the US and Western troqps to its territory for countering the Iraqi offensive and, moreover, despatched a 300 men contingent to Saudi Arabia on behalf of mujaheddin: But in fact, there was no need for both the extreme steps. The Afghans ought to have adopted a moderate positive policy of neutrality. We ought to have severely condemned the Iraqi attack.on Kuwait but should have avoided sending any force on behalf of the mujaheddin, because it added fuel to the simmering fire of differences among the mujaheddin*
      Subsequent to the end ^ of Gulf war, 1 t;his ^j)pjim ofJ siMie of the Afghan 11
                                                       11
 Al'KIL-JUNL, 1991               1111.11 Jill                   VOL. A NO.3
 groups caused strong reactions among the Saudi Arabian and the American authorities and they declared that not only they would not help these groups anymore but have also apparently come to the conclusion that they should take the entire load of the Afghan issue off their Shoulders.
                              POSITIVE RESULTS OF MILITARY UNITY
      The solidarity of mujaheddin on the jehad fronts, during the past three months, crowned their struggles with tremendous successes at Khost and other points in Afghanistan. In case this military unity of the' mujaheddin had been coupled with a political cohesion too, the mujaheddin could have reached their final goal* But this trend actually expedited and encouraged the military process rather than the political process for .the solution of the Afghan problem.
      Following several mujaheddin military conquests, the Kabul regime was unnerved and this caused confusion in the Moscow hierarchy as well. Th6 Russian leaders leaned toward the USA and, in view of the liberalization policies introduced in the Soviet Union under the Perestroika and Glosnost and especially for tacitly backing the US during the Gulf War, Moscow sought American help in resolving the Afghan puzzle. The USSR, being corroded within and holding the beggar's boWl to the Western powers, has to bear the heavy expense of propping u'p the Najib regime by spending nearly $ 300 million monthly which may be termed as the last straw o.n the camel's back.
      All these factors have expedited the process of political solution of the Afghan problem which crystallized in the shape of the Peace Plan proposed by the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar.
                                           THE UN PLAN
      The UN plan contains five points:
 1* The need to preserve the Islamic identity, nonalignment, independence, territorial integrity and the right to self-determination of the people of Afghanistan.
 2.   Acceding to the right of the Afghan people to have* a government of their own choice and to opt for a social* political and economic order without interference, sabotage or foreign pressure.
        ■ ' ■ ■ • ' . ..
 3.   The necessity for a transitory period prior to the formation of a broad-based government (to be determined through an intra-Afghan dialogue).
 4.   The need to cut off arms supply to all the belligerent parties in Afghanistan, from whatever source it may be (which will be implemented simultaneously with the agreed terms of transitory period).
 5.   Provision Of necessary means and conditions for the economic and social reconstruction of Afghanistan, voluntary return of the Afghan refugees and conceding the necessity of providing sufficient financial resources for
             ? 1 ' 12 ■ > ■ , .
  Al'KIL-JUNE, 1991                         AIGIIANiHHAII                             VOL.  4  NO.3
      resolving the difficulties of the Afghan refugees. (EDITOR'S NOTE: for'text of the UN plan see section for documents).
                                           REACTIONS
      The. UN plan announced 22 May, 1991, was accepted entirely by the Kabul regime and Kremlin and welcomed by them. Ishaq Tokhi, Assistant to Najib, not only supported the plan, but in an interview pointed out that its text was supplied by the Kabul regime to the UN Secretary General.
      USAr Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the European Economic, Community also welcomed the UN Plan and described it as a good foundation for peace in Afghanistan.
       However, there were diverse reactions among the Afghan groups and personalities to this plan: some of them accepted it in toto and some conditionally* whereas others have rejected it and even termed it as a conspiracy.                                   -
       Jabhai Rastagarin Melli (National Salvation Front) based ,in Kabul, has welcomed the plan and has called upon the mujaheddin to accept it.
  * ■ The representative of the ex-King of Afghanistan has said that the .plan resembled th.e ex-King's 6wn plan but. the king himself said that he would support the plan, provided it ensures peace and security, tranquility and stability, the Islamic identity, the territorial integrity, non-interference of foreigners and also unconditional international cooperation with Afghanistan.           )
       Prof . Mujaddedi said, in the course of an interview with the BBC, that he would accept a government temporarily headed by Najib on the condition that Najib should step Aside after the elections are over. But the' following night he told the BBC:  "neither we accept Najib's leadership,-nor do we like to coalesce
  with him". But, he added, in case a number of Muslim and neutral Afghans should take over the power from Najib, then he would have no objection if Najib stayed a month or,two*
       Yet 29 May, 1991, he declared that the AIG would not agree to the UN Plan for the solution of Afghan problem. The AIG believes in military solution but in the meantime favors political activities.
       Sheikh Mohammad Assef Mohseni, Leader of the H1A (Mohseni), expressed his consent to the plan under certain conditions saying if the plan aimed at Nsjib-mujaheddin dialogue, the mujaheddin will never accept it. But if this > point is deleted from the plan, then one could think seriously about it.
  *   ,;44awlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, the reiiowned Commander, replying to a question of the representative of the UN Secretary General that "would he agree to a solution based on certain main principle,” remarked that so long as a puppet regime exists, in Kabul, political solution of the Afghan problem would not be possible, Of course, the moment Najib hands over power, the mujaheddin would
                                               13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
  APRIL-JUNE, 1991                  MlillANJdlllll                    VOL. 4 NO-3
 give up fighting and political dialogue can be started. Otherwise political discussions will serve no purpose at all.
 - Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, an ex-Prime Minister has agreed to this plan, in toto, saying, "I do not know the details but whatever has been proposed by the UN and welcomed by the USA and the USSR and accepted by Pakistan, too, I would also endorse it".
      Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed,the ex-Deputy Premier said:     "Now more than ever, it
 is essential that Afghans, engaged in the jehad and/or committed to the objectives of vthe jehad, should in the first instance create an atmosphere for intra-Afghan dialogue and after due consultations Choosfe the path leading to joint strategy.
 " Prof. Rabbani summarized the solution in two points, i.e. (1) non-interfe-rence by the USSR and; (2) stepping down of Najib from the saddle of power.
 ** Sayyed Ishaq Gailani,         a pro-Kabul activist on jehad scene, who, as
 reported, visited Kabul via Kandahar, remarked, "the present mujaheddin leaders are unable to chalk out a single plan. Therefore, continuance of Najib for a short time* during the transitory period, does not seem to be a great problem".
      HWIA point of view is that this ^>lan Contained certain strong and certain weak points. It rejected its first two points viz:     ceasefire  and dialogue with
 Najib and considered its remaining three points, viz; interim government, elections and a broad-based government, as positive points.
 “ Pir Gailani.said that during the interim period, one reliable individual or group can hold the reins of power. General elections should be held and a government,reflecting the will of the people of Afghanistan, should be formed and Najibullah should step down before hands.
      Mawlawi, Khales considered the plan acceptable only on the condition that the Kabul regime and Moscow should agree to cancel all the military, economic, social and cultural agreements signed.by them since 27 April, 1979, and declare these agreements unfair and illegal,
 * The former Afghan diplomat and President of the UN General Assembly Abdul Rahman Pazhwak called the UN Secretary General's plan, defective, unrealistic, unilateral and based ort Russian interests.
 •* Prof. Sayyaf and Engineer Hekmatyar; in a joint Communique, termed the UN Secretary General's plan an insult to the mujaheddin and declared that this plan has under-estimated the people who have given 1.5 million martyrs for the freedom of their homeland and places both the belligerent groups under one ,cover.
      Thus the UN Secretary General's plan has evoked diverse stands among the Afghans but on the international level, it helped the countries concerned with the Afghan problem to adopt a single stand and forced the Pakistan government, which had a dual stand on this issue since a long-time (on the one hand
                                            14
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                     mum                         VOL. 4 NO.3
 concurring with the political activities on the international evel while on the other hand seaking military solution of the problem according' to mujaheddin demands) to change its policy and favor a political solution and, for the first time, allow the official representatives of the ex-King to visit Pakistan and to make efforts in his favor, and make it possible for the envoy to contact the mujaheddin leaders or their authorized representatives.
                                 NO LONGER "SAUR REVOLUTION"
      The Kabul regime, in pursuance of its efforts to survival, had already changed the title of its party from the Peoples Democratic Party of Afghanistan to the "WatanParty" in order to confuse public opinion by its bypocritic moves. This time it has officially abolished and cancelled the ceremonies commemorating 27 April, 1979, coup de’tat, once called by them "The Irreversible Revolution", and the public holiday on this day has also been cancelled. They have now mentioned this day in their calendar as merely "The Sadr Transformation". Wrote the weekly Akhbar-e-Hafta of Kabul:
      "In view of the fact that the Kabul authorities no longer commemorate 27 April officially as a Revolution Anniversary ..it seems that the chapter of 'revolutionary fervor* has cbme ,to an end and perhaps many of the ruling forces might have discovered that it is no use clinging to the past and it would rather be better to look to the,future.
      "The 12 year old history of the Saur Revolution which was once called the 'Historic Great Revolution’ has a chequered and complicated history evoking diverse judgements.' If on 27 April, 1979 the leftist militarymen had not moved their tanks and planes against the Republican regime of Dauod, would our, country haye faced the bloody situation which it has been facing till now? If President Dauod had not resorted to rebellion against his cousin 17 July 1973, would our country not have been immune to the evils of instability and fratricidal warfare? Had the leaders assessed"the Afghan realities in correct perspective after 27 April and had they adopted a truly national policy, could it not forestall the troubles,and travails suffered by the Afghans?...
      "The Saur coup was a historical blunder, not for the . reason that Afghanistan was not in need of change and transformation but because the leaders of the 'Revolution' did not understand where were they heading to or what were they doing.
                                             15
 Ai'im-JUNE, 1991              AllilMD                   VOL.    no. 3
 Military Dimension:
        MUJAHEDDIN LIBERATE KHWAJAGHAR
    Just due to shere consequences of developments in operations for the liberation of the Khwajaghar, Takhar, the prestige of Ahmad Shah Masood, the JIA, Commander in north-eastern Afghanistan, became involved. The Khwajaghar district, about 100 kms north of Taluqan and only few kilometers south of Afghan-Russian border was attacked by the mujaheddin in the latter part of May. The Kabul regime had transferred the center of the province to Khwajaghar after its real center, Taluqan, was liberated by the mujaheddin about three years ago.
    The . mujaheddin were then forced to evacuate the city in the first part of June. The Defense Minister of Kabul regime, Aslam Watanjar, maliciously claimed that government forces in fact took the city not as a result of fighting but bribed a number of mujaheddin commanders, a claim strongly rejected by Commarider Masood. He said that the mujaheddin retreat from the center of Khwajaghar was only tactical and the mujaheddin in fact controlled all' the hights surrounding the city. After the mujaheddin announced in the latter part of June that they had recaptured Khwajaghar, proved his claims that the mujaheddin retreat was only tactical.
    The mujaheddin, commanded by Masood, after capturing Khwajaqhar the first time, also routed a big Kabul regime military convoy in Dasht-e-Archi. The convoy had left Kunduz for Khwajaghar.
    Nevertheless, while the capturing, evacuation and recapturing of Khwajaghar by the mujaheddin, had become a question of prestige for the mujaheddin forces,x as ‘Mohammad Younus Qanooni, a representative of the "Supervisory Council" in Peshawar said, the fact was that a large contingent of Kabul regime had concentrated in that area. He said that the region had had a great strategic
   .r a
Darqaid • /
   V /
Yangi Qala
                                                    \
   I
-A
      X
                                                                             / ) \ / ^
   / ^         Rustaq •
Khwa ja Ghar
                                             1 / \
   \                r
    T
    /
Chah Ab
    ?
    I
 I
 \
 )
 -/
/
 1 TALOQAN
(Kalafgan
V •1
  ^ 1
 significance and the security of several importantroutes were related to Khwajaghar^He said,; "all enemy operations, after the liberation of Taluqan
        .      ■       I     ^
 were conducted from Khwajaghar. After the conquering of Khwajaghar, the enemy will not' be able to operate from this
 area.• Enemy threats against the mujaheddin in Dasht-e-Qala and Darqad
 have also been eliminated or reduced significantly.
      Latest news indicated that the Kabul regime forces were still trying to capture Khwajaghar by .. undertaking heavy air raids. \
16
 Al'HIl -JUNt, 1991           MM                    VOl . A NO.3
Military Dimension:
EPOCH-MAKING MUJAHEDDIN DEFENSE AT ZENDAJAN, HERAT
     The fierce fighting' that had continued between the mujaheddin and. Kabul regime forces in Zendajan, Herat, since the beginning of May and until the. Afghan Jehad went to press, has been considered as one of the most epoch-making battles of this Afghan War. A declaration, by the Central Council of the jehad Publicity Bureau of the South Western region of the JIA, says the enemy forces launched a fierce offensive on the ‘mujaheddin bases in Zendajan 4 May, deploying a huge army consisting of thousands of troops and militiamen^ hundreds of tanks and tens of war planes, and brought the whole area under heavy ground and air fire. .
     Despite heavy losses inflicted upon the government forces in Zendajan, its propaganda through the media indicated as if the mujaheddin forces, taking position about 50 kins, west of the Herat city, were all crushed.
     Mohammad Esmail Khan, mujaheddin General Commander in the region said, "the fblatant lie that I heard over the imperialist propaganda machine, the BBC, last night was very astonishing. Quoting the.Kabul regime foreign Ministry, the BBC announcement that the mujaheddin forces were being crushed, was made right at the moment . when I was talking to POWs inside Zendajan.  These
 prisoners were expressing regret and repentance for taking part in the battle and some of our own men were still fighting the enemy”.
     Reports add that the enemy forces again launched an attack on Zendajan 19 June but they were repulsed by the mujaheddin. The statement made by the mujaheddin 20 June placed the enemy losses at 2,700 killed, 500 injured, 110 tanks and vehicles demolished, two jet aircraft and three helicopters shot down'. According to mujaheddin sources during these battles six mujaheddin commanders (Mohammad Ayub, Shair Ahmad, Mohammad Aslam, Mohammad Amir, Noor Ahmad and Soofi Noor Ahmad) were martyred.       ^
     According to Commander Esmail Khan more than 50,000 Zendajan inhabitants have fled and many have been rendered homeless as a result of Kabul regime
attacks and tens of civilians have been killed or wounded and a large number, of houses demolished. The flow of water in the main irrigation canal of Zendajan has been cut off and crops have suffered heavily as well.
    Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA, has appealed to the UN for help to Zendajan refugees. Also Commander Esmail has asked the Afghans throughout the world to Afghan-Iranian border to coordinate their operations against the enemy.
                                17                 • '
APRIL-JUNE, 1991 | GIMNJIHAD voi.. 4 no.3 |  
Jehad ' In Khiva ja  ghaV, Zend              
             Commam  led by                  
AHMAD SHAH MASOOD
MOHAMMAD ISMAEL KHAN
                                                          ie
IL-JUNE, 1991 •
mWMB VOL. 4 NO.3
  MAJOR DOCUMENTS
    AIG CONDEMNS 27 APRIL COUP                                    21
                . ' - *
    HI A (M0HSEN1) ON DISSOLUTION OF ITS PARTY IN IRAN            23
    HI A (MOHSENI) COMMANDERS BACK PRESENT LEADERSHI P            25
    KHOST COMMANDERS’ COUNCIL ON POST-LIBERATION EVENTS .         26
                                                           ■ I
    HWI A. .ISSUES ANNUAL REPORT IN IRAN                          27
    3-PARTY RESOLUTION ON COORDINATION OF EFFORTS                 30
    UN SECRETARY GENERAL PLAN FOR AFGHANISTAN                     30.
                       I ■ ' -       '
    AFGHAN ORGANIZATION IN USA LAUNCHES MOVEMENT FOR REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT                                 32
    AFGHAN SHI A PARTY’S ANSWER TO NAJIB GOVERNMENT               37
    CHARTER OF AFGHAN JUDGES COUNCIL                              39
    AFGHAN YOUTH ISSUE DECLARATION AFTAR SEMINAR                  46

APRIL-JUNE,
1991
VOL- 4 NO.3
                EDITOR'S NOTE:   The following is the text of the AIG
                resolution (translated by the Afghan Jehad) condemning the 13th Anniversary of the Communist coup in Afghanistan• The text was published in 29 April*         1991» issue of the
                "Ittehad-e-Islami".
                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL Twenty seven Api^il, 1979 was the day when the /shameful, and bloody communist coup was staged by the notorious and traitorous Khalq and Parcham parties with the cooperation and        according to, thie        sinister d’esign of the
     Colonial Russian government helping the torch bearers of the atheistic communism to take the reins of power in their hands. The coup de'tat by the Russian agents is considered a gloomy tragedy which caused large scale death and devastation in our Islamic country* Afghanistan, during the last more than thirteen years. The Khalq and Parcham traitors, after this coup, mercilessly and cruelly subjected the people to tyranny in order , to      trample upon the   entire gamut of Islamic
     values but when they faced courageous Islamic resistance by the faithful and mujahed Afghan nation and felt their power going      down  the drain, they invited
     their Russian over-lords to oppress      and massacre this nation and martyred one
     and a half million Muslims of our lahd with the help pf the aggressive occupying forces for full 10 years, rendering hundreds of thousands of the people disabled and handicapped and caused . the mass migration of six million people beyond the borders into a state of homelessness and destitution. Besides they destroyed the greatest part of the national wealth arid resources, devastated most of the residential areas and decimated the economic infra^structure of Afghanistan.
           Although the Russian Red Army faced defeat after a dechide of brave Islamic resistance by the crusading Afghan nation and had to ignominousJLy withdraw from Afghanistan, yet the perpetrators of the April tragedy and the remnants of the aggression by the Russian occupying forces under the label of Kabul regime, are still straddled on the saddle, of criminal power owing to the continued Russian intervention but are not acceptable to the people of Afghanistan in any shape or form and are not authorized by any human or international standard to continue their illegitimate rule. The communist regime in Kabul is the offspring of the aggression by the Russian occupying forces and the main cause of all the crimes and tragedies, during the past 13 years, perpetrated on our nation and hence has no right whatsoever to rule over Afghanistan.               v    ^
           Therefore, in view of the existence of the illegal and puppet Russian regime
                                                  21
APRIL-JUNE* 1991                             AlllllANJUIAIl                                 VOL-  4  NO.3
and the executors of the April tragedy, we declare categorically:
1.   The April 1979 coup, was staged by the Russian- lackeys in collaboration with the Russians and hence has no legal status or credibility for. oar mujahed nation- The Afghan nation has proved this fact by starting the jehad and the armed resistance against the non-Muslim communist regime and is resolved, to cArry out the jehad till the downfall of the executors of the April coup.
2.   The executors  of the April coup are  the traitors belonging to the Khalq and
      the Parcham  parties who are    the       murderers of 1.5 million people of
      Afghanistan and are professional criminals who have given a blood bath to Afghanistan during the last 13 years. They have, not only, no right to continue their rule over Afghanistan but have also no right to participate or be a party to the future government in Afghanistan.
3.   Any overt or  covert * con tact with the communist and puppet regime in Kabul
      either for accommodating it iri the  future political set-up or for the sake
      of forming a neutral government, would be repugnant from our. point of view and we regard Such overtures as a high treason to the ideals of the mujaheddin, the' refugees, the martyrs,, the orphans, the widows and each and every individual of our grief stricken nation and will never allow the merchants of jehad to achieve their destardly goal.
4.   Intervention in the internal affairs of the jehad for imposing the future government, from' any side, is not acceptable to us. The Muslim and mujahed
nation of Afghanistan is a free, independent, efficient and proud.nation and can determine its own future.
The victory in Khost in the beginning of the new (Afghan) year is considered, as the harbinger of the coming of more victories. In the same manner as the heroic mujaheddin have achieved other victories in the provinces of Kunduz, Faryab, Baghlan, Logar and Paktia synchronized with the Khost .victory, it is expected of them to intensify their armed jehad and military operations throughout the country in a well orchestrated way so that the rule of the communist traitors in Afghanistan may collapse at the earliest*
The recent; missile attack by the criminal Kabul regime on the Asadabad. city (Kunar) reflects the weakness and demoralized state of the communists and they have committed this shameful crime to atone for their ^earlier defeat at Khost.; While wishing patience and perseverance for the bereaved families of the Asadabad martyrs, we expect our heroic fighters throughout Afghanistan and even in the cities under the Kabul regime, to attack only the military installations of that regime.
We strongly urge the Russian government to stop its abundant military and economic assistance to the illegal Kabul regime, at the earliest and not to let its aggressor hands be smeared with the bl^jod of Afghan nation, any more.                                             1
                                           22
april-june, 1991
vol- 4 no.3
HI A (M [ohseni) Rejects
Iranian Claims on Dissolution of his Party
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a resolution from the Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan about a Radio Tehran report regarding the dissolution of the party and its merger with the Hezb-e-Wahdat which was denounced by the Harakat as a blatant lie and published in Payam-e-Jehad March 8, 1991. The text» in Dari* has been translated in English by the Afghan Jehad.
RESOLUTION:   "Radio 'Tehran report of the dissolution of Harakat-e-Islami
Afghanistan is a blatant lie". To the Muslim' and independent nation of Afghanistan:  You are well aware that Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, led by
Ayatullah Mohseni, has continued the jehad, along with other Muslim and fraternal groups, eversince the Islamic Revolution was launched and will do so until the just government of Allah is established. The Harakat hunters of atheists not only made epics in 21 provinces of Afghanistan but also gave decisive and . destructive blows to the Marxist forces right in Kabul,center of the atheist and puppet ruler, and earned glory and honor to the Afghan Muslim community.
        We had expected that the valorous Harakat fighters would draw admiration and support of the entire population of the Muslim world, particularly our neighbors.But it was on 4 March (1991) that we,regretfully,came to Know that the : offices, schools and mosque* related to Harakat-e-Islami in Iran were all closed by the Iranian government. Over 3,000 children were deprived of their legitimate rights to learn and a number of the Muslims were forbidden to say their prayers ^ in the mosques.       ■                                           ,
        Considering the fact that during the 11 years of our political existence in Iran we received nothing but insult, threat and pressure, and with due respect to the fact that the Harakat-e-Islami never sacrificed the interests of its own nation for the interests of others, and for which we have paid dearly by^ enduring every hardship, the closing down of the Harakat offices has not come unexpectedly. We are not in the least sorry for What has happened. The Iranian authorities are committing a big mistake if they think that they are the measures and standard for right and wrong and for good or bad - or that
   AI*K II--JUNE, 1991                fllMJIIIl              ________VOL. 4 NO.3
  their own favorite parties ought to be favored in Afghanistan and ,those disliked by them should be resented by the. Afghan nation. On the contrary, the case happens to be exactly the opposite. The extent of the popularity of the groups under the Iranian patronage in the Afghan society is known to all.
       But the most surprizing of all is the announcement of the dissolution of the Harakat-e-lslami by the Iranian Foreign Ministry in the name of this party's Central Council in which it was added that all the offices and other facilities of Harakat would belong to Hezb-e-Wahdat.
       The Iranian Foreign Ministry is well aware that only three persons out of the 25-member strong council have agreed with them. Furthermore, the Harakat is headed by a personality such as the Ayatullah Mohseni and only he has the authority to dissolve it and the three inefficient individuals and opportunists who have switched sides three times in the last 11 years, have in no way the right to dissolve the party. We should have been more pleased if Radio Tehran had honestly and bravely announced, "Iran has closed down the offices of Harakat-e-Islami and this party cannot continue its activities in Iran in> future". But we ail heard that the dissolution of Harakat and confiscation of all its property was shamefully announced (under the name of Wahdat Party). We still do not know why the Iranian authorities have not learnl; a lesson from the continuous bloodshed in central and northern parts of Afghanistan, during the years, caused by the aristocrats and their interventions? Why do they wish to repeat their past experiences in Afghanistan which is absolutely not in the interest of IranTWe do not understand Mr.Najafi,a responsible.person in the Iranian Foreign Ministry, when he dare says in a meeting, "we shall (make others) recognize the Hezb-e-Wahda t even if it may hurl some others in the depths of the hell". What mandate has he from the Afghan nation to make such a Courageous and responsible announcement on th6^r behalf? Najafi's slogans were previously echoed in words and action by Mr. Mahdi Hashemi. But, at last, he. himself before others ...(stet). We are afraid that Mr. Najafi, too, may be. treated with the same fate.
       We announce explicitly and catagorically that we shall allow Iran the same amount,of iterference in our affairs as we have in their's, and since we have no right to interfere in their affairs we shall not permit them to interfere in our's. What a difference would it have made had the Iranian government acted logically by regarding the mujaheddin groups as their brethren, avoiding to cut their own arms and arousing the anger of a number of true and mujahed Muslims. Hezb-e-Wahdat (members) are our brothers and not our enemies and we wish to live in Afghanistan with each other in peace and tranquility. But even this is our own affair and the Iranian Foreign Ministry is not permitted to impose an alliance or stir up conflict between us. We should like to advise our brethren in Hezb-e-Wahdat to preserve their (independent) identity, their mission and their honor by not allowing strangers to exploit them for their personal interests and gains.
 i
24
  AIM* 1l-JUNI, 1991         AlflllAN JIHAD                  voi4 NO. 3
ort
             EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of a resolution from the field commanders of the Hatakat-e-Islami Afghanistan issued in Peshawar 8 March» 1991 in connection with the closing down» in the Islamic Republic of Iran• of the offices of the party•
       It is very pleasing to note that the roaring tides of the events of the Islamic revolution reveal the faces of the so-called revolutionary opportunists who change color by seeing bundles of bank-notes and other gifts. This is also a blessing of the revolution that cleanses the revolutionary society from opportunist and anti-revolutionary elements. We were surprized to hear from Radio Iran,; two nights ago, that ’’the Iran-based Central Council of Harakat has announced the dissolution of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, its merger with the Hezb-e-Wahdat and the transfer of its bffices and property to the latter:
  (1)  we should like to make it clear that the offices of the Harakat throughout Iran were already closed down by the Iranian government because it did not join the Hezb-e-Wahdat due to their unjustifiable demands and the rejection of its unilateral terms and conditions?
  (2) the majority of its Central Council members, consisting of over 25 persons, are on duty inside Afghanistan arid Pakistan and have not been in Iran to take such a measure, and only three out of the 10 members living in Iran have resorted to this treacherous act;
  (3)  Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan is under the wise and able leadership of Ayatullah Mohseni who is residing in Pakistan. The Central Council is, in no. way, authorized to dissolve the party. Only the leader himself or the Party Congress consisting of all members can do so. However, if three irresponsible members of the Central Council take such an impudent step by coming to secret understanding with others, then they are to be laughed at and made a fool- of. The party with such a vast structure cannot be dissolved by actions and talks of three persons alone. It belongs to the mujaheddin who are in jehad trenches and those who are raging the holy war under the guidance and leadership of Ayatullah Mohseni. It does not belong only to three opportunists.
                                                 25
AI»HII.-JtJNI-, 1991                fllllllAN JIIIAII                        VOI •  A   NO. !i
       We, the commanders of the battle-stained fields in Afghanistan,' who have come to Peshawar to see our great leader and to attend a party conference, resolve that the legitimate fronts and mujaheddin of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan will act, until the last drop of their blood, under the guidance and wise leadership of our great leader, Ayatullah Mohseni. We shall, remain firm and steadfast in the legitimate path we have chosen and shall defend the independent policy of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan until its proposed legal terms have been accepted by Hezb-e-Wahdat. Conspiracies, fabrications and the recent propaganda will have no effect what soyer on our morale and firm resolutions.

       Long live our learned leader, Ayatiillah Mohseni. Praise to the mujaheddin of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan. (THE COUNCIL OF MUJAHEDDIN COMMANDERS OF HARAKAT-E-ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN, PESHAWAR, 8 MARCH, 1991)
 Khost Jehad Council
      on
           EDITOR'S NOTEs The following is the text of a resolution by the Khost Jehad Council iti regard to post-war issue of Khost, The text has been published in March-Aprils 1991, issue of. the Manba-ul-Jehad,
                         IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
   As has been clear to the whole world, the capture of Khost has had a deep impact upon the Afghan problem and has paved the way to a series of basic changes. For this reason we deemed it necessary to declare some points as follows:
        After the capture of Khost by the mujaheddin, the political solution of the Afghanistan issue once again came in the fore on a world-wide level. If, according to what is being said, this political settlement points out to a coalition with the Najib regime or to the recognition of his atheist Watan Party, it will not only not pave the way to end the war or resolve the Afghan problem, but will be considered totally and completely unpracticable and impossible.
        If the ’settlement' means that Najib will relinquish his 'political and' military power and disappear from the scene once and for all, it can be acceptable to the mujaheddin. It is the presence of the Najib regime that causes the war to continue; wherever traces of his rule has been wiped out, war has also stopped. We can make it clear that eradication of the actual factors can also stop the war. Regarding the imprisonment of military officers in Khost, we note with regret that irresponsible political activities are under way.
                                                26
  Accordingly the jehad forces in the area, have announced that any negotiations regarding the POWs should be conducted directly with the Khost Council because they have conquered Khost and they are controlling and administering it. The P.OWs have been treated according to international norms and standards, even better. ,Instead of being court-martialed as war criminals, they have been welcomed as guests and their'property was properly looked after. Our claims in this connection have been confirmed by the ICRC after repeatedly visiting the POWs.
        Some imperialistic circles have accused the mujaheddin for looting and , anarchy in Khost. As we have repeatedly declared, the area is open to international inspection any time. Their representatives can come and see for themselves that apart from the destructions caused to government establishments during the attack on- the city, or those inflicted by the Kabul regime SCUDs and artillery shellings, there is no further damage. They can also meet with the POWs, including seven generals and about 5,000 troops and militiamen, and interview - them. They can also witness the facilities and care provided to the injured and the refugees.
        We declare once again that the POWs are treated like guests despite the fact that they are closely affiliated with Najib and have not defected to the mujaheddin on prior understanding with, them. We have decided not to try them,
 ■ but their release or prosecution in the future will depend upon the reaction of the Russian puppet regime.
 HWIA Issue Resolution in Iran on Afghan Issues
               EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the resolution (translated by the Afghan Jehad) passed by the second session of the Afghan Shia forum regarding the agenda> assessments and planning of the Wahdat Party, as published in the 16 March 1991 issue of the daily BESHARAT.
                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST BENEFICIENT AND THE MOST MERCIFUL
        "And hold fast, all together, by the Rope which God (stretches out for you), and be not divided among yourselves". (Sura Al-e-Imran: 103).
        With the help of God Almighty and the blessings of Hazrat Mehdi, the second session of the Afghan Shia Forum was held on the auspicious Birthday Anniversary
                                                   27
  APRIL-JUNE, 1991                 MANJlllflO                       VOL. 4 NO.3
 of the Saviour of JMankind, Mohammad peace be upon him), with the participation of political and military leaders of the Afghan Shia community, from all over the world, at Tehran.
      The first session of the Afghan Shia Forum was held last year in these very holy and blessed days which amounted to giving official recognition to the Wahdat-e-Islami Party of Afghanistan. It prepared the agenda for the second session and assessed the achievements of the past one year and completed necessary planning for attaining the goals of the Muslim nation bf Afghanistan. In this connection the participants in seven commissions, relating to political, military and cultural affairs, reconstruction work, women's progress and the regional affairs, achieved positive and valuable results*
      The participants in this forum, while thanking the Islamic Republic of Iran and paying respects to the Great Leader of the Islamic Revolution Hazrat Imam Khomeini and renewing their allegiance to his rightful successor Hazrat Ayatullah Khamenei have declared their stand as follows:
 1.   The Muslim nation of Afghanistan during the past more than 12 years of jehad and fight for their legitimate rights and resistance against the occupation forces, proved beyond any shadow of doubt that they can rightly determine their own destiny and seek Divine blessings for achieving their sacred goals. Hence we participants in this forum, while condemning super-power interference in our internal affairs, categorically demand for putting an end to these interventions and for giving the right of self-determination to the Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
 2.   The Islamic country of Afghanistan belongs to the Afghan nation and its social justice and its future should be such as to protect the rights of all the classes, religions and sects in all the government institutions because it is a pre-requisite condition for giving a material shape to the ideals of the Islamic Revolution.
 3..  The aim of the second session of the Afghan Shia Forum is to prepare the
     * ground for ensuring national unity among the entire Islamic nation of Afghanistan.
 4.   The Kabul regime is an offspring of aggression and does not legally represent the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and ought to hand over power to' the legal representatives of the nation.
 5.   We condemn American military presence in the region which is the result of lack of foresight of Iraqi rulers and the ambitions of the multi-national forces and demand the withdrawal of these forces from that region and believe that the countries of the region can solve their regional problems.
6.,   Unity has been the ideal of the Shia community of Afghanistan and .this
      ideal has materialized in the shape of the Wahdat-e-Islami Party. Therefore, we regard this party as the only legitimate representative of the Shias of Afghanistan and believe that the Wahdat-e-Islami Party belo^ng^i to the entire Shia community in Afghanistan and the leaders of this party will
                                               28
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                   AIGIIANJIIIIUI                    VOL-  4  NO.3
   •. . .. .__________________________________d.________  ;__________________________
      leave no stone unturned to enlarge its- scope evermore.
 7.   In view of the fact 'that the Afghan women have fought shoulder to shoulder with their menfolk against tyranny and aggression during the past many
      years of struggle and revolution^             they_should have a        role in
      self-determination and must reaffirm their special status in future Afghanistan.
 8.   We consider the Islamic Republic of Iran as the Mother of Islamic Countries and appreciate its all out support to the World Islamic Movements, particu- . larly in Afghanistan,and require its further attention, as before, towards solution of the problems facing the Islamic movement in Afghanistan.
 9.   We believe that the future government in Afghanistan should be Islamic, independent, non-aligned and based on the will of its Muslim people. The / only way to establish such a government would be, to hold general and free elections.
                                                                 _ »
 10.  Future reconstruction of Afghanistan in different dimensions, is an
      important factor having direct connection with the active sympathetic participation of the entire Muslim nation of Afghanistan as well as the help and assistance of the friendly countries. Therefore, we appeal to all the spiritual leaders, specialists, scholars and professors throughout Afghanistan to cooperate vigorously in order to perform necessary planning, at the earliest.
 11.  We appeal to the Islamic Republic of Iran to devote its energies and efforts towards convening a great conference of political leaders, jehad commanders, ulama, spiritual leaders and representatives of all the social strata of Afghanistan for evolving maximum harmony and coordination among them.
 12.  We regard the continuance of the jehad activities in parallel to political activities as a guarantee and support of the sacred ideals of the Afghan nation for the achievement of final victory and expect all the mujaheddin and leaders of Islamic groups in Afghanistan to .pay serious attention to this issue.
 13.  We regard the principle of "Valayat-e-Faqih" (Guardianship of the Islamic
      jurisprudent) as the invulnerable principle and an infrastructure of an Islamic government and declare our total allegiance to the Highest Muslim authority in the world i.e. Hazrat Ayatullah Khamenei.                           i
                          ■                                                           f
 14.  We express our categorical support to the Intefadah (the Resistance of the Muslim nation of Palestine), the Kashmiri Muslims and all 1 tfre Islamic freedom movements and urge all the Islamic countries to support these • movements.
 15.  The Afghan Shia Forum endorses the historical decree issued by Hazrat Imam Khomeini, may Allah bless his, soul, with/ regard to the renegade, Salman Rush<3i» the author of the Satanic - Verses and expresses its complete" willingness to carry out the decree.
                                               29
APRIL-JUNE# 1991
VOL- 4 NO.3
3 - Peshawar Based Parties Coordinate Efforts
          EDITOR'S, NOTE:   The  following  is  the  text  of  a press
          release from three mujaheddin organizations (NIFAt NLFA and HEIA) regarding consultations among them in the political» cultural and military affairs of Afghanistan issued 18 May9 1991.
   In view of the current political and military situation.. Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of the National Liberation Front of Afghanistan (NLFA) and President of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of National Islamic Front of Afghanistan1 (NIFA) and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of Harakat-e-Enqilab-e-Islami Afghanistan (HEIA) declare that there is an urgent need for the unity in military, political and cultural areas. Henceforth, NLFA, NIFA & HEIA will work together in consultation with each other toward finding a lasting and peaceful solution to the Afghan crisis in accordance with the wishes of the Afghan people.
     De Cuellar’s Plan for _ Afghanistan

 (EDITOR1S NOTE: The following is the text of a plan worked out by JaVier Perez de Cuellar on a political solution for the Afghanistan problem).
      Reports of active hostilities in Afghanistan over the last few weeks have reconfirmed my concern that further efforts are needed to bring about an end to the suffering of the Afghan population. At a time when other developments seem to be attracting the attention of the world, the Afghans have become a forgotten people. Their^plight,unfortunately,is very real and the urgency to put an end to it is no less felt -today at a time when the international community Is showing a
                                             30
VOL. 4 NO.3
   APRIL-JUNE. 1991         AflillAN JIHAD
   growing determination to assist in the alleviation of human suffering.
      f In pursuance of the mandate entrusted to me by the General Assembly in its resolution 45/12 of 7 November 1990, I have persevered in encouraging all segments of the Afghan people, as well as the governments concerned, to work towards a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan.
         I have on several occasions reiterated that the question of Afghanistan cannot be solved except by political means, and that to achieve such a settlement, a consensus is needed both at the international and the national levels.
         I have just concluded an intensive round of consultations, through my Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Benon Sevan, with all segments of the Afghan people, including political leaders of opposition groups and resistance commanders, based in Peshawar, Tehran and inside Afghanistan, as Well as with prominent Afghans currently residing outside the region. The Governments concerned have also been consulted.
                            \   ' 1   *■     .                         *    i
         I have impressed on all my inter-locutors that whatever the process to attain a settlement, it should be a strictly Afghan political process, free froril foreign interference.
         Encouraged as I am by the views expressed, I believe that the following elements would serve 'as a good basis for a political settlement in Afghanistan, acceptable to the vast majority of the Afghan people:
   1.   The necessity of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan.
   2.   The recognition of the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and to choose their economic, political and social system tree from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.
   3* The need for a transition period, details of which have to be-worked out and agreed, upon through an flnEra-Afghan dialogue, leading to the establishment of a broad-based government.
         (a)  The need, during that period, for transitional arrangements acceptable to the vast majority of the Afghan people, including the establishment of a aredible and impartial transition mechanism with appropriate powers and authority (yet to be specified) that would enjoy the confidence of the Afghan people and provide them with the necessary assurance? to participate in free and fair elections, taking into account hfghap traditions,, for the establishment of a broad-based government.
         (b)  The need for cessation of hostilities during ..the transition period.
         (c)  The advisability of assistance, as appropriate,, of the United Nations
VOL- 4 NO.3
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
MIUUtMl)
it*
and of .any other international organization daring the transition period and in the electoral process.
4.  The necessity of an agreement- to be implemented together with all agreed transitional arrangements- to end arms supplies to all Afghan sides, by all.
5.  The recognition of the need for adequate financial and material resources to alleviate the hardship of the Afghan refugees and the creation of the necessary conditions for their voluntary repatriation, as well as for the economic and 'social reconstruction of Afghanistan.
                   It is my intention to continue my discussions with all - concerned in order to. encourage and facilitate the working out of the details of the above
     I appeal , to all Afghan leaders to put the interest of the Afghan people above all other interests, and resolve their differences through a political process, bringing to an end the long and devastating war. .
     I also call on all governments concerned to support the political process, and respect the right of the Afghan people to decide their .own future.
     The establishment of political leadership and government is the sole right and responsibility of the Afghan people, free from foreign intervention. The Afghan culture traditionally has utilized the process known as Loya Jirgah to resolve national crises. The vast majority of Afghans feel that the Loya Jirgah is the only viable process through which a unified national government can be created. This proposal seeks* to establish a process leading to the convening of a Loya Jirgah and the formation qf an elected government.
     This process is based upon, and promotes, democratic principles. We believe
elements.
o
in
32
VOL. 4 NO.3
APRIL-JUNE.
1991
 that only through diversity of participation, consensus, and the inclusion of all parts of Afghan society, culture, and 'religion, can a government representative of, and acceptable to, the Afghan people be realized.
                      ORGANIZATION OBJECTIVES
      The Afghan Center will act as the fiduciary agent for the Afghan Committee for a Representative Government in Afghanistan. The Afghan Center is a non-profit service organization helping San Francisco Bay Area refugees from many nations to adjust to life in the United States and to become self-sufficient through social adjustment programs, resettlement             services, and
 employment and English training centers. The Afghan Center also helps refugees understand and participate in the democratic institutions vital to responsible citizenship in the United States. The Center has for four years published a monthly magazine, Khorasan, which addresses the interests, concerns and needs of * the Afghan community.
                                        % *
      The Afghan        Center is overseen by a Board    of Directors,  which includes *
 leaders of the      Afghan community with experience    in economics, refugee health
 care, public administration, fund-raising and social" work. The Chairman of the Board and Executive Director oversee the Center's various operations. The Center’s staff consists mainly of volunteers and is funded by the Federal Government, the       State of California, the County    of Alameda, the Church World
 Service and through private contributions from Afghans and others.
      In light of the lack of success of any previous attempts to establish a freely elected government in Afghanistan, our proposal seeks to build consensus, among Afghans both inside Afghanistan and abroad, for a grass-roots-initiated legitimate national election process.
      The output of this project will be education in the democratic process, the organization of local elections, consensus building and the participation, without bloodshed, of all Afghans in determining their own future.
      Our proposal seeks to select a task force of Afghans, whether they are in Afghanistan or abroad, who represent the opinion and will of the people and enjoy their confidence. The mission of the task force will be to foster consensus among the disparate Afghan community and to initiate the groundwork procedures for the holding of elections.
      To initiate the selection of the task force, some of the leading members of the Afghan Committee for a Representative Government will commence consultations in Peshawar with leaders of the various jihad organizations, community elders., the ulama, spiritual leaders, statesmen, scholars, intellectuals, and good Muslims from Kabul. To facilitate a manageable decision-making body, the task force should not exceed thirty-six members.
    The duties of the task force are:
 . To establish offices in Peshawar and Quetta: the Peshawar office is already open, the Quetta office will be opened by May 1,          1991. The  office will
                                        33
a
  APR 11.“ JUNi: * 1991              AfllllAN JIIIAII                ;  VOL.  A NO.3
      service as a base of operations.
 b.   To recruit polling representatives from diversified ethnic, religious, linguistic, and cultural groups. Criteria for the selection of polling representatives will be determined by the task force. Polling representatives will be charged with building consensus for the process of a Loya Jirgah. The polling representatives will assist individual District and Provincial Jirgahs to select members of the Loya Jirgah Organizing Committee and document results of those Jirgahs.
 . c. Secure facilities in Pakistan for the training of polling representatives as well as develop training materials for each province. Training of polling representatives will be in methods of consensus building, documentation, uniformity of jirgah procedures.
 d.   Act as an administrative body for management of polling representatives, collection of information and dissemination of collected data.
 e.   Secure written endorsements of the process by religious and political leaders. Endorsements will be carried by polling representatives.
 f.   Determine the place and date for convening the Organizing Committee. The Organizing Committee will be composed of 96 people, representing the 29 provinces of Afghanistan.
 g.   Dispatch polling delegates into Afghanistan, with a targeted completion date of early fall.
 h.   To seek additional sources of support, both political and financial for
      Phase III, the convening of the Loya Jirgah Organizing Committee.
      The Afghan Committee for a Representative Government in Afghanistan has a Board of Directors of 30 members and an Executive Committee of five.
      Risks and Constraints:  Self-determination  has been  a key component of the
 numerous United Nations resolutions on Afghanistan, as well as the stated policies of both the Reagan and Bush Administrations. Absent any substantive effort to achieve political stability in. Afghanis tan on the part of the United Nations and the two major arms suppliers, the US and USSR, political initiative must come from the Afghan people themselves.
      Any major effort to create a process whereby the Afghan people can freely determine their political future holds considerable risks of failure. This specific proposal seeks to initiate a process at the grass-roots level for the holding of national elections, known in an Afghan context as a "Loya Jirgah". Numerous public opinion polls conducted in the refugee camps, among the expatriate community, and inside Afghanistan, clearly show that a majority of the Afghan people favor the holding of a Loya Jirgah as a means creating a national unity government. However, there are also powerful interests, both inside and outside Afghanistan, ,which are strongly opposed to the Loya Jirgah process.

    i
     I
      '
      I
    i
                                                       34
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
     Specifically, both the fundamentalist resistance groups, as well as some in the Kabul Regime, can be expected to. oppose this proposal. The fundamentalists view the convening of a Loya Jirgah as a means by which to instill the former King, while the hardliners in the Kabul Regime view a Loya Jirgah as a process to oust them from pbwer. In addition to Afghan groups opposed to the holding of a Loya Jirgah, outside players in the Afghan conflict may also be opposed to this proposal; namely the Pakistani ISI, and Soviet conservatives.
     For the record, neither this proposal nor the organizers of the proposal advocate any specific form of government for Afghanistan. This proposal is only to establish a framework whereby the Afghan people themselves can freely determine their political future.
                        ORGANIZERS OF THE MOVEMENT
      The idea of convening a Loya Jirgah has been from time to time propounded by Afghan mujahid, refugees, and elders since the beginning of the invasion of       «
the country. A response to this great need is this plan, the initial steps for which were taken by a large number of Afghan elders, the 'ulama, spiritual leaders, independent field commanders as well as commanders of the jehad organizations, public figures, scholars, and intellectuals. After a special committee had reorganized the existing drafts, the organizers of the plan
succeeded, .after a number of meetings, in offering this draft. Names of the organizers of the movement follow:
A. Shah Alam
S.Naim Alawi Gen. Ali M. Karim A. Quadir Amiryar, Ph.D. Ms. Sara Amiryar Eng. Moheb Argand Ms. Toran Argand Enayatullah Arzumand, MD Ma^zouddin Aslam Mrs. Fariha Assefi Eng. Omar Assefi Eng. A. Tawab Assifi Gen. G. Dastagir Atebar Ayeen G. Ali, Ph.D. Thaher Azimi Abdulrab Aziz, MD A. Fawad Chinz.ai A. Rahim Chinzai Haider Dawer, Ph.D.
Noor Delawari
Ms. Habiba Durani Karimi
Nasir Durani
Ms. A. Mhir Etemadi
M. Yusuf Farand
S. Mohommad Farani
Sakhi A. Farhad M. Amin Farhang, Ph.D. Eng. N. Mohammad Farid M. Omar Fazli A. Rahim Ghaforzai A. Samad Ghaus Zaher Ghazialam, MD S.A. Rauf Gorbandi S. Hamidullah Habib Zaid Haidary Rahmatullah Hagmal Haji Ishaq Hazara Hamaurn Hemat, Ph.D.
Abdul J. Jamili
Kawon Kakar
M. Hassan Kakar, Ph.D.
Ms. Marim Kakar M. Hassan Karimi A. Ahad Karzai Alam Katawazi Kayoumi A. Hay, Ph.D. Keshahwarz M. Naser, Ph.D Abdul Khaliq Rahmat Mahir S. Masood Majrooh
Hamid Makhmoor
Eng. Rafiuddin Malekzai
A.Magid Mangal
Ahmad Mangal
Abdul W. Mansury
Aman Mansury
Ms. Golalai Mayar
Habibullah Mayar
Said Mohseh
G. Hassan Mohseni
Ahmad Momtaz
M. Omar Momtaz
Ahmad Moosa
M. Daud Moosa
M. Hakim Nahiz
A. Ahad Naim
G. Mohammad Narand
Hamid Nawid
Nazari, MD
Rahmat Nazari, Ph.D.
Lai la Noor
Eng. Amantillah Noori Mrs. Nooria Nooristani zabiullah Nooristani M. Masood Omar
35
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
M. Sarwar Omar Walid Osman M. Shah Popal Khalid A. Popal Mr. Qadeer Ehsan Rafiq, Ph.D. Rouhullah Rouhi Daud Senzai, Ph.D.
Rahim Sherzoy, Ph.D.
A. Hamid Sidiq Salahuddin Tarzi Mohammad Wali T. Mohammad Wardak Ms. Gulghotai Yawar • Ahmad Zafer, MD G. Janan Zarif, Ph.D.
S. Hamid Zekriya, Ph.D.
 M. Ishaq Osman Asif Pass Yusufi Ms. Sania Popal M. Zubir Popal Abdul Qaium, MD Alia Farid Rasta Said Tajudin M. Ibrahim Seraj, MD M. Karim Shiwan Eng. Khalid Sultan Eng. A, Zahir Tokhi A. Sabur Walizadah, MD G. Ghaus Waziri Mohammad Yusuf, Ph.D. Mohammadullah Zaman Mohammad Zarif Rahmat Zirakyar, Ph.D.
VOL. 4 NO.3
 Toryali Shakoor Osman A. Rahman Pazwak Eng. A. Fukoor Popal Zalmy Popal Mrs. Rabia G. Faruq Rasulli Ms. Mina Ssddiq Gen. Nazir Kabir Seraj A. Wali Shokoor Eng. Omar Sultan G. Mohammad Tokhi Mrs. Masooda Wardak Abdullah Yaftali M. Nabi Yusufi A. Hashim Zamahi Khaled Zekriya Assad Zulfecar
      The Committee is charged with the duty to convene a Loya Jirgah for the constitution of political leadership and an interim government. To realize this goal it is hoped that it might undertake, in cooperation with the Task Force, tjhe following duties:
 a.   To hold elections in the 264 civic districts of Afghanistan. This number may increase or decrease due to internal migration and misplacement of inhabitants.
 b.   To determine the place and time of the convening of  the  Loya Jirgah.
 c.   To provide security for the Loya Jirgah and  to organize the meetings.
 d.   To prepare an agenda for the Loya Jirgah.
 e.   To invite and encourage the United Nations   and the Organization of Islamic
      States to support the Loya Jirgah through financial aid and maintenance of security.
      RECOMMENDED DUTIES OF THE LOYA JIRGAH:    The  loya jirgah  is  charged with
 electing head of state.
                                                        36
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
                 ■MM        VOL. 4 HQ.3
 HI A            (Mohseni) Offers
Alternative to Kabul Regime
              EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are the texts of: (1) the Kabul regime*s letter addressed to Ayatullah Mohammad Asef Mohseni» the HIA (Mohseni) leader, requesting him to propose a plan for the political solution of the Afghan problem. The letter has been signed by the Deputy Minister for State Security of the Kabul regime and:     (2)  The HI A (Mohseni)
              answer in the form of a three-point plan. Both texts have been published in the HI A newspaper• the Payam-e-Shohada of 22 April, 1991.
ft
a
ft
p
a
a
i
p
ft
                                                                                           Respected
Afghanistan:
 Ayatullah-ul-Uzma Mohseni, Leader of the Harakat-e-Islami
        First of all I wish to express my brotherly regards with the hope that you would kindly accept it. May God protect you. I pray to God for your and your all sincere friends' health and welfare.
        I am sure that like the authorities of the Afghan Republic, you have been busy during the bitter days of the imposed war, making efforts for the; liberation of the Muslim and innocent people of the homeland and have some measures to suggest to the Afghan Republic.
        In order to coordinate the humane task of securing peace and tranquility, I call upon you to send your positive plans, in this connection, with courage and clarity.
        With regards
   Deputy Minister For state Security
        The HIA has deemed it fit to once again express its opinion through the periodicals, Payam-e-Shohada and Payam-e-Jehad for the information of our dear nation and all the jehad parties. Meanwhile, the writer of the above letter also may find his answer through this publication*
                                                  37
APRIL-JUNE, 1991                                       filfillAHJtliill)                                        VOL.    4  NO.3
                                  THE HIA'S THREE-POINT PLAN
  1.   Resignation of the present government.
  2.   Coming into power of an interim neutral government composed of Muslim and -pious Afghans, with clean past records, not affiliated to Islamic or Non-Islamic parties, for a maximum period of one year. The main object of • this government would be to establish law and' order, to arrange for the repatriation of the refugees and to prepare the ground for holding free general elections.
  3.   The aim of the free elections would be to bring into existence, an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
       The reason for stress upon the first article is that the 13-year long jehad of the nation,- the blood spilled by hundreds of thousands of Muslims and the devastation of the cities and, villages of Afghanistan, may not be wasted for nothing.
       T-be. reason for the second article is that keeping in view the heartburns
                     '                    i
  and animosities existing between the belligerent parties, it would not be , possible/ for them to tolerate each other in a governmental setrup, either individually or collectively. On the other hand, a coalition government comprising representatives of the hostile parties may not .be able, perhaps due to psychological reasons, to compile and approve the rules and regulations of the Ministerial Council, not to speak of agreeing to important national plans and programs. Besides it is quite possible that in the official meetings of the cabinet, arguments may lead to quarrels and even armed clashes which will be highly detrimental to the country and the nation.
       The third article relating to the election of a popular government based on general elections needs no explanation and everybody (even though outwardly) accepts it and even the autocrats cannot dare reject it. *
 Ij
 APRIL-JUNE. 1991              HttJIHl                   VOL. 4 NO.3
                       ___ ___ _____________
Charter of Islamic Council
        of Afghan Judges
            EDITOR*S NOTEz The following is the text of ‘ the Charter of Islamic Council of' judges and Religious Scholars of the Afghan Mujaheddinand Refugees. Though the Council was formed in February-March, 1983 in Peshawar and its Charter Pas approved 10 December» 1983t it was published in the 22 March»  19911 issue of the daily " Burhan-ul~ Islam", the
            publicity organ of that Council•
                                           PREFACE
      Thank God Almighty and Blessings and salutations to our Holy Prophet,Hazrat Mohammad (peace be upon him) and his progeny and Worthy Companions•
      In order to implement the Divine commandments and the Islamic Laws and to reach the sacred goals of the Holy Jehad and Exodus for spreading the Word of God as well as to restore the independence and non-alignment status of Afghanistan and to find ways and means for genuine unity among the leadership forces of the jehad for the purpose of further closing the ranks of the stragglers of the path of Right and Truth, and aiming at minute ponderation of significant political, military, administrative and social subjects relating to the rightful jehad of the Muslims of Afghanistan, the Islamic Council of Judges and Religious Scholars of the Afghan Mujaheddin and Refugees was established 20 February, 1983, at Peshawar, Islamic Republic of Pakistan and its Charter was unanimously approved 10 December, 1983. In order to attain the exalted Islamic ideals of the oppressed people of Afghanistan in an atmosphere of complete and positive neutrality and non-affiliation with any of the parties engaged in jehad activities, this supreme body seeks to find the key to victory for the Afghan people, and whenever necessary gives due consideration to all t;he important issues of the Muslim society of Afghanistan, keeping in view the Islamic ihterests and protecting the prestige of all the jehadic parties and organizations. This Council has not been formed to support or to overthrow any Islamic party or organization; neither it has any party set-up. However it endeavors to attain the Islamic goals, secure freedom for the beloved homeland, establish the Islamic order and enforce Islamic justice, as ordained by Almighty Allah: WHEN YOU ISSUE A VERDICT AMONG.PEOPLE ISSUE IT WITH JUSTICE.
      Members of this Council, if affiliated with one of the jehad organizations, would always observe complete neutrality in expressing their views and have, np)
                                             39
 APRIL-JUNE. 1991                         m&m                      VOL.   4-N0.3
 other objective bat to seek Divine consent, approval of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, assertion of the Truth and nullification of falsehood*
                                           CHAPTER I MEMBERSHIP
 ARTICLE 1:  Each one of the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees, who is follower of
 the Hanafi code and has practical experience in one of the judicial and legal subjects, may become a professional member of the Council on the recommendation of its Judicial Committe and approval of its Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 2: Scholars in other subjects may become non-professional judicial and legal members in different committees according to their qualifications•
 ARTICLE 3:  Those volunteers who have not specialized in any subject but are
 desirous to take part in the activities of the committees ' of the Council as non-professional and advisory members, can be accepted according to their inclinaton and ability.
 ARTICLE 4:  A candidate for membership should not have had atheistic -beliefs,
 should not have killed anybody unlawfully or should not have committed obscene deeds and should have had good social reputation.
 ARTICLE 5: To be able to obtain the membership card, a candidate for membership of the Council must complete the prescribed form, explaining his affiliation or non-affiliation with any organization or party.
 ARTICLE 6s Each candidate for membership, after the endorsement of three Council members and the guarantee of a member of its Supreme Council, will take the following oath:
      I swear to God Almighty that I will abide by the commands of Allah and the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, and, in pursuing the aims of jehad and Islamic objectives, I will not resort to tribal, linguistic, .regional and other unlawful prejudices and will uphold the objectives of this Council as will as its' secrets.
         I
 ARTICLE 7:  Professional and non-professional members are equally obliged to
 take the oath.                                                 -
 ARTICLE 8:  Each member has to pay 5,000 afghanis or its equivalents to obtaip
 the (Council's) membership card and shell continue to pay the membership fee, later* Any additional financial assistance will be at his own discretion.
                                       CHAPTER II THE ORGANIZATION
 ARTICLE 9: The Council consists of the following two sections: . i< Supreme Council} ii. General Assembly.                           „ ,
                                              40
 I
 APRIL-JUNE* 1991                 HUM                              VOL. 4 NO.3
      i-  The Supreme council consists of:
      a)  Chairman,
      b)  Deputies,
      c)  Chairmen of Committees,
      d)  Head of the Secretariat, 1
      e) When necessary, a number of persons admitted as members of the Council on the basis of their ability and qualification as proposed by the Secretariat and approved by the members of the Supreme Council.
      ii- The General Assembly Consists of:
      a)  Chairman of the Council,
      b)  Other members of the Supreme Council,
      c)  Members of the council,
      d)  Advisors introduced by the Islamic organizations and/or organs of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan.
 ARTICLE 10: The Council has the following organs:
      1.  Political Committee^
      2.  Jehad Liaison Committee
      3.  Judicial Committee
      4.  Information and IPublicity judicial
      5.  Financial Committee
      6.  Membership Committee
      7.  Secretariat
 ARTICLE 11: The minimum number of members (in each committee) is three and the maximum 10.
                                           CHAPTER III
                   MEETINGS: APPOINTMENTS: DUTIES AND POWERS.
 ARTICLE 12: Normally the Supreme Council will convene once in a fortnight but in an emergency it can convene an extraordinary . session at a* lesser interval of time. .
 ARTICLE 13: The timings of this meetings of the General As’sembly are not fixed and can be held at the discretion of the Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 14:  In  an emergency,  all  the members of  the  Council are obliged to
 participate in the General Assembly session .
 ARTICLE 1J:  In  order to hold  a session of the Supreme Council or the General
 Assembly, the presence of at least 50% of the members in each meeting is essential.
 ARTICLE 16: The Chairman of the Council is at the same time. Chairman of the Supreme Council as well as the General Assembly except in case he may• not be
                                         41
  !'
APRIL-JUNE, 1991                  11111                            VOL. 4 NO.3
'able bo head both. in such a case, the Supreme Council will make a decision.
                                                             •t.
ARTICLE 17: The powers of the General Assembly, the Supreme Council and the Committees will be listed in a separate manual.
ARTICLE 18: The power of approval of manuals rests with the Supreme Council.
ARTICLE 19: The Chairman of the Council is elected for a period of one* year by secret ballot of members of the General Assemly and on the basis of two-third majority .
ARTICLE   20:  The Chairman          of the Council has two Deputies for political and
administrative affairs who are appointed as proposed by the Chairman and approved by the General Assembly.
ARTICLE   21:  Chairmen and         professional staff of the Committees are appointed
as proposed by the Head of the Secretariat and approved by the General Assembly and endorsed by the Chairman of the' Council.
ARTICLE 22: Administrative staff of the Committees are appointed as proposed by the Chairmen of Committees and endorsed by the Chairman of the Council and the rest of the staff are appointed by the Secretariat.
ARTICLE 23:   The  Head of the Secretariat is appointed upon the proposal of the
Chairman of the General Assembly, and approval of the majority of the members of the Assembly and endorsement of the Chairman of the Council.
ARTICLE   24:  The Chairman of the Council can convene normal, emergency            or
extradrdinary sessions of          the' Supreme Council, and the General Assembly, fix
their timings, approve their agenda, endorse and' implement appointment of personnel, establish contact with legal and judicial centers of the world for throwing light on the Afghan problem, send goodwill delegations to brotherly Islamic countries and the countries supporting the Afghan jehad, establish relations with other Islamic organizations and accept unconditional aid.
ARTICLE 25: Publicizing the decisions of the Supreme Council, General Assembly and Committees of the Council and/or sending them to the interested parties or authorities will be at the discretion of ,the Supreme Council-.
                                 CHAPTER IV INVESTIGATION OF VIOLATIONS
ARTICLE 26:  In  case  the Chairman of the Council is alleged to be involved in
                           jr                               —
a serious violation or crime which may lead to his dismissal, the General Assembly will appoint an extraordinary committee composed of the professional members of the Council to probe into the allegation so that it may take a decision about the trial of the Chairman. If the allegation is proved to be correct, the subject is referred to the General Assembly. The Assembly has no right to influence the opinion or the verdict of the said committee and has to approve the order to suspend the Chairman and shall refer the case to the judicial Committee which will take appropriate decision in the light of Hanafi
                                                42
APRIL-JUNE. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 code of jurisprudence.
 ARTICLE 27: Grounds for the dismissal of the Chairman, are as follows:
      Deviation from Islamic belief;, indulgence in immoral activities; unlawful murder; causing insult to Islamic injunctions; abandoning the norms of the Hanafi code; embezzlement of the resources of the Council'; clear deviation from the fundamentals and rules of the Council.
 ARTICLE 28: In case a Deputy Chairman of the Council; is charged with any of the criminal acts mentioned under Art. 27 above, the case will be referred to an
 inquiry committee comprising Committees'     Chairmen. If the charge is proved
 against him, the case will be referred to    the Jpdiciary Council for taking    the >
 necessary action.
 ARTICLE 29:   In case the Cahirman* of a Committee and/or other members are      ac- 4
 cused of the crimes mentioned in Article     27, the chairman of the General     As-
 sembly appoints a three-member committee to look into the matter and if this committee endorses the accusation, the Chairman of the Supreme Council orders the suspension of the accused and refers the case to the Judicial Committee^
 ARTICLE 30:  In  all the cases, the application of the clauses 26, 28 and 29-
 bhe processes prior to referring the case to the Judicial Committee- are equivalent to the processes by the Attorney General. Therefore,wif information is required, the accused has to respond to the competent authorities for the completion of the records and these authorities are duty-bound- to complete the file.             -
 ARTICLE 31:   In case  the accused  is acquitted but the official      investigation
 and trial entails compensation for the financial loss suffered by him, a decision in this connection will be taken by the Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 32:   The opinion       of the Judicial Committee    regarding  acquittal or
 indictment of the accused is intimated to the authorities concerned and is .published in the. Council's newspaper, too. The publication of the acquittal Verdict tantamounts to the reinstatement of the moral status of the accused and no further action is taken against him. This article, however, does not nullify Article 30 concerning reimbursement of the financial losses.
 ARTICLE 33: The judicial Committee acts according to the manual for reaching to i the final conclusion    and      if the accused proves the   mistake of  the Judicial
 Commitee in a logical  manner*     the case is referred to the General Assembly with
 the consent of the Chairman of the Council. In case the General Assembly ■ advises reconsideration Of the case, it would be necessary to appoint an kd hoc investigating committee, as required by the Assembly, consisting ,of‘the professional members headed by the Chairman of the Council. This committee after expressing its opinion about the case, stands dissolved. If it is.proved that officials of the Judicial Committee had deliberately deviated, action shall i>e taken against .them according to the terms and conditions mentioned i.n this Chapter*
                                             43
  APRIL-JUNE. 1991               HlUllHn JtnHU                     VOL . 4 NO.3
                                             CHAPTER V
                                          FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
 ARTICLE 34:  This Islamic Council has a Monetary Fund and the Chairman of the
 Council operates it, at his discretion.
 ARTICLE 35: The financial sources of the Council are: the membership fee, voluntary, donations by the members, and contribution of 2% of the salaries of the members received by them- from this Council .and/or other sources or their other relatively solid and stable sources of income.
 ARTICLE 36:  Ini case some persons outside the Council or the institutions- or
 the organizations propose financial assistance, the Chairman (of the Council) can accept it only when he is sure that this help has no political strings attached to it and has no other purpose than strengthening the Council for the fulfilment of its jehadic and Islamic obligations. But if he 'cannot be sure, the (Political and Finance Committees have to take a joint decision in, this regard.
           ARTICLE 37: Salaries of the Chairman,deputy-chairmen,Chairmen of.Committees and
 the administrative personnel are paid from the monetary fund. The amount' of salaries are determined by the Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 38: Additional expenses are determined by the Supreme Council. The1 monetary fund cannot pay the additional expenses over and above the fixed ceiling.
           ARTICLE 39: In case financial matters may need investigation, the Chairman
 or the Administrative Deputy assigns official^ concerned to investigate and later the Financial Committee will pursue the matter.
 ARTICLE 40: The Supreme Council decides to pay compensations from Council's Fund, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 41:   Increase   and decrease* in salaries and confirmation of the!
 professional and administrative grades are subject, to the approval of the Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 42:  In case of the death of one of the members of the Council, cash
 assistance is given, within the means of financial resources of the Council,* from, the fund, keeping in view the general condition of the, deceased while on duty or out of duty. The supreme Council determines the extent of financial assistance.
                                | CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS
          ARTICLE 43: Upon the death, dismissal or resignation of the Chairman Cr on the
        APRIL-JUNE. 1991                AllinflllJlllAli                VOL. 4 NO.3
       wmmmmmmmmmmmmimmmmmmmmBisimmmmmmmmmmm
       conclusion of his berm of offide, one of the Deputies, as approved by' the General Assembly, officiates as vice-chairman as well as Incharge of the General Assembly and the Supreme Council]
       ARTICLE 44:  In case of demise, dismissal or resignation of , a Deputy, another
       Deputy* is appointed as per. Article 21.
       •ARTICLE 45: In case of death or dismissal of the Chairman or one of his Deputies, an emergency voting takes place to elect the required person. During the interim period,   one of the older.members of the Supreme Council looks after
       the administration    of the Assembly as temporary      Chairman and in the first
       session under his presidentship, the Chairman and the Deputies should be elected. .                            V                                 '
       ARTICLE 46: ■ Members of the General Assembly and the Supreme Council are obliged
       to take active part   on the jehad fronts at least thr,ee months every year. But
       during the adbiyS service, they should preserve complete neutrality, 'from the Organizational point of view/ and will pursue the goals set by the. Charter for achieving unity of the mujaheddin (battle) fronts and ranks. The Council provides, within its means, the (material) needs of those members who make the journey to jehad, fronts, During an Emergency, the Assembly is postponed and all the members are seint to the fronts to participate in the jehad,
       ARTICLE 47: Ift the General Assembly and the Supreme Council deem it necessary,
       to send a judicial] delegation for dealing with special cases, the Assembly and the Council appoint one or more delegations, at their own discretion. This delegation can give a verdict only regarding specified cases and after performing the assigned duty, stands dissolved. If .another case comes up' for-consideration, it submits a report on this issue and seeks authority to deal with it. In case the issuS is of an urgent nature, the necessary authorization is given by the competent authorities within one month.
       Article 48* The Supreme Council ban take, action, as and when required, to approve the (Council's) manuals.
       ARTICLE 49: If the ‘Supreme Council feels that one or more articles of this Charter should be amended, it can discuss the case and take necessary steps to draft its amendment. Then, the draft amendment is referred • to the Supreme Council for approval.
       ARTICLE 50* This Charter is effective from 10 December, 1983. Its English and Arabic .versions have been forwarded to the legal authorities and Islamic Organizations in Pakistan and the legal institutions and bodies affiliated to the. United Nations and the countries supporting the Afghan jehad.
            And prom god we. seek success .
 VOL. 4 NO.3
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The fallowing is the text of the resolution passed at the conclusion of the three-day Seminar, "Muslim Youth's Role in Future Afghanistan" held' under the auspices of the Afghan Cultural Center» with phe cooperation of Political Studies Institute:    Arab Affairs• It has been
 published in the 21 March * 1991 issue of the paper Ekhlas newspaper and translated into English by the Afghan Jehad.
     The participants of the seminar held the illustrious achievements of the bloodstained jehad of the people of Afghanistan in high esteem and declare their firm determination to protect and safeguard it and in this connection emphasize the undermentioned points:                     ,   “
1. To protect the genuineness and the guiding role' of the Islamic teachings in». the jehad and Afghanistan of,the future.                      ' t
2.   To checkmate any sabotage to weaken the jehad parties and leadership.
3.   To strive for creating complete unity among all the ranks of the combatant
     forces especially the younger generation.                         . : v
4.   The need to. intensify an'd: continue the armed jehad for, the speedy downfall . of the infidel Russian puppet regime in Kabul.
5.   To seriously follow the Divine Commandment of "ejoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong" in all the dimensions of individual and social lif e.
6* To arrange* for the patronage of the families of the martyrs; to promote the jehad movement; to take care of the disabled during the Islamic Revolution and to look after the orphans and the prisoners during the jehad.
7 • To disbourage the indecent and unbecoming behaviors of some of the Afghan refugees leading to disrepute and malignancy of our migrating Muslim
     people.                   ' • <
     • , • . . • ' ■ . \ ■
     To fight ethnic, linguistic and regional prejudices.
46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '•Y
 sAPRIL-JUNE. 1991                  HIMJIHflll                      VOll.  4 NO.3
 9.   To stress the   need for taking . a firm standi vis-a-vis the satanic
      conspiracies of  the Russians, the Americans and their stooges,  against the
      formation of an  Islamic government in Afghanistan and in favor  of imposing
      their lackeys and puppets on us,
 10.  To take steps for exposing and frustrating the disruptive activities of the Christian Missionary Organisations among the mujaheddin and the refugees,
 11.  To expose the   faces and the! anti-islamie objects of the         agents of
      communism, nationalism and secularism and also to frustrate their influence among the ranks of the mujaheddin and the refugees.             " >
 12.  To publicize constantly the barbaric crimes committed by the Russians and their hirelings against our innocent M|isUm .countrymen..
 13.  To provide Islamic education to our womenfolk: and train them in bringing up their children according to the Islamic way of life,
 14.  To arrange for healthy training of the youngsters and to pave the way for the growth and^ development of their talents,
 15.  To invite the Islamic Ummah to take a united stand and to resist firmly against the conspiracies of the globe1 atheism and their satellite regimes.
 16. To defend and support categorically ali the Islamic freedom movements throughout the world, especially the jehad of the Muslims in ..Palestine, ; Kashmir, Eriteria and the Phillipines.
 17.  Immediate and unconditional withdrawal of all the Western, troops led by. the USA, from the Gulf .region.
 18. To condemn the unforgettable American crimes, against the Muslims particularly the barbaric massacre of innocent and defenseless Muslims in Iraq and Kuwait.
 19.  To fight against all kinds of aggression and oppression.
 20. To focus attention on realistic recording and registering of a complete history of the Islamic.movements and jehad in our country.
 21.  To establish scientific and research institutions in different fields.
 ■22. To hold academic and non academic seminars on the following subjects.:
  -.■ - ~ the role of jehadic (press and electronic media, for ensuring unity and . preparing the ground for an Islamic government)
      - the role of Ulama in providing effective leadership to the society and to ensure ,unity and1 to create favourable conditions for establishing, un Islamic government;* 7.                    .   >•'.
                                                  47
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                HI (ill ANillllAI)              VOL. 4 NO.3
        the role of educational institutions in educating the future mujahed generation; ensuring unity and creating favourable conditions for the establishment of an Islamic government.;      r
        the role of jehad commanders in promoting unity and paving the way for the formation of in Islamic government;
        the role of Muslim women in the Islamic society;           1
     -  the healthy ed-ucation and upbringing of the Muslim children and youngmen;
          ...     .  ' .          .            ■          .      •'         7
        Tackling the problems of the students and finding their solutions; isolating customs and traditions from the Islamic teachings;
     -  the role of migration (religious) in civilizations and socio-political changes;
     -  planning for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
23.  The need for establishing a General Census Department at the national
     level•                                . "                     . ' ' .
24.  Publishing special magazines for th^ youth and the children.
25.  To compile ^and publish the entire proceedings of this seminar.
V
                                                      48
APR IL-JUNE , 1991
VOL. 4 NO
Z1
REHABILITATION
    0 CCAR SEMINAR ON MEDIA, FREEDOM OF PRESS:
    0 THE UN ANNUAL REPORT ON AFGHAN RECONSTRUCTION
        CHILDREN MAL-NUTRITION SURVEY IN 3 PROVINCE
          AFGHAN MINES SURVEY" REPORT
    0 LATEST FACTS, FIGURES ON 6 PROVINCES
        NGO’S HELPING THE AFGHANS
 0 AN ISLAMIC POSITION VIS-A-VIS BANKING INTEREST
 49

   APR 11 -JUNF► 1991
VOI . A NO.3
   CCAR’S SEMINAR ON ROLE OF MEDIA, FREEDOM OF PRESS
            EDITOR'S NOTE: The following report has been prepared from the text of a report adopted by the participants of a seminar held by the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies of the CCAR oh* the role of media in future Afghan Society and the articles and discussions offered in the seminar. Another summary of the papers and discussion of the seminar, will appear in the next edition of the Afghan Jehad,
      The Institute of Afghan. Policy Studies (.IAPS) of the CCAR, after holding seminars on the future of:   (1)  basic laws*; (2) judicial affairs3). education
 and '4) economy organized its 5th seminar(li-14 May, 1991) in. Islamabad on the •future of media in the cbuhtry.       ' •       '
      The inaugural session of the seminar began with1'the recitation of verses from the Holy Quran by MaVlawi Mahmood Darswal. A large number of ulama scholars, professors and . the editors and publishers of jehad publications participated in the inaugural session. The Chairman of the seminar, Professor Habibur Rahman Halah, in- a speech spoke on the objectives of the seminar and, after referring to present state of affairs on the .Afghan scene said,1 the party which under these unfavorable circumstances can mediate among the Muslims and act as a liaison and try to eliminate their problems and divert their attention to the important tasks    of rebuilding the          society is the media.   But as the media
 itself is             mostly acting on behalf of inter-party relations in a divided society,
 this, too, cannot carry out the mission. So it is pertenent to ask how can we prepare the-media to carry its mission forward?
                          - . • •. • , .  ■      .   v  . *              • . __ • •         \ .
      It is the -current seminar's task po discuss the past and present situation of the media, and, offer precise Views and proposals about .its improvement' and effective role in the future;‘
      The              CCAR founding member, Mohammad Hashem Mujaddedi, in   an address said:
 In              Islam ^propagation" of ideas holds   a lofty position. No   other, faith has
 placed such great .significance on the role of media- as Islam has done. The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, has stated: "whatever you hear from me carry them to the people'*. Islam has chalked out a frame for the media.' Abuse and propagation
  APRIL-JUNE. 1991                  Hi JIB                           VOL. 4 NO.3
 of lies and false news are considered unholy and illegal in Islam. God" Almighty has praised the telling of truth. Islam attaches great importance to the source of news. In a Muslim; society on Fridays, the people of a specific area, on Eid days the Muslims of an entire community and on Arafat during the Haj (Pilgrimage) Muslims of the entire world are being informed about world events and Islam has ordered that after the offering of praises to Allah and .His prophet in Arabic, all other speeches should be made in the language of the people being, addressed.                . ; (                              .
      Afterwards the founding member of CCAR and organizer of these seminars, Sabahuddiri Kushkaki, in his address hoped that the current seminar, .will be able .;to frame some basic lines for the .future of media in Afghanistan after the establishment of government based on the will of the people. He clarified that the CCAR aim for holding the seminar was not to frame rules and regulation. The CCAR, as a scholarly and cultural center was neither legally entitled ho' perform such duties and nor, for that matter, it is the right time to frame laws . In fact, the , objective. of such seminars is to provide an opportunity for the country'h 'schplars^ to discuss the future problems of the embattled and. anguished, Afghanistan and address themselves to the basic lines in regard to a genuine Islamic order and, by doing.so, help the future leadership. He said in this seminar we .ought to discuss whether, in accordance with the Islamic principles, we are', entitled to be endowed with 'freedom of expression? Whether the government or people should own the press? How can we effectively utilize media? Do we have effective means for producing and transmitting the news and views? And what kind of criteria ought to be followed for the content of an Pslamic press? At the .same time, we cannot have a free press unless we have freedom to gather,freedomv to print and freedom to distribute. Any restriction in any of these’fields will be tantamount to restricting press freedom.
      The leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; and Minister of Reconstruction of the AIG, Prof:. Burhanuddih Rabbani, in his key-note address to the seminar said, the' value of the media- cannot be overemphasized in any society particularly in our society which is stepping out into a period of reconstruction.. In the context of miracles of Prophets what constituted to be
 the miracleivof our Prophet, peace be upon him,, are the book, expression, .'guidance and leading on the right path. The Holy Quran ie-the source of guidance and leading .on the right path and demonstrates the fact that expression; bpok and propagation are invaluable in our religion. Good and bad are summarized for the Muslim fraternity in two points i.e, enjoin what is good and forbid what is bad.            -                       '. ' ■ '                            * '•
      Issues related to propagation'of ideas, publicity and freedom of expression are!.of great importance in Islam. The media is to build man's mind. The problem ■ of modern democracyvis whosoever canvasses dexterously for his*’ candidate he is the winner. Modern means at our disposal also bears the danger' that the media can inflict an untold damage to a society, What kind Of media we ought to have in the future? We should, seek an answer to this. Because we .must have a free press. We ought to have television and, other means of mass communication. Similarly the media is dutybound to offer advise at this juncture of stalemate prevailing in our society.'
  APR1L-JUNE. 1991                    HUM                          VOL. 4 NO.3
                                        FORMAL SESSIONS
      During the seminar sessions 25 papers were read out on different aspects of> media which are categorized as follows:
                                I-  ISLAMIC MEDIA
      Five articles on propagation, dissemination of information and freedom of expression in Islam. They were:                                      ;
 (1) "The sacred religion of Islam and means of declaration of facts" by Dr. Inayatullah Eblagh,
 (2)  "Call to Islam through the press" by Mohammad Gulab Beshar,
 (3) "Issues pertaining to declaration of facts and mode and system of media in Islamic Society" by Abdul Hag Ateed,
 (4) "The' principles and philosophy of press freedom in Islam" by Habibullah Ghaleb,
 (5) "A comparative glance at freedom of , expression" by Abdul Maiek Jauhar Siddiqi.
      Means of declaration of fact, principles, their kinds, significance and value were discussed in these papers in the light of Quranic teachings, the. Traditions of the Holy Prophet, religious principles and guidance. Quranic declarations, its language, style and structure were explained. The declarations, messages and letters of the Holy Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, were shown. The contents Cf temporary, permanent,' military and general declarations of Islam were discussed and demonstrated;
      In future Afghanistan, after complete freedom and establishment of a genuine Islamic government, in the light of Quranic guidance .and Islamic criteria, state deelaratibns must not cause undue social unrest.- Unnecessary flattery and servitude must be checked. Publications and newspapers, as organ of quotes,, should neither be inflammatory to cause upheaval nor^should they turn the society into a silent and slavish status. We believe that the sacred religion of Islam is endowed with popular declaratory logic and its reasoning and arguments are so much convincing which are undeniable. But we do need such scholars and experts who by,#diht of their pragmatic approach and in the light of truthfulness and steadfastness, make themselves worthy of Islamic publications, press and declarations.
                                II-   PRESS LAW
      There was one paper on the Press Law, by Dr. Mohammad Zaher Siddiq. The paper threw light on the history of. Press Laws in Afghanistan. He divided the Afghan press and publications, in the following parts:
       (1) The Royal Court and government press; (2) free press; (3) the
                                                ■ 52
  APRIL-JUNE. 1991                  HIM JM                           VOL... 4 NO. 3
 communist pres is and; (^4) the jehad press.
       After giving an account of the contents of each catagor.y, the writer gave an account of the contents of a future law of the press which should ensure the freedom of expression in the framework of Islamic guidance and national interests and at the same time should protect individual and social interest. He proposed that the Press Law should not be only a piece of legislation containing punitive measures but should contain provisions for sound and healthy development of media and at initial stages of the establishement of an Islamic government, the media ought to be finandially, helped to stand on its feet.
                    111-   AFGHAN NEWSPAPERS, PERIODICALS
 1.  "Newspapers and magaeines of the past and present", by Habibullah Rafi,
 2.  "Non-governmental press prior to 1978 coup", by Mohammad Shafig Wejdan.
                                                    * * •'* *->». ,
 3.  "A Brief survey of the Resistance Journalism", by Abdul Bari Nangyal,
 4.  "The Afghan mujaheddin press in Iran", by Mohammad Akbar Asheek,
 5.  "The Communist Publications in Afghanistan" by IPro'f. Habibur Rahman Hala.
       These papers as their titles signify, discussed the entire history of 120 years . press in Afghanistan and references were made to the obstacles in their way, periods during which the press enjoyed. relative freedom and the content of the press in thS past as well as in the present. It was pointed out that the press which speaks for the Afghan resistance is not confined to Pakistan and Iran, but Afghans in many other countries also printed newspapers arid periodicals in support of the jehad. References were made to first efforts of communist to utilize the press as a means of indoctrination and brain washing ind then offering regrets for the mistakes committed by the past communist leadership.
    • •             v »   ■ .       •      ‘                 ■
                                IV. RADIO, TELEVISION AND FILM
 1.  "The history of Radio in Afghanistan and in the post-April 27,           1978,
 developments and deviations in radio broadcasting", by Mohammad Zareen Anzore,
 2; "A brief look at television and cinema in Afghanistan" by»(Ms) Sarnia Tayyeba Sai, 4          -
 3.  ^Founding of television in Afghanistan and its process of Russianization",
 by Mian Arwal,                     .
           . '    , ■ i . • «. .    .               . •              •
 4.  "The role of television in pur future Islamic Society", by Mohammad Shafiq Wejdan,
 5.  "Programming of radio television in Afghanistan of the future" by Shah Aga
 Majeedi,                 1
 6* "History of film and- its future in Islamic Afghanistan of tomorrow" by
                                 ' .      53“ /                           "  ' .
                    .  '  .         ' ’ .                                         i
                                           . ' .             ■   ■      t
  APRIL •‘■JUNE*. 1991               fllllN Jllll                        VOL.  4  MO. 3
 Mohammad Yousuf Ay^enal /"                                     '
      The jpaper under review discussed the history of radio broadcasting and its various development stages. . The significance- of radio's, role, its technical expansion and developments alongwith its qualitative and ideolistic deviations during the communists' period were discussed, and proposals were offered for the future broadcasting in Afghanistan..                                              -
     , (Similarly these papers recalled the history of cinema in Afghanistan, the history of film making and the work done in this field and discussed the quality and Object of future films. It was emphasized that for years to come Afghanistan might not be able to produce feature films in accordance with Islamic standards and the film industry should be mainly devoted bo educational purposes.
                   :           "v^.: hdmen’-s
      An important and, indeed, lively feature of the seminar was about the role of women in radio, television and film. (Ms.) Fatimi Um-e-Abdullah had written an article on the subject which was read to the seminar. Her paper stressed that, woman comprises half of the Afghan society's and, as such, she should be given due consideration and the women should have the right to participate in,sojcial affairs. She urged women's greater participation in. media and publications especially in programs dealing with women affairs. On the other hand, she complained that the. .madia exploits women as commercial commodity, this is so specially in western societies. This trend ought to be stopped forthwith and woman'is human status, dignity, chastity and honor should be protected at all costs. '                           •,                                •
      During the course of discussion on radio and television as well as film industry, the role of women in the context of Islamic laws was discussed. Pro and con views were offered; but at any rate it was the Unanimous view of the participants that Islam:- attached greater importance to the hqnor and chastity of female. A number of participants urged the IAPS to hold a seminar of ulama .and journalists on this specific topic.
                                  VI-   TRAINING
      Two papers were delivered on journalism braining:
 1,  "Journalism education in Afghanistan", by Prof. Hala.
 2.  "The language of the -press", by Abdul Jaleel Wajdi.
      Hala's paper proposed that Afghanistan should neither follow -the West nor the totalitarian regimes in training its journalists and should follow the pattern which      fits ''the needs of developing countries. He               said
 that before the communist takeover, journalism training at Kabul University was based on American system while after the communist takeover attempts were made to Russianize the education of journalism).
      The paper on language of the press referred to difficult language used in'
                      v          ■      ..   ' -           .  ~
                                          54 '
 ; April-June. 1991                   flffiHUHJtHJlH                    vol. 4 no.3
 the press and appealed to journalists to use the kind of language Understandable to all its readers.            *                                                   .
      In discussions held on the topic of journalism training in Afghanistan it was pointed out that before the communist takeover journalism was based on Afghan needs and it did not necessarily followed American pattern although the U.S. pattern was far developed ithan that of any other country.
                                VII-  BOOK PRINTING
    '' \ . ‘ - \ • * ' .1 .
      The article on printing facilities and book printing was by Habibullah Rafi. He explained the history of book publishing in Afghanistan. He pointed out that while in the entire past century around 2,000-2,500 books were published in a. Dari and Pashtu languages, during the jehad decade alone 2,500 - 3,000 books have been published. The paper stressed the need for publishing original books as well as translated ones in the future. He described this step as a means for          t
 getting rid of the cultural encroachment of the neighbouring countries and at the same time,as a step towards freedom of thought and keeping our people as good Muslims and Afghans.
                             VIII-  FUTURE OF THE MEDIA
, 1• "The 'role of media in Islamic Afghanistan", by Abdul Hafeez Mansoor,
      '■        '    '      '    • -   ,  •                      t ■           ■
 2.  "The structure of the media", by Noor Mohammed Rahimi, « .
 3.  "Ownership of the media in the future society of Afghanistan", by Sabahuddin Kushkaki.
 4.  "The Information age" by Phyllis Oakley.                                V
      Other articles read in the seminar also contained ideas about the future of the media but these four articles were solely confined to this subject. They spoke about the organization of media in the light of the obligations of media for the protection, of social, economic and political rights of the people and preservation of Afghan        Islamic heritage,  as well as the problems        and.
 possibilities that the new age of    technology  have created. While the media  may
 wish to nourish and protect these rights, they have to also keep in mind the revolution which has occured as a result of modern technology which has eliminated all borders and restrictions. The articles spoke about the contents a v of the media, its control and censorship,, organization, and financing. The main . theme of the articles        was that the media, should not be financed by       the
 government and actually    there was  no need of having a Ministry of Information
 and Culture with elaborate departments.
      The media* as a public utility, should fulfil . its obligation in serving its customers. If it failed to do so, the public has the right to interfere and resort to corrective measuresw. The press, in order to function, ought to become a private, ente'rprize. But Radio and TV because of a number of financial and social difficulties at present should be governed by a board of
                                    ' .   55
  *■
       APRIL-JUNE. 1991                 IUG1IANJHlAD                      VOL.  4 NO.3
      directors comprised of people from many walks of life. .
           Phyllis Oakley in her article drew the Afghan attention to the reaility of "instant” communication which does not recognize borders and cannot be controlled and will be a part of the media and thus the Afghans ought to evolve a national policy in this respect.
           The seminar whose important topic of discussion was freedom of the pres.s, carried on their discussion in a free and cordial atmosphere. Every paper was thrashed out freely; criticized and responded to freely. At times voices were raised, eyebrows twisted and bitterness prevailed during discussions but not for long it used to be fleeting and would be sodn replaced by feelings of sincerity and .fraternity which by itself reflected a sound free and healthy spirit expected to prevail in a peaceful society.
           The discussions about the papers were scholarly and detailed saturated with useful comments and supplementaries which removed the faults, if any, of the pajpers. In this way our current seminar , prepared an invaluable source of knowledge, ideas, and practice for the collectors of documents. It demonstrated the love of the scholars for their mission and the feelings of well-wishers and sympathizers of our country, under the prevalent critical and difficult circumstances in our land.
           In the end of the seminar Mohammad' Hashem Mujaddedi, on behalf of' CCAR, thanked all the participants to the seminar. Mawlana Mohammad Gulab Beshar, on behalf of the participants of the seminar, thanked the CCAR for holding the seminar. '
           The sessions of the seminar ended at 2 . p.m. 14 May with recitation 6f verses from the Holy Quran by Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal along with prayers.
        THE FOLLOWING ARE A SUMMARY OF PROPOSALS OFFERED TO THE SEMINAR V1                     BY A NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS:
       DR. EBLAGH:  In the  future Islamic government of Afghanistan, the press should
       avoid siding '.with the East or the West and keep in mind the fundamentals of Islam in its publications, and as far as possible, preserve its independence.
            2. as regards publication of newspapers, effort should be made; not to
       confine it to one language only. All the languages,of Afghanistan should be taken into cbnsideration.                                                ^
            3.       radio and television should not be deemed as entertainment, media but should serve as means of guidance. The mental attitude of the Muslim people pf Afghanistan should be such that they ought to regard these media as instructive and educative but not entertaining.
           .4. all the publication’s should reflect the public opinion and should not
                                              56                        *’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (
         APRIL-J^NE, 1991                      mm                           VOL.  4 NO.3
        be at the service of a particular class or a particular political set-up. The press ought to dejpend on the fundamentals of Islam and in case of a conflict between t^he public opinion and its own, it should not lose its site for fair judgement.             ',
              5.  as regards training of the journalists, priority should be given to the
        experienced and religious minded youth, and nobody shpuld think that by joining j this medium, they will.get material benefits or acquire high posts.              1
              6.  in the field of film production, the theme of the stories must be based
        on jehad (in its broad context) and education and there should not be the; slightest deviation from this path.                                              j
              7.  coferences shouild always be held for educative purposes.
              8.  radio broadcasts should give preference to quality. _ .
              9.       publications and broadcasts ought to publicize repeatedly religious scholars and intellectuals of the country (who have left pride-worthy impressions during the past centuries) and glorify their history.
              10. those Afghan scholars who left their country in the past and settled
        in other countries shouldv be individually introduced and the reasons of their migration should be explained.        '                                   •  - <
              11.      those who indulge in anti-jehad propaganda under different pretexts or under the cover of Islam, commit such crimes which negate the commands and ideals of the sacked religion of Islam, should be made known in a logical manner through the media so that the Muslim people of Afghanistan would be < aware and Safe from them.
              12.      newspapers and periodicals of the jehad movement which have written reports and; ''articles regarding Afghanistan during the migration, ought to be preserved inrthe National Archives of the future government of Afghanistan.
              13. steps should be taken to form an International Islamic News Agency (Pan-Islamic) in order to create unity and solidarity among the publications and
         broadcasts of the Islamic countries. Generally speaking, this should serve as the source of information fqr all the Islamic countries.
              14.      for laying the foundation of Islamic publications a special department of Islamic journalism should be established, in the College of Literature (of Kabul University) and graduates of this subject be employed in the Pan Islamic News Agency.                              N
         HALLA: In view of the fact that in Afghanistan with regard to the introduction of new words in Pushtu and Dari a careless and irresponsible attitude exists, we should immediately take steps for establishing on Academy of Literature on the pattern of the one already established in Iran.
              2; A special department ought to be set up to work problems emerging between the media and government and make smooth their relations and create an
                                              ' 57
     ■ APRIL-JUNE, 1991 mm VOL. 4 NO. 3
      atmosphere of understanding and goodwill between them. Officials of this department must be trustworthy, knowledgeable and pious.
      KUSHKAKI: Members of this seminar should take the initiative to form a committee for preparing the ground for the establishment of a school of journalism and r ' make arrangement for financing it, by contacting various sources. Those who are enrolled .should be known            for their ethical Islamic standards and it is
      not .necessary that this should be done by the government. Actually the people themselves can initiate such a move.
      GHARWAL: The entire media shotfid pay special attention to the education andup-bringing of the future generation because refugees' children have been educated in the .schools and educational institutions of the host countries. The educational syllabi of most of these countries are devoid of Islamic teachings; or the children of the refugees living in the camps or tented villages, have been deprived of educational facilities, some of them may have been sent by the Kabul regime to communist countries. Therefore for their re-education, the media should be put to proper use.
           2.       In the future Islamic Afghanistan, all the publications should contain such articles,essays and commentaries in the light of Islamic teachings, which may contribute to the enlightenment and reformation of our people so that our future generation would be prepared to safeguard, the country's independence and serve their Muslim countrymen, with true Islamic spirit.,
           3.       In the future Islamic Afghanistan the radio and television broadcasts and telecasts ought to be based upon Islamic fundamentals end national Values. They should reflect such realities to our Muslim countrymen which are required by our social life and needed by our future generation.
      AATEED:  The media should invite Islamic intellectuals and persons devoted to
      Islam to suggest solutions to our social problems in the light of the Holy Quran and the Sunnah as well as within the frame-wotk of Islamic teachings.
           2.       The media should re-introduce those Islamic personlities in a true perspective, who. have been presented to the public,' in a deformed and "distorted manner, by the hostile policy of the past governments.
           3.  Similarly the press should expose all those traitors and alien agents
      whb have betrayed the noble values of Islam and tlje Muslim nation and past governments have condoned them.
 V .  •         ...     r      .           ,           .          .
      MIA ARWAL: A union of mujahed and refugee journalists should be formed under the guidance of a person acceptable to journalists of both groups so grounds may 1 be prepared for utilizing their talents and capabilities.
 58
APRIL-JUNE. 1991                    MU                  VOL.  4 NO.3
    UN ANNUAL REPURT ON AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION
                    EDITOR’S NOTE: The following is the text of_the preface an introduction of a book published by                ^for  th
                    Coordination of the UN Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs relating to Afghanistan on the Operation SALAM Program for 1991.
              Afghanistan desperately' heeds- now more than ever- the support and generosity of the international community to provide resources for emergency relief, as well as assistance for rehabilitation and reconstruction.
              The two years since the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan^ in February 1989, have not brought a political settlement. Fighting and death, hunger and. malnutrition, environmental degradation, destroyed towns and villages, and exploding ( mines and ordnance remain part of the Afghani daily experience. The lot of the more than five million ,refugees living in camps in the neighbouring countries is no better. Even their modest standard of living is threatened by reductions in the level of international assistance.
              The Office of the Co-ordinator for United Nations Humanitarian, and Economic Assistance Programs relating to Afghanistan (UNOCA) was established in June 1988, by the Secretary-General who appealed to the international community to mobilize a vast relief and rehabilitation effort in the 'cause of peace. As the Secretary-General stated on 14 June 1988, "it is essential that all Afghans in need, wherever they are located, are reached by a program dedicated to the recovery of self-reliance". This thought has served as guidance to UNOCA and to the Operation SALAM as a whole.
              Although the fighting has continued and the mass repatriation of the refugees has not taken place, the agencies and programs of the United Nations system have been carrying out projects in the fields of agriculture, food aid, mine clearance, voluntary repatriation, health, education and training as well as other related activities, at a total cost so far of about US $ 194 million. The momentum created by these activities, which have made a considerable
                                                   59
      APR1L-JUNE, 1991                      BMI        .                  VOL. 4 NO.3
     contribu.tion to economic recovery in some areas, now' needs to be sustained by the injection of additional cash resources.          ,
          Some US $ 94 million are urgently required to meet the shortfall in the cash resources to be devoted to the key priority sectors- which are agriculture, food aid, mine clearance, voluntary repatriationand health- of the Program for 1991. Should the funds not be forthcoming, it will be necessary to scale down or even abandon essential activities in such fields as distribution of seeds and
          -        •                            '                     ■ ' ’           I
     fertilizers, provision of essential food aid, immunization of children under five, and the clearance of mines and unexploded ordnance 'from areas to which refugees are hoping to'return.
          This cruel dilemma comes at a time when the attention of the international community ‘is diverted by developments in other regions, and in particular by events in the Persian Gulf. To abandon the Afghan people at this crucial hour may well mean jeopardizing the precarious progress achieved both in the economic sphere and towards a political settlement in Afghanistan. Such an eventuality might well have serious repercussions in the region as a whole.
      1 ’ For over a decade, war in Afghanistan has destroyed cind disturbed the
                            1 •.«            .v *               , ' '
     already fragile economic,, political and social cohesion of one of the world’s
     poorest countries. - The . persistent conflict has exacerbated ideological,
     religious, tribal and ethnic differences and rivalries among Afghans.
     Accordingly., in developing and implementing program and projects for
     Afghanistan, it is the duty of the United Nations system to treat Afghanistan as
                                   . j      '                           •
     one country, and ensure that the assistance activities do not reinforce, even inadvertently, the fragmenting tendencies. It is suggested that the same" considerations should also be borne in mind not only . by non-governmental organizations, but also by bilateral donors.
          There, is, therefore, an obvious need for full and effective co-ordination within the United Nations system, and between the United Nations and the communities of donors and non-governmental organizations, in order to ensure that the right kind of assistance reaches the areas and population groups for which it is intended in the desired quantities and in good time.
           The main function of the Office for the Co-ordination of United Nations Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programmes relating to Afghanistan (UNOCA) continues ,to bet
           (a)  To act as the central co-ordinating office for the various components of the aotion undertaken within the United Nations system on behalf of the Secretary-General;
           (b)  To monitor operations in the context of an integrated United Nations program of humanitarian and economic aid, while implementation of particular program remains the responsibility of the agency concerned;
           (c)  To ^discuss and negotiate with all concerned parties, when necessary, on behalf of the United Nations system;
                                                   60
         APRIL-JUNE. 1991                  MGHANM                           VOL. 4 NO.3
              (d)  To direct and organize special tasks not within the mandate 'of any particular United Nations agency or program, (such.as mine clearance and mine awareness);
           '       '     • '    X         \       _          • -• } .   ; .. •   • •   •
              (e)  To adopt a flexible and geographically decentralized approach to meeting humanitarian and economic needs on the basis of a realistic assessment, area by area, of the feasibility of projedts and the local' popglation's capacity-to absorb the assistance.
                        - , .• ’ • /'
              During 1991 a special effort will be made to encourage the United Nations
         agencies and programs concerned to undertake a larger share of the activities in the context of their regular programs and to commit a larger number of their regular personnel to the field for project execution. Likewise, UNOCA itself will shift its emphabis to the field. The overall staff situation within UNOCA is currently under review and, in consultation with the programs and agencies concerned, the personnel structure will be streamlined, aS the agencies and programs increase their activities under their regular programs. This will result in the re'-deployment of some of UNOCA staff members from Geneva to UNOCA offices in the field.      ■
              Finally, it is essential for UNOCA to keep the Afghan people and donor governments informed about the activities of Operation SALAM as a whole as well as of its own activities. UNOCA will be fully accountable, cost-effective, and open to any scrutiny. In this connection, special efforts will be made to ensure timely reporting to the donor governments whose confidence, generosity and support.are essential for the success of Operation SALAM.
              I wish to thank the executive (heads of the agencies and programs of the United Nations system for.their support and for their participation in Operation SALAM.
              My sincere appreciation goes to all my colleagues in: the United Nations system, to the staff of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and of the non-governmental organizations active in or on behalf of Afghanistan, who have been working under very difficult conditions and;often risking their lives to ensure that humanitarian assistance reaches the Afghan people,.
              I wish to pay a special tribute to Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, the distinguished Co-ordinator, who nurtured and guided Operation SALAM with dedication under most difficult conditions, until the end of 1990.
                                                       Benpn V. Sevan
                          ,              Personal Representative of the Secretary-General
         6 February 1991                          in Afghanistan and Pakistan
                                           INTRODUCTION
              The United Nations Plan of Action, 1989, lei id down the basic conceptual framework for the humanitarian and economic assistance activities of the United Nations agencies and programs in Afghanistan. The Plan for 1990 set out to
                                                      61
-APRIL-JUNE'. 1991                           NlhllHnJtlulll                                VOL.   4  NO.3
    commit the maximum amount of pledgee! resources, by designating viable projects and beginning their execution in as many sectors as possible. In the light of the experience gained since the inception of Operation SALAM in June 1988, and because of the operation and financial constraints, it has been necessary to prepare a relatively modest and pragmatic program for 1991. The time-limited objectives set for, projects are such that they can be achieved during the year, should sufficient resources be made available, and. hence it will also be easier to monitor and evaluate the progress of the projects.
         The policy guidelines, for Operation SALAM conform to the fundamental . . ■, ■ , > , -principles of the United Nations assistance programs worldwide, taking into
    account, the particular circumstances and the experience gained in Afghanistan.
    The policies developed have helped to ensure the impartiality and the general
    acceptability of the activities.                                     ^
                                    PROGRESS IN 1990
         During 1990, Operation SALAM was able to open new routes find reach many parts Of Afghanistan which had not previously received help. United Nations agencies and programs provided considerable amounts of technical, financial and in-kind assistance, notably food aid and assistance for agriculture, mine clearance, voluntary repatriation of. ^refugees and health, in spite of the constraints under which they were obliged to operate.
         The operational constraints which affect the execution of projects in Afghanistan continue to be, inter alia:      the  political uncertainty and the
    precarious security situation, which often restrict the movement of United Nations personnel and materials; logistical and access problems owing to poor roads in many parts of the country; the absence of art effective national framework in which rehabilitation priorities can be planned and applied; the absence of a functioning, civil administration; in many areas; aind the relative shortage of funds and resources, in comparison with the colossal needs for assistance.
         Towards the end of 1988, Operation SALAM multi-agency missions began to identify emergency and immediate needs of Afghanistan. Since then, SALAM mobile Units (SMUs) have been delivering emergency relief directly - for the terms of reference of SMUs. In 1990, in addition to Kabul, the United Nations presence was established and Consolidated also in Arghisan: (Kandahar province), Asadabad (Kunar), Bamian, Faizabad (Badakhshari;, Herat 'City, Mazar-e-Sharif (Balkh), Urgun (Pak^ika) and Zindajan (Herat). Several United Nations assessment and monitoring missions served othfer parts of the country as well.-
         The range and variety of the projects carried out by the United Nations in 1990 are reflected in the sectoral chapters of the present document. It may be appropriate to refer to some of the achievements of 1990, and the principal difficulties to be overcome in 1991.
         The projects aimed at restoring the productivity of Afghanistan's
                                                62
           APRIL-JUNE. 1991                    Mi   Jill                   ,   VOL. 4  NO.3
          agriculture continue to show encouraging- results. The seeds and fertilizers which have been distributed as part of integrated projects, including agricultural extension services, have produced remarkable results in several parts of the country. In some area,s it is reported that production of wheat has increased significantly. In the north of' the country the pilot projects to combat locusts and sunn pest have also had encouraging results. .Veterinary services have been introduced.in areas where they had been unknown over the past decade. Coupled with the timely delivery of food aid in the same areas, these projects have undoubtedly enabled many families to stay on .the land who would otherwise have had to seek refuge in urban centfres or in the refugee.camps in neighbouring countries. _                                     '
               Among the progress achieved during 199D one should mention the ability of the United Nations system to bring food aid to areas which had previously been inaccessible. This has been most striking in the north of the country, where a total of 31,500 MT was delivered to project sites in Badakhshan, Badghis, Baghlan, Balkh, Bamian, Faryab, Herat, Jauzjan, Kabul, Kunduz, Samangan, Sar-e-Pul and Takhar provinces during 1990. Progress was also made in reaching some of the poorest areas in the central provinces, where there is great potential for supporting reconstruction activities through food-for'-work projects.
               United Nations projects in mine awareness and mine clearance training began in 1989. The actual mine clearance began in 1990 and has already made an impact in the following eight provinces: Badakhshan,' Badghis, Bamian, Ghazni, Kandahar, Kunar, Paktika, and Zabul. It is particularly heartening to read reports of farmers planting their land the day, after it had been cleared, or of some refugees returning to their villages immediately after the mine clearance teams had left. Nevertheless, the sheer magnitude of the task that remains is of serious Concerp. Further, the speed with which, mines can be cleared with the relatively limited resources now available is painfully slow. This is an area of work in which Afghanistan will need the support of the international community for many years to come.                \       i       :  ;
               With respect to the voluntary repatriation of the refugees, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has estimated that during 1989-90 some 300,000 Afghan refugees returned to Afghanistan. In the meantime, however, an estimated 100,000 Afghans have sought refuge in neighbouring countries.
               A Pilot Repatriation Project was launched in July 1990. Seventy thousand .persons availed themselves of this project, under which refugees in Pakistan wishing to repatriate exchange their ration cards for a package of material assistance to facilitate their return. In addition, some 30,000 returnees were assisted through the Peace Guest House Project inside, Afghanistan. While these achievements are. modest, they should .nonetheless be seen in relation to a conservative 'estimate of a further 100,000 persons who returned spontaneously in 1990.                              v. ■         ,
               $£g(fcivities in the fields of health, education and training gathered pace in 199®*. 4£S did activities in support of the disabled, '‘in spite of the constraints "bilk ifcf f ect all United Nations programs in Afghanistan.
                                                   63
APR1L-JUNF., 1991             AIGHANJIHAD                     VOL.  4 NO. 3
                                        PRIORITIES OF 1991
           In 1991, priority will be given to ensuring the availability of resources for projects in the following sectors: agriculture, food aid, mine clearance, voluntary repatriation and health. While short-term needs will continue to receive attention, it is essential that medium-term and long-term strategies for development are also elaborated.
                               .    ' ■ ■                      ’ . _ • '.I           , ■ .
           Agriculture continues to have priority in the search for ways to help the /•' ' ' ' 1 1 , Afghan people revive their rural economy. Of the total cash resources stall
      ietjuired toN ensure the^implementation of the program for 1991, US $ 10*9 million
      out of US $   34.8 pillion have been allocated to agricultural inputs, and to
      efforts to eradicate locust and sunn pest infestation. 199^. will see the■launch
      of several integrated,, rural rehabilitation projects in Various parts of the
      country." It is hoped that these projects will be able to provide a level of
      sustainable economic activity which could subsequently contribute to medium and
      long-term development.                   "                       t          • '
           Serious rehabilitation work cannot , be undertaken in a number of areas of the country unless the mines and unexplored ordnance are cleared first. The mine clearance program begun in 1991 will be expanded and introduced to new areas, while, ensuring scrupulous standards of training and monitoring.
           In the social sectors, particularly health and education, the aim in 1991 will be to continue to move from a policy of support to initiatives by a variety of different executing agencies towards the development of generally accepted policies and programs in these sectors. The support received thus far from the parties concerned for the National Plan for Health, prepared by the World Health Organization (WHO), is an important first step in this direction.
           The Program for 1991 highlights a number of specific issues which also need to be considered in the context of Afghanistan's recovery from over a decade of war. These include drug abuse control; environmental issues, particularly deforestation; the disabled; and issues concerning women ' and children.
           In the economic setting of Afghanistan; many projects can be given valuable support by the timely availability of food aid,, mainly as food—for-work. It will therefore remain a priority for the United Nations system to ensure that food supplies are. available at strategic locations both within Afghanistan and.in the neighbouring countries, both for emergency relief and to support rehabilitation projects.                                                         '
           It is clear from the experience of the past two years that progress towards rehabilitation will also encourage voluntary repatriation of refugees as. well as encourage internally displaced persons to return to their respective regions. As the balance of economic advantage shifts from the refugee camps to the home areas, so the movement of people to regions no longer directly affected by the war will <continue and grow in size. However, economic incentives alone are unlikely to encourage a massive return of .refugees.. For that, conditions of
                                               64
         APRIL-JUNE, 1991                        MUM                 ,    VOL. 4 NO.3
        security and a political settlement are essential.       '
             The United Nations presence in the provinces of Badakhshan, Balkh, Bamian, Herat, Kabul, Kandahar, Kiinar and Paktika will be consolidated in 1991 and will
               - ' ' , ■                .  * i        • ■       •      I
        be used, in a co-ordinated manner, as bases from which to reach neighbouring provinces. Efforts will also be made to establish road and air links^ to other parts of the country not previously reached by United Nations operations. An additional presence may also be established in a small, number of other logistically appropriate    sites from which activities can   extend into other
        areas. It should be noted, however, that 'more United Nations personnel are required to implement and monitor programs.                       „
             The development of appropriate implementing arrarigements has been the subject of continuous review. In many parts of Afghanistan, the absence of national institutions and of a functioning civil administration has hampered the implementation of projects by the United Nations agencies and programs. Accordingly, three different mechanism^ for ensuring the execution of projects are used: (a) execution through non-governmental organizations (NGOs); (b) execution through local authorities; and (c) direct execution by the United Nations.
             International NGOs have rendered invaluable service in bringing relief and initiating rehabilitation work. Their expertize and experience are welcome assets and they will continue to play an important role. In 1990, considerable emphasis was placed on the need to develop the implementing capacity of Afghan national NGOs. Progress in this direction, however, has been uneven, A number of them have made their appearance sponsored by international NGOs, some sponsored by United Nations agencies and programs, and others through local initiatives. In 1991, efforts will be made to strengthen the technical and management capacity of those organizations which appear to be effective.
             Undoubtedly there is room for further improvement in the coordination of the activities of the United Natipns and the NGOs. In 1991, a special effort will be made to rationalize these arrangements.
             In order t)° provide the fullest possible information on the whole range of ■United Nations activities in Afghanistan, data on projects of the United Nations agencies and programs funded from sources other than UNOCA has been included in the relevant sections of the Program for 1991.
                                     FINANCING THE PROGRAM CURRENT RESOURCES
             The resources available for the Program for 1991 include contributions to the Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund (AETF) as well as contributions in-kind channelled through UNOCA, direct contributions to the United Nations agencies and programs or to the NGOs. In addition, some United Nations agencies and programs have been utilizing funds from their own.regular programs.
             As at 6 February 1991 total cash pledges made by donors to UNOCA amounted
                                                     65
APRIL-JUNE, 199V
VOL. 4 NO.3
       to US $241.7 million. Of this amount, US $ 209. J million has been received into the Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund administered by UNOCA. In addition, other receipts, including interest, amounted to US$ li.l million, bringing the total cash resources available through UNOCA to US $,220.4 million. To date a total of US $ 147.8 million has been transferred or alloqated to United Nations agencies and programs' ‘ for the implementation of programs and projects and US $ 13.6 million has been allocated for the administrative costs of UNOCA', thus leaving a cash balance of US$ 59 million. While this amount is available for the financing of programs and projects in '1991, the actual allocations of some US $ 51 million can be-made Only on the basis of approval by donors concerned.
                                RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR 1991
            The tot^l resource requirement for the implementation of programs and projects during 1991 is' US $ 232.4 million, of which US $ 117.6 million is funded, leaving a shortfall of US .$. 114.8 million or 49.4 per cent of the total requirement in 1991. These estimates are based on the projections of on-going prbjects, which   will be continued in 1991, as well as on   the estimates for* the
       new activities   to be initiated during  1991. Details 6f sectoral budgets      are
       attached to each sectoral program.
            The resources required in 1991 include i both the rephased portion of allocations for' on-going projects (US $ 106.7 million) as well as new proposals for 1991 (US $   125.7 million). The. latter excludes projects which are at the
       pre-pipeline stage, most of which have been programmed for implementation through in-kind contributions^ The initiation of these projects will depend largely on, the delivery schedule    of  pledged material       inputs and   on the
       availability of, necessary cash components to meet transportation and other implementation costs,                                         v
            Regarding the sectors accorded priority under the Program, the needs can be summarized as follows;
       Sector               Budget required    Funded/            Shortfall
                            in 1991             Committed
                            <US$)                 (US$)              <US$)
       Agriculture          45,737,960           22,565,580         23,1^1,380
       Food Aid             61,978,570           38,633,570         23,345,000
       Mine Clearance       18,4i4,800            3,883,400         14,531,400
       Voluntary
       Repatriation         22,735,700            3,360,600         19,375,100
       Health               20,139,400            6,636,900         13,502,500
       Total               169,006,430           75,0&0,050         93,926,380
            Accordingly, the total amount of resources which, still require funding for the implementation of the above five sectoral programs is US$ 93.9 million.
• APRIL-JUNE1991          AfRtlflNJiHAD          VOL. 4 NO-3
                                     MEETING THE SHORTFALL
             (a) Iri-kind contributions
             A large part of the pledged in-kind contributions to Operation SALAM still remains unsecured. The in-kind resources pledged consist mainly of food aid, building and other materials, project aid and equipment, and the costs of transportation through the territory of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR).
             Of the total in-kind contributions, the, Soviet Union's contribution is by far the largest. Out of 400 million roubles pledged by the USSR, 260 million still remain, available, of which 100-110 million roubles will be allocated in 1991. The major, part of this pledge will be used to implement rehabilitation projects. 66'projects were submitted to the USSR in 1990. of these, 1.7 projects, which include the supply of agricultural materials, the construction of shelter and water-supply facilities, and the provision of medical and educational supplies, have been approved for execution in 1991.
             Efforts will be continued in 1991 to maximize the delivery of gooas, particularly those which have been defined in specific project budgets for 1991. The operational modalities to) streamline the process of drawing on the available stocks’ of commodities and equipment to meet project needs will be further refined.                                                        •
             As in the past, in-kind contributions 1 that cannot be optimally used in the current program will be monetized, the proceeds of which will be used for the financing of local cost components (including transport costs) of programs and projects.
             (b) Cash contributions
             The cash contributions are critical to the success of the Program. , The international community will be requested to meet the shortfall in cash resources. First, donors will be requested to honor the unpaid pledges to Operation SALAM, amounting to US$ 32.4- million. Secondly, the reserve funds tied to specific program activities, particularly those directly relating to the repatriation of refugees, will be used appropriately. Thirdly, the international community will be requested tp make additional contributions to the Program on the basis qf specific project submissions that merit priority in 1991. Lastly, United Nations agencies will be encouraged to finance projects from their own regular resources available for Afghanistan. UNDPUNICEF, WFP and WHO are making available resources to finance some projects which meet their funding 'criteria.                     »   ■                                   '
                                                       67
 .*V
 TABLE:
 RESOURCE ALIiXATICNS THROUGH 1990 AND FRQpnSAT.fi FOR 1991 BY SECTOR (US DOLLARS) Sector                   Project    Expenditure    Allocations/Proposals for 1991
                                Budget 7     1988-90       Total 1991  Funded/   Unfunded
       ________                             (estimate)               Committed______
       AGRICULTURE
       (a) Completed Projects   16,069,457  15,344,619
       (b) Ongoing Projects     17,341,378   4,374,323  11,087,575   9,680,575  1,407,000
       (c) New Proposals 1991   42,485,380              34,650,380  12,885,000 21,765,380
       Sub-total:               75,896,215  19,718,942  45,737,955  22,565,575 23,172,380
       POOD AID
       (a) Completed Projects 100,212,532   20,676,492       .            '
       (b) Ongoing Projects 60,932,567         5,867,016 55,075,551 34,778,651 20,297,000
       (c) New Proposals 1991    6,903,020                6,903,020  3,855,020  3,048,000
       Subtotal:               168,048,119    26,543,508 61,978,571 38,633,571 23,345,000
       MINE CLEARANCE
                • ’ •        '•    i.  .     r  '  / ' ' '      • '       •
       (a) Completed Projects 16,903,050    15,068,300
       (b) Ongoing Projects        4j.4,800                 414,800    414,800
       (c) New Proposals 1991    18,000,000              18,000,000  3,468,600 14,531,400
       Sub-total:                35,317,850 15,068,300   18,414,800  3,883,400 14,531,400
       ROAD REPAIR
       (a) Completed Projects    1,717*360   1*578,787
       (b) Ongoing Projects      3,900,000      42,060  2,500,000  1,000,000  1,500,000
       (c) New Proposals 1991   17,350r000           ‘  6,350,000  5,850,000    500,000
       Sub-total:               22,967,360 1, <520,847  8,850,000  6,850,000  2,000,000
68
  APRIL-JUNE, 1991                   mm                   VOL. 4 N0.3
TABLE:                      . . '■ ,                                             
          mjJUL-AlXUWtj XMKUUUH AND PROPOSALS   FOR 1991 BY SECnjR (US DOLLARS)  
Sec tear                  Project Expenditure   Allocations/Proposals for 1991   
                          Budget 1988-90        Total 1991 Funded/ Unfunded      
                          (estimate)            CommitLed                        
SHELTER                   \ •          ' -l • •           * '                    
7                                                                                
(a)    Completed Projects    276,884    276,884                                  
(b)    Ongoing Projects    4,004,000  1,416,000 1.754.000   1.184.000    570,000 
■(c) New Proposals, 1991. 15,820,000            1.820.000   1.820.000            
Sob-total:                20^100,884  1,692,884  3,574,000  3,004,000    570,000 
HEALTH                               '                                           
(a) Completed Projects    23,424,401 19,469,339                                  
(b)    Ongoing Projects    8,966,801  5,254,049  3,712,752  3,712,752 13,502,502 
(c)    New Proposals 1991 20,326,651            16,426,651  2,924,149            
Sub-total:                52,717,853 24,723,388 20,139,403  6,636,901 13,502,502 
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION                                                      
(a)    Completed Projects    410,157    410,157  1,531,250  1,531,250            
(b)    On going Projects   2,195,100    225,630  3,862,030  3,262,030            
(c)    New Proposals 1991 11,660,900                 *      \            600,000 
Sub-total:                14,266,157    635,787  5,393,280  4,793,280    600,000 
EDUCATION                                       >                                
(a)    Completed Projects    815,726    815,726                                  
(b)    Ongoing Projects    5,785,349  2,710,016  3,075,333  1,302,333 1.773.000  
(c)    New Proposals 1991 10,125,000             5,750,000  3,000,000 2.750.000  
Sub-total:                16,726,075  3,525,742  8,825,333  4,302,333  4,523,000 
69
 je-v
APRIL-JUNE. 1991                            iniM  ' ■[ . - ;           VOL. 4 NO.3  
TABLE: .                                                                            
RESOURCE ALLOCATIGNS THROUGH 1990 AND PROPOSALS   FOR 1991 BY SECTOR (US DOLLARS)   
Sector                                            Allocations/Proposals for 1991    
                          Project Expenditure     Total 1991 Funded/ Unfunded       
                          Budget 1988-90          ■. . i * '                        
                          (estimate)                         Committed              
VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                          '                      
(a)    Completed Projects   6,584,520   6,584,520 t.                                
(b)    Ongoing Projects     2,146,744     507,320  1,639,424  1,639,424             
(c)    New Proposals 1991   3,106,720              1,691,560  • 358,230   1,333,330 
Sob-total:                 11,837,984   7,091,840  3,330,984  1,997,654 1,333,330 , 
MANAGEMENT, TRAINING AND                    ■                                       
SUPPORT                                                      \                      
(a)    Completed Projects        47,340  47,340                                     
(b)    Ongoing Projects         666,046 241,673’     424,373    224>373   ‘ 200,000 
(c)    New Proposals 1991       645,161              645,161   *645,161             
Sub-total:                  1,350,547    289,013   1,069,534 869,534        200,000 
DISABLED PERSONS                                         - <                        
(a)    Completed Projects   1,171,618   1,146,642                       - • i       
(b)    Ongoing Projects     3,130,085   1,330,121  1,797,964 688,052      1,109,912 
(c)    New Proposals 1991 . 5,693,500.            ,2,838,500  1,150,000   1,688,500 
Sub-total: '                9,995,203   2,476,763  4,636,464  1,838,052   2,798,412 
CXHFROL CF DRUG ABUSE     /             • V                  •j . % *.              
(a)    Completed Projects         4,800     4,800                                   
(b)    Ongoing Projects         642,000  302,000     340,000 340,000                
(c)    New Proposals 1991   4,441,560              1,941,560 541,560      1,400,000 
Sub-total:                 1 5,088,360   306,800   2,281,560 881,560      1,400,000 
                                                        70
APRIL-JUNE, 1991              AM JIHAD                    VOL. 4 NO. 3
TABLE:                                                         (                     
RESOURCE ALLOCATIONS THROUGH 1990 AND PROPOSALS FOR 1991 BY    SECTOR (US DOLLARS)   
Sector                    Project Expenditure       Allocations/Proposals for 1991   
                          Budget 1988-90            Total 1991 Funded/ Unfunded      
                          (estimate)                Committed                        
CULTURE                                  I . .                                       
(a)    Completed Projects        112,000    111,371    106,983            . 2,500    
(b)    Ongoing Projects ,        190,500     83,517    440,000    104,483 440,000    
(c)    New Proposals 1991        617,000                                             
Dub-total:                       919,500    194,008    546,903    104,403    442,500 
' • '                                                                                
WOMEN IN DEVELOCMENT                                                      \          
(a)    Completed Projects                                                            
(b)    Ongoing Projects                  ■ '                                         
(c)    New Proposals 1991        917,180               667,180    117,180    550,000 
Sub-total:                       917,180               667,180    117,180    550,000 
OTHER PROGRAMS                   ■ . . '                                -            
(a)    Completed Projects   8,028,650                                         1      
(b)    Ongoing Projects     1,450,000     2,498,950  4,617,400 2,876,500,  1,740,900 
(c)    New Proposals 1991      i ;                   1,450,000    150,000  1,300,000 
Sub-total:                  9,478,650     2,498,950  6,067,400  3,026,500  3,040,900 
VOLUNTARY REPATRIATION          '                                                    
(a)    Completed Projects 21,629,492     20,507,176                                  
(b)    ongoing Projects   13,355,070      4,848,000  2,792,200  1,292,200  1,500,000 
(c)    New Proposals 1991 19*, 943,500              19,943,500  2,068,400 17*875,100 
Sub-total:                    54,928,062 25,355,176 22,735,700  3,360,600 19,375,100 
“april-junc, 1991               MIMillHi                               VOL. 4 NO.3 
TABLE:                                                                             
RESOURCE ALLOCATIONS THROUGH 1990 AND PROPOSALS FOR 1991 BY SECTOR (US DOLLARS)    
Sector               Project    Expenditure       Allocations/Proposals for 199i   
                     Budget     1980-90           Total 1991 Funclod/ "Unfunded    
                                (estimate)                  Committed              
     ENVIRONMENT
     (a)  Completed Projects
     (b)  Ongoing Projects         75,000                  75,000     75,000
     (c)  New Proposals 1991    1,438,000  <            1,438,000    988,000    450,000
     Sub-totals       ,         1,513,000               1,513,000  1,063,000    450,000
     ,    . ' .     .     •      .    . •  ' .               ' '' ! f    .     V '  .\ —
     uaaimxm and
     (a) Completed Projects   55,910,767  55,082,012
     (b) Ongoing Projects     90,666,227 10,875,298. 15,790,929 13,679,929 2,111,000
     (c) New Proposals 1991      869,500                869,500             . 869,500
     Sub-total:              147,446,494  65,957,310 16,660,429 13,679,929 2,980,500
    TOTAL
    (a) Completed Projects 245,290,104 157,124,165
    (b) Ongoing Projects 222,440,317 40,575,973 106,735,534 74,524,222 32,211,312
    (c) New Proposals 1991 181,793,072125,687,042 43,083,330 82,603,712
     GRAND-TOTAL:         649,523,493/197,700,138/232,422,576/117,607,552/114,015,024
72
 /
an A id
J9
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is a brief account of the Afghanaid Nutrition Survey Report of Badakhshant Faryab and Jauzjan Ptovinces carried out in the latter part of 1990 and published in March 1991•
      Daring late 1989 and ^arly 1990 reports reaching several aid agencies in Pakistan and Afghanistan suggested that malnutrition in certain areas of Afghanistan was increasing due to food losses and disruption due to civil war.
      During the latter part of 1990 Afghanaid carried out' a nutritional assessment of 10,145 children aged 1 to 5 years in three provinces over a 12 week period.
  '        .         '                      t   -
      The data was collected by random sampling of villages in the first stage. In the second stage a rapid nutritional assessment was made of 5 percent of the child population aged 1-5 years.
The findings'suggested that over half of the children were malnourished.
     There is under-representation of females among those children screened. However the data that hais been gathered constitute a baseline upon which a more carefully designed and controlled nutritional survey could rest.
     The report also makes recommendations for improved food distribution, agricultural rehabilitation and strengthening of basic health services in the area surveyed.
                                          INTRODUCTION
     Afghanistan has one of the highest infant mortality rates in the world. The last population census carried ,out in 1979 Soviet invasion the overall infant mortality rates as 182 per 1000 live births.
      APR1L-JUNE, 1991        _________HIM                               VOL.  4 NO.3
          Over 10 years of war has created large number of unsupported mothers and Children. The war has also undermined Implementation of programs for promotion of health sand combating preventable disceases.
                        ' ,      /■ '                       ■     i
          For several years the northern parts of Afghanistan have suffered falling food production due to pests and locast infestation, The two, worst affected provinces were Jauzjan and Badakhshan.
                        ' •.                             .i
                      i                                                 '
          In 1990 a nutritional assessment carried out in Faryab province suggested a higher than usual prevalance of malnutrition. The main cause was poverty and ignorance rather than food shortage.
          In the middle of 1990 a comprehensive nutritional survey was carried out by Afghanaid in cooperation with UNICEF in the three northern provinces on the USSR border- Badakhshan, Faryab and Jauzjan.
          The survey represents a valuable addition to existing knowledge and should form a sounder basis for planning and decision making and more extensive future investigation.
              PROJECT DEVELOPMENT: RATIONAL FOR THE SURVEY DESIGN
          Due to time and logestic constrains, this survey confined itself to anthro-pometric measurement, observation of some clinical signs of deficiency and a brief review of mortality data. These observations were supplemented by taking into consideration the price of essential food stuff, animals and seeds which have impact on supply and demand. The - availability of basic health services and highways and roads in the three provinces was also assessed.
          Some: 100 million children in the world are affected by malnutrition and undernutrition.                 ,   .
          The first signs of malnutrition aire associated with muscle westing most easily seen and felt on the upper arm where fat disappears and the circumference is reduced. Measuring the mid upper arm circumference can be useful and rapid screening method for finding malnourished children in the 1-5 years age group. It is an acceptable, 'alternative to more accurate and elaborate screening When transport of necessary equipment is impossible for logistic (reasons. However one drawback in using MUAC is that any error in the measurement may result in a large statistical error in calculating .
          Vitamin A, vitamin C, iron and/or folic acid deficiency are frequently associated with PEM:. Deficiency in any one of - these essential nutrients results in relatively Clear cut Clinical signs in children.              1        .
          The ultimate result of prolonged vitamin A deficiency in children is xerophthalmia which, if untreated eventually results in blindness. Where vitamin A deficiency>is common, children are particularly vulnerable to xerophthalmia. Screening for, Bitots spots and sight blindness is therefore a useful way of estimating the prevalance of Hephthalmia and an -indication of more generalized malnutrition in a community.
      ' .                                    74
           APRIL-JUNE, 1991                 mm                               VOL.  4 NO.3
               (Because vitamin c is necessary for the absorption of iron from food, ascorbic acid deficiency is also closely associated with iron deficiency anaemia.                  ,                                       '.
                Most cases of iron deficiency anaemia among children in developing countries are dietry in origin. Anaemia is suggested by Pale mucous membranes and paleness of the inside of the lower eyelid. Folic acid found in leafy vegetables is required for the formation of red blood cells. As with iron, deficiency in folic acid results in anaemia and is common where access to its source is restricted.
                Afghanaid Emergency Training Unit recruited 12 Afghan male nationals in the summer of 1990. They were formed into three four-man. teams, one team for each province. They were imparted training for six weeks by Afghanaid and some international agencies.
               A questionnaire was developed which combined both open and closed questions. The questions were rephrased during the pilot stage prior, to implementation of the survey.
                Field training was also provided for members of the teams.
                                            METHODOLOGY
                It was predetermined by UNICEF and Afghanaid that a random sample of 5 per cent of all children (aged 1-^5) in rural areas in the three provinces would be (screened. The number*'1 of children needed for a representative sample was calculated on the basis of population estimation.
                Four thousand one hundred sixty seven children were screened in 131 villages of Badakhshan 3,141 children in 30 villages of Jauzjan and 2,837 children in 41 villages, of Faryab. In all 10,145 children were screened in 202 villages.                                  ' .                -
                Due to logistic problems, 50% of children in 10% of villages in Jauzjan 25% children in 20% villages in Badakhshan and 25% children in 20% villages in Faryab were screened.
                A simple random sampling method was used to select villages for the nutritional survey in each province. Villages were selected by draw of the name of villages.
                On reaching a randomly selected village, members' of the team invited the villagers to bring th^ir children aged 1 to 5 year to a central point in the village. Children were measured and clinical observations were made and recorded. It is possible that the sickest children were not brought out of the house for screening. The survey team did not have access to mothers of the children.
                In Badakhshan most of the travel was on foot particularly in the remote mountain regions where certain- districts are cut-off from others for most of the year.
                                        RESULTS
         The results of the MUAC survey show that well over 50% of children in the 1-2 age band are severely malnourished and over 25% are moderately malnourished. In the 2-3 age band 70% of th£ children are malnourished. Art important contributory factor is the widespread practice of late weaning among Afghan populaton. in the later age groups when children become more demanding of solid food and breast feeding ceased some improvement appears.
         Badakhshan appears to be the worst affected. Overall only approximately 40% of children are considered normally nourished and of the 1-2 year old children almost 70% are severely malnourished. However better results from some districts overshadow the higher rates of malnutrition in others.
         The hardest hit districts, are mainly in Badakhshan. But some districts in Jauzjan show the level of malnutrition which is higher than that of the whole province. ..
   .     The survey shows that at all ages more female than male children are
    severely malnourished. But the significance of this difference was not statistically determined from the available data.
       . Screeming for iron/folic acid, vitamin A and C was carried out on each child in addition to MUAC measurement. But no attempt has been made to determine whether children generally had a combination of clinical signs for low MAUC measurement + night blindness + anaemia, etc.                  '
         A majority of children screened were found to be anaemic; 58% children were moderately anaemic and 31% as severely anaemic.
         Surprisingly few children, that is only 3% were reported to be night blind.
         Members of the survey team misinterpreted the question related to Bitot’s spots.•                                                          ■       v -
                                  VITAMIN C DEFICIENCY: BLEEDING GUMS
         As indicated from bleeding gums, 39% of children overall were thought to be suffering from vitamin C deficiency. This was more marked in the 1 to 2 age group. Although^ vitamin C is present in breast ihilk, the intake of young breast-fed children depends on their mother's intake of this vitamin. There is close relationship between iron deficiency and vitamin C deficiency because of biochemical, interdependency of these two nutrients. Percentage of anaemic children and of children with vitamin C deficiency were about the same. They indicate the possibility of severe malnutrition in the communities.
                        PROTEIN CALORIE DEFICIENCY: OEDEMA
         Badakhshan' $hd Jauzjan each reported, 1% of children with oedema although
                        ' ' .              76
          Al'KIL-JUNi:. 1991               JUll JIIIHI)                  V(M . A NO.3
         data from Badakhshan suggests more children are malnourished there than in the other two provinces.
             NUTRITIONAL STATUS: PERCENTAGE OF CHILDREN WITH CLINICAL SIGN OF MALNUTRITION: ALL PROVINCES COMBINED.
Age      Normal Anaemia  Sever#-, Night blindness Oadema Bleeding Gums 
          % .   Moderate    %     % . %                  %             
                  %• ■                                                 
1-2        8    39       53                1 2           56            
2-3      1 11 - 51       38                3 4           44            
3-4        11   63       27               4 ' 3          36            
4-5        13   67       2°               4 ■ 2          39            
AVERAGE: % 11   58       31 1             3 \ 3          39            
                          CHILD HEALTH AND HEALTH SERVICES
               The team visited 36 health facilities across the three provinces.- They ranged from district hospital^ through well staffed health centers to single-handed dispensaries. The majority of facilities reported drug shortages.
               Two of the more remote distrain r one each in Badakhshan and Jauz jan# did not have any health facility. Elsewhere facilities are generally reported as inadequate .     •             ' ’'j&l -
               At the time of the survey there was no evidence of immunization provision in the three provinces.              ^
               Analysis of the completed questionaires suggests that the following diagnoses or conditions predominate in children between the ages of 1-5:,
               Diarrhoea.# amoebic,-- dysentry, dehydration, measles# whooping cough, malaria# tuberculosis and malnutrition.
               Food shortages were contril^&ory causes to some of the above conditions. The presence of these d^seasifc#^Will increase the clinical signs Of under nutrition among children.
                                MAIN CAUSES OF CHILD MORTALITY
                                                                                   ' •:
               TVmong children of upto 15 years of age gastrointestinal diseases including, diarrhoea and amoebic dys entry art said to predominate as a cause of death. But due to lack of understanding# not' a single health worker suggested a need for a supply of oral rehydration salts..
                                     SOCI^fCONOMIC FACTORS
               As part of the survey# tflilip members looked at various socio-economic
     indicators including the role of poppy cultivation and the, prices of essential foodstuffs and fuelstogether with the cost of ^iMrm and draught animals,.
                                           POPPY CULTIVATION
          In Badakhshan for thousand of years poppies have been cultivated and opium had been used as barter for essential goods or sold. Poppy cultivation, has now ceased resulting in hardship for the people..
          The survey teams also collected information on prices of essential, goods from 32 bazaars in the three provinces. In Qadakhshan the prices of cereals, meat, salt and ghee haye risen by.between 30 and 5Q.% in a year. In the other two provinces prices in some cases have fallen due to import of' food through' UN agencies and food for work programs.
          Petrol, diesel and kerosine were scarce but their prices were stable in. Badakhshan and falling in Jauzjan *and Faryab.
          Orchards have been damaged by fruity flies and cereal crops by locusts, drought and floods. Shortage of fertilizers and of improved varieties of, seed have also contributed to slowdown in agriculture production* However basic commodities were available in the bazaars at higher, prices.
          The prices of both farm and draught animals have shown a marked rise in Badakhshan. These have risen also in Jauzjan and Faryab to some extent.
          Results of the survey confirm that a majority of Children aged 1 to 5 in three northern provinces of Afghanistan ''are malnourished. It is difficult to establish just how far food shortages have contributed to the nutritional deficiencies. Availability of food stuff in the market does not mean that it. will reach the people because the prices and purchasing powers of the people are interlinked. Widespread malnutrition should be.explained with caution.
          Badakhshan shows the highest rate of malnutrition, this province reports highest price rises for essential goods and significant migration of population -out of the province as a result of food shortage.      '
          The claim that locusts and other' pests have destroyed sources of food and ' exchange must be accepted as it is consistent with experience elsewhere.
          A weakness of this survey has been the lack of any assessment of the nutritional status of the mother on which the nutrition of very young child is largely dependent. Extremely low literacy rates especially among females are known to be associated with high child mortality rate.                /
          Recommendations which center on the non-fprmal education of women and the renewal and expansion of economic activities among women should be-given serious consideration as fundamental to long term improvement in the status of women and consequently in the health of their children.                   ^
          Efforts should be made to prevent ihf^jftious disease, malnutrition a\hd
          APR I t.-JUNE , 1991              AfflHAN JIHAD                    VOt  . A NO. 3
          diarrhoea together rather than separately. In areas where year’round access is
          not possible, a comprehensive primary health care programe should be undertaken.
          Improved food supply and nutritional education is also a basic requirement.
               Due to prevailing social and religious codes, mothers were not interviewed
          during the survey and girls were under-represented among children surveyed.
          These deficiencies may.be addressed, as far as .possible in future work.
               Results of the survey provide a valuable addition to existing knowledge of
          the area and a basis for further investigation.
                                          RECOMMENDATIONS
          1)  It is recommended Food i:or Work Program should be started in Badakhshan. This will avert the threat of starvation and improve local infra-structure. This will also help increase agricultural productivity.
          2)  It is recommended that farmers be. provided with insecticides as destruction of crops by pests is the major cause of malnutrition.
                                              ... -. ■ ' •* - *
          3)  It is recommended that a s.tart be made on wide ranging agricultural rehabilitation of the whole area. The Aga Khan Rural Support program operating in Northern parts of Pakistan may be taken as possible model, taking ^into consideration prevailing political conditions in northern Afghanistan.
          4)  Possibility of increasing proteip intake through increased fish production in Jauzjan province and in Khamyab and Qarqin districts be. investigated. This will also open up commercial possibilities.
          5)  Possibility of reviving and upgrading silk' production industry ih Jauzjan and Faryab may be studied.
          6)  Urgent attention be given to the possibility of extending immunization coverage to Badakhshan, Jauzjan and Faryab provinces.
          7)  Organization supplying drugs to cross-border clinics should investigate complaints of insufficient drug supplies.
          8)  Basic and refresher training for para-medics should lay emphasis on control qjf diarrhoeal disease including promotion of ORS and home fluids.
          9)  The development of a long term strategy for the training of both female and -.j male health workers is strongly recommended. Training oriented towards the
              particular skills and needs of women in the context of child rearing is needed.
               The theory and methods of ndn formal education be incorporated into health
               care programs for women and children.
          10) Nutritional education programs be undertaken as essential part of a primary
                                                       79
 APRIL-JUNE; 1991                 AfGHANJIHAD                      VOL.  4 NO.3
     health care approach. This should emphasize continuation of breast feeding but with the introduction of locally available weaning food from the age of four to six months. The feeding of equal amounts to both girls and boys be emphasized in nutritional education programs.
     Greater attention needs to be paid to the nutrition of mothers to maintain their own health as well as Quality of their breast miik. Similarly for safe-motherhood, nutrition of young girls is extremely important.
  •• -    C •             '       .   . »   ’ •       .   " . . _ ^      . .
     Further valuable points could be drawn from a full statistical analysis'of the data made available in this report.
  i
APRIL-JUNE# 1991            MNJIHAD                     VOL. 4 NO.3
                                                     MALNUTRITION LEVELS BY DISTRICT
 APRIL -JUNE, 199^
mm Jim
faryab
no. 3
malnutrition levels
&y district
 r.
 !i
 H
M
i
w
 »
                                              a/'/< / t--*JUhn?r 1991
JAUZJAN
milMN JIHAD                    vol. A t»io..3;
                                                  malnutrition levels by DISTRICT
N
 >
 I
 ai'iul-jone, 1991          fltCHiJIM          ■     VOL. 4 nq.3
          MINES ADVISORY GROUP REPORTS ON AFGHANISTAN
                               MINES
 FOREWARD (by Kae McGrath, Mines Advisory Group in Peshawar): Less than two years ago the Afghans were world's heroes. But as world's attention turned to the Gulf crisis, their erstwhile patron the USA in a joint hand-washing exercise with the Soviet Union has consigned them to the political back boiler. Th^y must also wrestle with the irony of Gorbachev's Nobel peace award. 1
     And yet both the, Soviet Union and the United States are ignoring a tragedy that the Soviet Union was largely instrumental in creating it. Even after the end of the fighting and prospects of a broadly acceptable government the Afghan refugees cannot return h6me as there are 636,000 square kilometres minefields in Afghanistan.
                             , •' • ' . - . <■
     Of course there are not mines in every square kilometre, but how do you know you are in a minefield until you tread on a mine? As little as 23 kg*-of foot pressure on the wroqg path of ground indicates a loser for the rest of his life and.their children's lives.
     The report that follows has very little good news for the Afghan people or for any one with a conscience anywhere.
                                J INTRODUCTION
 BACKGROUND: Landmines were developed in-between two world wars as a military
 response to tanks. The invention of TNT, a powerful but stable explosive allowed for the development of the anti-tank, pressure mine. These primitive devices were used on a large scale during World War II. But it was soon found that they could be easily removed by the enemy. Thus were developed the first anti-personnel mines to protect anti-tank mines. Scientists soon realized > the potential of these new devices as offensive weapons in their' right. By the end of war in Europe mines had been developed with effective killing range upto 25 metres. ‘
     After World War II development of thd~anti-personhel mine continued. Now all major arms-producing nations have developed mines designed to provide for every military circumstance with considerable emphasis with minimum use of metal to avoid detection and'case of mass discrimination.
              During the past two decades mines have been used extensively in guerrilla warfare. Essential training to use them is minimal, they are safe to transport
 APKIL-JUNE» 1991                                              ' VOL. 4 NO.3
  dnd are well suited to insurgent operations. Shipment of surplus and outmoded but still effective devices cannot be assigned to the source country and1 are much cheaper than other weapons. Now many third world countries have begun manufacturing their owp .land mines.
       The nature pf the Afghan conflict made use of mines on a large scale a foregone conclusion. The standard handbook in use by the Afghan Army during 1970*s deals with all respects of mine warfare including technical devices from many countries and even , devotes a section to chemical mines with the cynical , postscript that:
       "...International rules do not permit the use. of chemical mines -but everything is permissible in love and war."                   1
       Soviet troops, faced with a guerrilla force fighting on home ground and, using inaccessible terrain from which to launch attack, responded by using scatterable mines at a very early stage of the conflict. The mujaheddin groups, attempting to stem the flow of arms and commodities along main supply routes, resorted to using anti-tank mines against convoys, Escorts- and Soviet heavy armor.,By 1984 use of anti personnel mines by mujaheddin was on such a scale as to force the Soviets to rethink their strategies^ Many Soviet troops underwent counter mine and booby-trap training before deployment, in Afghanistan* During the same period regime troops increased their own use of anti-personnel mines, both to defend their positions and to discourage desertions from their ranks.
       The sheer scale of mines dissemination alone would have ensured an unacceptable toll among non-combatants even if all the parties involved had acted in responsible manner. However, there is little evidence of that being the cause *
                                      i • ••                 ,              • ' *
                                   THE MORAL PROSPECTIVE
       The protocol oh prohibitions or restrictions on the use of mines,booby-traps and other devices was adopted by the United Nations on 10 October 1980. The protocol depends for effectiveness on the interpretation placed on each clause of the protocol by military field commanders and their decision regarding applicability in any given situation. It is. at times difficult to discern whether the protocol is directed at protecting non-combatants or supplying advance vindication for unjustifiable military actions. At best it seems the civilian population must rely on decisions based on the spirit rather than the letter of the protocol for its survival. In Afghanistan Soviet occupation forces hardly made more than superficial attempt to .comply with the spirit or the letter of the protocol. Mujaheddin also could not be exonerated from irresponsible use of mines. But ft must be pointed out that Soviet and DRA forces were armies with operational regulations while mujaheddin were just guerrilla groups* They wore not given proper training by those who supplied them with mines.
      It is important to view the content of this report against the background of a tribal, predominant rural nation in its 12 year of continuous war.
                                                85
01689116
 Al'KIL-JUNl . 191)1          AHillAN JIIIAI1                  VOI.- A NO. 3
 Afghanistan, its people and its war have been over taken by other Wars and newer tragedies in other parts of the wdrld. With the break-up of the Warsaw Pact as military power Afghanistan no longer enjoys strategic value- the Great Game is over. With this high level loss of interest it has become fashionable to play down the effects of the war. According to a 1 survey conducted by the ASA of the Swedish Committee/during 1987 over 40% of refugee farmers from all 29 provinces reported their villages having been bombed while a similar proportion among those still farming in Afghanistan was only found in 19 provinces. The impact of modern bombs and missiles in villages of mud and timber dwellings is rarely less than total demolition.
                                   _ 'AIMS '
      The primary aim of the survey was to obtain first hand information regarding landmine dissemination and its effects over a broadly representative area of rural Afghanistan.
                                  ' ' . .
      .The existing information regarding mines in Afghanistan is based on generalized reports, There, is urgent need for reliable data on which to base long term mine eradication planWith that aim there was need for conducting the survey at a level where information was available from those who had. it personally.
      The survey was also aimed at collecting data about community practices relating to mine clearance and marking of minefields. Other aims were to identify occupations and seasons where vulnerability to mine incidents appears to exist and to collect information relating to categories of devices in survey areas*,
      Target communities were selected to . provide for a degree of random selection within a representative survey area..                    m
      Selected areas included those■about which little information was available to agencies in Pakistan, areas'where medium orjerious mines situation existed and areas Where mines problem was believed to be of limited nature.
      Selected districts included compulsory districts, which were focal points for combat activity or where there Was large concentration of mines and surveyor selected districts which were chosen for survey before deployment.
                                  METHODOLOGY
     Initially the questionnaire included all the possible information, that would have been useful for planning and clearance purposes. Later it ytas modified ..to reflect the need for specific field of useable data and . the necessity for enquiry format that would be easily understandable by both surveyors and '.respondents •                            - .
     Each completed questionnaire was subject to thorough checking, procedures and we believe that the data presented in this report represents a fair description of the situation in the areas surveyed..
     ATI*IL-JUNE» 1991                MIlHJmHO                         VOL.  4 WO.3
                                  SUPPLEMENTARY SURVEYS
          Data collection was completed in October, 1990.The 845 questionnaire forms were entered on to a computed data base and analysed in November, 1990 by the ASA Data Section. The analysis is divided into 13 sections each relating to a single province surveyed. This is the scrutiny of the indicated situation in each province with a view to developing a viable eradication strategy.
     BADAKRSHAN: has an area of 40,886 square kilometers with estimated population of 554,374. Survey was carried out in four districts of the province. The area surveyed includes Seven villages in Faizabad, and Baharak districts, 42 villages in Jurm district and.26 villages in Keshem district.
          The four districts surveyed, with the exception of Baharak, report a relatively peaceful situatiorn with a low level of hostilities over the past six months. Baharak appears to have experienced sporadic action during ttye same period-.
          Survey areas in Faizabad district report no problem ^ith mines. The devices sown in the remaining three districts are primarily Soviet/regime disseminated anti-personal devices.
          Respondents cite working in fields as the activity most affected by mines and regard summer as the most hazardous time of the year.
          There were Some reports of Soviet/regime marking of minefields using wire and marker poles and also perimeters marked with trip-flares. There is no information regarding marking method, if any, adopted by the mujaheddin.
          No fatalities or injuries from mines detonations were reported from Faizabad district. There were regular deaths and injuries in the other three districts,
          Virtually all reported mine laying appears to originate from a Soviet/re-gime source and to be of a random nature with a low incidence of marked minefields;
     BAGHLAN:  has an area of 17,165 kilometers and its population is estimated at
     484,474,. There are 222,763 refugees in the province; Survey was carried out                                        in
     20 villages of            Baghlan district, 19 villages of Khenjan district, 20 villages                            of
     Nahreen district and 22 villages of Andarab district.
          A fairly high level of continuing hostilities is reported from Baghlan and Khenjan Districts. Nahreen has had a decreasing level of hostilities over the past six months while Andarab appears to have been relatively peaceful.
          All the                 four districts                                     surveyed report a significant level of
     anti-personnel devices. Farming activity is most seriously affected by mines in Baghlan and Andarab districts. A very high number of canals were reported to be' unuseable due               to mines in the                                    province. Mined hillsides present a serious
APRtL-JUNE, 1991
VOL.  A NO.3
     problem where they occur.                                                  ■
          None of those questioned indicated that any attempts are made to mark the presence of devices.
          The surveyed areas have suffered a considerable number* of mine blast casualties in the past two years. A considerable number of cattle, goats and* sheep have also been killed in the blasts.
          The local knowledge and awareness of the threat is low. However local mujaheddin groups have made attempts at mines clearance.
     BAHIAN:  has an area of 17,546.4 square kilometers and its population is
     estimated at 317,143. There are also 15,613 refugees in the province.
          Survey Was carried out in 15 villages of•Kahmard district, 10 villages of Saigh^n district, 16 villages each of Yakowlang, Punjab and Waras districts.'
          No mines were reported in any pf the surveyed areas. The veracity.of the findings has been confirmed by key personalities of. the province.
     FARAH:  has  an area of 59,146.6 square kilometers and its population is
     estimated at 377,802. Refugee population is ‘ estimated at 248,666. Survey was carried out in 25 villages of .Farah district, 29 villages of Shindand district and 25 villages of Anar Dara district.
          Farah province is one of the worst affected of the 13 provinces surveyed. A wide range of device types has been disseminated and there is apparently high density of mine laying. All three districts indicate considerable concentrations of Soviet/regime laid mines. Mine laying activity of mujaheddin in Shindand and Anar Dara appears to be considerable.
          All districts surveyed indicate a high density of mines on grazing land. Canals and karezes have also been mined on large scale. There appears to have been almost no formal marking of minefields by combatant forces. The data of casualties represents an average casualty figure for surveyed area of more than six people per week. Live stock and draught animals also have been killed in large numbers during the past year .
    .     The level of casualties in Farah province is twice as high as those for
     Baghian. This may be related to the presence of a battalion unit of Spetnaz which operated from Shindand until the Soviet withdrawal.
     GHAZNI:, has an area of over 21,381 square kilometers with estimated population of 770/684. There are also 69,89Q refugees. Twelve villages in Qarabagh, Ab Band, Andar and Kiro districts were, surveyed. All the surveyed areas reported a higfh concentration of both anti-personnel and anti-tank mines. Both sides were involved in mine laying. Most of the devices have been laid on or around key routes and military posts rather than on agricultural land. There appears to be very little community initiative in the marking of mine areas.
                          ' 88
      APRIL-JUNE/ 1991                   AlilllANJIHAI1                    VOL. 4 NO.3
           Tne fairly low number of mines fatalities and injuries reported from surveyed areas supports the theory that mine■laying has been largely restricted to military targets including roads and military posts. No mines clearance programs were reported as operating in the surveyed area.
      HELMAND: has an area of over 62,336 square kilometers with estimated population Of 541,554 and refugee population of 263,341. Survey was conducted in seven villages of Bost district, 28 villages of Ragh district, 21 villages of Garmser district and 22 villages of Nawa-e-Barakzai, district. The total population of the surveyed areas in. Helmand was relatively high. Bost district* reports a relatively high level of fighting while Ragh and Nawa-e-Barakzai .are subject to sporadic hostilities.
           Soviet/regime mining appears to be widespread and of relatively sophisticated nature. Respondents have indicated work in fields as the most affected occupation and planting season as the most hazardous time. No action is taken to mark the site. Combatent forces also took little or no action to mark minefields.                            '
           Ragh district has experienced high incidence of mines casualties in the past two years. casualties in, other surveyed areas were comparatively low.
    ' Keeping in view sophisticated nature of mines laid in the area, highly trained and experienced teams will be required for clearance operation.
      KANDAHAR:  has an area of over 49,371 square kilometers with estimated
      population of 737,761 and refugee population of 329,634. Twenty four villages in Spin Boldak district, 21 villages in Arg^isan, 18 villages in Shah Wall Kot and 16 villages in Maroof districts were surveyed. All surveyed areas have experienced no hostilities for more than six months. There is large variety of devices employed. Farming communities ,are suffering from widespread, mines on
      large tracts of arable and grazing lands. Hillsides as well as canals and karezes are affected or are unusable due. to mining. As a first reaction the peo‘ple have marked mines areas with stones.
           Mortality and       injury data  presents a frightening    scenario especially
      because Kandahar is     seen by some agencies as an early target for repatriation.
      The population has suffered a loss of nearly two per cent in two years as a result of mines. An additional three per cent have suffered injuries. The loss of livestock and draught animals as well as of tractors and trucks has also been on huge scale. Operation SAtAM-sponsored mine clearance was being carried out. There was need for high level professionalism among clearance teams.s
      KAPlSA: has an area of 5,403 square kilometers with an estimated population of 433,161 while there are 10,003 refugees. Six villages were surveyed in Nejrab district* 32 villages, in Panjshir (Rokhah), 15 in Panjshir (Char Qarya) and four in Panjshir (Dara-e-Hazarah) district. All of the surveyed areas report no hostilities in the past three months and to a large extent appear to have been peaceful for over             six months. Mines are reported in  high concentration
      throughout the surveyed areas. Respondents credit all mine laying to the Soviets and regime with the exception gf Nejrab district where 33% of the surveyed areas werh affected. Ail districts claimed that       over 90%     of  the surveyed areas
                                               89
    april-june. 1991                            AlliHANiHIIAII                                vol.   4  no.3
'suffered from direct affects of mines.
       All respondents prefer to mark discovered mines hiostly with stones. Some marking has been carried out by Soviet/regime forces. Casualties appear moderate when related to scale of mines dissemination. One explanation given was that the people of the area have intimate knowledge of the countryside which makes them more likely to identify an object foreign to the land scape. A considerable number of oxen and other grazing animals have been lost to mines. Concentration of mines will take a continuing toll of people and livestock which may be expected to increase as marking efforts decrease in effectiveness with the passage of time.
  LOGARs has an area of 4,408 square kilometers with estimated population of 264,973. There are 215,737 refugees in the.province. Survey was conducted in 20 villages of Bafaki district, seven villages of KhoShi, six of Charkh, nine of Mohammad Agha and nine villages of Azro districts. Many sectors of the province are subject to continued protracted mujaheddin/regime ground combat and regular bombing by the regime air force.
       Dissemination of mines in the surveyed areas is widespread and indicates a broad range devices having been employed. However deployment level of plastic and metal-cased mines is high. Mining of hillsides is extremely high. Surveyed areas report extremely high fatality rateb especially in Barak.i, Khoshi and Mohammad Agha districts. Losses of animals are reported as extremely high. There is a serious mines problem in the province.                             *
  NANGARHAR: has an area of 7,607 square kilometers and its population is estimated at 1,002,883. There are 519,957 refugees in the province. Survey, was carried out in one village of Shinwar district, 10 Villages of Dorbaba, 12, of Rodat, 14 of Mohmand Dara, eight of Lalpur, 24 of Nazian and 11 villages of Goshta districts. All of the surveyed areas reported: regular hostilities. Hillsides in all the surveyed locations are said to be heavily mined and travel by foot is the most dangerous occupation..There seems to.have been a high level of Responsibility displayed by.Soviet/regime forces in the marking of minefields which is absent from other provinces.
       Reported casualties are .extremely high. Nangarhar among the surveyed provinces reports a high attrition rate among women. There is proportionately . high attrition rate among animals as well. No mine'V clearance activity is reported from the province.
  PAKTIA: has an -area of 9,779 square kilometers. No reliable^ data about population is available-.' The number of refugees is estimated 52'9,807. Survey was carried out in 20 villages in Taryzai district, 18 villages each in Moosa Khail .and Ja ji districts and 21 villages in Hasan Khel district. The surveyed areas have mixed security situation ranging from remaining peaceful for six months,to regular combat. Sovibt/regime forces as well as mujaheddin have deployed mines. Mining of hillsides is widespread. Casualty reports from Paktia as a whole and = Jaji in particular show extremely high attrition rates. All the areas have been subject to major offensives of considerable intensity during the past 10 years.
       Paktia, although" the first province in which mine clearance programs were
90
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991             ftllilUil                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 condacted, is one of the worst affected provinces in Afghanistan. It should get high priority in long term planning.
 PARWAN: has an area of 5,960 square kilometers and a population of 530,679, the number of refugees being 41,930. Twenty one villages in Salang district were surveyed. Eighty six per cent of the survey' villages are subject to regular or occasional combat activity. As would be expected from a district that has been a key military and logistic area throughout the war, the range of mines deployed by both sides is considerable. Dissemination of hillsides is reported as widespread. Overall casualties are extremely low in the surveyed area because the figures relate only to surveyed population and not to those who transit through the area. Combatants have also not been included.
 UROZGAN:has an airea of 28,929 square kilometers and population is estimated at 501,796. About 40,863 took refuge in Iran. Survey was carried out in 20 villages of Tirin Kot and 15 villages in Chorah district. Tirin Kot, the last part of Urozganto be held by the regime fell to the mujaheddin while this survey was in progress. Chorah district has been largely peaceful for more than six months.
      No mines are said to be .present in surveyed area of Chorah district. From Tirin kot there are rew reports of mine laying by Soviet/regime as well a;s mujaheddin. There has been low level of hostilities in the province. Hence low level of casualties.
                                      SUPPLEMENTARY SURVEYS
      In support of the main survey, investigations were also conducted about medical agencies, surveyors of mines incidents, nomadic groups and mines trade to assess the wider and less obvious impact of mines on' ■ the community. These supplementary surveys are indicators of the overall situation.
      It is virtually impossible to assess the true mortality and injury figures related to    mine explosions because victims who die as a result         of mine
 explosions are normally buried within a short time following the incident. No .record i^ available outside the victim's, immediate’ family. Only those casualties who are actually evacuated to medical care in Pakistan are likely to appear in official Statistics. Some indication of the di.rect impact mines can be gauged from the information made available by those agencies-which keep relevant record. The   ICRC Hospital in Peshawar  and some other surgical facilities in
 Afghanistan and Pakistan report an extremely high number of amputations related to mine blasts.                                                                 >
      Despite the  advances in medical   techniques, there are some key   factors
 which dictate the likelihood of a mine-blast victim surviving. Casualties - where-established procedures for evacuation exist- have a higher chance of survival. Having been moved from the incident site, victims may die due to either failure to administer first aid or conversely inappropriate attempts being made to give medical treatment, of more concern, however, are unknown number of Afghans who fall victim   to mines in remote areas   where there are no rescuers      or even
 witnesses nearby* It is often days or weeks before their fate becomes known.
                                                 §i ■
  Al'RIL-JUNE, 1991                 AllillAH JIHAD                   VOL. 4 NO.3
       Afghanistan has a large nomadic Kochi population estimated by some sources to represent nearly 6% of the total population. They were treated with suspicion by both Soviet/regime forces and mujaheddin. Major impact of the war on their way of life has been caused by dissemination of mines on their traditional grazing lands and migration routes. A large number of nomadic groups have abandoned their traditional way of life completely. Now they live as refugees or rely on' scarce laboring jobs for their survival. Some Kochis have adopted a .hazardous living by unearthing mines to sell in the bazaars of the Pakistan Tribal Areas.
       The arms trade has been a thriving sub-economy of the border tribal areas.
 It has taken on a much greater significance in the past lo years. Now traders \ • • deal in high technology weaponry - ground to air missiles, anti-tank rockets and
 mines. Some traders claim to be in a position to meet large orders for anti-tank
 and anti-personnel mines in a short time and arrange shipment to Karachi. They
 encourage Afghans to collect mines. Most devices are eventually resold to
 mujaheddin for use against regime forces. The (effects of tracing in landmines
 are at present largely restricted to Afghanistan and border tribal zone.
       The first organized attempts to remove mines on a large scale were probably undertaken by the mujaheddin in northern Afghanistan in 1986-87. The major limitations to these efforts were lack of adequate skills and equipment. A Soviet spokesman claimed in August 1988 that Soviet troops had cleared over L, 500 mines of a total of 2,131 laid during Soviet occupation. This claim has never been supported by technical information. Later a number of international agencies undertook the task of mine clearance.
       The most notable progress during 1990 has been made by Mines Clearance Planning Agency. Afghan Technical Consultants have greatly increased in size. However it should review its training and safety standards.
       The total cost to date of the UN sponsored mine eradication program is $ 11,160,000 spent to clear 12.48 square kilometers. Nearly half the total budget was spent on two week demining course attended by 12,500 Afghans since early 1989. Realistic training did not begin until December 1989. UNOCA's plan of action for 1991 was still in draft in February, 1991. However, its plans for the ^ mine clearance sector are finalized. The target area clearance is 45 square kilometers.
                                        LIVING WITH MINES
       This report.„,is. about rural communities who must live in the aftermath of modern war. Ifc. other words it is to introduce the reader to some of the real people behind the data.
       The two villages Dwa Tool and Eidgah are situated in Ja ji Ali Khel district in Paktia province. The people of the area are farmers and herders. But they are not mere farmers. They are fiercely independent so they reacted forcefully to the Soviet invasion * Jaji soon became a key mujaheddin center. In August 1984 a joint regime/Soviet task force of 12,000 men1 made assault on Jaji
                                              92
,*PR IL-JUNE9 1991                               AFGIHINJIllllll                                   VOL.   4   NO. 3
 causing huge damage to the area. Before withdrawing, the Soviets- spread thousands of anti-personnel•mines over the fields and hills of Jaji.
      Throughout 1985-86 Jaji' was shelled and bombed regularly destroying village after village although most of thte population had been forced to leave for refugee camps in Pakistan. In May 1987 a second Soviet/regime force moved into Jaji. In the fighting which followed both sides suffered heavy casualties and the remaining villages turned to rubble. The invading force finally withdrew leaving, as before, many thousands of mines.
      In  Minzkalai we met with the remaining population of  Dwa Tool village. Two
 of the   farmers explained that they were unable to    live  in their own village
 because  not a single house had escaped destruction.   They  could not plant crops
 because  the land was covered with mines. The people   said  they would stay until
 they could move back with their families to the village.
                     '•                     I                                «
      Eidgah is situated in what before the war must have been a beautiful high valley. Now it is a scene of mindless destruction. Out of a prewar population of over 400  only four families remain    in the ruins of    Eidgah. The  rest are in
 refugee camps. There are thousands of mines in the area. Firewood could not be gathered  as hillsides are heavily     mined. Many houses are    also mined and
 booby-trapped. Why do they stay in such, a dangerous place? Most of the groups simply say it is our.home, one- of them said "If we leave now, what have we won? why did we fight?”
      Dwa Tool and Eidgah are just     two among many    villages in  Afghanistan.
 Their plight is not an unusual one, it is a story repeated throughout the area and many such districts throughout Afghanistan.
                                               CONCLUSION
      The survey confirms the land-mine issue in Afghanistan as a crisis rather than a mere problem. In some surveyed areas the scale of casualties alone would indicate  a situation of emergency     proportion. The casualties      are among a
 resident population with some level of awareness of the mines threat.Hundreds of thousand of people from different provinces of Afghanistan have taken refugee in Pakistan. On return, many of them may become victim of mine blasts. The areas which have been subject to high level of military activity will have been the target for greater concentration of landmines. So the land mine issue cannot be separated from that of repatriation. Repatriation must be preceded by expert pre-survey to evaluate mines threat.
      The present mine awareness initiative should continue but its value should not be over emphasized. Most of the communities have a reasonable knowledge of the mines, in their locality, but the daily demands of rural life- planting, grazing, repairing canals, collecting firewood, simply walking- expose even the most aware Afghans to great risk.
      ■ I \ ■
      Many ■ reports and papers have compared the landsmine situation in Afghanistari to that existing in post-war Europe in 1919 and 1945. They are,
                                         93
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                AlllllAN J1IIAI1                   VOL.  4 NO. 3
 misleading in that they take no account of the diversity of mine types disseminated during the Afghan conflict. Mines have been used in Afghanistan not always to achieve a defined military objective but often as a weapon having greater impact on civilians than combatants.
      Because of this situation normal instruction for search operation becomes irrelevant as mines may be located anywhere .irrespective of any normally accepted strategic logic. Ini many cases devices have been’ designed to outwit the. technology available to fully equipped and trained super units.
      All countries which sold or donated landmines for use in Afghanistan should accept their moral responsibility and fully assist in their removel. The Soviet Union in particular must make available all details of devices deployed directly by their forces      and through DRA. The    nations involved in supplying arms to
 mujaheddin should also take similar steps.
      All Afghan parties to the continuing conflict should call on immediate cessation to the use of landmines of any kind by their respective forces.
     t.            *                 .        .
      Afghanistan is an agricultural nation*and, despite its poverty, the country prior to     the     present conflict was          selfsufficient in food. Postwar
 Afghanistan's economy will suffer as a direct result of landmines disseminated over arable and grazing land.
      Mines laid    on arable and grazing    land can be easily cleared. The major
 impediment is the sheer scale of dissemination and the wide ar^a which requires clearance. The spread of devices over hillsides and mountains is vast. There is need to establish a long-term strategy to address the specific technical issues of identifying mine concentrations in such areas apd eradicating them within a realistic time-frame. Work, on this should begin urgently.
      No program should be undertaken which encourages refugees to return to live in areas where fields and hillsides are uncleared of mines.
      There  are    many thousand Afghans      who have been maimed by mines. Many
 disabled Afghans will be returning to their homeland ill-equipped to feed themselves and their dependents. Present initiatives fall gravely short of addressing the problem.
      A commitment by the USSR and the USA alone to pledge even a tenth of what was spent on supplying military hardware to Afghanistan between 1980 and 1990 would make it possible for UN to realistically launch a program of survey and clear all the major concentration of mines over a 10-year period.
      The quality of verification and recording of completed clearance operations at present range from poor to non-existant. It is prime, requisite of any large scale mine clearance operation that standards are set and adhered, to and record keeping is faultless and based only on facts checked on the ground. Monitoring of mine clearance teams is essential and should provide a flow of information which will be the basis for setting safety, equipment and training standards as program increases in size.
                                            94
APIUL-JUNE, 1991           MI1NJIIIIIU                  VOL-  4 NO-3
      Demining teams have been put at serious risk and operations delayed for long periods due to bombing raids carried out by the Kabul regime airforce, although UNOCA informs the regime of such humanitarian operations being performed under their mandate; The raids are deliberate. Demining teams must be afforded the fullest protection. Any reoccurance of regime attacks should be condemned by the United Nations.
      Beside training in Pakistan community, teams should be trained to perform specific tasks in their own areas under supervision. It is suggested that MCPA and demining agencies cooperate to form several specialist teams to begin search and clearance of hillsides and mountains.
      Unexploded bombs, rockets, shells and other ordnance are not technically classified as mines and are a less immediate risk to the community at large, but they must be destroyed at some time. Training for eradicating these items should begin without delay.
      Far more ground would require surveying than will require clearance. It is suggested that MCPA teams should have annual survey target three times greater than that for clearance. This will improve advance planning of clearance operations.
      The recruitment for expatriate specialists will continue for a considerable time and this should be budgeted for. However, a higher priority should be given to technical training of Afghans.
                                            95
APRIL-JUNE. 1991
muni
vol. 4 no.3
   LATEST FACTS, FIGURES ABOUT AFGHAN PROVINCES
Helmand;Nimroz; Parwan
Saman&an • IJm 7, (ran* Tahhar

cold during the winter. Violent sand storms whip the areas extending to the border of Baluchistan, Pakistan, from June to September. The UN and various NGOs have mounted assessment missions from Pakistan to the Southern parts of this province and along the Helmand River. A continuous UN presence has not yet been established.
     Like other provinces of Afghanistan, Helmand depends heavily on agriculture. The land is irrigated by canals and underground karez, many of which were constructed in the late 1950s. As a result of the exodus of population, however, the agricultural lands and infrastructure have been seriously neglected. Lack of wheat seed and irrigation facilities have resulted in increased poppy cultivation along the Helmand River. Negotiations for the elimination of poppy cultivation in exchange for economics assistance have taken place.
Area (sq. km):
Official Population (1979 Census): Estimated 1990 Population:
  61,816 517,545 541,550
 278.340
 263.340
of which:  At  Home Population
Refugees
Provincial Capital: Districts (Woluswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
Lashkargah
13
                     A large part of Helmand lies in Raigistan, an area of shifting, treacherous sand dunes, with atn exceedingly harsh climate- hot and dry in summer and bitter
 96
I
                                            \
            APRIL-JUNE. 1991                PlfillflH Ml_______________________VOL. NO.3
                In its 1989^-90 program, FAO distributed 235 MT of improved wheat seed as well as 207 MT DAP and 337 MT urea fertilizers to the districts of Darweshan, Baghran, Nauzad, Nadi Ali and Dehadam. By late September 1990 FAO had received proposals to distribute a total of 190 MT improved wheat seed and 190 MT DAP fertilizer in Helmand through its 1990-91 program. Since almost half of the total population has sought pefuge in neighbouring Baluchistan, Helmand is a priority area for UN assistai^^e. UNHCR will also be sending wheat seed to Helmand in the coming year. Food shortages in Baghran district were reported earlier in 1990. Operation SALAM has ' three ongoing projects in livestock, transport and infrastructure rehabilitation. Projects involving seed and fertilizer project are currently under review.
                The literacy rate in Helmand is very low. According to mission reports, almost all schools have been destroyed or heavily damaged. Drinking water facilities are limited;* local residents typically depend upon river water to meet their needs. Improved local water supplies are an urgent necessity. '
                WHO supports an OHI workshop in Baghran district that provides rehabilitation services to the disabled. There is a 70-bed hospital in Lashkargah, which is under (Kabul) government control. Four dispensaries are operating in other districts. A number of clinics manned by Afghan-trained paramedical staff are run by local authorities. Only a few health workers are active in this area. Through Operation SALAM, medicine, vaccines and other medical supplies are obtained from Pakistan and an EPI program continues. There is an urgent need for female expatriate medical personnel to attend to the female population.
                                            \
                FFW projects, supported by WFP, are continuing; these involve the rehabilitation of 150 karez. When completed, these systems will irrigate 4,000 hectares. To increase the irrigation available in the province, the irrigation dams of Kajaki and Boghra need urgent repairs. For logistical purposes, the roads leading to the border crossing point at Chaman are intact.
           UN Agencies:
           FAO, UNDP, UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, WHO Implementing NGOS:
           AMI, ASA, Avicen, DCA, FMD, GAF, I AH, ICA, IMG, MCI, MSH, RAFA, SCA, SNI, VITA, UNO
                                                        97
 APRIL-JUNE* 1991
MM
VOL; 4 NO.3
     ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF
         HELMAND PROVINCE     -
     International boundary Province boundary
     Jtfoluswali and Alaqadari boundary ——-—;
     Paved road Province Center Woluswali Center Alaqadari Center
     Helmand
                                                                                            10
                                                                                            X
 20
 X
 50
URUZGAN
NIMROZ
KANDAHAR
Nimroz
               Area (sq. km):
               Official Population (1979 Census):
               Estimated 1990 Population:
                    of which:, At Home Population Refugees Provincial Capital:
               Districts (Woluswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
               Located in southwestern Afghanistan, Nimroz province has remained largely cut-off from Operation SALAM assistance activities. With more than 50% of its original pqpulation estimated to be living in neighbouring Iran and Pakistan as refugees, Nimroz is among the provinces considered a target area of first priority area for UN assistance. An SMU is to be fielded shortly from bordering Iran to increase the level of assistance available to the area.
               The Seistan Basin and Helmand Valley, with their lakes and marshes,
          comprise the most fertile lands in this province. Rocky, barren deserts
          characterize most other parts of Nimroz. these areas are chiefly inhabited by
          nomads, largely of Baluch origin.
               The border points between Iran and Nimroz province may prove to be
          important for the repatriation of refugees from Iran. A UNHCR/IFAD project, supported by UNOCA, is to provide skills training to Afghan refugees in neighbouring Khorasan in order to facilitate the eventual repatriation and resettlement process. Operation SALAM has identified Khosh Rod,Char Borjak and Asie -Chakhansur districts as likely sites for refugee return. According to recent reports, a sizable number of internally displaced families have already returned to their homes.                       '
               Agriculture and animal husbandry are the main activities of the area. Apart from wheat, barley and maize crops, orchards provide families with a variety of agricultural products. Nomads largely rely upon livestock for subsistence.
               Projects have been        formulated involving the provision of seeds,
          fertilizers, tractors and water-pumps, on a priority basis, to districts. UNHCR-supported projects to increase crop production have already been implemented on a small scale. WFP has supported the rehabilitation of agricultural lands through local FFW projects.
               In Nimroz, the Khosh)Rod and Helmand river are the main sources of irrigation. Karez and wells also operate in some areas. Irrigation-systems need extensive repair; a UNHCR supported rehabilitation program has been intiated. A project proposal for the repair of Khosh Rod bridge has also been prepared.
               The Afghan data-coliectors fielded by UNIDATA from Quetta have carried out useful surveys of most of the province and have provided valuable information for planning projects in the context of Operation SALAM.
               To expand the scope of health services for the rural population, WHO is planning the rehabilitation of the district hospital in Char Borjak.
          UN Agencies: nunnf nwnPR. WFP, WHO Implementing NGOs:    ICA, MCI, MSH, SCA, SNI
  1,356 103,634 139,850 50,810 89,040 Zaranj
                                                                                                        5
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF NIMROZ PROVINCE
 International boundary
 Province boundary                       . —.
 Woluswali and Alaqadari boundary —----------
 Paved road '                     —-—-
 Province Center                        V
 Woluswali Center
 Alaqadari Center                       ^
FARAH

V
                                                                Lash Jaween 0 J
                                                                          As
                                                                             v
                                                                         \ N\
/
/
 I
 \
     I _ ]•      
Kang \Q          
•        Y       
ZARANJ^B •7      
         (_      
       /         
   *     - --- ' 
/                
Asle Chakhansur
                                                                                                     • Khosh Rod j
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                   I
 \
\
 \___
/
/
/
/
/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          «
             "7 I I
                                                                                         Char Burjak /
             I
             I
             \
                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                      \
/
\/
/

 HELMAND
 .—i-’
10 20
50
_1_
100km
100
 APRIL-JUNE* 1991
VOL. 4 N0.3
Parwan
Area(sq.km):                                                       5,887
Official Population (1979 census):                                409,510
Estimated 1990 Population:                                        530,680
      of which:- At Home Population                               488,750
                   Refugees                                        41,930
Provincial Capital:                                               Charikar
Districts (Woluswalis) and
Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):                         /                  g
      Given its proximity to Kabul, Parwan was largely inaccessible throughout the war ahd consequently suffered severe food shortages at various times during the past decade. Although the overall situation has not improved during the past year, assistance efforts have not been encouraged by local authorities. During, a, recent visit by a UN mission, team members were detained bjf a,local commander and were released only after the strong intervention by the representatives of the local Shoora of Bamian
      Agriculture is practised on a small scale, with 60% of farmers cultivating plots of less than five jeribs. The main.. crops are wheat, maize, cotton and rice. UNDP is considering project proposals involving pest and disease control. Projects involving the rehabilitation of the Jabul Saraj irrigation scheme as well as the rehabilitation of the draught animal power, in five provinces, including Parwan, are also under review.
      The road from Kabul ’ to the Salang Pass, which crosses the province, is the main supply route for the capital. The area which has suffered from frequent conflict during the decade, has experienced significant destruction.
                                                                               »
      Population movements haVe taken place along ethnic lines: Tajiks have remained in the valleys of Parwan or migrated to Kabul, while iPashtuns have tended, to move to Pakistan. Although limited information is available regarding the internally displaced population, it appears that a significant number of residents of Parwan migrated to Kabul, to obtain basic assistance during the war.
      Food shortages have caused malnutrition and infectious disease throughout Parwan. UNICEF supports an EPI program, while several NGOs run medical programs in Ghorband and Sheikh All. Basic health posts and centers are supported in all nine districts. WHO has recently approved the construction of clinics in Paryan^ chan^ram and Safid chehr.
      Schools are supported by NGOs in Charikar, Ghorband, Salang and Surkh-e-Parsa districts.
 UN Agencies:   UNDP, UNICEF, WHO
 Implementing NGOs:
 IMC, LEPCO, MSF (Belgium/Holland), MSH, 8CA, SGA
                                                  101
APRIL-JUNE, 1991                     HI                VOL. 4 NO.3
 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF PARWAN PROVINCE
 1
0 , 10   20             50                       100km
1 ___L____I_____________J_____-______-___________  I
102
APKIL-JUNI"» 1991
 voi.'. A no,3
 Area (sq. Km):
 Official Population (1979 census): Estimated 1990 Population:
       of which:    At Home Population
                    Refugees Provincial Capital:
 Districts (Woluswalis) and Sub-rdistricts (Alaqadaris):
 As a potential entry point
                                                 16,220
      272,584
      312,520
      292,960
      19,560
      Samangan
for supplies from the
                                          USSR, the northern
 province of Samangan is a potentially critical point for logistics and transport. The province suffered considerable damage during the war. Due to its insecurity, isolation and long, harsh wihter, Samangan has been largely excluded from international relief operations. In July 1990, a UNOCA/WFP mission, the first of its kind, visited the area from Mazar-e-Sharif. The mission reported that the district of Khulm is completely devastated and that other districts have been gravely affected by drought. The mission was refused access to the district of Dara-e-Souf.
      Rain-fed and irrigated wheat, barley, maize and flax are the main crops of the. province. Yields are low due to the lack of selected seed, fertilizer and farm machinery. According to reports, widespread disease has greatly reduced the number of local livestock.
      Malnutrition, especially among children, is also widespread. To counter the shortage of wheat. Operation SALAM has distributed food stocks through four commercial bazars which were initially allocated 50 MT of wheat. An additional delivery of 200 MT of wheat is expected. Fifty MT of wheat and 5 MT of sugar weresimilarly allocated to Khulm district.
      In Dara-e-Zenda, one of the areas most affected by drought, the mission also allocated 150 MT of wheat to three bazars. . Two hundred vulnerable individuals were identified and subsequently engaged in FFW projects that led to the repair of 5 km of local road and 12 culverts. Seventy-six MT of wheat and 5 MT sugar were provided to needy areas through this scheme.In the city of Samangan, from which many inhabitants fled during the war, UNOCA/WFP also distributed 150 MT wheat to the population through local bazars.
      Repair work on the main road through Samangan co Mazar-e-Sharif and Kunduz has been carried out by the government, while repairs on other roads are planned through UN-supported FFW projects.
      During the July (1990) mission to the province, a basic* medical kit was provided to a clinic in Dara-e-Zenda, where there had been a recent outbreak of typhoid. An additionail kit was provided to a small, poorly-equipped clinic in Dara-e-Souf through Operation SALAM. Several NGOs currently provide technical support to local health workers in all the districts of Samangan, with the exception of northern most Kaldar, to which access is difficult. NGOs also support basic health posts and health centers in five districts as well as > dental center in the city of Samangan.
      .Several NGO-supported primary sch'ools are operating in Dara-e-Souf, Roye Doab and. the city of Samangan. Secondary level schools are also operating in Khulm.     •'
          yN Agencies^_ WFP IlDEieSHIQting NGOs^ ami, Avicen FMD, GAC, IMC, MSH, NCA, SCA
                                                       103
 APR! I-JUNE, 1991       Mill JIMP           VOL. 4 NO.3
 ADMiNISTRATlVE BOUNDARY MAP OF SAMANGAN PROVINCE
 International boundary    , . ,
 Province boundary       .
 Woluswali and Alaqadari boundary .______
 Paved road              .
 Province Center
 Woluswali Center                    ®
 Alaqadari Center                    0
 Samangan'zl
                      r
 P.O. Box 1328, Kabul, Afghanistan Cfiahrahi Sarfdarat Tel. 25886
X /
                             Y
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                    JMGIIANJEHAD                         VOL.  4  NO.3
Area (sq. km)s                                                    29,289
•Official Population (1979 Census):                              444,168
Estimated 1990 Population:                                       501,780
      Area (sq. km):                                                   29,289
      •Official Population (1979 Census):                             444,168
      Estimated 1990 Population:                                      501,780
            of which:   At Home Population                            460,920
                        Refugees                                       40,860
      Provincial Capital                                           Tirin  Kot
      Districts (Woluswalis) and
      Sub-Districts (Alaqadaris):                                           9
      Uruzgan, in the rugged mountains of the Hazarajat, remains one of the most deprived as well as neglected provinces of Afghanistan. The population, mainly Shia Hazaras, survives in an extreme climate.* Although no significant population movement occurred in the province during the war, the local economy is in urgent need of external assistance, especially emergency relief for the coming winter. Plans are in hand for a UN mission to the province to assess local needs and to provide necessary assistance to the local population.
      Given the isolation of the region, agriculture has declined during the
 course of the war'. Livestock is a valuable resource for the farmers, but the, number of local livestock is reported to have declined significantly. By late September 1990, FAO had approved projects involving the provision of 20 MT of wheat seed and 15 MT of fertilizer for seed trial and multiplication in the province.
      Linked with the neighbouring provinces of Ghazni, zabul and Kandahar through mountainous passes and mud roads, access to Uruzgan is easiest from Pakistan. Access from the northern or western provinces of Afghanistan is more difficult; access from Iran, through Herat and Ghor provinces, will be improved following the upgrading of the central road from Herat to Bartiian province via Chaghcharan and Lal-wa-Sarjangal. The possibility of providing assistance from the Iranian side by passing through neighbouring Nimroz or Farah and Ghor is also being explored. If security conditions permit, it is hoped that UN mission can be fielded to Uruzgan from Iran.
      Food shortages being endemic in the area, vulnerable groups have been assisted through the provision by WFP of 50 MT wheat- the first delivery of UN food assistance to the province. Several NGOs have established health facilities in the province.
 UN Agencies:
 FAO, WFP
 Implementing NGOs:
 AMI, Avicen, IAH, MCI, MSH, SCA, SNI, UNO
   ,
I
  '!
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF URUZGAN PROVINCE
 International boundary                '*r *
 Province boundary                   —  — ——
 Woloswali and Alaqadari boundary v —-------— —
 Paved road
 Province Center                         g
 Woloswali Center .                       M    ■■ ■'
 Alaqadari Center
.'gumm
Vs_______✓ '
\
/
Shahristan
         J
                                            / Gezab 0
    1       tr'~/         \          /
            I • Kajran \           S          I
            ) __ k r i
 helmand '        "\        \   r
         / x-r'V /
        /                     7 L                      / .
         \                      /^achorahN“,as oraegan^
        / Deh Raod VlRIN KOT\
        U •           j a         I       /
                                L
         I r>                       >f
               I/
        | ."-s; J    KANDAHAR
       )
                                          0 10 20
                                          I___I__L-
    /!” /  Ajrestan y
'' K e y               /
             /
     \ /
/\^t— —j        GHAZNI
                                                       )
       /
       I
y\)
\
\
 i
 ZABUL
 50
100 km
______I
106
APR IL-JUNE. 1991              flfdN IDO                     VOL. 4 N0.3
Takhar
      Area (sq.km):              '
      Official Population (1979 Census):
      Estimated 1990 Population:
           of which: At Home Population
                     Refugees Provincial Capital:
      Districts (Woluswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
     The north-eastern province of Takhar,, which shares a common border with the USSR, has been extremely isolated due to the lack of security and the poor conditions of roads throughout the province. These factors have made the delivery of supplies and assistance difficult. Operation SALAM has, however, begun to provide food assistance to the region by means of two points on the Soviet, border in neighbouring Badakhshan.
     In August 1990, UNOCA launched an extended mission to assess and plan the logistics fpr more extensive, future efforts. The UN presence in the area is expected 'to be of a durable nature. It will help plan projects in all sectors of assistance with the collaboration of local authorities. To facilitate future UN assistance, a socio-economic survey of the province is also being administered by UNIDATA.
     Through Operation SALAM, negotiation's with local authorities have led to the opening of critical roads. FFW projects have also been initiated and are expected to improve communications, to rehabilitate local irrigation and to repair transportation infrastructure. The UN field offices in Mazar-e-Sharif and Faizabad provide support for these efforts.
     working through the local shoora, UNOCA/WFP will support a local FFW project involving the rehabilitation of the Shahrawan canal in Taloqan and Farkhar districts which will provide irrigation for an estimated 15,000 hectares of land,’ This project will provide approximately 200 MT of wheat, 11.5 MT of sugar and 8.5 MT of edible oil to local participants.
         r                                                ,
     The irrigated area in the Taloqan Basin presently extends to about 10,000 hectares to the north and 6,800 hectares to the south of the river. The cultivation of wheat and rice has largely replaced local cotton production, which previously provided export income to the province. -Summer crops include maize, sorghum and millet; melons and other fruit are also important cash crops.
     Tractors as well as draught power are commonly used for cultivation, though weeding is usually done manually. FAO provided 42 MT of improved wheat seed and 20 MT DAP fertilizer to local farmers; otherwise,, improved seed varieties are not available locally. Pesticide is also required in the province.
     In the context of Operation SALAM, extensive discussions have been held
                                   107
                                                                                           12,373
                                                                                          519,752
                                                                                          557,530
                                                                                          539,290
                                                                                           18,240
                                                                                          Taloqan
                                                                                               12
 APRIL-JUNE* 1991                     flWJUl                      VOL.   4 NO. 3
 with the shoora-e-Nezar (Supervisory Council) to initiate a variety pf projects in the areas administered by it. These have ranged from agricultural support to health, education as well as mine clearance. The results of these negotiations have beeh encouraging and it is expected that in the months to come, it will be possibble for the UN to initiate a number of activities, including important FFW projects.                  '
      UNDP,is considering project proposals to support fruit tree nurseries and the rehabilitation of irrigation-systems in Eshkamesh and Taloqan, IFAD is preparing a broad agricultural sector investment program that focuses on irrigation. The rehabilitation of education throughout the northern provinces is vitally important. In Takhar, where schools have largely ceased to exist, primary schools in five districts are being supported.            ti
      Health surveys indicate that the 40-bed hospital in Taloqan and the district hospitals of Chah Ab and Farkhar are the only facilities available in the province. Various NGOs provide technical support to local health workers and centers in most districts. WHO is funding, the construction of 17 clinics in Northern Afghanistan, of which four are in Takhar. These are located in Rustaq, Eshkamesh, Bangi and Chal districts. UNICEF is supporting an EPI program implemented by NGOs in the area.
 UN Agencies:
 FAO, UNDP, UNICEF# WFP, WHO.
 Implementing NGOs:
 Afghanaid, AMI, Avicen, FMD, GAF, IMC, MSH, SAG, SCA, UNO, VITA
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
Administrative boundary map of takhar province
VOL. 4 NO.3
'A
%

 International boundary
 Province boundary
 Woluswali and Alaqadari boundary
 Paved, road
 Province Center
 Woluswali Center
 Alaqadari Center

   S 77         >•
   f £ Yangx Qala j
Darqad % /  [ f chah Ab
   * /      I
   V r^. r

 )
/
    • j \  /
                                                                                               ^ Rustaq
-I
/
V
KUNDUZ
\
Khwaja Ghar^- -\
                                         Ay \y
   i TALOQAN f         V
   An     _              I Kalafghan
                 \   • i
   ,.........a i
  ( Bang! \ \      -"’M'
  1        \   s   ~
 ■s
 )
/
N

           Chal\ Farkhar I ^Eshkamesh/    1             j
 (
)
s
 /
 :BAGHLAN
\
J
  ^ Warsaj •
  \
.A

Y
 \
 0 10 20
 1 _L---L_
50
_L_
100km __J
 V
 I
 A-
 BADAKHSHAN
(
■<
/

/
KAPISA
109
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
    INSTITUTIONS WORKING FOR AFGHANISTAN:
     fm; gac; gaf; hi; hci: isra,
      scf-uk; sos/pg Belgium nrc and nca; scf-us;
   EDITOR'S NOTE: Hundreds of institutions are busy in Peshawar in various kind of help to Afghans. The ARIC in a publication has produced the profiles of many of these institutions• The following are the Fourth instalment profiles of these institutions•
 FREEDOM MEDICINE (FM) is a health-care training organization established in 1985. The agency originally, focused solely on the Afghan situation?, in subsequent years it has expanded and has conducted •similar training projects in seyeral other parts of the world.
      The paramedic training program operated by Freedom Medicine* is currently under revision. In August 1989, the tenth and final .paramedic class graduated, bringing the total number of FM graduates to 181.
      In January 1990, Freedom Medicine will begin a three-month, advanced training program’for paramedics'who seek to upgrade their skills. In addition, a new Maternal and Child Health Education initiative targeted at refugee women is underway at the Chitral clinic.
      Finally, Freedom Me^^c^ne has been working with the Ministry of Health for the Afghan interim Government to develop a mechanism by which the Ministry can assume control of Freedom Medicine facilities and programs in Pakistan and in Afghanistan.
 Funding:  USAID and  private donors.
                                           110
 \
Al’Kir-JUNL, 1991
vol.  A no.3
           GAC
      since 1994, the GERMAN AFGHANISTAN COMMITTEE (GAC), as an implementor, has provided quality medichl facilities, personnel and medical training in selected areas of Afghanistan and to non-registered,refugees in Pakistan,
        .                   . .. • ?*■." .   ' ■     ••        ... \ v .
      In Pakistan the Committee operates:    a hospital  at  Sadda (kurram Agency)
 with O.T. and lab, staffed by three Afghan physicians and six Afghan nurses; a hospital at Miran Shah- O.T, only, staffed by an Afghan female gynecologist, an Afghan male specialist in internal medicine and six Afghan nurses,
      in Peshawar, GAC operates a program of.plastic surgery for Afghans in which 15 German teams of plastic surgeons work in selected hospitals (a joint-venture with HELP- Germany and INTERPLAST- Germany), Under its auspices . the German' Afghanistan Committee has supplied Afghan health-workers and medical-training facilities with 15,000 copies of "Medical Hand Book".
      In Afghanistan the Committee operates a surgical training hospital in Wardak (constructed in 1989), with O.T. and X-ray lab. A German-Swiss team make up the staff of the 35-bed facility, which also houses a nurses' training school. Furthermore, there are 12 OPD's in nine provinces (Samangan, Bamian, Wardak, Baghlan, Paktia# Logar, Ghazni, Nangarhar, Kunar) staffed by 13 Afghan physicians, 96         Afghan nurses/health         workers, and nine German/Swiss
 surgeons/specialists for tropical diseases, .planned for 1990 are a surgical training hospital in Samangan and a hospital, in Achin in cooperation with Afghanaid, U.K.
      In 1989, using its own transport fleet, the German Afghanistan Committee transported 82 MT of medicines and medical equipment into Afghanistan.
 Funding; Some 40.000 private donors in FRG, German Government, European Community, US Government, UNOCA and UNHCR.                      .
           GAF
 The GERMAN AFGHANISTAN FOUNDATION (GAF) is a non-governmental, non-political humanitarian organization, established simultaneously in the Federal Republic of Germany and Pakistan in 1986. GAF is basically involved in cross-border projects, with some veterinary services for Afghan refugees at the border areas and a veterinary training project for young Afghans in Peshawar.
      Although the organization is primarily assisting in the agricultural sector, it' is also rendering medical assistance through clinics and a hospital. A maternal and child health program end a vaccination project are also implemented.                    *
      The paravet training course, established in 1989 in Hayatabad, Peshawar,
            .  '-X    . *        1
 has so far trained 88 young Afghans. Forty percent of these paravets have been 111
                                                    111
APKIL-JUNE, 1991 flftlHANJtHflli VOL. 4 W0.3 I
    INSTITUTIONS WORKING FOR AFGHANISTAN:
      FM; GAC; gaf; Hi; hci; isra,
       scf-uk;sos/pg Belgium nrc ahdhca;scf-us;
EDITOR'S NOTE: Hundreds of institutions are busy in Peshawar in various kind of help to Afghans. The ARIC in a publication has produced the profiles of many of these institutions. The following are the Fourth ' instalment profiles of these institutions•
_1 J  ■ ■ - ■                • ■ • V
                                          FM
 FREEDOM MEDICINE (FM) is a health-care training organizatioh established in 1985. the agency originally, focused solely on the Afghan situation; in subsequent years it has expanded and has conducted .similar training projects in several other parts of the world.
     The paramedic training program operated by Freedom Medicine, is currently under revision. In August 1989, the tenth and ifinal .paramedic class graduated, bringing the total number of FM graduates to 181.
     In January 1990, Freedom Medicine will begin a three-month, advanced training program'for paramedics*who seek to upgrade their skills. In addition, a new Maternal and Child Health Education initiative targeted at refugee women is underway at the Chitral clinic.
     Finally, Freedom Medicine has been working with the Ministry of Health for the Afghan Interim Government to develop a mechanism by which the Ministry can assume control of Freedom Medicine facilities and programs in Pakistan and in Afghanistan.
 Funding: USAID and private donors.                      ,
                                      110
 \
 Al'KIL-JUNL, 1991                   nrHAD                    VOL.     NO.3
                                       6AC
     Since 1984, the GERMAN AFGHANISTAN COMMITTEE (GAC), as an implementor, has provided quality medichl facilities, personnel and medical training in selected
 areas of Afghanistan and to non-registered,refugees in Pakistan,
   ■ -■ .                . • *     • .  ' -v     •       ... \ .
     In Pakistan the Committee operates: a hospital at Sadda (Kurram Agency)
 with O.T. and lab, staffed by three Afghan physicians and six Afghan nurses; a hospital at Miran Shah- O.T. only, staffed by an Afghan female gynecologist, an Afghan male specialist in internal medicine and six Afghan nurses.
      In Peshawar, GAC operates a program of-plastic surgery for Afghans in which 15 German teams of plastic surgeons work in selected hospitals (a joint-venture with HELP- Germany and INTERPLAST- Germany). Under its auspices . the German Afghanistan Committee has supplied Afghan health-workers and medical-training facilities with 15,000 copies.of "Medical Hand Book".
      In Afghanistan the Committee operates a surgical training hospital in Wardak (constructed in 1989), with O.T. and X-ray lab. A German-Swiss team make up the staff of the 35-bed facility, which also houses a nurses' training school. Furthermore, there are 12 OPD's in nine provinces (Samangan, Bamian, Wardak, Baghlan, paktia, Logar, Ghazni, Nanga-rhar, Kunar) staffed by 13 Afghan physicians, 96 Afghan nurses/health workers, and nine German/Swiss surgeons/specialists for tropical diseases. Planned for 1990 are a surgical training hospital in Samangan- and a hospital, in Achin in cooperation with Afghanaid, U.K.
      In 1989, using its own transport fleet, the German Afghanistan Committee transported 82 MT of medicines and medical equipment into Afghanistan.
 Funding:  Some  40.000   private  donors
        -a v                         a. ^ , - , w 7
 Community, US Government, UNOCA and UNHCR.
in FRG, German Government, European
 aniA
           GAF
  The GERMAN AFGHANISTAN FOUNDATION (GAF) is a non-governmental, non-political humanitarian organization, established simultaneously in the Federal Republic of Germany and Pakistan in 1986.. GAF is basically involved in cross-border projects, with some veterinary services for Afghan refugees at the border areas and a veterinary training project for young Afghans in Peshawar.
                          Although the organization is primarily assisting in the agricultural
                   »
  sector, it is also rendering medical assistance through clinics and a hospital. A maternal and child health, program            a   vaccination  project  are also
  implemented.                  '
                     The paravet training course, established in 1989 in Hayatabad, Peshawar, has so far trained 88 young Afghans. Forty percent of these paravets* have been
                                    • 111 .
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                 AINU                            VOL-  4 NO.3
 employed at various veterinary stations at the border areas in Pakistan and in various provinces inside Afghanistan.                1   ’
      It is planned that the remaining 60% be employed at veterinary stations inside Afghanistan in the year 1990, to assist repatriation. At present, 40 Afghans are ( undergoing training. An additional 80 persons were trained by the end of 1990. Three veterinary centers for refugee livestock are functioning at the Pakistan border areas.
      In Afghanistan, GAF is implementing six veterinary projects and five medical projects - including a hospital - in Bamian. Additionally, a maternal' and child health training project, a vaccination program and three crop-production projects are operating in various provinces; The result of one of the agricultural projects in Zurmat, Paktia, has been highly significant; one hundred hectares of land have been cultivated with potatoes and maize. The yield data recently received shows 3,040 mt of potato yield against .52.51 mt of seed sown and 548 mt of corn yield against 5.2 mt maize sown.
      GAF intends to focus even more intensively on the agricultural sector (veterinary, crop production, irrigation systems, etc.). Hence, 14 more veterinary centers and one more medium-scale crop production project are planned, to become functional in 1990. No expansion of activities with respect to medical projects is foreseen.
      The Foundation implements its projects through whatever infrastructure may be available in the targeted area, i.e., shoora, commander, village elders, etc., and with provision that the population makes maximum utilization of the project,              ,                    ' ■                   '
 Funding; UNDP, UNHCR, UNICEF, some bilateral donors and - public donations in FRG.
                                              HI
 HANDICAP INTERNATIONAL (HI) was created in 1985, largely at the initiative of UNHCR, and out of the awareness that few services existed for handicapped people in Baluchistan, and the large number of disabled persons among the Afghan refugee .population.                             '
      One of the priorities of the program is to promote the autonomy of the center through the training of its local staff. To thi^ end, HI has achieved the following: the technicians  have acquired' the technical expertise necessary to
 manufacture orthopaedic devices of a high standard* using appropriate technology; the physiotherapist assistants were taught to consult the patients ,in order to identify their problems and provide appropriate treatment and devices. Most technicians and physiotherapist assistants are now able to teach new workers and students. (HI has also provided physiotherapy training sessions for nurses working in various local hospitals).
      Using the Quetta Center as a base, a mobile team of local physiptherapist
                                            112
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991              A(liiltJtllAI)                      VOL. 4 NO.3
 assistants makes monthly field trips to refugee Villages around Baljuchistan; 19 are currently visited.
      A specific network of Afghan outreach workers is working in the various camps, to identify the handicapped population most likely to benefit from the services of Handicap International, and to refer them to these monthly consultations. Some patients are treated in the camps and followed up by the outreach workers, while others are directed to the Center for extended treatment.
■' . '
      Between September 1985 and June 1989,  9,100  new patients were registered,
 ancf 9,000 gait aids and orthopaedic devices have been made. Recently the Baluchistan Government has opened an Orthopaedic, Prosthesis and Physiotherapy Center in Quetta for Pakistani disableds Handicap International has been requested to become Technical Consultant in its implementation.
      In December 1988, an HI team, consisting of an expatriate physiotherapist, an Afghan orthopaedic technician and an Afghan physiotherapist assistant -trained at the Quetta established a small center at Zendajan,,Herat Province. They are working in close cooperation with an MSP surgical hospital. The team is currently training nine local orthopaedic technicians and five physiotherapist assistants, working in various local hospitals. The aim of this center is to manufacture prostheses, due to the large number of amputees. Later, the program
 will possibly be extended to manufacture other devices, such as braces and orthopaedic shoes, wheelchairs and walking aids.
      An Orthopaedic and Physiotherapy Training Center for the Afghans will be established in Quetta ,to train Afghan orthopaedic technicians                and
 physiotherapist assistants.
 Funding: UNHCR AND VJH0.        s
                                              HCI
  HUMAN CONCERN,INTERNATIONAL (HCI) is a charitable organization headquartered in Ottawa, Canada.
       Human Concern International, Peshawar has been carrying out a variety of projects for Afghan Refugees since 1985 in NWF!P and inside Afghanistan. It offers financial help to A^9^an orphans, educates and trains them in certain trades to enable them to earn a livelihood for themselves and their dependents. Since 1987, HCI has operated rehabilitation programs inside Afghanistan.
      * A school is provided for Afghan children up to, the seventh grade. Hundreds of students are studying there. These students are provided with stationery and books needed for their respective classes. Lunch is served daily to about 375 orphaned students.
       The Vocational Center at Akora Khattak provides training facilities, to
 APR 11.-JUNE, 1991              AHtHAN JIHAII                 VOL.  4  NO. 3
 Afghan boys to learn carpet making, the. construction of leather hapd bags and shoes, tailoring, carpentering, etc. These products are then exported to the Middle Eastern countries, thereby earning fpreign exchange for Pakistan as well as a good income for human concern. HCI also disburses cash money to orphaned children on a monthly basis.,              ,
      The mother and child care project has four Basic Health Units in Akora Khattak, where medical facilities are provided to Afghan women and children as well as training to the older and middle-aged women on the Traditional Birth Systems. Due to a lack of education, Afghan women generally will not avail themselves of services at a gynecological center. They prefer to give birth through traditional dais. HCI undertook the training of Afghan women in traditional birthing methods, and are awarding certificates to the second successful group of TBA's.
      Humman concern carries out irrigation and agricultural schemes inside Afghanistan, and successfully completed one such project in Logar proince 31 July 1989. A Crop Production Program (Farm Power Machinery), is being implemented in the same province and is expected to be completed by the end of October, 1989. Surveys related to agricultural, irrigation, and reconstruction needs were carried out in Logar, Ghazni, Wardak and Kunar provinces.
      Currently, Basic Health Units, organized by HCI, operate out-patient departments one day per week with an average of go patients per day.
 Funding; by private donors in the Middle East,.Canada, U.S.A.,CIDA, UNHCR and
      UNDP.                                  '
                                        ISRA
 The ISLAMIC RELIEF AGENCY (ISRA) is an international relief agency offering assistance irrespective of caste, creed, religion or race to all those persons who are affected by natural disasters and physical disruption or foreign aggression, and who are compelled to take refuge in other countries. ISRA maintains its headquarters in Birmingham and its regional centers function throughout the world, with Peshawar being the reginal office for Pakistan.
      One primary focus of ISRA is to conduct field studies in drought - and disaster-affected areas and to present their finding to international relief and charity organizations and philanthropists around the world to enable them to plan and create projects that are effective and appropriate to the needs of the target populations. ' The Agency also places a strong emphasis on providing vocational training to refugee's to allow them the possibility of generating income. Afghan refugees have been provided with training courses in tailoring, lathe operation, welding, motor mechanics*, and carpentry.
      In addition to training of a more vocational character, the Agency has undertaken training in the areas of teaching, office management* and survey and mapping* Along with its development of projects in the agricultural sector, ISRA is also involved in the medical sector, in which it has launched an ambitious
                                  :   ii4
 AIM<ll^JUNI£r 1991            flHlHAN JfHAI)                VOL.  4 NO. 3
 program for the establishment of dispensaries, medical clinics, mother and child centers, immunization centers, and T.B. and malaria control programs.
 Funding: UNDP and self finance.
                           NRC AND NCA
 The NORWEGIAN REFUGEE COUNCIL (NRC) and NORWEGIAN CHURCH AID (NCA) are
 voluntary, humanitarian organizations involved in. relief and development programs throughout the world.                 .
      NCA is presently providing assistance to programs in , more than 60 countries. Project activities range from emergency relief distribution of food, tents, clothes and medicines to involvement in long-term community development *
 programs.
      NRC originates from the Norwegian Aid.to Europe, established in 1946, after World War II to assist distressed people in Europe. In 1952, the organizations which constituted Norweg'ian Aid to Europe, along with the Government formed the Norwegian Refugee Council. NRC has 16 member organizations, and the following five are permanent members of the NRC Governing Boa.rd: Norwegian Church Aid,
 Norwegian, peoples Aid, Norwegian Red Cross, Save the Children Norway  and
 Norwegian Women's Public Health Association.
      The first assistance given by NRC/NCA to Afghan refugees was in 1979/80.
 NCA at that time began its work through the Iriter-Aid Committee, and was soon joined in its efforts by the Norwegian Refugee Council. As funds from the Norwegian Government increased, it was decided to establish a joint vNRC/NCA office-in Peshawar. The purpose of the office (opened in 1983) was to maintain a close working relationship with the partners receiving Norwegian funds, as well as to provide accurate reporting to the Norwegian Government on programs and the
 refugee situation.                                               ■
                       • (                    V .    , ‘          . ... -
      Implementing partners are , currently: the Austrian Relief Committee,
 Inter-Church Aid, International Rescue Committee, CHREP and INDOORS. Help is, however * also.given to several other organizations and projects based on request and availability of funds. Although primarily a funding agency, NRC/NCA has implemented certain emergency relief programs among non-registered and newly-, arrived refugees. Plans are being developed for more such direct participation.
 Funding: Norwegian Government and private donations. 1                        ♦
                                      SCF-US
         • \ '  .               ■    '           Y   .       ■        t-
 skvE THE CHILDREN FEDERATION - USA (SCF-US) was founded in 1932, operates community development programs in 39 , countries, aimed at improving the well-being of children and their families. In July 1985, SCF began its first projects for Afghan ‘refugees in Pakistan.
                                  • , 115                         - ; ,
 Aml-june, 1991                      mmim                     vol. 4  no.3
     In Pakistan SCF-US , operates self-help projects for Afghan refugees in" Mianwali, Mhnsehra, Quetta and Islamabad which offer training in basic literacy and numeracy, construction, skills training (weaving, tailoring,'carpet'.making, carpentry) and craft production. Literacy programs are also incorporated into all SCF skills training projects.
     Save the Children Federation currently runs projects in seven provinces in Afghanistan: Zabul, Ghazni, Kandahar, Nangarhar, Balkh, Wardak and Baghlan. SCF assists communities in Agricultural rehabilitation '.by providing ' seed, fertilizer, plapt protection,* veterinary services, repairing irrigation systems and other practical agricultural assistance. The SCF Plural Works programs inside Afghanistan; focus on reconstructing damaged infrastructure such as schools, roads and clinids. SCF has initiated craft production projects in five provinces. In addition to badly-needed supplemental income, it is expected that these projects will be a precursor to health programs for women and children.
     The Fderation works toward " Afghanization" at all levels of implementation, it promotes community involvement. The essence of SCF philosophy is that everyone, no matter how economically or socially deprived,has the capacity to
 take charge of -their lives. In Afghanistan 'as well as in Pakistan, SCF is' committed to helping Afghan communities help themselves. Assistance is provided to Afghans, whether living in Pakistan as refugees, in transit to their native villages, or rebuilding their homes. The long-standing commitment of SCF to helping restore self-sufficiency to victims of political upheaval and natural . disaster is demonstrated in its- programs for Afghans through the Pakistan' Field Office.                          "•
 Funding: UN-acrencies. governmental and non-governmental funding bodies, and private and corporate donations*           . -               ,
                                   SCF-UK
  SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND - UK (SCF-UK) is Britain’s largest international children's - charity. Founded in 1919, it * is>- an independent voluntary organization, professionally staffed. SCF is wholly concerned with rescue in disaster and the longer term welfare of children in hunger, sickness and need.
  The Fund is entirely non-political and at the present time is working in over fifty countries.
      Great importance is attached to training local workers in the developing world in the professional and technical skills essential to the advancement of child welfare in the fullest sense. It is part of the Fund's philosophy that it should work, wherever possible, with .governments or UN agencies. Prior, to 1979,
  SCF had been working in Afghanistan for many years. When the war broke out it was one of the first organizations to move to Peshawar and set up two clinics at Badaber refugee camp. The Funds has-been servingthe refugee population in Badaber through its two Basic health Units since 1980.
      In 1983, after considering the health of the refugees throughout tlf& NWFP it was decided that a system of Primary Health Care should be instituted, in
                                          lie
 I
 APR IL-JUNE» 1991             AfflHAN Jfdflll              VOL.  4 NO.3
 order to provide a more comprehensive health care program. The FUnd's PHC program consists of both male and female training components.
      The aim of the male PHC program is to train, candidates from amongst the refugee community as teachers of primary health care. These teachers are called Community Health Supervisors (CHS's). The training is done by SCF's own Afghan staff at a large residential training center near Peshawar. Once qualified^ the CHS's - who are paid a small salary - in turn train up to 30 volunteer Community Health Workers (CHW's) within their own family groupings. The CHW's are taught about the prevention of disease and basic medical interventions. By 1989 the male program had reached seven districts and agencies in NWFP and had trained over 160 CHS's and 3150 CHW's.                                        ,
      The concept of the female program is similar to that of the male except it , focuses on safe delivery techniques and mother and child health. Through the support of the Government of Pakistan's Project Director Health, SCF employs*14 Pakistani Lady Health Visitors, whom SCF has trained to educate traditional • birth attendants, the local village midwives, either as Female Health Supervisors (FHS's) or Female Health Workers (FHW's).
      Both the male and. female programs train supervisors^ and workers for other agencies. By mid-1989, SCF-trained Afghans were covering a population of well over one million refugees.
 Funding: UN-agencies.
      / SOS/PG BELGIUM
 SOS/PG BELGIUM (SOLIDARITE AFGHANISTAN) was founded in 1980, a joint venture with Solidarite Afghanistan. The program was started in Peshawar in 1984, with its Teacher Training Program, to upgrade the teaching skills of primary teachers in the refugee camps of UNHCR and CAR.
      In 1985, an Apprenticeship Scheme for Young Afghan Refugees was started in Peshawar and Mardan to provide professional training for young refugees. Now there are sub-offices in Mardan, Haripur, Mansehra, Temefgarah, Bajaur arid Hangu. There is also a branch in Mianwali, Punjab.
      In 1988,* a team of specialists- the Pedagogic Mobile Team- began daily visits in primary schools to assist teachers in their met.hodologic approaches.
 NOTE: Additional and more detailed information can be found
       under: Solidarite Afghanistan.              ,                    v
 Funding: UNHCR, Belgian Government.
APRIL-JUNE, 1991             MdNAll                     VOL-  4 NO.3
  BANK INTEREST TANTAMOUNT
         TO USURY
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following article has been written by Zaid Zaman > a Pakistani reader of Afghan Jehad» as a "commentary" on the CCAR seminar on the future of Afghan Economy held in Islamabad November 29-December 29 1990 in Islamabad.
INTRODUCTION
        Today all over the world, Muslims are waking up and are rediscovering their religion. Atheist ideologies which have been imposed upon the world in one form or another, have enslaved the man^ and have established the tyranny of a-i. small group of people over the whole world. Humanity is crying today.. Over a hundred million people have died in this century alone due to wars' instigated by atheists and materialists of one form or another to enslave the - world. Every day we witness events of unbelievable horror, savagery, cruelty and exploitation' by those vyho wish to behave as Gods and do not permit humanity to live under
  the guidance of its Creator.                                  t \
                          / . ' : . . ,
            .* \ __ - ’ ' * ' ' ,
  Allah says in Quran:
        "As often as they ignite the fires of war they are extinguished by Allah.
 . Yet they rush around to spread corruption in the land. But Allah does not love those who are corrupt". (Surah Maeda:64)
            ' / . ' , } • Muslims are the only people in the world who have an alternate system and
  can challenge the existing atheist and materialist social, military and economic
  orders. But to establish the Islamic order, Muslims must also know how the
  atheist system works, as without it’, it is absolutely impossible to establish an
  Islamic order.
                   To establish a just economic system is one of the most important aspects of Islam. Today the world is actually enslaved by few individuals who control the
                                                 118
   APRIL-JUNE* 1991                AKlHflN JfHflll                   VOL-  A NO. 3
   world finance and wealth. Who are those few people and how do they control the world through money? What are their control mechanisms and .why, we are not able to free, ourselves from their economic hold?. Burning questions like these and many others beg answers and in the following article we are giving a detailed account as to, how this hage cruel system came into.exisfence. only by knowing the atheist system and how it operates, we can hope to fight it and liberate ourselves from the slavery of the few individuals who control the world today.
                            THE GLOBAL UN-ISLAMIC ECONOMIC SYSTEM
        The current state of the world is such a. mess, and that mess looks so complicated, that trying to figure what's going on can be too bewildering. So I want to present it in another way: Let uS imagine that we are looking at the body of a crime victim, multiple injury, heavy duty GBH, rape and robbery of an unprecedented nature. The victim's condition is serious, critical, but there is still life. It's not yet time for an autopsy, we need some first aid.
        The victim is the planet and its inhabitants, the people, animals, plants, oceans, forests, the air, earth and water. Life itself.
        We have stumbled upon the scene of the crime, come across the body, probably got>some blopd on our clothes. We could walk away, pretend we did not see it, we were not actually there; it's probably too much to deal with anyway, cannot handle it. Do not get involved.
        Or we can accept responsibility for where we find ourselves. The victim is clearly in need, surely there is something that we can do, even if we are not experts.
        How did this happen? Who did it? It is too awful to be an accident, how can we put it right. Can we put it right? The questions beg an answer.
        One does not necessarily have answers, but let Us at* least try and understand what has taken place. We do know that the official version,, the story as we have been told sounds suspiciously like an alibi put out by' the likeliest of suspects.
  ^ “ So let's try and start at the beginning. This may all ' sound rather simplistic, but we want to break down a complex affair into sizable bites, in order to digest it, and use it in a positive and intelligent manner.
        In trying to understand and cope with this global imbalance, it is tempting tp look at the symptoms, because they are more manageable, and try and deal with it in that way. Lets save the whales, or the rain forests, may be concentrate on pollution;, or the arms rape, nuclear power, inner city crime.
                   They are all valid; and there is no doubt that first aid is called for. But these issues are all symptoms of this extreme imbalance. They are the results of something, and if we only focus on them we may miss seeing the cause. For if we
                                           119
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                      Hil                         . VOL. 4 NO.3
 are tq nurse the patient back to life, we have to find the cause of the disease. How did the cancer start?                                                 •  ■
      Life is a series/ of transactions, some simple some complex. Sub-atomic, chemical/ personal, social, national,' supernatural, global, cosmic. Endless exchanges and interactionsPlanets spin, seasons shift, day turns into night.
      And people buy and sell, they exchange goods. It is probably the most basic human social transaction. Wherever there are people, it'is gping on. Everything you see^has probably been bought, sold or exchanged.
      It is type of social bedrock.
      Transactions are exchanges that are mutually beneficial, both parties gain from the exchange, it- is part of social movement and growth. I give you this, you give me that, and we are both pleased with the exchange and everyone else can see that every-thing is OK. 2 + 2 = 4. There is balance, equilibrium. Things go wrong when someone wants something for nothing. Something for nothing: 10 = 11, 2+1=4.                                          . ' -
      In order for you to believe it, some sleight of hand.will be needed.
      I will lepd you 10 pounds, and you can pay me back 12. it’s alright take your time, I know you need it. Of course if you take too long, the, 12 will become 13,15,25. But if you get really stuck, come and see me, we can work something out.
      Barter of one thing for another- goods for goods without the use of money-is the *-obvious basis for trade, but from earliest times a medium of exchange has been found to be necessary. You may not have the goods I need, so if I swap my goods for money, the medium of exchange, I can get what I want.
      This medium of   exchange must          be something of actual value in itself, you
 are   converting your goods into this thing, this medium, in order  to exchange
  that in turn for what you want. Why should I change my goods for something worthless? Would you? And yet this is exactly what we all do, every day.
      The medium of    exchange is a           third element in the equation, or you  can
  almost say its like  the = sign in maths. This table equals this jacket. Or         the
  table equals 50 equals the jacket.
      This does not mean that the price ,o£ my goods or- your goods is not subject to normal i fluctuations. That is OK. The price may go up and down, it can be 40 or 60 pounds, but the value of the pound must remain a constant, or we were both in trouble, we do not know where we stand. The medium of exchange must have intrinsic value of its own, it must be worth something. This is a necessary element' of social stability. It is pivotal, and if you change it, you change every transaction, like shifting the fulcrum on a set of scales. Gold and silver are the obvious choices. They have value, their nature does not change even over long periods of time, they do not decay. They 'can be split up into lots of small pieces, and then put back into big ones again. They fit the bill, and
                               ' t ' 120
   APRIL-JUNE, 1991                  ArMJIHAD                         VOL.  4 NO.3
  historically, they have been the natural choice. Ah, yes, that is all very well, they say. But there is only so much gold, what if there is not enough to go round, supposing it runs out.
       Well, lets think about this for a bit. The fact is everything else in existence is finite, there is only so much of anything. There is a limited amount of all of our resources as we are finding out to our concern. There is only1 so much. This is fine until, we cfet to modern economics..
       Modern economics is based on continual growth., endless expansion, it will all keep getting bigger and better, more profits, and any one who says, different just wants to put us all back in the dark ages, he is against^ progress. An international banker was recently asked what he thought was wrong with the world economy. He said "We need more growth". This premise defies every natural law in existence, its like trying to deny the law of gravity. We do not have endless day, non-stop summer. Everything turns into its opposite, there is expansion and contraction, profit and loss. So, let us, like everybody has done for millennia, accept that a stable medium of exchange with intrinsic value of its own is an integral part of a balanced economy, which is in turn an essential part of a just society. I think that this is a reasonable starting place.
       Modern economics is regarded as some kind of specialist subject, with its own special language. But specialized knowledge should not be necessary to understand something that we all take part in on a day-to-day basis. The chances are that we all use money everyday. The monetary structure involves us all. In fact it limits us, contains us, we are all subject-to its established rules, and if it is unjust, it enslaves us, it traps us. And once enslaved, we can be controlled.
       And this is actually the crux of the matter. We are proposing that the' current economic system that is now of global proportions, has ensnared all of os. It is unjust, immoral, and highly dangerous. It is like a massive spiders web, spun by the ultimate consumers, and we are all caught in it. The monetary system is a control mechanism.                                              •
       The basis of the crime is- usury, and I am using the word in a broad sense. Usury as a principle. Later on we will examine the historic picture of what events actually took place, but what I want to do here is to outline the process where ^by money became valueless and unreal, and hand in hand with this process there has developed a network of global banks and markets, a System, that has permitted those with wealth to get increasingly rich and powerful, and has forced pretty much everybody else, including those of us in ' the developed countries, into slavery. This process has permitted the scale of the crime that we are now experiencing.           ’•
       What is usury?
  1. Charging interest on loans of real money, gold.                 '
  2. Creation of paper money i.e. promissory notes as currency even when backed
    ■ by gold.              .,                     ,     "
  3. Charging interest on loans of pa^er (unreal)■ money.
                                                ‘ 121 '
    APRIL-JUNE. 1991                  DlfillAlfJW                       VOL.  4 NO.3
   4.  Creating paper'money- out of nowhere, i.e. not backed by gold.
   5.  Plastic money.
   6.  Electronic money.
   7.  Centralized stock markets.
   8.  Future contracts.
   9.  Eurobonds, etc.               1
        These are the weapons, the instruments.
        Funnily enough, you hear people talk about real money. I would like to get my hands on some REAL money, you know, none of this small stuff, BIG money. They are referring to something almost non-existent, on the very edges of the physical worj-d. That real money is nothing more than quivering electronic signals that get sent from one. computer to another.\Meta physics. Yet everyone believes in it, accepts it as real and valuable. Any one in a position tp create this unreal wealth, to.manipulate it, turn it into real wealth, weapons, land, energy, is in a position of great power and that degree of power surely corrupts.
        I am including all of these techniques and instruments as usury, because they all apply the same principle, and are all branches with the same root.
        Without these economic tools, it would not be possible to have industry on a scale that causes global pollution, you could not build nuclear weapons or power .stations, no star wars, no global destruction at the push of a button. You could not enslave a nation by market manipulation,, in order to bleed their resources. It simply could not be done.
        Project of such enormous size need huge financial backing. No individual, or group has enough real wealth to develop and .build a fleet of Fl-11 fighter planes, let a^one to finance the star wars program, without the help of the banks.                                                      \
        You could not destroy the Amazon rain forest, or pollute an ocean. The concepts themselves are amazing. Mega projects require mega bucks. And as ,we shall see, the opposite is also true. These huge amounts of unreal mbney, all on deposit at attractive rates of interest urgently and desperately need the mega projects. The show must go oh.
                • -      -        . • ■      '        ,                         I
        Let’s go back to our gold economy. We nsed to buy and sell for gold and, silver. Gold coins were the currency. Every thincj is fine if everyone holds to this. The trouble starts with the ones who want something for nothing. Here we can see the roots of the crime.              N                               -
        (1)       Lending gold out on interest. Even if it is real money, it’s not acceptable, because it opens a door that must be kept shut. You borrow 10 and have, to pay back 11. On a small scale I cari see that you might say that there is not much wrong with it, and I agree that perhaps on the face Of it, it is does not look like the crime of the age. But let us be patient, and see where we can go down this corridor, once the door has been opened. Because we are not talking theory. All this has actually happened, and somehow we have got to where we are,
                                            122 ■.
  APRIL-JUNE, 1991                       mmmi                      VOL. 4 NO-3
  and we are not happy about it.
       Lending on interest allows , the one with money to make more money, simply because he has it in the first place. It puts the lender in a strong position and the borrower in a weak position. Being in debt is bad enough, without having to repay more than you borrow. If a group of these lenders get together, start working as a team, that gives them power over the rest of their society. There is no doubt that the lender.has the edge on the borrower.
       (2)      The next thing that happens- is the promissory- note. Sure, I will. lend you some gold, but why bother taking the gold.‘It is l|ere locked away safe and sound. I will give you a note that says I have leant-you the money, you can use that instead. Everyone knows me, it is as good as gold. You can pay your rent or whatever it is, and then THAT person can .come and collect the-gold. Why-carry it around?                 •                 '                            y
       That is ^ a picture of what became a bank, issuing paper against gold reserves, in equal proportions, 1 for’l, a pounds worth of gold, a pounds worth of paper. So the door ,has opened a little wider, we have taken a distinct step away from our bedrock transaction?. Running parallel with this,, were the markets. As trade increased and became international, agents of the wealthy merchants woul.d travel around. Someone would make a purchase of some ‘goods arid pay with a Bill of Exchange that could be exchanged for gold with the merchant who issued it. These bills began to be used to make other purchases, rather than being cashed in. They were used as currency. As differences began to occur in the exchange rates, some bills were worth more1 than others., and a market developed for the bills themselves.
      You can see howi this Opens the way . for the scenario where someone eventually takes the bill back to the original merchant', to find that he • has gone bust, died, disappeared. So much for your piece of paper,, suddently it is not worth what you thought it was, you have been cheated, it is not fair.
      The other something-for-nothingf trick that w.as used was the practice of clipping the gold coins, shaving ri bit off the edge, saving the shavings, raeltirig them down, and they presto, more money. It meant that the other coins were a bit debased but what the heck, most people would not even notice,. and what can they do about it anyway.                                                          •
      Now, the people in charge/are the ones who control the money. It used to be the king,- he was in charge Of his country, and it was all on a limited scale. But as we shall see later, power and financial control were taken, bit by bit, out of the hands of the monarchy, and put in the hands of the merchants. And as trade became international, and the empire was built, so international currency emerged.                                   ;
      Here we have a historical example of how an international currency came about,- and what happened to it.
      In 1717, when Isaac Newton, was Master of the mint, he pegged the value of the guinea to gold. 21 shillings v * 129.4 grams of\ gold. It was convertible
                                           123
 APR1L-JUNE, 1991                  AFGHANJEHAO                        VOL. 4 NO.3
currency, basically anybody could swap it for bullion from the reserves of the country. It was itself solid gold, with milled edges, you could not shave it, it did not get debased. The real McCoy.                           , . •
      At that time, England was involved in Empire building, and was spending a lot of money. These guineas went all over the world, and every body wanted them. It was good solid currency, the best in the world, you could spend them anywhere you wanted. It was real international currency.
      Here we go into a little bit of economics. These guineas became what is called the "key currency". And the key currency tends to follow a pattern, it has 3 stages.
      (1)      Everybody wants it, cannot get enough, so it goes all over the place, and everyone is happy with it. Supreme confidence. England were the world's bankers.
      (2)      There are too many of them out there and the key currency country starts to get concerned. It's what they call "overhang".
      Too many foreigners with English money, they might come over here and start buying the place up, people get distinctly edgy about the situation. Anyone with a guinea can come and claim 129.4 gm of gold from the reserves. Suddenly your back is looking very exposed.
      (3)      This lasted until 1931. The pound floats, it is unpegged from gold, it ceases to be convertible, on any given day it is worth whatever traders would pay for it. The international monetary system collapsed. Trade dies. Depression sets in. The world broke up> into blocs, each one trying to gain an advantage over the other by depreciating its currency to try and increase exports and put its people back to work. Dog eat dog, beggar thy neighbor. Total disaster. Worthless paper all over.
      With World War II, the dollar becomes the key currency.
      1944 Bretton Woods agreement.       Finance guys  from  44 countries met,  in
America, and set up a system that went like this.
      The dollar was pegged to gold, at 35 dollars an ounce, and every other currency was pegged to the dollar, in a fixed relationship.
      Incidentally, at this time private Americans were NOT allowed to own gold, it was all held as reserves, i.e. it was all in the hands of a few. By law, the people have t,o use the paper money, they are forbidden the real thing.
 ____This is a very long way from bedrock.                                  .. 7.-
      So the dollar is the key currency, America becomes the^world's banker. Also created at Bretton Woods were the financial institutions to govern the system: 1
      (1) The international Monetary Fund (IMF) to control the international
124
      Al*l<IL-JUNE. 1991                MIJM_____________________________ VOL.  A NO.3
     monetary relationships, and to be the Lender of Last Resort, bail out- anyone in trouble. :                                                  . .
              !                                                  '
           (2)      ’.International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to finance the rebuilding of the world, global construction plans, through loans. Lending money to countries.
           (3)  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade just to tie up any loopholes.
           So the spider's web is woven. The system is in place and in motion.
           So let's follow it along for a bit.
           The system prospered, banks grew, trade grew, communications grew, technology advanced, thereby creating new markets, and also the means to keep in touch with it all. The figures started getting so big there had to be a new way to J^eep count of all the zeros, and there were so many players in the game.
           By 1960 the whole thing is really going great guns, humming along. The major currencies were convertible into each other, and the dollar is even better than gold. I mean if you wanted, you could turn your dollars into gold, but why bother. Gold is sterile, it would not earn you any interest, and you have to pay storage charges to keep it safe.
           The dollars went all over the world, building, buying,,lending, military bases, troops, etc. America produced half the worlds oil, half the cars, 40% of all industrial output and every body wanted their dollars. Here comes the famous overhang. Too many dollars whizzing around out there, that have to end up on some balanpe of payments sheet in some American Bank. They have to all add up, things getting out of hand.
           And all of them could be cashed in for gold, 35 to the ounce. American gold, the reserves, the REAL wealth of the nation.
           And that is exactly what started to happen. People began to lose confidence in the dollar and buy gold.
           So what's the solution?
           Unpeg the dollar from gold.
           So in 1971 the Treasury stopped selling gold for dollars, the claims on the gold were too great.
           And the key currency no longer had any kind of backing in a precious metal.
           Arid another step has been taken, another step fitom our bed-rock, Straight-forward, transaction.
           Now this is really^^whe,^a^t^^^«^rbeginsNow^ifc ,4^ real monopoly money, the ones who prini^iTt can print as much as they like, as longSB\they can still keep^
                                               125
APRIL-JUNEf 1991                  lill                   VOL. 4 NO.3
     currency, basically anybody could swap it for bullion from the reserves of the country. It was itself solid gold, with milled edges, you could not shave it, it did not get debased. The real McCoy.                           ,
          At that time, England was involved in Empire building, and was spending a lot of money. These guineas went all over the world, and every body wanted them. It was good solid currency, the best in the world, you could spend them anywhere you wanted. It was real international currency.
          Here we go into a little bit of economics. These guineas became what is called the "key currency". And the key currency tends to follow a pattern, it has 3 stages.
          (1)       Everybody wants it, cannot get enough, so it goes all over the place, and everyone is happy with it. Supreme confidence. England were the world's bankers.
          (2) There are too many of them out there and the key currency country starts to get concerned. It's what they call "overhang".
          Too many foreigners with English money, they might come over here and start buying the place up, people get distinctly edgy about the situation. Anyone with a guinea can come and claim 129.4 gm of gold from the reserves. Suddenly your back is looking very exposed.
          (3) This lasted until 1931. The pound floats, it is unpegged from gold, it ceases to be convertible, on any given day it is worth whatever traders would pay for it. The international monetary system collapsed. Trade dies. Depression sets in. The world broke up* into blocs, each one trying to gain an advantage over the other by depreciating its currency to try and increase exports and put its people back to work. Dog eat dog, beggar thy neighbor. Total disaster. Worthless paper all over.
          With World War II, the dollar becomes the key currency.
          1944 Bretton Woods agreement.        Finance  guys from  44 Countries  met, in
     America, and set up a system that went like this.
          The dollar was pegged to gold, at 35 dollars an ounce, and every other currency was pegged to the dollar, in a fixed relationship.
          Incidentally, at this time private Americans were NOT allowed to own gold, it was all held as reserves, i.e. it was all in the hands of a few. By law, the people have t.o use the paper money, they are forbidden the real thing.
    ______This is a very long way from bedrock.                             .
          So the dollar is the key currency, America becomes the"wo^ld'1 s banker. Also created at Bretton Woods were the financial institutions to govern the system:
          (1)  The international Monetary Fund (IMF) to control the international
                                               124
AI'KIL-JUNE. 1991                  ilMlII                     VOL. 4  NO.3
      monetary relationships, and to be' the Lender of Last Resort, bail out. anyone in trouble. :                                                  i -
               )                                                  V
           (2)      I International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to finance the rebuilding of the world, global construction plans, through loans. Lending money to countries.
           (3)  General Agreement 'on Tariffs and Trade just to tie up any loopholes.
           So the spider's web is woven. The system is in place and in motion.
           So let's follow it along for a bit.
           The system prospered, banks grew, trade grew, communications grew, technology advanced, thereby creating new markets, and also the means to keep in touch with it all. The figures started getting so big there had to be a new way to I^eep count of all the zeros, and there were so many players in the game.
          ' By 1960 the whole thing is really going great guns, humming along. The major currencies were convertible into each other, and the dollar is even better than gold. I mean if you wanted, you could turn your dollars into gold, but why bother. Gold is sterile,, it would not earn you any interest, and you have to pay storage charges to keep it safe.
           The dollars went all over the world, building, buying, lending, military bases, troops, etc. America produced half the worlds oil, half the cars, 40% of all industrial output and every body wanted their dollars. Here comes the famous overhang. Too many dollars whizzing around out there, that have to end up on some balance of payments sheet in some American Bank. They have to all add up, things getting out of hand.
           And all of them could be cashed in for gold, 35 to the ounce. American gold, the reserves, the REAL wealth of the nation.
           And that is exactly what started to happen. People began to lose confidence in the dollar and buy gold.
           So what's the solution?
           Unpeg the dollar from gold.
           So in 1971 the Treasury stopped Selling gold for dollars, the claims on the gold were too great.
           And the key currency no longer had any kind of backing in a precious metal.
    \ Artd another step has been taken, another step from our bed-rock, straight-forward, transaction.
           Now this is re|jy*y^               begins^ Now^it    real monopoly mbney, the
                   ones wtyp pp^Jit =ilE can print as much as they lik&, as long*iSe\they can still keep -s
                                               1215
At'im-JUNE, 1991
DH1NJ10              VOL. 4 NO.3
 everything on the tracks. And another player entered the game around now, that really got things on the move. Enter the Eurodollar.
      In the mid 50's the Russians, like everyone else, used dollars for their international transactions. No one wanted rubles. They could buy oil, aircraft, wheat, cars . . . They could leave their dollars on deposit in NY and get interest, which they did.
      In, 56 the Russians moved their dollars to the Russian Narodny Bank in London, afraid that if the cold war got worse the Americans might freeze those dollars in NY, better have them out of harms way. In *57, the Moscow Narodny Bank lent out $ 800,000 through a London merchant bank. This sum, tiny in banking terms, is highly significant, because it was lent and repaid outside the American Banking system. It was American money that had left home for good. And another door had opened and the bankers quick to spot a good thing jumped for joy, right through that open door.
      The great charm of these Eurodollars from a bankers point of view, is that they owe no allegiance. They would not belong anywhere, no-one regulates them, they are beyond the reach of all the banking authorities, the Federal Reserve, Bank of England, Governments. .
                                   ANTI-GRAVITY
      Now, the Federal Reserve requires US banks to put up a portion of their
 deposits as reserves to cover loans, and govern the character and size of the
                                                     r
 loan.
      They say that if the bank gets a deposit of 100, it has to hold on to 10% as reserve, and can loan odfe the other 90. We go in and borrow that 90, and put it in our bank. That bank has to hold on to nine and can lend out 81 to Joe, who puts it in his bank, who lend out 72.90 and so' it goes on. Money coming out of nowhere. In itself a magicians trick.
      But not Eurodollars. These can be deposited, lent and repaid with no restrictions whatsoever. And for every $      100 deposit, the banks can make a
 $  100 loan, each time. And all with interest. And remember, here we are not
 even talking about paper money, it is not money in any previously accepted sense of the word, it is electronic signals.
      This means that if you are in the business of lending money, you can make astronomical amount of money, and once you have astronomical amounts, you can make even more. Just buy a bigger computer to keep track of the zeros.
      Not to be out-done, the American Banks opened up overseas branches to get their slice of the pie.
      And then came the offshore strategy. Euroland is beyond the reach of the monetary regulations, and offshore is beyond the reach of the taxman. And the dollars that did not belong anywhere, that were multiplying at an amazing rate,
                                           126
VOL. 4 NO.3
apr i l-june# i9w                      AfliHANJIHAD
 settled in the sunshine of the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, the Netherland Antilles, and went to work from there.
                                     B00MT0WN ALL OVER AGAIN
      For the bankers, the privately wealthy, the big corporations, this was the ultimate system. Once you had a certain amount, you can put it on deposit somewhere and scoop in the interest. Just because you had a lot, you can make a whole lot more.
      But even if the money has now escaped the laws of gravity, nothing else has, everything else is still rooted in the finite universe, and there is only so much to go round, and if one man has a lot, then lots of people have to have a little.
      All that fantasy money built great industrial vacuum cleaners, that hoovered up the resources of the rest of the world. And built new gadgets with the resources that were sold back to the third world, for them to buy with money lent them by the same people who ripped them off in the first place.
      The fantasy money gives real power to the ones who possess it, because everyone believes in it. The paper money is in fact worthless, the banks are in fact virtually empty. But the game of musical chairs goes on, and as long as we all do not try and sit down at once, everything should be OK. It is a belief system, and it must be maintained at all costs if the status quo is to be preserved.
                       THE SYSTEM HAS BECOME SACRED
      But no one dares to look too far upstream to see what is coming, because the idea of the system collapsing is too awesome to entertain.
      But surely as day follows night, contraction must follow expansion, and the longer it is held at bay, the bigger the bang.
      We have all been hypnotized, it is as if a spell has been cast over the plant. Borrow and spend, borrow and spend, everywhere you go. Everyone is in debt, nations are in debt, babies are born into debt, even the lenders are all in debt to each other.
      And the lenders tell the borrowers what to. do,they control them,and dictate the terms. If you cannot repay, we will take your car, your house, your land, ^ resources, your country. We will put in our man, to make sure he keeps up the interest payments. If he does not, we will kick him out and put in someone who will. Stop subsidizing bread to keep the price affordable for the poor folks, , put the price up and keep making the interest payments.
                                               OR ELSE
                   I mentioned earlier that these huge amounts of money need these huge projects, like building massive dams in India, or cutting down the rain forests.
                                             127
    AIMUL-JUWE, 1991 ____________ mmMUD____________________________ VOL.  4 NO.3
   like a man maddened by the devils touch and also threatens that if people do not stop dealing in Riba, Allah and His Prophet will declare war on them. By reading the above article it has become very obvious why Allah and His Prophet have declared war over those who deal in Riba. The main instrument of the today's economics is paper currency, which they can print as much as they like, and its main institution is Bank, which holds the entire system together, in today's world, paper currency and banks are considered normal and bankers are the most respected people in every society. But in actuality Allah and His Prophet are at war with them and so should be every Muslim. Through banks and paper currency the whole system of Kufr works and Muslims by depositing their monies in the banks actually help the whole system of those who do not believe in divine law to grow and prosper rather than being against it.
        In an Islamic economic system, there is no place for Riba, paper currency and banks. The greatest of Muslims civilizations, from the time of the Holy 1 Prophet to Usmanian Khilafat in Turkey, have used gold and silver coins and if we want to establish a just and pure economic order, we have no choice but to follow thp Sunnah of those Muslims. There can be no just and rewarding economic system based on Riba, paper currency and banks. We have seen enough of that in the modern economic system. All the world is in debt today which they can never pay back and t*hus are enslaved to the banks who have given those loans, only in the form of worthless printed paper. And every one knows that Jews control the world banking and finance and thus in this way control the world. Every government and every country is slave to them. Even American go^^rnment owes $ 3.2 Trillion dollars to banks and can never pay the massive Riba (interest) which is accumulating on that huge amount.
        If, Inshallah, an Islamic government is formed in Afghanistan, it will give us a brilliant opportunity to show to the world that a just and pure Islamic economic system can be established and run. But lots of research and work is required in practically implementing the Islamic principles. First of all we have to convince ourselves that it can be done, and start thinking fresh, saving ourselves of present concepts of economics which have been so strongly planted into our minds through the unlslamic controlled education and media. • If our will is correct, then, Inshallah, we will establish the Economic system of Islam, as our elders have done so for hundreds of years. It will not be a victory for Muslims alone but for every human and animal which have suffered and continue to suffer at the hands of those few bankers whom Quran calls "Mad Men".
                                             129
APRIL-JUNE, 1991             ARMANiHUIID                 VOL. 4 NO.3
      If, as a banker, I have taken 100 from you and am promising You, say 10% interest, I have got to put that money to work, to make that extra 10 so you can have it when you come back and ask for it. The best way to make money is to lend it out at a higher rate of interest to someone else.
      But if I have taken billions of dollars on deposit, I have got to find someone with a real mega project up their sleeve, looking for some mega bucks.
      Urgently, I have got to find it. Supposing you want your, money back.
      And here we have the whole myth of development. Do not be back-wards, do not just scratch around in the dirt, growing enough food to feed yourselves and live in peace. Get yourselves together.
      And in order to do this you need to buy all this stuff. From me. And you need to buy it with dollars, real money.
                                         DO NOT HAVE ANY?
      OK, here is what you do. Enough of all this subsistence farming, and hunter gatherer business, you need a cash crop, sell it on the world market and get some real money.
      You do not have what it takes to set that up?
      Well I will lend you some, you can pay me back later when you have got on your feet a bit more.
      Need more arable land? Well let us cut down, that big old forest over there, we can use that, and we can build some dams to generate power, and we can sell you cement and tractors, and I will bet you have got some handy resources and minerals you can sell too, once youare set up for it.
      We all know the scenario.
      The point is that the money is burning a hole in the banker's pocket, he has got to keep it moving, investing and lending in bigger and bigger projects and schemes.
      And ecological balance is a luxury he cannot afford. He needs short-term gain, not long-term balance.
      He is a slave to his own system, his machine is running him.
      And as long as we are all in our places, believing in the mythical money, paying the interest, bustling to cover our own Short-term financial roller coaster ride, we are helping to hold up the current:status quo.
                                         ISLAMIC POSITION*
      In Holy Quran (2:274-279) Allah says that whoever deals in Riba (Sood) is
                                         128
 APRIL-JUKE, 1991_________________ mm\m                   VOL. 4 NO.3 I
                BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
 1.  AL-UUKAN U)AK1)
 TRANSLATOR: Abdul Sattar Seerat; 125 pages.
 CONTENTS: The Dari translation of the 1-3 sections of the Holy Quran. The Arabic * text is published on the right side and the Dari translation on the leftf side page of the book.
 2.  THE PRINCIPLE OF BELIEF IN ISLAM (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Ajruddin, publisher: Qest; 71 pages.
 CONTENTS: In depth study on issues related to Unitarianism and prophethood based on Quranic verses and the Hadith.
 3.  FREE AFGHANISTAN IN THE SHADOW OF ISLAM (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Mohammad Farid Yunus, publisher: CCAR; 138 pages.
 CONTENTS: Islamic Anthropology; An Islamic government for Afghanistan; Islamic
 Afghanistan and foreign relations, women’s rights in future Afghanistan; economy; ethnical and religious groups; freedom of movement; human rights; education,, technology and culture in Afghanistan of the future.
 4.  UNDER THE TELESCOPE OF QURAN (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Mawlana Ataullah Faizani, translated by Meer Zainul Abeddin Baiza
 Meerani; 247 pages.
 CONTENTS: A study in human affairs in the light of Quranic logic and miracles
 in the form of dialogues.
 5.  THE DECADE OF AWAKENING AND RESTLESSNESS (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Mohammad Qasem Fazeli; published by the author in Pari%; 191 pages.
 CONTENTS: Religion and an Islamic Society; State and the Ummah (Islamic Brotherhood); Shariat (Islamic Jurisprudence); Islam and politics under present
 .          .      '              ,                     ■ —«F
 conditions; Islam and fundamentalism; the position of Islam vis-a-vis reforms; Islamic economy, state, society and progress.
130
 APR IL-JUNE. 1991               AFClUAN JtHAIl                  VOL.  4 NO.3
 6.   CONTEMPORARY AFGHAN LITERATURE (PASHTU)
 AUTHORS:   Afghan writers; publisher: Afghan Cultural Society; 324 pages.
 CONTENTS: Collection of articles/debates of Seminar held August-September, 1990 in Swat, Pakistan by Afghan scholars.
 7.   THE TRIUMPH OF RESOLVE OVER THE SWORD (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abdul Hafeez Mansoor; publisher, JIA, 59 pages.
 CONSENTS: Studies the Afghan jehad in three stages: (1) From the communist coup
 to Russian invasion; (2) From Russian invasion to its defeat; (.3) from the Russian defeat until now.
 8.   AWAKENED SENTIMENTS: TAMED STORMS (PASHTU)
 COMPILER: Aiwazuddin Siddiqi; 111 pages.
                                                   i.                  .
 CONTENTS: About 1,000 couplets in the form of "Landai" (Pashtu folk poetry); in alphabetical order, contains notes on the art of "Landai".
 9.   THE STYLE OF LEADERSHIP (DARI)
 WRITER: Mohammad Akram Andeshmand; 94 pages.
 CONTENTS: Studies pre-requisites of leadership in Islam and  refers to the need
 for consultation; spirit of service; delegation of power to able individual and other etiquettes of leadership in Islam.
 10.  KHOST ON THE THRESHOLD OF LIBERATION (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Shuhrat Nangyal; publisher:cultural Society; 192 pages.
 CONTENTS:  Interviews and conferences by renowned Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani,
 reports dealing with the liberation of Khost, documents; events and personalities related to the liberation of Khost.
 11.  THE OBJECTIVE OF WAR IN THE GULF (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Deljo Hussaini; publisher: HIA (Hekmatyar), 131 pages.
 CONTENTS: Imperialist designs; media of the arrogance and the Gulf War; Ameri-
 cans are afraid of war: Israel is afraid of no war"; The Gulf War and the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan, a glance at decision tak^n by Islamic movements in the 2-day Lahore conference? what led to cessassion of hostilities in the Middle East?
                                               131
    APRIL-JUNE» 1991              .  flfliHflHJffiflll ;              VOL. 4 no.3
    12.   THE EVER-LASTING MARTYR (DARI)
    POBLJSBtiR: JIH (Mohseni); 24 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection Of eulogies contained in messages, articles and poems to
    commemorate the martyrdom of JIH Commander Mushtaq.
    13.   THE AFGHAN-RUSSIAN WAR (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Shamsuddin Saljuki, 231 pages.
    CONTENTS: Studies the 300-years lbng Russian designs hatched against its neigh- .
    hours and its naked aggression on Afghanistan. It also contains selection poems from the writer on this subject.
    14.   THE COLLECTION OF MEERZA HANAN POEMS (PASHTU)
    COMPILER: Mohammad Maasoom Hotak; publisher: Hamdullah Sahhaf; 262’ pages.
    CONTENTS: Complete collection of poems by this Pashtu poet of 18th century.
    15.   AFGHANISTAN ON THE CROSS-ROAD OF FIRE & BLOOD (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Nayer Hussaini Haripoor; 362 pages.
    CONTENTS: Studies Russian designs towards and interferences in Afghanistan from the time of King Abdur Rahman until Najib.
    16.   THE LIFE-STORY OF MAWLANA MOHAMMADULLAH KHULMI (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Ubaidullah Mostaqeem; 65 pages
    CONTENTS: Short biography of religious schbler, Khulmi (died in 1990) and
    eulogies written for him.   '                                     1 .
                            ‘ 1 ^ - • » . ■ • ‘
    17.   IN THE COMPANY OF GOD (DARI)
    AUTHOR: M.Y. Shahbaz; publisher: JIA, Tehran, 13 pages.
 f' CONTENTS: in the style Of the MMasnawi" of Maulana Jalaluddin Balkhi (Dari
    Classical Poet, Sufi Scholar), •• it describes the. present tragedy facing the
 al. Afghan nation.                       .;                     -
    18.   CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL AND INGREDIENTS (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Prof. Zabihulleh Hameedi and Dr‘. Abdul Wahed Hussainij publisher I.R.C^, 227 pages. •       • /                      ’
    CONTENTS: Construction guide for the reconstruction of houses in Afghanistan
    .using stone, brick#^,tiles# lime, cement, mud, concrete, iron and steel.
                                                    132
    APRIL-JUNE, 1991                         mm               V      VOL. 4 NO.3
    19.   MESSAGE (DARI)                                                 . *
    AUTHOR: Sayyed Hussain Anwari, publisher HIA (Mohseni); 16 pages.
    CONTENT^? Text of message by HlA Commander of Kabul Province Anwari on the occasion of the advent of the Afghan year 1370 (21 March, 1991) in which he has called for the unity and solidarity of jehad forces. '    \
    20.   KHAIR-UZ-ZAKEREENI (PASHTU)
    Translated and interpreted by Naimatullah Mujahed Naqshbandi; publisher:   Taj
    Mahal Company, 371 pages *                                             ‘ •
    CONTENTS:  Methods of Islamic meditation and additional prayers(other than the
    five-times obligatory prayers). \
    21. THE SIGHTING OF LUNAR MONTH (DARI)
    Publisher: The society of the Ulama of Afghan Mujaheddin; 34 pages.
    CONTENTS:. Studies the difference among Ulama in relation to the sighting of the new moon from the point of view of Islamic jurisprudence.
    22.   KASHMIR: THE BLEEDING WOUND OF ISLAMIC WORLD (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Mohammad Akram  Andeshmand; publisher: AIG Ministry of information; 103
    pages.
    CONTENTS: Studies past history as well as the geography of Kashmir and the roots aind history of Pakistan-India;dispute over the issue after the partition.
    23.   THE GREAT SILENCE (DARI)
    POET: Ahmad Yaseen Farkhari; publisher: Al-Haj Abdul Qayyum; 46 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of poems on jehad and social issues.
    24.   LETTER WRITING STYLES (DARI)
    WRITTEN BY: The Society of Writing and Translation; publisher: Kabul Book Store, 127 pages.
    CONTENTS:  The first part is on the style of punctuation adopted from Iranian
    sources; the second part offers styles and samples of letters, deeds and other documentary writings.
    25.   SHORT BIOGRAPHY OF LATE MEERAJAN SEEYAL (PASHTU)
    COMPILED: Sayyed Ahmad Momand; 12 pages.
    CONTENTS: Explains the writing of this Pashtun writer, poet and political figure
                     -  •"    ' V        '  133 .
    APRIL-JUNE>1991                 AfGHANJfHAfl                   VOL.  4 NO.3
    anql his position in regard tg the Afghan issue.
    26.   PRAYER AND OBEDIENCE FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF QURAN AND HAD1TH (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Hussain Qandeel; translator: Abdul Ahad Ashrati, publisher: Kabul Book
    Store; 117 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of prayers during meditations.
    27.   SWEET STORIES (PASHTU)
    TRANSLATOR: Abdul Mohammac^' Mamozai; publishers society of Writings and Translations; Kabul Book Store; 105 pages.
, CONTENTS: Collection of stories and tales with moral themes.
    28; HOMAN IN THE ISLAMIC SHARIAT (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Mohammad Asef Mohseni; publisher HIA (Mohseni) 110 pages.
    CONTENTS:  The  creation of woman; Physiological differences  between man and
    woman; difference between woman and man in Islamic Shariat; Woman and the ispue of veil/ woman and the right of inheritance; rights of men and women; polygamy; 'divorcing a woman; social freedom Of woman; woman* politic and government^ some Shariat commands in relation to women; Prophet Mohammad's, peace be upon him, view about women; wdmen whose names are mentioned in the Holy Quran-
    29.   GUIDE TO HAJ (PASHTU. DARI, ARABIC)
    AUTHOR: Mullah Abdul Razek; ^publisher: Taj Mahal Company; 307 pages.
    30.   THE UPSURGE OF LOVE (MYSTICAL. DARI) ,
    POET: Sheikh . saaruddin Ansari; (buried near Kabul, 18th Century; publisher: Taj Mahal Company; 799 pages.                                        *
    CONTENTS: Mystical and lOve poems by Ansari himself.
[
APR IL-JUNE# 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN
NEWSPAPERS.PERIODICALS
Arm l-june, 1991
VOL. 4 no.3
 FEBRUARY- MARCH
 E&ITORIAL:  "A handful of sold oat
 persons and mercenaries in tl\e guise of unscrupulous professional highway robbers and faithless were bent upon eliminating the most popular and lovable *. Afghan mujaheddin commander Masood in order to strike a devastating blow to ‘ the depth and dimension of . Afghan jehad' benefitting the enemy". The editorial, while condemning such an action writes:  "we wholeheartedly want
 that such trouble-mongering and acts of terrorism be restrained forthwith and suspected elements and adventurers brought to book. Otherwise they may spread to Peshawar as well as the damages ensued may be irreparable".
 ARTICLE:  "Parochial songs and tribal
 pride, the renovation of imperialistic evil traits" (By Dr. Aziz Ahmad). It says: whenever the Afghan nation comes to its senses and launches a move for its political, cultural and material reconstruction and all come closer to each other, united, all in one piece and with a single heart move forward to determine their own fate with their own hands and free themselves of all attachments and shackles and thus shine in a viable and colorful state on the lively stage of..' life, imperialism networks and exploitation move to operate forthwith and, with all the forces at their command and annihilate this rising nation and cut at the roots of our brotherhood and solidari-ity by creating a wedge in the name of race, tribe, religion and language and thus keep us in an underdeveloped and ignorant state characterless, 'i poor, receptive to troubles and miseries and loaded with humiliation of poverty and slavery.
                                                               It concludes: ' Scholars and intellectuals of Afghanistan, wherever
 they are, have the responsibility to come to grips with the problem and fight it out telling the people what is right and what is wrong.
                                          MAY
 EDITORIAL: "Mujaheddin's achievements
c in the trench": While recounting the
 mujaheddin's achievements, pointing out the. outrages of foes and friends and condemning the disunity and confrontations, and struggle for power among the mujaheddin, it' concludes: "Under
 the prevalent conditions in the country, it will be logical, Islamic 'v and human way of action that our respected brothers seek their victory of today and tomorrow through unity,1; fraternity and cooperation with each other and , instead of rivalry and competition in enmity, turn to love and place all their material, moral and practical prospects at the service of jehad and mujaheddin so that our trench holders get light-hearted, free from worries, anxieties and internal rifts rconcentrating solely and wholly on toppling the enemy.
      The net result will be that the remnants of Soviet occupation in Afghanistan will be totally wiped out and its remaining vintages will vaiiish one after the other bringing succour to the oppressed nation and end to their miseries. Then it will be upto the people whom to choose for power and whom to vote. Needless to say that the Muslim and mujahed nation of Afghanistan have been able to greatly learn  from the   past dark period of
 miseries with its bitter experiences. Now they can easily identify the traitors and those who realy serve the people and thus can pay each one in their own coins. And therefore, there will   not  be    any    occasion for
 confrontation or fight and our Caravan .of life will again start to move forward.
136
ai*k 11_-jUNi:* 1991                      RftiHDNJfHAIi                              vol.   4  no.3
     Otherwise the current problem will’ remain unresolved. and conditions will not be normalized. On the other hand, hardships, insecurity, confrontations and confusion will increase, paving the way for old and new adventurers, colonials and imperialists to meddle and thus civil war will again engulf us in its flaqies, war will break out and the country, God forbid, will go to the dogs. May God Almighty protect Afghanistan from such a tragedy and outrage.
     MAY-JUNE
 EDITORIAL: "Again. the Tidings of
 Victory on the Front". The editorial, lauding the latest victories of the mujaheddin, expresses the hope that "we expect that our dear brother mujaheddin, by dint of their victories in different parts of the country, would be so inspired as to close their ranks to eliminate the vestiges of the enemy".
     In conclusion, the editorial condemns the creators of discord and prays for the complete freedom of Afghanistan in the current year;
 ARTICLE: Another treacherous conspiracy against jehad, freedom, national sovereignty and the future destiny of Afghanistan" (by Haq Shenass). It calls the five-point plan of the UN Secretary - General, a treacherous plan and says:   >
     "This time it is a more sinister plot than before. But if the leaders of jehad and the sensible people in the country keep silent and do not realize their human, national and historical responsibilities, they would be forced with painful and irreparable consequent ces.                   •
A rman-e-Mujahed
                          MARCH
         24
EDITORIAL: "On whose shoulders does the responsibility for the future of Afghanistan lie?" The editorial, while recounting the 13 year sacrifices of the Muslim nation, asks as to why they have remained fruitless? It discusses the' same and searching for the rteason writes: Who is responsible for all
these inadequacies? Who issued, the legal verdict for jehad against communism? Who armed the Muslim sacrifiCers? Who command the armed mujaheddin in the burning trenches? And who is responsible for non-compliance of God’s decrees and the Prophet's traditions in the field of jehad? It is obious that this heavy responsibility, which plays a very important role in determining- the fate of the Muslim Afghan nation, lies on the shoulders of respected scholars, mujaheddin leaders and commanders. If these three powers, who are in the vanguard of mujaheddin's caravan, with total sincerity and selflessness take positive and decisive steps to bring about real harmony and solidarity, they Will have ■ fulfilled their responsibility ori the one , hand, and the Muslim nation's fate will have been determined on the other which is their only desire to have an Islamic government established in their beloved country. otherwise, God; forbid, they shall be held responsible1 in front of God Almighty and the oppressed people pf Afghanistan.
                           MAY
         4
REPORT: Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazin, Amir
Al»l< 11.-JUNC, 1991             RfllHAN J(HAI)                    vot. 4 NO-3
 'of HEIA,' while condemning the April coup in a meeting organized in the Cultural Committee of HEIA, observed: "From the very, day of the enactment of the communist coup in Afghanistan communism is on the wane. Taraki, Amirt and Babrak took their desires buried with them to the grave". He said the intensification of operations^ by the commanders - would not be productive unless coupled with unity. It is upto the commanders that solidarity among jehad leaders is given top most priority and that joint operations were necessary to topple the communist regime. Under prevailing circumstances commanders have greater responsibility than all the rest. An action not coupled with unity will 1 not be conclusive.
 He described the firing of the SCUD missiles upon Kunar as an inhuman and non-ISlamic act of Najib and prayed for the martyrs of the ■ tragedy.
 from Maidan that the mujaheddin captured security posts at Ibrahim Khail 10 June, During their successful operation, the mujaheddin also captured five enemy tanks and three trucks.
  Floods demolished 3,000 mujaheddin huts or houses in the Zakhail, Khaishki and Adehzai camps 10, June and damaged many others. Reports indicated, that foreign relief organizations have not assisted the victims so far.
     Azadi
                       MARCH
           18
 NEWS ITEMS: The differences between
NEWS ITEMS:   MIDIA reports
 Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat-e-Islami in Tawaraj Ghor, were resolved' through: the good offices of a four - member'. delegation.
 -  The Maidan mujaheddin attacked the Security belt of Maidan Shahr and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Thirteen militia of the regime surrendered to mujaheddin along with their arms and ammunition.
 -  According to a report of The Muslim daily of Pakistan, the Russians have increased ■their supply of arms to Afghanistan.
                 19
 REPORT:    The Islamic Council of
 Afghanistan Engineers held a meeting 3 March - in  the         office of Islamic
 Coordination at Gulmuhr Road, Peshawar, pertaining to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Issues      relating to home
 construction and        commitments   of
                                                                                                    ' V
 engineers   in          this regard were
 discussed. The meeting started with the recitation from the Holy Quran and then Engineer Munsif, Liaison Officer of the Council, engineer Ahmad Shah Ahmedzai, and Engineer Mutawazai, the President of the Council,          spoke about  the
 reconstruction work of Afghanistan.
      Engineer Ahmed Shah made        the
 following proposals in the meetiftg:
 (1) N Brother members of, the council
 should contribute to the Council their membership dues in accordance with their means.             v
 (2)  Members .should be' classified in
 accordance with their professional fields.                       '
 (3) A master plan of Afghanistan ought to be drafted and ^tudied*
 (4) . A technical research center should be created in the Council's framework*
 (5) The Council's brochure based on the vision and perspective of these
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                      AFllHANJEHAD                            VOL.  4 NO.3
 faithful muslim engineers endowed with' Islamic ideology may be prepared.
                20
 NEWS ITEMS: Following cohtinuous operations in Khost city, 10 security posts of < Khost Airport were captured and according to the latest news, the ent- ( ire airport fell to the mujaheddin,
                 21
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Khost old airport was
 conquered by mujaheddin and with that the fall of Khost is imminent. It is reported that 7,000 of the puppet regime divisional troops besieged by mujaheddin are prepared to surrender themselves to the mujaheddin.
 - The mujaheddin of Harakat-e-Enqelab captured four truck load of wheat in Samangan 1 January.
 - Ashequllah,. an Afghan refugee, while praying in Bilal Mosque, Hayatabad, Peshawar, breathed his last during prostrate position 19-3-1991.
                23
 NEWS ITEMS: One  person was killed arid
 another wounded in a bomb blast in the vicinity of Prof. Rabbani's residence. The explosion occurred at 9.30 am. 3 March outside the residence of Prof. Rabbani. So far no clue has been found as to who is responsible for the explosion.
 - During operations on Shah Jahan Qala and Alitabad of Aqcha, Samangan, 2 February, the mujaheddin destroyed several security posts, and captured
 six persons and killed another nine.
 ' \ "
 - A large number of Russians whose kith and kin are living as prisoners with the mujaheddin, demonstrated in front of Foreign Affairs Ministry in Moscow 2 February, While bitterly criticizing government's policies, they called on
 the administration to take effective steps in regard to the release of Soviet prisoners.
                25
 NEWS ITEMS: According to reliable jehad, sources, the Russians have" agreed, to provide the Kabul government with 14 MIG. - 29 aircraft.
     According to the information received from the Shaheed Afzali Front News Agency, the enemy launched an extensive attack on Kushk and Nanbadam villages in Enjeel, Herat, which was repulsed by the mujaheddin. In the face of, stiff mujaheddin resistance, the enemy had to withdraw leaving behind 30 dead, 60 wounded and two tanks destroyed.
    During mujaheddin operations in Sarobi in February and March, ' two communist regime posts were destroyed.
               26
 NEWS ITEMS: Sayyed  Rasool, Chief of
 Jehad Council of Logar province and a prominent writer and mujahed was martyred by a bomb concealed inside a book apparently sent by a friend as a present to him. On opening the book the bomb went off forthwith martyring Sayyed Rasool instantly.
      Prior to his assignment in the front, Sayyed Rasool was the 'chief editor of Rah-e-Islam! and was introduced as chief of Radio and Television by - the AIG. He has left behind numerous publications in the form of essays, books and pamphlets both original as well as translated.
               27
 NEWS ITEMS:   According to ANA in
 continuation of their operations in Khost, the mujaheddin have killed Major General Sher Zaman and Colonel Mohammad
Al’HH-r JUNE* 1991               AFIlHAN JtHAU                      VOL.  A  NO-3
 <Awaz while attacking the center of Kilm-militias, 26 March.
 - Several persons, armed with klashen-kovs entered the house of Ghulam Jee-lani, an Afghan refugee, killing two persons and injuring. another 26 March. The inmates of the house while defending themselves killed one of the intruders and injured another one.
      As reported by the Commissionary for the Refugees there is a 30% cut in the foreign material aid to the Afghan refugees. The report adds, in case financial problems of the commissionary remain unresolved and continue its . present tempo, it is feared that the Afghan commissionary in Peshawar will have to close down by March 1991 completely.
                28
 NEWS ITEMS:  As' reported by Engineer
 Faiz Mohammad, fighting has extended to Khost bazaar and security posts are conquered one after the other.
 - It is reported that Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of the Kabul puppet regime, has shown his readiness to talk;' With Pakistan administration regarding the Afghanistan issue. In an address to the parliament he said that war is.not the way to solving the issue but adds to tension ‘ and insecurity in the area.
                                              30
 REPORT:  Fierce battle is reported
 between mujaheddin an<l the Kabul regime forces in Khost 29 March as a result of which the airport fell to mujaheddin completely. During the operations 10 enemy tanks with an helicopter were also destroyed. The‘mujaheddin captured two suburban agrifcultural farms as weir. The puppet regime, a day earlier, had fired five SCUD -missiles on KhosJ^, The casualties and damages are not
'known yet.
     The mujaheddin sources opine that with the capture of the airport, their hands are strengthened and, God ' willing, Khost's fall is not far away.
                                           31
 NEWS: ANA reports that Saudi government has invited Sebghatullah Mujaddedi to visit S.audi Arabia. It is expected that Mr. Mujaddedi will embark on 'this journey after Eid. Needless to say that the invitation to visit Saudi Arabia comes in .the wake of Mujaddedi's meeting with Robert Oakley the US Ambassador in Pakistan.
 - The latest news received from Kabul indicate that the number of "Gilam Jam" militia has increased in Kabul and due to their oppression, persecution and plundering the people of Kabul city are facing hardships; the state administration has, however, publicized that Gila;m Jams will soon be sent out to open the Torkham route.
                                     APRIL
               1
 EDITORIAL: "Congratulations, for the
 Capture of Khost". Under this title and pointing -to the attack on Jalalabad, the paper writes: "the west and the
 Soviet Union tried their best to see that the operations were halted in the middle of the road. There were adverse comments and complaints from the Russian Foreign Ministry right after the operation on Khost and unfair and misleading propaganda by the western press regarding Khost. They tried to give the idea that the mujaheddin will fail in their plan and they were trying to strengthen their own plan for a coalition government. ‘Fortunately, this satanic plan failed and the mujaheddin vicrtcffy in Khost- was a heavy blow - ter world arrogance".
140
APKIL-JUNE. 1991
VOL- A NO.3
 NEWS -ITEMS:   The Logar mujaheddin
 captured the Shah Sarwar Qala military post 23 March and inflicted heavy material losses and casualties to the enemy.
   A report 31 March says that two soldiers from a Kandahar military unit, who were sent forcibly to Khost, defected to the mujaheddin in the dead of the night after killing two officers and two guards.
                                                       2
 NEWS ITEMS:    The Faryab mujaheddin
 captured the Khwaja Asfalan area at Qaisar together with its oil wells 24 March. Nearly 1,000 militia families also came under the mujaheddin control during these operations.
     After a thorough study and assessment of the organizational set-up of the Afghan Refugee Commissionary the Government of Pakistan has, as a first step, decided to lay off 1,617 of its employees. It is expected that some more employees will follow suit later.
                                                       3
 NEWS ITEMS: Quoting the AAP, .the daily
 Mashreq reports that so far 6,000 klashenkovs, 6,000 machineguns,      300
 guns and a quantity of ammunition have been captured by the mujaheddin in Khost.
    According to a BBC report, the mujaheddin     invited    international
 newsmen and representatives of the UN Human Rights Commission to Khost to inspect the town after its fall to the mujaheddin and to talk to the local inhabitants. The delegation expressed satisfaction and appreciation over the state of the city and the manner with which the inhabitants and the POWs were treated by the mujaheddin.
     Prof. Sayyaf, the AIG Prime
                                                                                                  141
Minister, has said in his message after the fall of Khost, -’I congratulate not only those who had an active .part in the . capture of Khost- .a dangerous stronghold and the first nest of the Khaliqis in Afghanistan- but also the entire mujahed - Afghan nation and Muslims all over the world. I am still under the impression that with patience, perseverance and endurance, God Willing, pother enemy strongholds will fall one after the other until their last base in Kabul is totally shattered".
               4
EDITORIAL:  "The Khost victory and the
western mpdia"; The west is well aware or its true rival and knows very well that' the' loose end of every tangle is in the hands of those mujaheddin who are committed to the principles of the Islamic movement or, in their words, the "fundamentalists". Now they are trying to give the impression that the victory in Khost was the result of efforts by those whose jehad was not founded ori Islamic principles. Though all the mujaheddin are equally honored by the capture of Khost and it is not important which group had a greater part- in it than others, the efforts of each group will not be forgotton. Almighty God will honor and reward those whose efforts in the capture of Khost were in conformity with the Islamic Shariat.
     But the factors that led to the persistence of world arrogance on concealment- of the efforts of the "fundamentalist" should be brought to the notice of all our people, who can easily detect world arrogance intrigues. Western publicity in favor of those who are not committed to the principles of Islamic movement should not cause resentment or dishearten the jehad intellectuals. Instead they can explain the dimentions of this intrigue to the general public.
APRIL-JUNE, 1991               fllMHAH                   VOL- 4 NO. 1
                  8
 NEWS ITEMS:   Dae  to severe fighting
 which is continuing between mujaheddin and Najib's supporters in the.city of Herat, the UN has closed down its office in that province. According to mujaheddin sources, the mujaheddin-have laid • heavy siege to' Torghundi in order to liberate Herat city. Torghundi is an important strategic post.
 r The mujaheddin of HIA attacked regime posts in the Eastern part of the airfield in Kandahar, province as a result of which two posts' were destroyed, six persons wounded and •three captured, 30 March.-
                  9
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the 'leader of JIA, commenting on Khost victory, said, "the mujaheddin’s victory of Khost proved that .the resolution of Afghanistan problem by military means is possible and pragmatic, and the mujaheddin are well poised (have the stamina.) to defeat the enemy in the battle-field and liberate Afghanistan". He said,' "the Khost victory is in the ■ vanguard of achievements to follow and the world community shall soon hear the tidings of other successes". Rabbani made the statement in a function of prayers in Chamkani for the martyrdom of Sayyed Rasool. .
 -In athletic competitions, organized by the Cultural Committee of Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani School, very interesting "tug of war" competitions' were held 6-7 April among students and so far classes 12th A and 11th A have defeated classes 12th C and 11th. It is expected that at the end of this tournament junior and senior teams of this schooi will be selected. The Department of Education and Training and
 Cultural Committee of Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani School will give out prizes to the winners of the competition.
                10
 EDITORIAL: Lately a Pakistani newspaper carried a news item regarding Iran’s stance vis-a-vis the Afghanistan problem. According to this, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister,.after meeting with. Iranian leaders, had said in a press conference that Iranian government stance and that of USSR regarding the resolution on Afghanistan were fully identical and there was no difference between them whatsoever. He added hhat his meetings with Afghan Shia groups, particularly Hezb-e-Wahdat were encouraging ’. With the appearance of such a news item, the hopes and aspirations * of - the Muslim world, especially those of the. Afghan mu jahed nation, towards' the Islamic Republic of Iran were shattered to pieces. Considering the fact that the Islamic Republic of Iran has been established^ in accordance with Islamic revolutionary ideology after struggles, tribulations and invaluable sacrifices of Iranian Muslims, it should have been a sanctuary to the Muslim world and supporter of great Islamic movements and revolutions.
      Our mujahed nation* in relation to the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan, was highly hopeful of the Iranian Islamic Republic that may be this ^evolution,as vanguard of Islamic movements, will defend our sacred jehad and will not . leave us alone till the last ■stages of our revolution's victory. .But, regretfully, it is stated that behind the wheels of       the Islamic
 revolution and claimants of support to the rights of the world's downtrodden and the weak are, today, oblivious of the nation's aspirations and in respect to the Afghanistan problem sides with an" imperialist power like the . Soviet
142
AP'RIL-JUNE, 1991            Drill
 in Kabul and is operating against' Najib's regime. It is said that Mahmood Baryalai's presence in Kabul has caused fractional differences in Parcham party.
 NEWS ITEMS:    While Condemning the
 atheist regime's massacre of Kunar's defenceless people, Hekmatyar, Leader of the HIA, in an interview with correspondents said that the mujaheddin will avenge themselves of this .enemy attack.
      He said that Russia is continuously providing the puppet regime with SCUD missiles causing the massacre of people throughout Afghanistan. This action means that they are against befriending the Afghan nation.
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has also condemned this crime of Najib.
    As reported by jehad sources, officials and officers affiliated to the atheist regime in Jalalabad, after the fall of Khost and capture of the regime's generals and senior officers, have started evacuating their families from Jalalabad city.
                22
 NEWS ITEMS:  After  the Khost victory,
 the mujaheddin ar.e now preparing to conquer the cities of Jalalabad and Gardaiz. This attack, jointly planned by all the mujaheddin, is scheduled for the near future.
 - In the course of a press interview, Najib said:  "We have proposed that a
 joint commission of the two sides i.e. the ruling party and the mujaheddin be constituted to get the elections started,; which may be supervized by the UN. Furthermore it is possible that the Defense Ministry along, with certain other ministries will be bounded over to a joint commission of the two sides." He added that this present
lEHAD                                VOL.  A    NO. 3
 government was the best example of a coalition government wherein- two third of the members comprise non-party people. -
 -  Fjazal Ahmad Khan Gurg, the prominent commander of Hazrat Ali Brigade in Herat was. martyred as a result of treacherous machinations of the mean and atheist enemies.
 -  As a result of the explosion of a SCUD Missile in Dar-ul-Aman a Soviet military advisor and 10 soldiers of the puppet regime were killed. No sooner the missile was fired than it exploded instantly in the air.
                23
 NEWS ITEMS:  According to a report of
 the daily Nawa-e-Waqt, the US and Saudi Arabia are considering the setting up of a new alliance. with the participation of four mujaheddin organizations. The leadership of the alliance,comprizing NLFA, NIFA, HEIA (Mohammadi) and HIA (Khales) will be entrusted to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi;
      According to the paper, in his recent visit to Saudi Arabia, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has discussed this subject with the Saudi Adminins-tration.                        „
     The number of SCUD missile casualties in Kunar has exceeded 500.
 -  It is . reported that a severe earthquake rocked the area of Keshem in Badakhshan province 22 April as. a result of which 100 houses were demolished. There has been no report of any casualties so far.
 NEWS ITEMS:  It  is  reported that Kabul
 Mujaheddin Council of Commanders, in order to intensify its activities, has divided Kabul into three operational
144
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
 VOI . A NO. I
 zones. The Council of commanders held" its meeting ih an area adjacent to the city attended by 63 commanders of various parties.
 - In connection with martyrdom of Sayyed Allauddin, a prominent Faryab Commander, general mourning by all mujaheddin parties was declared. His memorable feats of bravery and invaluable services were recalled. He was martyred at the end of a victorious campaign.
                28
 NEWS ITEMS: On . his return from Saudi
 Arabia, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said that no power could stop the mujaheddin's struggle for the establishment of an Islamic government.
     Mujaddedi urged the world nations to recognize the AIG. He accused Eng. Hekmatyar and Prof. Sayyaf of weakening his government. He confirmed that Saudi Arabian government was not happy with the policy of HIA (Hekmatyar), JIA and IIA regarding the Gulf issue. Mujaddedi added that he apprised ’Saudi leaders on AIG's financial problems, and their response to tfie issue was positive.
    Atheist regime troops continue their fight from Gardaiz cantonment and so far 137 regime soldiers have surrendered to the mujaheddin.
                29
 NEWS ITEMS:   The  mujaheddin sources
 indicate that their operations, in connection with the capture of Gardaiz, continue on the defensive and security posts in areas surrounding Gardaiz. As a .result of the operations three enemy posts in Sayyed Karam were captured.
 - In a get-together, condemning the 27 April 1978, tragedy. Prof. Sayyaf in Hijrat Kalai camp of Pabbi, observed: "You are a witness to it that after the
 Saur coup in Afghanistan, and within a few days from that bloody coup, some of the Islamic countries recognized .the Soviet backed puppet regime of Taraki. However, the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and the steadfast sons of the soil rose in revolt against ‘ it and started their armed struggle. And except you, no country (came to your succour) stood shoulder to shoulder with you against the Russians in Afghanistan. It was only the Muslim mujahed Afghan nation who stood up to resist the aggression. As such now it is the right (and privilege) of this oppressed nation to decide the future of their country, and those who give this right to others are committing injustice to jehad and their people".
            30
 EDITORIAL:*"In relation to the attacks of atheist regime on Logar province". Nowadays it is said that Gilam jam personnel and the atheist regime militia are attacking the mujaheddi*n positions in different areas of Logar inflicting heavy losses on the mujaheddin and gainning some success1." Although the mujaheddin official sources have neither denied nor confirmed these reports it has mainly remained confined to the atheist regime publicity and the BBC reports or simply to rumors. But disregarding the authenticity of the reports, study of the actual factors and motives behind it will lead to the fact that the Kabul regime successes have been achieved through mujaheddin ignorance of the enemy and■their undermining of enemy powers. The mujaheddin's attitude of "could not care less" and "easy going" forms the basis of the atheist regime assessment of mujaheddin and their dealings.
                                   MAY
              1
 NEWS ITEMS: It is reported that the
145
APRlL-JUNt, 1991            AFGHAN Ml)                   VOL. A  NO.3
 'mujaheddin have planned a joint attack on Kabul and Gardaiz, and being equipped with captured tanks from Khost, they have started advancing towards the atheist regime positions in Kabul and Gardaiz. This was disclosed by ANA quoting Commander Mohammad Haleem.
   As reported by MIDIA, a group of Soviet experts and military advisors have visited different places in Afghanistan during the current month.' These experts^ who visited various military positions of the atheist regime, have come to Afghanistan in order to mobilize the regime forces with modern sophisticated weapons and equip them with important War plans against the mujaheddin. The experts visited different areas of Jalalabad too where Kabul regime forces are stationed. *It is; said that in some of those points which, according to them, are of strategic importance, modern Russian missiles are planted.
                  2
 NEWS ITEMS:  According to a news item
 published, in Pakistani newspapers Dr. Najib Mujaddedi, son of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has been appointed the AIG Health Minister and Nader Khurram the former Minister has been dismissed owing to the alleged complaints of the Health Ministry employees. However, a number of Health Ministry employees are supporting Khurram and consider Mujaddadi's action as unjustified.
     The report adds that complaints against Farooq Azam, Minister of Education and Training have also reached the President,. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi.
                   7
 EDITORIAL:   In relation to the
 resignation of Mawlawi Khales from the AIG portfolio of Interior Ministry
 says, after a series of. cpmplaints about the lack of cooperation by the parties comprising the government, he accused some prominent members of the government of violating the government rules and establishing secret contacts with the Russians and baaed his resignation on these very reasons.
      The editorial says, the AIG, after going throuqh a six month period of itsi trial', was to have been dissolved. For it had lost its legitimacy:     It had
 failed to accomplish two of its basic mandates: transfer of its seat to the
 interior of the country and holdig of general elections for convening a parliament.        '
    - The editorial considers this resignation too late and a manifestation of the fact that "our elder brothers have not been up to date with events and lack a principled stand vis-a-vis fundamental issues.
                 8
 NEWS ITEMS:    Maulana Gula Jan, one of
 Najib's supporters,, who used to deliver sermons over the Khost radio in the guise of a spiritual and' religious scholar, was captured by the mujaheddin (during the Khost war. As he had been quoting Quran Verses in his sermons in support of Najib and had been attempting tb justify his position, the mujaheddin sentenced him to death in a court hearing.
     During their operations in connection with condemnation of 27 April, 19.78, coup the Badakhshan mujaheddin have shot down two helicopters of the Kabul regime.
                 9
 NEWS ITEMS:  The valiant soldiers of 92
 battalion affiliated to the HIA (Hek-matyar) in ,Herat,during operations on Sayburjak on Hera t-Islajnqala Highway 30 April, captured the post and killed
146
AVKIL-JUNE, 1991                       AfliHANJEHAU                           VOL.  4  NO.3
 or wounded a number of enemy-troops, a sizable quantity of heavy and light weapons was also captured by the mujaheddin. • >.
                 11
 EDITORIAL:  "Why' the Salang Highway is
 not being closed?" The editorial complains that in connection with the pressure put. by the mujaheddin oh Kabul city, in some other areas, specially in Salang due pressure is not exerted against, the Kabul regime. It writes: "the people still do not know why the Salang Highway is not being closed despite the existence of strong and famous fronts in the area. Due to mujaheddin reluctance, today the Kabul regime is trodding the Salang Highway leisurely. This is the same highway where the Russians once were not able to cross easily but today the caravans of a weak atheist regime are moving along the highway with ease and comfort.
      "We hope that organizations with mujaheddin front along this highway, specially the HIA and . JIA, will
 have their own position in regard to various issues and will not be influenced by others. For instance during the Gulf crisis, while the mujaheddin condemned the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and demanded the independence of Kuwait, they also opposed imperialist designs in the Middle East. Our opposition to American invasion is not confined to’ words but in this context we have resorted to a practical opposition."
                15
 ANNOUNCEMENT: "The publication of the
 Azadi newspaper is being* temporarily suspended." "...Unfortunately due to financial constraints, facing us since the Azadi was published as a daily newspaper, it is found advisable to suspend temporarily the printing of this newspaper. Despite defects and shortcomings in the task of printing this daily paper, we were honored by a great degree of encouragement and graciouSness -by our readers beyond our merits.
 encourage their commanders to put pressure on Kabul regime forges and if there is any difficulty in this connection, the people should be made aware abouot it."
       12
 NEWS ITEMS:   According   to VOA, the
 Council of Mujaheddin Commanders in Khost has decided to preserve the air planes, tanks and vehicles of the Kabul regime captured in the battle of Khost. as a valuable memorial of jehad. The report adds that if this decision is carried out, about 90 air planes, tens of tankas and other vehicles in the city by themselves can. form a war museum.
   Engineer Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, in a meeting of JI leadership in Peshawar said, "the (Afghan) mujaheddin
        "Such       encouragement      and
   appreciation on^"the part of our people give us hope for a bright cultural future for the Afghan Islamic Revolution. This keeps the road open to Azadi to become a bigger and standard newspaper in the future. God willing, the Azadi and other committed Islamic publications will be able to reflect the values and gains of the big and worldwide Islamic jehad and to render useless the activities of western and non-Islamic elements in the sacred - domain of jehadic culture...
        "While we are suspending for a time bur newspaper to better prepare ourselves, we urge all the guardians of Islamic culture • and all the jehad organizations and organs to help the Azadi . with        their     financial
   contributions."

AHUL-JUNL, 1991
VOL. 4 NO. 3
Basheer-ul-Momenat MAY
                                     APRIL
                                            6
 EDITORIAL: "The year of fear and hope". It discusses the achievements and difficulties of the mujaheddin and reviewing the global effects of our jehad, and writes: It is obvious that
 the problem of toppling of Najib government and replacing it by an Islamic government is upto the mujaheddin and the mujaheddin can resolve this problem. But, after the withdrawal of Russian troops, had the mujaheddin foreseen these conditions, they would have chalked out a joint strategy to confront the imperialistic designs and would have endeavoured to unite the    mujaheddin. Then    to
 commemorate such a great victory, our nation was entitled to rejoicings of great magnitude. Needless to say that mujaheddin are yet a power to reckon with, provided this force is used with care and initiative, Najib's puppet regime will be toppled soon.
     Be it as it is, during the course of this year we are hopeful of .mujaheddin's joint initiative  and
 strategy and it is being heard that mujaheddin have committed themselves to starting operations on the last nests of the puppet regime. In case these operations   are    carried     out
 systematically it may lead to Najib's
 downfall. But if, God forbid, the mujaheddin, this year too, could not move forward in unity and solidarity with joint strategy then it is feared that fatigue and deprivation will overtake them with the result that fruits of our sacrifices will be enjoyed by others.
                 19
 EDITORIAL:   "Military and political
 efforts ought to be synchronized''. Commenting on Khost victory it calls it the sweet fruits of joint operations and, along with this achievement, it points out the imbalance in political Efforts and writes:  In jehad trenches
 of mujaheddin they hoisted banners of Islam on enemy positions and were preparing to launch a joint operation on the rest of enemy nests; but here on the political front, instead of. launching an all out propaganda, campaign to highlight the mujaheddin glorious achievements, which could have been used to their political advantage, fresh political movements started and the rumors of secret talks pricked the ears. Some of jehad leaders made clandestine visits to foreign countries, and in the wake of their visits, rumors spread that they, in their own interest, wanted to come to an agreement with certain, circles. Whether the visits are made to that end or not, as they are the outcome of lack of harmony with the mujaheddin's military perspective, they weaken the morale of mujaheddin in their trenches on the one hand and on the other, contribute to lowering the mugaheddin status in military perspective and the outside world. As the mujaheddin are presently busy in adjusting their ranks in their trenches and strengthening them, it is necessary that from political perspective too efforts are rpade so that these moves synchronize with military efforts. The condition similar to that of three years stagnation on our part after the flight of Russian forces should not be repeated. It was then that our differences multiplied with every passing day and at long last, now, we come <^to know that except for joint operations, our chances of victory may be feeble and, In case we
148
   'APRIL-JUNE* 1991                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AHlHANJEHAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VOL-                             4              NO.3
 continue our selfish and hot headed-attitude in political field for another few years and underhand transactions are made to individual advantage and the blunder is realized at a later stage, that will be suicidal. Therefore it is incumbent that wq synchronize our political . efforts with mujaheddin achievements from now on since chances of victory depend on the solidarity of our efforts.
 ARTICLE:  "Let us Return." The article
 discusses the material and moral roles of individuals and nations in history and in referring to an Islamic society, it says:
      "0, you billions of Muslims, is it not the time for us to return to our original self based on Islamic, and Heavenly Decrees? Let us choose, the personality which God Almighty :has created us in, based on. goodness and falicitation; let us remember ^that , according tq the Divine dictum, God” will not change the condition of a people until they change it themselves with their own souls; let us not be bullied by the powerful and the arrogant; let us nourish the feelings of brotherhood and kindness in our hearts and strengthen our ranks based on unity...
 FEBRUARY- MARCH
 REPORT: A sketch of the purpose of
 establishment of the Islamic Council of the Judges and Scholars of Afghan Refugees and Mujaheddin:
                                             When Afghanistan was occupied by the cruel, ruthless Russian forces and
 the Muslim Afghan nation was subjected to untold miseries rarely witnessed in the world history and the Afghans resorted to the righteous jehad against heretics and Godless elements, a number of ulama and judges decided to perform   some essential     tasks
 complementary to jehad side by side with jehad struggles viz; the formation of an Islamic Council of judges with the following main duties:
 - Attainment of the sacred objects of jehad,
 - Migration for spreading the Word of God,
 - Restoration of the independent and non-aligned status of Afghanistan.
 - Creating an atmosphere of real unity among the guiding forces of the mujaheddin,
 - Consolidation of the ranks of the combatants for righteousness and truth.
 - Laying the foundation stone of an
 Islamic state based pn the fundamentals* of Islam in consultation with the respectable institutions of the jehad leadership.      \
   APRIL-MAY
  ANNOUNCEMENT: The Islamic Council .of
  the Judges and Scholars of the Mujaheddin and Refugees of Afghanistan , announces to all their Muslim and committed mujaheddin and refugees of Afghanistan, that:   "The issue of
  Christian Evangelism is of such an importance that we should take urgent measures against it. It does not matter through which door infidelity enters the society and in what form and shape: Infidelity still is infidelity and one should stand against it. Therefore, the Islamic Council of the Judges and Scholars of the Mujaheddin and Refugees
 149
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
 of Afghanistan is of the opinion that: "Preventing the Christianization of Afghans living inside the country or outside is an obligation of every Muslim. We are urging the esteemed , leaders of the jehad and all the mujaheddin and refugees to pay serious attention to this issue and hope our writers will discuss(it extensively and seriously. Because infidelity and atheism can never cio-exist with Islam and Muslims have always stood against infidelity and atheism and will do so now as well".
                                            MAY-JUNE
 ANNOUNCEMENT: "Going to Haj through the illegally earned money has no merit and is not considered goodness. According to Hanafi School of Thought, those who perform the Haj with the illegally earned money, have met their obligation to perform the Haj; But they will not earn any spiritual reward. However, if his Haj is not obligatory and is done on Umra basis, doing so with the illegally earned1 money will not only not earn to the pilgrims any Heavenly award but it is feared that he has resorted to infidelity".
 D’Jehad Hindara
                         MARCH
                             27
 EDITORIAL: "Joint but successful,operations of the*mujaheddin on Khost exemplifies the solidarity of jehad trenches": A few days back the mujaheddin
 joint operations started on Khost which are continuing till now. Seven regional councils of jehad are in control of the mujaheddin joint operations. There is a big council of 23 on top of it. A supervisory group of 7-members is selected from the big council. This group.looks after the general adminis-
 VOL. 4 NO.3
 tration of the war and logistic ( af fa-airs of the mujaheddin. The issue of war trenches and jehad forces solidarity in the present sensitive stage of jehad, which is on the threshold of victory, was never before so important and valuable as it is now. Realizing this necessity, owing to the initiative of Maulana Jalaluddin Haqqa-ni, an all commander jehad council was created 6 April, 1990 which held its first meeting in jehad center of. Thaurab, Paktia. The second meeting was also held in the same center with the participation of 300 commanders. Its third preliminary session was held in Topkhana of Badakhshan province.
 INTERVIEW:  In an interview with "Da
 Jehad Hindarah" journal, Mawlawi Jalaluddin .Haqqani has said:   All the
 defensive and strategic enemy positions throughout Khost and its suburbs are conquered now. Their siege is being tightened every moment. With the capture of Khost, all enemy strategic areas will fall to mujaheddin. Then Gardaiz,Ghazni and other provinces will be conquerred one by one. Consequently the Puppet Regime will collapse and mujaheddin's Islamic government shall be established.
      The allegations of Kabul regime about the involvement of foreign forces in our jehad, has no substance and is entirely false and baseless. We commit ourselves to the scrutiny of Najib's representatives, Russians along with that of UN* of our jehad positions from very near.
                 31
 INTERVIEW:  In an. interview with BBC
 correspondent, Commander Abdul KhajLeq said, "eighty-five per cent commandprp of Southwest region support the joint council of commanders and are affiliated to it. A number of these commanders have remained at a distance from this council but it does not mean
 150
AHH1L-JUNE r 1991
 they are against it. Dae to some difficulties no dialogue has been held with them and the joint council has decided to appoint a delegation to visit the commanders who are inside Afghanistan or in Pakistan and invite, them to participate in this council.
     "Similarly 15-20 commanders have been opposing the council but we do not want to raise our voices of - dissent with them. We are ready to compromise with them because they are under the wrong impression \that the commanders want   to create  their own next to
 7-Peshawar   based  organizations
 whereas we have never made such a claim. We want to close the ranks of the commanders and ' mujaheddin of Afghanistan and bring them on a single platform. We are ready to negotiate with those brethren and intend to talk to them through a delegation.
                                     APRIL
                                              1
 REPORT: Thank God, Khost has fallen to the mujaheddin after the New Airport and the Garrison were captured. Reports indicate that the mujaheddin had launched their offensive on Khost two weeks ago. They captured the entire military posts during the first week. Defection to the mujaheddin of soldiers and militiamen continued and within a short time all military posts and strategic centers were occupied.
 NEWS ITEMS: The pews of the capture of Khost released from commander Haqqani's office in Peshawar was soon followed by congratulatory messages pouring through telephone and by telegram from mujaheddin leaders, commanders, tribal chieftains, learned figures, Pakistani religious circles and political representatives of Islamic and friendly countries.
 vou 4 no.3
               24
 REPORT: Commander Mawlawi Haqqani, the
 leader of jehad Commanders Council of Khost, addressing a press conference has said, "the mujaheddin want to reconstruct Khost, make the bridges, hospitals and schools operative and serviceable. Hence they ask the UN and various countries to help them in this task. "
     Briefing journalists regarding the strategic importance of Khost city to the Kabul regime'he observed,Khost wasa stronghold of the enemy which had a highly significant position due to following reasons:
 1- Khost was a border city which controlled a vast territory for its own security.
 2- It had a clandestine value for the Kabul regime with the Pakistan frontier tribes who were used for sabotage activities inside Pakistan.
 3-  Many logistic routes of the mujaheddin crossed the outskirts of Khost.
 4- A good number of armed mujaheddin were busy fighting the government forces in Khost.
 5- No other city was packed to such an extent with strong local militia and that was why the puppet regime had a strong hold on Khost.
                                           MAY
                                                1
 REPORT: Maulana Haqqani, during his
 visit to Lahore, on the invitation of Maulana Sami-ul-Haq, replying to newsmen, said:
     "'The mujaheddin are united among themselves and commanders do not face
151
AHK I L-JUNEf 1991         AFIlHAN JtHAD                   VOL. A NO.3
 mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmrnmmmm
 any difficulty during the war. At Khost, the 'mujaheddin achieved the great ’victory due to this exemplary unity. So there are no differences among the mujaheddin and their commanders. If there are any differences they would exist among the political leaders...
   "The mujaheddin got so many things in Khost that no power in the world could give so much help to the mujaheddin. If someone had helped the mujaheddin, perhaps it would have been in one sector but with the victory in Khost, , God Almighty helped them in all the sectors. Khost is a large area, bigger than Kuwait and from the point of view of natural resources, it is a vast and rich region".
                 8
 EDITORIAL: "Dynamism in the Political
 Field of Jehad". The editorial lauds the unity and solidarity of the jehad commanders in the field of military operatons but criticizes the disunity among the parties and the AIG and finally expresses the hope that:
     "...Now that our Islamic Revolution is faced with threats and perils, on the eve of victory, and the current situation has cast clouds of disappointment pver the horizon of our mujahed nation, the eyes of the faithful Afghans are turned towards those heroic and mujahed forces through whose actions and initiatives, God Almighty granted great successes and victories to our crusading nation. Now in the political field also they are required • to make indefatigable efforts to help the jehad forces get rid of the deadlock and provide political and intellectual leadership and solidarity to our combatant nation so that, God willing, as a result of their efforts our Islamic Revolution may be crowned., with success and victory".
                                  15
 EDITORIAL: "No Discrimination against
 the POWs in Khost". The editorial refutes the rumors spread by the Kabul regime and the KHAD agents regarding the discriminatory attitude of the mujaheddin towards the "Glam Jam" militia prisoners and remarks:
    "...The a’im of jehad by our Muslim .nation is to spread the Word of God and to liberate our country from the clutches of the atheists and the communists and to form an Islamic government with the participation of all our Muslim countrymen, without taking into consideration the ethnic, racial, linguistic, sectarian or status factors. Therefore we, who are waging the jehad for this noble cause, do not recognize any sort of discrimination but on the contrary, fight against all sorts of prejudice and discrimination among th people. That is why we completely refute all accusations of discrimination not only against our refugee and mujahed countrymen but also against the POWs of the hated Kabul regime and consider them a part of the rumor-mongering campaign of the lackeys and spies of KHAD. We appeal to our Muslim countrymen not to heed to such propaganda and falsehoods. They can find out the truth of our argument by personally visiting and witnessing the condition of the POWs at close quarters because, as it is said, seeing is believing".
    Ekhlas
                                MAY
            5
 EDITORIAL: "The tragic disaster in
 Kunar, a proof of fascist (savagery" • The Kabul Communist regime fired 12
152
VOL. 4 NO.3
 april-june, 1991           AFliHAN JtHAI)
long range SCUD missiles on Asadabad, Kunar, 20 May killing 550 innocent Civilians and wounding 1,200.' They included women and children. This proved once again that Najib's claims of his humanitarian sentiments, peace and patriotism are hollow slogans emanating from his communist "version of Islam". The paper regards this as acts of panic and frustration after the mujaheddin victory in Khost,
      Falaq
                          MARCH
          25
EDITORIAL; "Identity of expression with action based on justice and fairplay". Recounting the efforts of Kabul regime in the struggle for existence, in the light of changing conditions, the editorial writes: "The Kabul regime
leaders ought to know that destruction along with opportunists and accidental characterless elements who have no place in jehad trenches woult not solve any problem since these groups were absent from the mainstream of the currents and cross-currents, revolutionary storms and incidents and are akin to the bubbles' on the surface of waves which would give way with the slightest movement of mujaheddin and would hopelessly adopt their originality. It is better for Najib and his croonies to give up intrasigence and tread the path of wisdom, compromise with global changes and realities, and, like other socialist dictators hand over the reins of power to the people's genuine representatives and the mujaheddin otherwise they will be overthrown with greater fury than ever before, in the near future. In the end it must be mentioned that the mujaheddin forces will also be kind enough to bear in mind that if they do |
 not strengthen the jehad ranks, more than before with identity of expression and practice based on justice and fair. play,1 they will be prolonging the tottering regime of Najib and shall be held responsible for treachery with the victorious Islamic movement. It is hoped that jehad forces are more obsessed with maintainging the sovereignty of "God and people" rather than their own sovereignty, towards a bright and nobid future of Afghanistan.
                                        APRIL
                                               1
 NEWS ITEMS: As a result of systematic
 and effective onslaught of the militant and valiant mujaheddin lasting more than a fortnight, the airport and the capital of stragetic Khost city in Southern Afghanistan have been conquered. In this severe and bloody battle, where the Kabul forces were defending themselves tooth and nail, the Islamic revolutionary and gallant mujaheddin*captured enemy positions one by one and inflicted considerable human and material losses to them.
                               >
     During this historical war, the Kabul regime did not hesitate to use whatever barbaric means they could put their hands on including the constant firing of SCUD missiles and napalm bombs and the massacre of innocent
                           N
 people but, at long last, the communists, barbarism notwithstanding, the strategic and boundary area of Khost with all its facilities and military installations fell totally to valiant mujaheddin.
     With the deteriorating economy and ever increasing prices of essential commodities the citizens are hard hit and suffering badly. On the other hand, the Kabul regime in order to perpetuate its soveriegnty, spends all its .budget on military means to such an extent
153
Al'KIL-JUNL, 1*J91           flfllHAN JfHfll)                  VOL- 4  NO. J
that a Jauzjani militia is paid
1,000 afghanis per hour.
              21
NEWS ITEMS: In      the light of the
critical position facing the^ Kabul regime, Kishtmand has been sacked as the First Deputy to Najib. Abdul Wahed Sarabi, the Minister of planning and Finance during Zaher Shah rule over Afghanistan, has been appointed as an assistant to Najib.
    Reshuffle of this nature and dimension in the Kabul government serves as a green light to the west and confirmation of Najib*s claims that he is ready for compromise. But we can say with utmost certainty that every trick played by the Najib regime will be met with the principled vigilance of the resistance forces and his deceitful arrow will miss the target once again.
      Faryad
                                APRIL
EDITORIAL: "The capture of Khost, Qazi
Hussain Ahmed and Shaharyar Khan, Secretary of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry." Beginning with pur publication we devote the Faryad editorial to important subjects in our country and congratulate the heroic mujaheddin and the valorous, commanders and, in particular, the inhabitants and tribal edlers living in the area on their victory in Khost.
    The Afghan mujaheddin had and still have the capacity to have achieved greater successes and liberated Afghanistan long ago but: 1
 1. Cruel intervention by others, the delivery of supplies through third parties, creating discord among the
 mujaheddin groups, enfusing . of alien ideas. during the jehad period,, unfortunate lust for power by the leaders have been factor's that '■have obstructed our successes.
 2.  Qazi' Hussain Ahmed has described the Khost war as an Islamic war. We do
 not ask . Qazi Sahab to tell us the true,
 Colors of Islam when he supports Saddam
 Hussein (who brought destruction to
 Iraq, Iran and Kuwait). For the color
 he gives to Islam is not the color
 favored ■ by the Afghan people. If he
 devotes his attention to the Muslims of
 Kashmir, the suppressed Muslims of
 India and those of Palastine, it is
 possible that his false appetite may be
 satisfied.         ,
 3. Pakistan's efforts in finding a political solution to the Afghan issue, if geared at bringing to power its own favorite government, will not only fail to solve the problem but will, probably, prolong the war and bloodshed in the country. For the simple reason that other parties to the conflict wiYl consider a unilateral intervention as a threat to themselves and will continue their provocations. If, on the other hand, Pakistan is really bent on solving the problem by respecting the aspirations of the majority of the nation and the recognition of their right to self-determination, it would be better if all the parties concerned, including Pakistan, stopped their intervention and left the Afghans to solve the problem themselves through the good offices of the UN.
                                                              Instigators, distributors of cash and arms to leaders of the jehad are consistently provoking the continuation of bloodshed in Afghanistan and are preventing a credible solution to the Afghan issue by the Afghans themselves. The majority of the Afghans are seriously supporting the overthrow of the Kabul . regime, a stop to the
154
AI-K11 -.niNi:. 1991                          HfHSHAN lilMlll                                VOL.   A    no.3
intervention by the Pakistani military establishment in the Afghan affairs, an end to the bloodshed of the heroic Afghans and the attainment of the right
to self-determination through UN efforts.
MESSAGE: Objectives of . the Faryad:
Rejection of foreign intervention in political, military, cultural and economic affairs of Afghanistan; preservation of Islam and the national heritage of the Afghans.
    APRIL-MAY
EDITORIAL: "An Exercise* in Positive
Thinking". The editorial describes the failure of communism in Afghanistan, as a good lesson for others; Afghan jehad, as a token of freedom for the world; survival of the Najib regime as an offshoot of the conspiracies and financial and military assistance by the Russians and aiso the- intra-party dissensions and undue interferences by other people which favored the sinister designs of the puppet regime. It does not foresee any good results from the liberation of Khost, Kunar, Takhar and other regions and opines:
     "At the most, even if other cities such as Gardaiz, Ghazni, Jalalabad jand Kabul too are liberated, it will not yield any better result than that of Kunart Takhar and Khost.
     "Why? The reason is that:
1. Audacious interferences and vested interests of the aliens do not allow Afghanistan to emerge as an independent entity so that they may not lose the hen that lays the golden egg.
2. The greed and avarice of the power-hungry opportunists and the undertakings they have given to their supporters, have forfeited their power of independent decisions. Hence blood-
 shed continues, civilization.is ruined and Afghanistan is being led to disintegration- much to the benefit of its neighbors . who are seriously planning on this presumption.
    "Hence it is* the prime duty of all the patriotic and Muslim Afghans to reject the interference of the north, the south, the west and the. east in Afghanistan. Wherever they may be and whatever1 position they hold, they should forego all sorts of personal, ethnic, partisan, linguistic and sectarian considerations for the sake of Afghanistan's survival, for the sake of peace and tranquility and for the sake of restoration of Prophet Mohammad's Shariat in Afghanistan and should always keep in mind the pleasure of God Almighty and . the salvation of Afghanistan. This is not possible to attain without healthy mental exercise. Healthy and positive thinking can topple the Kabul regime and by giving the right of free self-determination to the Afghans, it would be possible through the good offices of the UN tp guarantee independence to Afghanistan and to establish law and order in this country. Hoping for the dissolution of the communist system, stoppage of bloodshed and restoration of peace in an independent Islamic Afghanistan.
Haqiqat-ul-Islam
                                MAY
           13
 INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi
 Mohammadi, the AIG Defense Minister and Chief of the HEIA, visited Saudi Arabia on the invitation of the Saudi Arabian government. He congratulated the Saudi government on the liberation of Kuwait and discussed the situation in Afghanistan with them. In an interview.
155
Arim-jUNL, 1991.                             AFliHflMJFHAII                                vol.  A  no.3
 with the well-know Saudi daily Akkaz, he said: "The Khost victory is of great
 significance in the political and. military fields and is an important step forward towards the liberation of Kabul and, God willing, shortly you will hear the good tidings of our victory in Kabul* From the military view point, Khost was a very solid stronghold of the Kabul regime and the troops stationed at Khost were nearly equal to those of Kabul, The reason being that a large number of militia, the criminal force of KHAD and all the other hired forces of the atheistic Kabul regime were concentrated there and possessed large quantities of arms and ammunition. From the geographical angle, Khost is a border region and the renegade Kabul regime, on the one hand, created obstacles for the mujaheddin through this area and on the other hand, chalked* out its sabotage plans against the refugee camps in Pakistan, in this area. Now after the Khost victory, the future targets of the mujaheddin would be Gardaiz and Kabul".
        Ihrar
                              MARCH
                                   13
 EDITORIAL: In commemoration of the
 epoch-making rising of the people of Herat 15 March, 1978, and the revolt of the people of Kabul which illustrate the heroism of the country's Muslims and at the same time point out the. barbarism of the Communists.
 NEWS ITEMS: Information sources Of
 mujaheddin report armed clashes between the atheistic groups of Khalq and Parcham which resulted in 120 casualties from both sides. One ’aircraft of the puppet regime was shot down by the mujaheddin in Ghazzagai, of Muhmand Dara of Nangarhar-province 2
February.
   In the Salang Highway two enemy posts surrendered to the mujaheddin.
   The Kabul puppet regime attacked Panjsher valley with SCUD missiles. Six mujaheddin were killed.
                              APRIL
             8
COMMUNIQUE: "The Communique of the
Sunni Alliance of Afghanistan in respect to Khost Victory". Consequent upon systematic and all round operations of the mujaheddin, the strategic Khost area (called little Moscow in Communist's jargon) has been liberated from the control of the atheist regime and instead the Islam banner flutters atop.
    On this . great achievement we! congratulate the supreme commanders of the operations Alam Rabbani, Alhaj Jalaluddin Haqqani, the valiant mujaheddin, the patient refugees and the entire compatriots. We pray to God Almighty that .such "Islamic Armies" capture all the atheist enemy trenches and akin to Khost the banner of Islam flutter atop Kabul too. Looking forward to that day, the dawn would not be far away.
                        Inqelab-e-Islami
                           Afghanistan
                                  MAY
           16
REPORT: The JIA General Shoora of
ulama, scholars and members of the Executive Council met at the Central * JIA office 30 April to discuss . the various jehad issues. The 3-day
156
APRIL-JUNE, 1991           AfUHAKJHiAD                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 sessions discussed various aspects of the jehad and the refugee problems and took necessary decisions. At the end of the meetings a 17-clause,resolution was
 passed, the salient points of which are asj follows:
 -  I Continuation of jehad till the downfall of the Kabul regime and the establishment of an Islamic order;
 -  |proper attention to cultural and educational affairs and synchronizing it to all other fields;
     establishment of a centralized policy-making body and a general policy for the media;.
 -  holding seminars for teachers and educators;
 -  due ^respect to publicity work and support of consistent armed struggle;
 -  the valuable role of the ulama in the leadership of the Islamic revolution and the issuance of judicial decrees whenever necessary;
 -  bringing to the attention of the nation and the mujaheddin leaders the heirs of the Islamic revolution (martyrs, the handicapped and the wounded) and, if possible, establishment of charity and relief organizations for them;
 -  publicizing at national and international levels the various dimensions of our Islamic revolution;
 -  the duty of responsible figures and • members of the JIA to prevent
 ethnic, regional, linguistic and other discriminatory policies;
    consistent and serious efforts for the ^education of, youth throughout the country;,
 - declaration of solidarity with and
support to world Islamic movements and appreciation of the support provi-’ ded by the Muslim Ummah to the lawful jehad of the Muslim Afghan nation;,
- Asking the mujaheddin leaders to work towards the elimination of refugee, problems in foreign countries.
    Isteqlal
MARCH-APRIL
INTERVIEW: "Get acquainted with your
compatriot inventor". I am Fareedullah Sarwari son of Lt. Colonel Abdul Aziz, born in Herat in 1965. Even as a boy of seven I was very fond of electrical appliances and used' to dismantle radio sets etc. and to reassemble them, though often without success. I was a student in the 10th grade when, faced with communist oppression and persecution, I sought refuge in Iran in early 1979. A year later I was a student of the College of Electronics "Payam" where I • attained theoritical and practical knowledge in the field for five years. I built a two-band radio for the first time in 1980. My next achievement was the construction in 1982 of a semi-automatic, coin-operated photographic camera which took 18 months to complete. In 1985, however, I managed to complete a similar camera but fully automatic and computerized. My next move was the . construetion of a power transformer for 2,000 kwh. In 1989 I added to my achievements by constructing a set of "trans-page* machine which * is useful for small radios and industrial implements. Lately I have finished work on a very complicated machine used in the industry. It is unique by itself and is called plastic sewing machine. Besides I am working on an incubator with a capacity for one million eggs. Plans for Machines for Glazed pottery and
157
APRIL-JUNE, 1991            AFGHAN JIHAD                 VOL. 4  NO.3
 ceramics and some other industrial machines are under review. Provided funds are available, I may say, that my incomplete theories can be implemented1 in the following order: The production
 of plastic sewing machines, tailoring of nylon fabrics and writing machine (type-writer), painting machine for black/white and color pictures. Colored film machine, plastic boiling and sewing machine through microwaves, the production of istant electric and fully automatic photography cameras.
    APRIL-MAY
 EDITORIAL: "World Powers and our jehad
 glories'?. While pointing critically to the international hustle and bustle for a political solution of the Afghanistan problem, it writes: Although it is up
 to the thoughtful and valiant lion-hearted guardians of the trenches to come up with finality, but the nation and history shall never forgive those who, until yesterday, called themselves the mujaheddin government guardians and today are busy sowing the seeds of discord among the jehad ranks and are nourishing plans to keep up the Najib's tottering regime in power. The world should know that as long as the roots of crime have not dried up in Kabul, our struggle shall continue and as much . as the fire of insecurity flares up in, our territory through Gorbachev's croonies and followers, the disgrace of the Reds through the fall of Russian Empire shall scandalize more prominently. Gorbachev should rest assured that his puppets could never be in a position to bring peace and tranquility to Afghanistan and the only conclusion that he can expect from pursuance of the case shall, be aggravation of the internal problems of Russia.
 INTERVIEW: Professor Mohammad Qasemi,
 member of the Central Shoora and Political Secretary of the United Front, a component of the Afghan
 Islamic Coalition Council, explaining the reasons for the shifting of the
 Offices of the Front from Tehran to
 Peshawar, said, "after tlie formation of
    ■> '
 Hezb-e-Wahdat at Bamian and opening of its branches in Tehran and other cities
 of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the political, cultural and publicity
 activities of our party as well as other parties were banned all over the
 country. Our offices were Closed down by law-enforcing agencies. Therefore we
 had no other alternative but .to shift the nucleus of our combat operations and political activities to Peshawar".
      He added, "the sole reason for the closure of the offices of the groups
 affiliated with the Coalition Council was their refusal to merge with the
 Hezb-e-Wahdat which annoyed the leaders of this newly formed party. Then the
 authorities concerned closed the offices of the groups affiliated with
 the Coalition Council, in' support of the Hezb-e-Wahdat".
      As regards the organizational set-up of the United Front, he remarked, "the administration of the
 Front resembles that of the Council and on the basis of majority vote, a person
 is elected for a specific period as secretary or chairman of the Central
 Council. However, it may be recalled that subsequent to the formation of
 Hezb-e-Wahdat and merger of some of the United Front to that
 party, the Central Council elected Hujjat-ul-Islam Wal Muslimeen, Ghulam Sakhi Mesbah Herati, a combatant and well-reputed religious scholar* of Afghanistan, as the Chairman of the United Front Central Council".
158
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991            AFGHAN JWW)                  VOL. ,4 NO 3
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnt :WJMinn
                     Ittehad-e-Islami
                            MARCH
                                 25
EDITORIAL: "Enemies of Muslims' solidarity must be. identified". After detailed discussion of Sultan Abdul Hameed, the Turkish Kalif and an outspoken supporter of Muslims' solidarity, it concludes:
    "Presently we are living under similar conditions as were prevalent in Sultan's time. The infidels of East as well as West are trying to sow the seeds of rift and drive a wedge between the mujaheddin and our Muslim people, who have offered martyrs in thousands for the sovereignty of Islam, using various techniques. They are
encouraging one against the other so that the existing partisan . leanings expand and they be able to reap a bumper harvest. We pray to God Almighty that our leadership be endowed with the spirit similar to that of Sultan Abdul Hameed, who was then the pride of the Islamic nation, as to enable it to save the storm stricken ship and by dint of their solidarity foil the machinations of the enemy reviving our past glory and pomp.
                             APRIL
                                  1
    Speaking during the burial ceremony of Martyred Habib-ur-Rahman's sister, Prof. Sayyaf said 26 March, the creat<|op of a: neutral government
and contemplation over a neutral administration ; means that mujaheddin and their enemies will come to a joint decision regarding the future of Afghanistan, because neutrality means
 equal participation of both sides in determining the fate. This is definitely injustice to Islam, injustice to religion and injustice to God and His Prophet, peace be upon him.
      The very idea of joint government is a treason he said. "You ought to be cautious and on the lookout from all sides; today meetings are being held in every nook and corner as to what ought to be done with this jehad and how to bury it/ for good. To bury jehad is to change its objectives.
      "Today the entire world is waiting for this issue. As such, it is not only the duty of mujaheddin leaders and refugees but the whole Muslim brotherhood to be on their guard not to allow the fruits and gains of jehad to be snatched away from mujaheddin and changes be allowed in its way and objectives.
                                                        8
 EDITORIAL:  It writes  about the Khost
 victqry calling it happy tidings of triumphant dawn in the country.
 NEWS ITEMS: As   a result of mujaheddin
 joint operations 7-19 March, against Frontier Militia Division of the Kabul regime in Qaisar and Ghormach districts 24 villages with a population of more than 30,000 along with 50 military posts surrounding the suburban villages of this district as a belt were captured by the mujaheddin. During the 13 day operations, 350 militia and troops of the regime with their weapons were captured and 26 of them killed.      *
    As a result of mujaheddin joint operations 29 March a big headquarter * of Kabul communist regime in Almar, Faryab, was conquered. During this operation, 115 klashenkovs, five machine-guns and 4,000 boxes of various equipment were captured by the , mujaheddin. Also in Marnhaka area of the same district,1,000 armed militia
159
AIM< I L-JUNUr 1991
 surrendered to the mujaheddin.
                 29
 REPORT: The AIG Premier Prof. Sayyaf
 in a gatherning held to condemn the April, 1978 coup in Afghanistan, said, "the Afghanistan issue is one between infidelity and Islam and those who claim to be neutral on this issue, are actually infidels. Referring this issue to mediation of an Islamic or noh-Islamic country, is a sin. Reaching our objective for which actually our jehad started will be impossible .by resorting to such a means. The issue of Afghanistan should be solved by the continuation of jehad in the hot trenches of jehad and by the forces of cannons."
                                           MAY
                  6
 REPORT:  A training seminar for the of-
 ficers of Ittehad-e-Islami Military University was opened 5 May. The seminar was attended by over 200 Officers and continued for three days.
     In an address to the seminar, the
            ” ’'*•* ' '
 Chief       of Guidance  and   Daawat
 Mawlawi    Kashaf said,  "the  Muslim
 Afghan nation has achieved great moral
 and jehad victories during its 13 years
 of jehad and refuge; and in the course
 of these years, the Afghans have been
 able to bring to1 knees the Soviet
 Super power and are well poised on the
 threshold to complete victory.
 Similarly on the moral side our valiant
 nation has trained such heroic, aimful
 and active youth like you who are
 the pride of the jehad trenches."
     Major GUlabuddin Darzoi, the Commander of Military University said, "our objectives from such seminars is the application of systematic plans and the encouragement of the youth in their
VOL. A NO.3
grave responsibilities.
                                  JUNE
            10
 REPORT: Engineer Ahmad Shah in a 3-day
 conference of Muslim Students Association said, "enemy plots against our jehad have intensified."
    The seminar, held in the Ghulam Mohmmad Niazi Hall, was attended by about 200 leaders of madrasas, schools and universities.
    Mohammad Yaser, professor at the University of Daawat and Jehad, told the gathering that living in an organized society puts upon one's shoulder a number of responsibilities which he is expected to discharge properly and in an Islamic spirit.
                          Jabha-e-Jehad
                                 MAY
                                      6
 REPORT: According to news from the Pul-e-Charkhi prison of the Kabul atheist regime sent by one, of HIA (Mohseni) prisoners, as a result of irrespect a»nd ridicule by the officials of the atheist puppet regime in the prison for the Holy month of Ramadan and, due to the non-observance of Ramadan by these officials as well as due to the inhuman and oppressive behavior of the officials towards the Muslim prisoners who are living in the Middle-Age prison of Pul-e-Charkhi, the prisoners resorted to strike 30 march-3 April. The strike led by Muslim strugglers, spread throughout the jail, and even foreign prisoners joined the others.
    The Kabul atheist regime deployed
160
APR 1L-JUNE» 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
more than 1,000 Kabul security forces as well as forces from the butcher organization, KHAD, to quell the strike. The forces resorted to bloodthirsty measures against the oppressed prisoners and broke the strike.
                                       JUNE
                 2
EDITORIAL:  "Is there any special
virtue in the figure 7?" The seven party Peshwawar based mujaheddin organizations, despite the many non-solvable   differences   among
themselves, have one unanimous agreement: to keep all the prerogatives for their group of 7. One does know about the physical, spiritual or psychological virtue, of the figure 7 as these gentlemen are clinging to it so fast and even our host government gives it a special status.
     "If this prerogative is due to the volume and extent of activities, the total volume of the activities of the group of seven is not more than the other groups. For instance, if the HIA (Mohseni) has not achieved more than what has. been achieved by a total of two-three of the group of seven, at least, it has not achieved less. Why then we ought to give more credit to the group of 7 in comparison to other groups?
     "The talks held recently in Islamabad, despite being faced with the disputes and differences of the parties of seven, and at first, these talks were boycotted by one of these groups and later by four of them, still, the remaining three of them insisted on special rights for the group of seven. The HIA (Mohseni) was of the view that we should not insist on the continuation of the AIG. For it will not be attractive to any of the■ parties- except its own Ministers and
 President; A joint jehad military council should be established inside and joint revolutionary council outside the country and the group of seven should refrain from its selfishness and monopolistic trends for the sake of realities and hard facts..."
   Kausar-I
                          MARCH
            4
- Benazir Bhutto, the former Pakistan Prime Minister, has told a VOA reporter in an interview, "I do not think that military efforts will topple the Najib regime. In my opinion all concerned parties such . as Pakistan, the Kabul regime, Iran, the Afghans living in exile, the AIG, Saudi Arabia, the US and the Soviet Union should work together to seek a political settlement which may result- in the establishment of a representative government".
   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Mohammad Younus Khales, Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani visited Saudi Arabia upon the invitation of the Saudi government. Though no agenda for their trip has been disclosed, western diplomats in Islamabad say that these leadens- who had sent troops to the Gulf- would receive a gala reception both by Saudi and Kuwaiti authorities* A Saudi Foreign Ministry spokesman has told Reuter that the mujaheddin leaders would meet Saudi and Kuwaiti authorities and it was expected that US $ one million would be placed at the disposal of AIG President to re-activate the AIG offices.
          20
REPORT: Regarding reports of cuts in
the US aid for the mujaheddin, a senior US official has said: "such reports are
161
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
entirely untrue and various sources in i during the 12 years of war, fighting pursuance of their own political raged in all the areas of Afghanistan
 dimensions propagate such hews that aid to the Afghan resistance has been cut down".
      While deploring some of mujaheddin leaders' criticism of US over the Gulf issue he said: since, like Afghanistan, Kuwait was too occupied by a powerful neighbour, we expected that measures taken for its liberation will be supported because the Afghans too are the victims of aggression.
                                              23
 REPORT: Mediation efforts of Pakistan
 Jamaat-e-Islami between the Soviets and Afghan mujaheddin:    the leader of
 Pakistan Jl, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, is expected to visit Moscow in the near future. A high level Soviet delegation led by Mufti Mohammad Yusuf, member of ■Supreme Soviet, recently met with Pakistan JI quarters and held useful discussions in regard to the Afghanistan issue. Some of the observers opine that the Soviets were indirectly in contact with Engineer Hekmatyar through Pakistan JI, and Hekmatyar had urged the Russians to stop assisting the Najib regime and hand over the mines planting layout in Afghanistan to the mujaheddin*.
                                               27
 NEWS ITEMS: With the inclusion of commanders of South Western region of Afghanistan, the Council of Commanders under Mawlawi Jalalluddin Haqqani has been expanded.
      Responsible political figures of ^ral council of Afghanistan in awar have said that around 300 nders of South Western Afghanistan ^een enrolled as members of this *
                                                                    awi Obaidullah said that
 without any sort of coordination or unity in the military field of operations but now with the establishment of this council, it is hoped that such affairs will take proper shape.
 -  According to Pakistani newspapers, Robert Oakley, the US Ambassador in Pakistan met with Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, in his office 26 March. The meeting lasted two hours during which Afghanistan problem and the Gulf War were discussed and views exchanged. A group of elders from Pakbia and some US diplomats were also present during the meeting.
                 30
 NEWS AND VIEWS:     The Kabul regime
 news agency reports that Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has declared that in the current year Soviet aid to Kabul will continue in the pace of past years. According to VOA, the Russian financial
 aid to the Kabul puppe t regime * every month, amounts to more than $300 million.
     The Swiss Red Cross Committee personnel who were prisoners of mujaheddin of Hezb-erislami more than .two months in Kandahar, have now been released. Haji Asadullah, mujaheddin commander in-charge of those imprisoned personnel, has told the BBC correspondent that those personnel in addition to their original assignments were inviting* people to accept Christianity and that was the ground for their captivity.
 - Al-Hayat daily printed in Frankfurt
 writes:  Is the battle of Khost the
 victory of home 'commanders over politicians? It concludes that Western diplomats in Islamabad say that it is too soon to claim that military outcome
162
APRIL-JUNE* 1991                 1WII                   VOL.  4 NO.3
 of the battle will tip the balance completely in favor of mujaheddin, but this is an acknowledged fact that with ouster of Russian forces from Afghanistan, the Khost battle has provided the mujaheddin with a significant viotory. It has constituted a buffer between home commahders and out-of-country politicians.
 - Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of AIG, met with Ghulam Ishaq Khan, President of Pakistan, and exchanged views on the Afghanistan issue
 27  February. The President assured Mujaddedi that Islamabad will not recognize the Najib puppet regime, formally.
                                     APRIL
                 3
 NEWS ITEMS: Major mujaheddin offensives have begun in Faryab province with the advent of the new Afghan year. In their operations 24-30 March, they captured a large number of enemy personnel and large quantities of arms and ammunitions. One thousand families, affiliated with the government for over 12 years, surrendered to the mujaheddin
 28 March together with their commanders, Adam Khan and-Rahman Khan, as well as their arms and ammunition.
 - Reports published in Washington say thaxt the US has welcomed the capture of Khdsc by the mujaheddin and has considered it a great victory for them. It has also hoped that the mujaheddin would launch their operations throughout Afghanistan 6y the end of April. The US government authorities have also noped that the fall of Khost to the mujaheddin would serve as a warning to the Kabul regime to give up their hold on Afghanistan otherwise they would intensify their efforts to overthrow the government in Kabul.
 - The joint and victorious mujaheddin, operatioris on Khost have led the jehad to a hew and active stage. The capture of Khost is important from the political, military and publicity points of view as. the mujaheddin have proved baseless the Kabul regime claims and propaganda in respect to its potential strength. They have , proved once again that . they are capable of establishing an Islamic rule in their homeland- by defeating the puppqt regime forces through unity and harmony.
                 6
 NEWS ITEMS:  Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the
 Amir of the JI of Pakistan, visited Khost with the HI A leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar 4 April. They arrived in Khost with a^ number of Pakistani journalists and toured the city for five hours in an open jeep.
 - The Pakistani Afghan Cell has termed the mujaheddin joint operation on Khost as a positive eyent, opening new horizons to the mujaheddin and the day is not far when, with the downfall of the Najib regime, the Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran would return home.
 -Three ICRC officials, in the custody of a mujaheddin commander in Kandahar, have arrived in Geneva after they were released. They were in mujaheddin custody for 75 days. They told reporters that the mujaheddin treated them well and they were permitted to listen to the radio and to talk freely with the public.
                 10
 NEWS ITEMS:  A  source close to the
 Pakistan Foreign Ministry said that the Pakistan government has decided to convey special messages of Mian Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of ^Pakistan, care of Mohammad Akram. Zaki, Secretary General of the Ministry_ pf Foreign Affairs to Moscow, Washington, Riaz and
163
APK1 L-JUNE# 1991              DfllHANJfD                     VOL. 4  NO.3
 Tehran, for a political settlement of the Afghan issue.
      The NYT writes on the victory in Khost:  "The       HIA (Hekmatyar) has-
 acquired a considerable portion of the war spoils in the Khost city but this advantage plus the victory of Khost claimed by the HIA has severely angered and annoyed Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani who regards himself as the sole-hero and victor of Khost".
      The Kabul regime press has called Wali Khan, a compromiser. Relations between Wali Khan and the Kabul regime are deteriorating. In a letter frpm Najibullah, referring to the remarks of Ajmal Khattak, the NAP chief and leader of the parliamentary group of this party in the Pakistan Assembly., Najib has expressed surprize regarding the support extended by Ajmal Khattak to the cause of the people of Kashmir and condemnation of the Indian government by him.
                 24
 NEWS ITEMS: A civil court in New Delhi sentenced Assadullah Sarwari, the former Chief of the Kabul regime intelligence agency "AKSA", to five years* imprisonment for illegal stay in India. He was earlier detained, during the visit of the Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakill to India. It is said that Sarwari was already sentenced to death, in absentia, by the Kabul regime for involvement in the unsuccessful coup by General Shahnawaz Tani.
      In the Board area at Peshawar small stalls of the Afghan refugees alongwith their goods and merchandize were ravaged most crually. On the one hand, the local police and the demolition squad officials were arrogantly busy demolishing the stalls and on the other, the poor stall-owners were running from pillar to post like a shepherdless herd of sheep# suddenly
 attacked by a pack of wolves. It was a very painful sight and reminded one of the attacks of Hindu and Sikh extremists on the Indian Muslims or Kashmiris.
      "Meeting of Pakistan security officials, the Mujaheddin leaders and the representatives of the Kabul regime at Geneya". The first meeting between the Kabul regime officials and Pakistan
 security officers was held 17 April in a building of the Swiss Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mohammad Ishaq Tokhi, special Assistant to Najib alongwith
 General Yaqubi, the Afghan Security Minister, two commanders of the Kabul regime militia and General Hamid Gul, the ex-chief of ISI and Director General of the ,Afghan Affairs in the Pakistan Foreign Ministry aceompanied
 with three representatives of two fundamentalist groups of the Afghan mujaheddin, took part in this meeting* All of them tried to come to an agreement on the formation of an interim government or empowering a third party to shoulder this responsibility. Observers have also referred to the presence of Paicha Gul Wafadar, ex-Minister of the Kabul regime now living in. Pakistan, in this meeting.
      "Re-dedication to Faith by the Communist Prisoners at Kurram Agency, Pakistan". A number of communist prisoners living with their friends and relatives in Azhgharo, Wacha Bala Camps at Kurram Agency, were called bo two mosques in the Azhgharo and Shahidano Dand Camps situated a few Kilometers from the Sadda city, on the basis of religious decrees issued by the local religious scholars as well as the local mujaheddin shooras and were told to abide by the terms and conditions laid down by the local mujaheddin and also review their pledge to the Faith,
164
VOL. 4 NO.3
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
                                  MAY
 r t
 NEWS ITEMS: A UN official said, in an
 interview with VOA, that "Formation of the HWIA is a positive step taken by the Afghan mujaheddin". As to how would he assess the future of the HWIA, the UN official replied, "so far this party is going ahead well but its future role vis-a-vis the reconstruction of the central regions of Afghanistan is unpredictable".
     Well-informed AIG sources have revealed that Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, on his return from Saudi Arabia, looked into the affairs of the Public Health Ministry and after listening to the complaints and problems of the officials concerned, dismissed Mohammad Nader v Khorram the Public Health Minister and instead appointed his own son Dr. Najibullah, the Deputy Health Minister, as the health Minister. It is believed that internal differences among the administrative and technical personnel of this Ministry led to the dismissal of Khorram.
     Mr. Khorram attracted the kind notice of His Excellency Mujaddedi as a result of writing and editing a good book in praise of the Mujaddedi family and mentioning Hazrat Sebghatullah Mujaddedi as one of the spiritual and political leaders of the country.
                                               "4
 NEWS ITEMS: Abdul Wakil, the Kabul
 regime Foreign Minister, in a message to Perez de Cuellar, the UN Secretary General, has; demanded the release of officers and troops who were captured by the mujaheddin during the Khost War.
     In joint operation launched by the HWIA, HIA •(Hekmatyar) and the HEIA
 a police detachment at Asyab-e-Gumruk, Balkh, was captured by the mujaheddin 21 April. Some areas were also liberated, a large quantity of light and heavy arms were captured and a number of enemy personnel were killed or wounded.
 -  Hekmatyar, the, HIA leader, told the correspondent of an Urdu daily published in Karachi, "any (Afghan) alliance created by the US will be rejected. America has stopped its assistance to the mujaheddin since some time. God Almighty will supply means and possibilities because we fight for Him and He will help us now as He has done so in the past".
 - It is reported from Khost that the mujaheddin burned some 1,000 communist publications that were collected from the government offices in Khost. The report adds that the majority of the books were written by Lenin and other communist leaders.
                                                      8
 NEWS ITEMS:   The weekly Akhbar-e-Hafta
 of Kabul, claiming to be independent, writes after an interview with Mohammad Eshaq Toukhi, one of Najib’s aides, that he held talks with delegations from the NLFA, NIFA and HEIA (Mohammad!). The question of talks between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime arose for the first time when it was, reported that a delegation, led by Mohammad Eshaq Gailani, according to Payam, had reached Kabul via Kandahar.
    Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar^ the HIA Reader, has arrived in Libya for talks with the Libyan leader, Muammar , Al-Qaddafi.Their talks are reported to have centered around the *’ Afghan and Palestinian problems and other matters of mutual interest.
 - A press release from the office of
165
APRIL-JUNE, 1991           AHIHAN                        VOL. 4 NO.3
 the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujad-
 dedi, has rejected rumors about talks
 between the Kabul regime ahd three mujaheddin organizations.
                 18
 NEWS ITEMS:  Engineer Qutbuddin Hilal,
 Head of the HIA (Hekniatyar) Political Committee,    addressing a press
 conference, remarked that the stoppage of US aid to mujaheddin is a blessing in, disguise. He said that Peter Tomsen, the US Ambassador to the Resistance Movement, usually visits Afghanistan illegally and attends the meetings of the Mujaheddin Commanders Councils.
     Recently the daily NYT, quoting high level US authorities wrote that in 1.992 the American aid to the Afghan mujaheddin would be cut off. On the other hand Peter Tomsen said at a press conference that henceforth he would not help the Islamic fundamentalist parties and groups
 (belonging to Hekm^tyar and Sayyaf).
                              /
    "An American Senator's Suggestion to Hand Over Power to Mohammad Zaher Shah in Afghanistan". Senator Heck writes that the Soviet Union has adopted an inflexible attitude towards Afghanistan. He stated that during his visit to the USSR, he discerned that the Russians are looking forward to the occasion when the USA would cut off aid to the mujaheddin, to keep Najib in power. The KGB Chief told me that Najib was a great patriot. He writes that the Saddam regime fired only eight SCUD missiles against Saudi Arabia and Kuwait whereas during the past one year the Najib regime fired 1,500 SCUD missiles on the oppressed Afghan peopl. Therefore it can be said logically that Najib is far more cruel and ruthless than Saddam Hussain.
                22
 NEWS ITEMS:  The US Los
 reports that the US administration is considering a plan under which weapons .seized from Iraq during the Gulf War be handed over to the Afghan mujaheddin. These weapons will be donated as a present to those parties who had supported the US and Saudi Arabia positions during the Gulf War.
    Perez de Cuellar, • the UN Secretary General, has asked for a ceasefire in Afghanistan and is continuing his efforts for a solution of the Afghan crisis. He recalled the end of his envoy’s talks with mujaheddin and Kabul regime and also with the concerned states of the region and described it as an important step towards the realization of a suitable plan. He said, the US and the Soviet Union have agreed to the implementation of general elections and the formation of . a broad-based state and it is only the question of structure of the interim government on which the two super powers have not come to an agreement,so far.
    While addressing a meeting in his Ittehadi Islami office, the AIG Premier Professor Sayyaf observed-: that Saudi Arabia under direct US pressure has terminated its assistance to some mujaheddin organizations. In relation to the future of Afghanistan, he said, instead of underhand and secret contacts, mujaheddin ought to organize a "Council of Solution and Negotiation" and any plan workerd out by this body should be implemented and pave the way for general elections and establishment of a parliament. He said, if the mujaheddin do not acoept such a plan, the entire jehad groups, including the Iran based parties should compromise on convening a 300-member assembly. As another alternative, he suggested the formation of a 15 or 25 member commission to chalk out a plan for the solution of the Afghan crisis and the future of the country. Yet another alternative
Angeles Times
                                                                                                    166
APRIL-JUNE» 19.91
VUL. 4 NO.3
 would be bo unanimously create a single leadership and for elections to this
 leadership, there will be no candidates front tIA.
 -r ^ After the establishment, of the AIG two years ago in Rawalpindi, .Pakistan, 'the first big meeting of jehad ’leaders was held .a week ago ih. a Pakistan state s guest-' bouse in Islamabad.' The leaders decided ;to establish a 28-member commission comprizing the representatives of Peshawar based seven parties, Tehran based HWIA, independent j\^had parties and some Peshawar-based Shia factions to chalk out a plan on the future of Afghanistan. Islamabad-based western diplomats' have stated that the meeting ■was held at the request of Ghulam Ishaq Khan, President of Pakistan, to party leaders to urgently endorse a comprehensive plan about the future of Afghanistan and implement it. As quoted by -these diplomats, Ghulam Ishaq Khan, in the course of his meeting, pointed out the plan of Dr. Yousuf, a former Prime Minister in the King's regime and Jalil Shams, a German-based Afghan trader, calling it a favorable alternative. Observers opine that Ghulam Ishaq Khan is well disposed towards the plan of Dr. Yousuf.
 •r ;V                     .1   /
 7 * On the other hand the diplomats say
 that Pakistan government's decision
 tegarding getting together the jehad
 leaders was based- on the US decision*
 as reported in the NYT, that by the end
 of 1991, Washington will stop its
 assistance to the mujaheddin.
 - The daily Herald Tribune of London has reported that a team of US and Russian experts during its two sessions about finding a way to the political solution of the Afghan problem handed over, a plan., to the UN regional office in Geneva for disarming, the mujaheddin and the Kabul puppet regime. Recording to this plan, after halting the
 delivery of new; arms to both sides, Afghanistan is expected to emerge as a nation devoid of arms and a neutrjal country.A UN diplomat has said that the Russians have declared their readiness to stockpile . the entire ‘^armory of ythe Kabul .regime and deliver it to UN special stores• But as disraming the mujaheddin and the Afghan, people being impossible, the US administration has proposed that the entire mujaheddin and other Afghans' arsenals should .be purchased. According to this proposal the US and the USSR should make the purchase from a joint fund of: the countries.
                25
 NEWS ITEMS:   A spokesman of Pakistan
 Foreign Office has described' the UN 5-point plan for Afghanistan as a postive step towards the solution of the Afghan problem. The Pakistan Foreign Office issued a statement 23 May, recommending multilateral efforts for the^solution of Afghanistan issue within this framework.
 -  A press release of the Red Army writes that ' recently the Soviet Union provided* the Kabul regime with 24 tilG; fighter planes.
 -  Akram Zaki, Pakistan Foreign Affairs Secretary General, has said that Pakistan is trying to unite all the Peshawar- based parties, like the Tehran -based parties, into a single alliance. He added the Islamic Republic, of Iran supports the mujaheddin and wants an Islamic government in Afghanistan.'
 -  According to a report published in the Bombay Times daily, Najib wanted to meet Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistan prime Minister and the Deputy President of Islamic Republic of Iran during the funeral of Rajiv Gandhi in Delhi. But
 in spite of his persistent requests
167
AIM* I L-JUNE, 1991                nm\m                    VOL. 4 NO.3
 from the Indian government to provide such an opportunity he could not succeed to meet them. Likewise his efforts to meet the German Foreign Minister also failed.
     Four jehad leaders, Mohammadi, Gailani, Rabbani and Mu jaddedi, who are on. official visit to Iran, met with .Hujjatul Islam Murtazavi, the spokesman of HWIA and some of its leaders in Tehran 23 May and discussed ways for a solution of the Afghan issue and* achievement of high ideals of Islamic revolution in Afghanistan. The 5-point plan of the UN Secretary General was also discussed during the meeting. No joint communique regarding the acceptance or non-acceptance of the plan was issued by the leaders.
 -  Shahryar Khan the Secretary of the Pakistani Foreign Ministry in a press conference has welcomed the UN 5-point plan and has added that the formation of an interim government and holding, of general elections were the only wayout from the present' Afghan problem. He said any government which will assume , power as a result of this process will be acceptable to Pakistan. He said, even, if Najib won the elections, Pakistan will recognize him.
 -  The US State Department in a statement has called the United Nations plan for the solution of the Afghan problem as the pivot for solving the Afghan issue and has urged that the ■supply of arms to both sides of the Afghan war should be stopped at an agreed date. The statement says that the US strongly supports the UN plan for the righi* of self-determination of the Afghan JBI/ople and the formation of a government representing the people without foreign intervention.
 -  The Washington Post has said, the Pakistani stand in regard to the Afghanistan issue has been changing and now it is quite sure that all sides
 concerned will eventually .agree on a joint political plan; In the latest.1 session held by President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan with a number of Afghan jehad leaders in Islamabad, the Pakistani leader did not reject the alternative of the formation of a neutral government in Afghanistan.
 -  Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor leader of the HEIA has described as defective the UN plan for a political solution of Afghanistan, saying it provided a base for the execution of super power plans in Afghanistan.
 -  Sebghatuliah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, has rejected talks with Najib or the participation of the Kabul regime leader in general elections. About to the UN plan he said details of the plan have not been revealed.
                                                   28
 NEWS ITEMS: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, in a letter to the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar appealed to the UN to protest strongly against the firing of SCUD missiles on the defenseless people of Kunar and other regions in Afghanistan by the puppet regime in Kabul.
 **' General Fazle Haq, the former NWFP Chief Minister, in astatment declared, "as a result of the participation of the Muslim League members in a so-called Peace Conference organized to oppose the Afghan jehad and to support the Kabul regime, the prestige of the Muslim League party has been impaired,, ^Furthermore, the Chief Minister of NWFP did not even mention the Kashmir and the Afghan problems in the course of. his speech".
      This conference was convened by the National Awami Party and was attended besides the former Prime Minister, Mustafa Jatoi, by Mir Afzal
168
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991
 Khan, a. distinguished Muslim League member and leader of IJI (NWFP) as well as the Chief Minister of Frontier Province.
    The US State Department officials say that the arguments put forward by most of the refugees after the end of 1989 for seeking refuge in the United States, are not satisfactory and convincing from the view point of the US Immigration Department an4 the State Department officials. Therefore the USA has restricted the registration of any further Afghan refugees-
  NEWS ITEMS: A Foreign Office spokesman of .Kabul puppet regime has told a British correspondent that a high leVel del ega tion of the regime will be leaving for Islamabad to /talk 'with. Pakistani quarters, but when the Kausar press and:       political department
  con tacted the Afghap affairs desk of Pakistan Foreign Office, it indicated its ignorance, regarding any dialogue with the 'Kabul regime. /:
  - Iii a session of the Pakistan Cabinet the new policy regarding the political settlement of the Afghanistan issue was endorsed. The Pakistan Foreign Office spokesman said, due to several reasons, Pakistan had to act in accordance with the opinon of world community and adopt a fresh approach to the Afghan crisis.
     PAYAM-E-ROZ:  "The Publicity organ
  of the puppet Watan Party writes regarding the UN plan and ‘Pakistan-Soviet dialogue: The Pakistani government stance is different from that of that country's Army in relation to the Afghan issue,. Nevertheless we are hopeful that political parleys and' dialogue between Pakistani officials and the USSR will pave the way for negotiations between Pakistan and Afghanistan.
VOL. 4 NO.3
 -  On his return from a 7-day visit to
 the Islamic Republic of Iran, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in a press conference, observed:         "Mr.
 Hashemi Rafsanjani, President of Iran has said that a way to a logical political settlement without . outside interference can be sought out through negotiations between the Afghan mujaheddin, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Islamic Republic of Pakistan*.
    Najib, leader of the Kabul puppet regime, while speaking in the "Supreme Council" observed: "I am surprized that our opponents used to accuse iis that we have gained power through the Russians whereas today the Same individuals and parties are asking the soviet Union for my disrniSsal and for the transfer of power . to them. The people of Afghanistan themselves should determine the fate of Afghanis tail and we condemn intervention by any foreign element., including the Soviet Union, he added.
 -  The Akhbar-e-Haf bah weekly,published in Kabul, under the heading of "the page of revolution and revolutionism has been turned" writes:
      "Kabul is not now officially observing 7-Saur (27 April) as the anniversary of revolution. It seems that the chapter of revolutionary zeal has finally faded out and perhaps many sovereign powers have felt that the past ought, to be put aside and the future confronted.
      "The 12-year history of Saur Revolution, called 'The Great Historic Revolution' and ; then termed as the "Transformation" of 7-Saur" is a complex and difficult chronicle which has been differently judged. If the leftist army had not moved 7-Saur, 1357 (27 April, 1978) its tanks and aircraft against the Republican order- of Daoud, would the bloody havac have overtaken the country as it has? Had Daoud not risen
 169
APR 1L-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 against his cousin 17 July, 1973 would the country not have been saved from the plague of patricide, insecurity and disorder? Had the leaders realized the post 7-Saur realities soundly in Afghanistan and had sought to choose a sound national policy, would it not have contained.the pain and troubles of the Afghans?                    ,
      "President Najib had once said that the revolution provided the people with bullets, coffins and graves instead of food, shelter and clothes which used to be the choicest slogan of 7-Saur leaders. The Saur Revolution, as it passed, was a historical blunder. This blunder paved the way for Soviet aggression, provided Pakistan, the US and others with prospects of interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and also it opened the way for expansive alien influence in our entire life. This was a historical blunder not because Afghanistan did not need a change and upheaval but because the leaders of revolution could not identify their place (in history) and that what they were upto?
    "In Peshawar they spit on the history of revolution and in Kabul it is criticized. The opposition of state and the mujaheddin is not rooted in the revolution itself but are ideological and political. However, regarding this revolution,, it must be said that it was due to      lust for power. Those who
 undertood it defiled tne word of revolution whose sanctity is held in high esteem by history.
    "During the contemporary political conflict, a movement for a change and upheaval surfaced:      the first one
 ignored the factors like Islam and the Afghan nationalism and the second one put the contemporary civilization and a traditional society in cold storage. By not observing 7-Saur, Kabul wants to say:   Let bygones be bygones and
 think over the future."
                                        JUNE
                                               1
 NEWS ITEMS:   Riaz Mohammad Khan,
 Director General of Afghanistan Affairs, in Pakistan Foreign Ministry, after talks with the Soviet authorities in Moscow, on the Afghanistan issue has said his talks were satisfactory and Moscow was interested in a solution of the Afghan crisis. Also the Pakistani sources in ‘the Fpreign Ministry have confirmed that, after meeting Pakistani diplomats, the Soviet Union, has revised its position on not sending a delegation to Pakistan and now a Soviet political team will arrive in Islamabad to hold talks with the Pakistani authorities on the Afghan issue.
   Dr. Najib, President of the Kabul puppet regime, has said in an interview with the BBC that the Afghanistan issue will not be solved even if he stepped down. In answer to a question that all the Afghan sides did not want him, he quoted a Pashtu proverb that "don't look at his mouth; look into his heart".He said many of the individuals in the opposition wanted to reconcile with Najib.
 - Qazi Hussain Ahmad leader of JI of Pakistan in an interview with an Urdu newspaper of Lahore has said, until the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, we will side with the mujaheddin. He said, the JI was not alone in its support of the mujaheddin but the Muslim League and the entire members of the Ittehad-e-Jumhuri Islami (IJI) were supporting us.
                5
 NEWS REPORTS: A German diplomat told
 the correspondent of the german daily Die Welt Sayyed Mbhammad Gulabzoy, the
170
Al'KIL-JUNE. 1991            . AfllHAN JfHAU                  VOL.  A NO.3
      former Interior Minister of the Kabul regime, whose last post was Ambassador in Moscow and is now considered as one of the influential opponents of this regime, has held talks with at least three foreign ambassadors including the German Ambassador in Moscow. He has surmised from Gulabzoy's discussions with the German Ambassador that the Khalq faction is trying through certain channels to be at the side of the mujaheddin as a political force subsequent to the downfall of the Najib regime. Gulabzoy has revealed,’ inter alia, that he has met' with two other foreign ambassadors, also. Earlier some of "the well-informed sources at New Delhi had stated that Gulabzoy had made a secret dash to Peshawar.              «        •
         Ishaq Tokhi, Adviser to Dr. Najib, President of the Kabul regime, said in an interview with the correspondent of the NYT that after the meeting between the high-level delegation of the Kabul regime and the Pakistan authorities. General Shahnawaz Tani, leader of the last year’s unsuccessful coup against the Najib regime, has left for Moscow to hold talks with the Soviet authorities. Ishaq Tokhi said that the Kabul regime.’s Foreign, Minister has submitted a plaintive memorandum also to the Soviet authorities, in this connection. Political observers believe that if there is some truth in the news regarding General Tani’s . ' visit to Moscow, it may be quite possible that the Russians may be thinking on the lines of forming a government other than the Najib regime, by aligning themselves with some of the other factions of the Kabul regime. However Ishaq Tokhi has not said anything about the object of General Tani's visit to Moscow.
      The daily Red Star of Moscow has^ written that during the past two months two organized coup plots against the
 Najib regime failed. These plots were planned .by the dissident army officers and soldiers in the Afghan army but were nipped in the bud with the help of KGB. The first resistance of the military officers was exposed in Qargha after the victory in Khost. Then 18 high-ranking officers were detained. They belonged to the Khalq faction. The second plot was also exposed after the revelation of contact between General Tani and some of the military officers in Kabul and a hundred officers were detained. The paper adds that Mohammad Aslam Watanjar, the Defense Minister of the regime, had a hand in at least one of the unsuccessful coups. The Kabul regime authorities claim that General Tani had developed close relations with Engineer Hekmatyar and had sent a number of letters to .Watanjar which have been intercepted by the Kabul authorities. In these letters Watanjar was asked to pre-empt the regime's attack on him, by bringing about the downfall of Najib.       N
                                                 8
 NEWS REPORTS: The leader of the ICRC,
 during an interview at Peshawar with the The News, said that 25 injured soldiers of the Kabul regime who were taken prisoner in the Khost operations and were under treatment at the ICRC clinic, escaped in May.
     He said, according to an agreement between the ICRC and Jalaluddin Haqqani, the injured soldiers had to be surrendered to them after medical treatment. Hence the remaining 43 soldiers have been given to the.custody of Commander Haqqani and other mujaheddin.
     He said that 16 military men of the Kabul regime have been sent to Kabul by air in two batches.
     The mujaheddin sources say that
171
Al’R IL-JUNE. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
due to the despatch of POWs to Kabul, relations between the ICRC and the mujaheddin have been strained. Commander Haqqani said that the ICRC should have observed the terms of agreement, because it is an international committee.
      Abdul Rahman Pazhwak, one of the most seasoned Afghan diplomats, in an interview with a Pakistani newspaper, throwing light on the Afghan problem, expressed the view that the foreign interference should be stopped because the more the foreigners meddle with affairs in Afghanistan, the more complex would the Afghan problem become.
      He added that the holding of an emergency international conference, including permanent members of the UN Security Council and all the political forces of Afghanistan, can play a significant role in the settlement of the Afghan issue. He described the UN Secretary General's plan as defective and said that it cannot guarantee the Islamic and the non-aligned identity of Afghanistan.
      A senior official of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry said that some of the jehad leaders are due to hold talks with Pakistani officials in the Foreign Ministry regarding the latest political developments in Afghanistan as well as the stance adopted by the Pakistan government. He said that Pakistan Foreign Ministry authorities intend to brief the mujaheddin leaders about the results of the diplomatic negotiations held by this country with the Arab, Iranian and Russian authorities as well as some other forces.
      On the other hand, authentic official sources in Islamabad have confirmed that Sayyed Mohammad Gulabzoyr former Interior Minister of the Kabul puppet regime and also its Ambassador
in Moscow, has come to Islamabad to discuss the Afghan crisis with some of the authorities concerned and has held effective discussions        in this
connection. Meanwhile, earlier General Tani had paid a visit to Moscow for finding a political, solution to this problem.
     Political observers are of the view that the idea behind interposing the Khalq faction in the political arena, majority of whose members have already sought refuge in Pakistan and other Western countries, would be to persuade the Russians to depose Najib and thus fill the vacuum, created by the deposition of : Najib, with the Khalqis- a suggestion the Russians are yet not ready to accept. .
     The Los Angeles Times, quoting Vrontsov, Soviet Permanent Representative at the UN, Writes that his government is trying to find ways and means to guarantee the safety and security of the pro-Soviet elements in Afghanistan in case of Najib's deposition.
     Political observers opine that the USSR has consented that if the Watan Party stays on the political scene and is permitted, like the other parties, to function as a political force and its members,. Jbeing acceptable to the mujaheddin, are accommodated in a broad-based government, the Russians will deprive Najib of the power.
                12
NEWS ITEMS:   An AIG source confirmed
that joint session of mujaheddin leaders and representatives of some mujaheddin organizations was held at the AIG Supreme Court. The source added that the resiilt of the session was not disclosed, but observers believe that it was the continuation of the sessions held earlier in Islamabad.
172
APR IL-JUNE, 1991           flHlHAN JH1A1I                 VOL.  4 NO.3
   Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA, has told a press ' conference in Islamabad that Najib’s resignation would pave the way for the realization of the UN peace initiative. He said, "I believe that the ever-increasing mujaheddin operations will result in new victories".
     Zaher Shah's first official delegation has arrived in Pakistan., When asked about the result of talks between this delegation and the Pakistani and mujaheddin leaders, a Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokesman said that the delegation would meet the mujaheddin leaders and Pakistani officials according to plan. Political observers consider the delegation's visit important representing a change in the Pakistani stance.
                                                 15
NEWS ITEMS: Don Ritter, a Pennsylvanian member in the US House of Representatives, has said that 1,500 Russian-made SCUD missiles were fired on the Afghan villages last year.
- According to TASS, talks were held in Moscow between a high ranking official of the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the Soviet Union on the Afghan issue. Political observers say that the Islamic Republic of Iran has underscored and has also told the Russian authorities that the Afghan nation do not accept Najib.as the head of the Kabul regime. The report adds that the Iranian side stressed the need for non-interference in Afghan affairs, general elections in the country and guarantee for its Islamic identity and has told the Soviets that the Muslim people of Afghanistan should be allowed to decide their own destiny.
   Abdul Rahman Pazhwak, an Afghan political figure and writer, in a message to Kausar has said that the
  translation of his opinions published in the Kausar were not correct. The original text of his views were published in the Pakistani newspaper. The Frontier Post. He says that his correct wordings were, "I consider the UN Secretary General's proposals as imperfect, unrealistic, biased in favor of the Soviet Union and as such, I reject them".
                                                 18
  NEWS ITEMS:      The   EEC in  a joint
  resolution on the political settlement of Afghanistan has welcomed the UN Secretary General's efforts and those of his special envoy Benon Sevan.
      Prof. Sayyaf, the, AIG Prime Minister, has said in an open letter to the Muslim Pakistani government and nation, "the new plans proposed by the UN regarding the Afghan issue will extinguish the flames of our glorious Islamic struggles". He urged the government of Pakistan that if it were unable to resist world pressure in regard to the UN peace plan, it should at least not allow the plan to be implemented through the . Pakistani channels.                      '1
  - Diplomatic sources in Jordan have said that the Libyan government is searching for new channels to aid the Islamic parties of Afghanistan. A Libyan diplomat, who has had meetings with a high ranking delegation of the Islamic Brotherhood in Amman, Jordan, has revealed that so far the Libyan leader, Qaddafi has met eight times a number of Afghan resistance leaders.
     A spokesman of former King Zaher \ Shah has told a British correspondent that the former King has, in a letter to the Pakistani President Ghulam rlshaq Khan, requested him to allow the King 'to,,/ open a liaison office in Islamabad for himself. The Pakistani
173
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
III
VOL- A NO..3
authorities have not reacted.
- Hujjat-ul-Islam Murtazavi, spokesman of the HWIA in a press conference in Peshawar has said, "we reject any form of participation by Najib in the future of Afghanistan and consider him a criminal".
- Former Afghan Premier, Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, in an interview on the telephone with the Kausar has said, "while I consider the Kabul regime as an illegal and puppet regime, I received Abdul Wakil, the Foreign Minister of that regfime, at his own request and held talks with him. Dr. Yousuf described Najib as a criminal and added that the establishment of any coalition government with him was unacceptable to him.
   Sultan Mahmood Ghazi and Abdul Satar Seerat, representatives of Zaher Shah, met the Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to exchange views with him on political issues. So far a number of jehad leaders have also met the King's envoys.
Kausar - //
                              MARCH
             23
REPORT: Military installations of
Communist Kabul regime in the besieged city of Khost were attacked by the mujaheddin.
    Islamic news agency of Afghanistan reports 'from Khost that during the past 24 hours the mujaheddin attacked Division 25 of Kabul regime in the besieged city of Khost. During this operatipn Divisional Headquarters, provincial KHAD Headquarters, Radio
 Station, radar of the regime forces were destroyed and a number of troops and officers were killed or wounded. The joint blitz mujaheddin operations also resulted in the capture of several enemy posts and the destruction of sundry enemy military aircraft.
                                           30
 NEWS ITEMS: In separate operations on a battalion of the armed forces of the Kabul regime, in Qaisar, Faryab, the mujaheddin arrested 16 officers and a good number of militiamen and seized 1,091 pieces of weapons 19 March.
 -  Amnesty International has urged the communist Kabul regime to stop torturing political prisoners and allow international inspection of its jails. In a report, the organization has further disclosed that the Kabul regime Ministry of Security has tortured and murdered hundreds of political prisoners in investigation centers and jails without indictment or trial.
                                      APRIL
                6
 NEWS ITEMS: A senior US official in Washington has said that the Afghan mujaheddin victory in Khost has demonstrated to the President of Kabul regime that the time has come fpr a "change in Kabul leadership cadres.
    Robert Kimmit, the US Assistant Secretary of State has said that US support of Afghan mujaheddin would continue..
    In the wake of the mujaheddin glorious victory in Khost, more than
 5,000 officers, men and government employee, of the atheist regime were captured.
 - Due to heavy artillery fire of the
VOL,. 4 NO. 3
  AIM< I L-JUNE, 1991
mujaheddin on the Kabul Airport, v28 officers and men of the puppet regime were killed. In Chehlstoon near Kabul, the mujaheddin shot down an aircraft of the regime, 2 April.
NEWS ITEMS:   In separate attacks 1-3
April, the mujaheddin destroyed 15 aircraft, 19 tanks and five ammunition depots of the Kabul regime in Bagram Airfield and killed 55 regime soldiers.
   Soviet advisors are still helping the Kabul regime forces in their fight with the mujaheddin. This was stated in a press conference by General Abdul Haleem, the* elite Guard Commander of atheist Kabul regime, who was captured by mujaheddin during the fall of Khost, during a press conference to the correspondents.
* A senior officer of the atheist Kabul regime, Colonel Atta Mohammad, who was captured by mujaheddin during the fall of Khost, has also, admitted that sophisticated Russian arms are being supplied to the Kabul regime constantly and Soviet advisors are in command of entire war operations and guidance of Kabul regime forces.
— Bodies of 400 soldiers, officers and militia of the atheist Kabul regime were transported, by aircraft to Kabul. The ANA has reported, prior to this 20-30 bodies of Kabul regime troops were daily carried to Kabul. It is to be noted, however, that the communist Kabul regime transported only bodies of privileged and' well connected class of militia, soldiers and officers from the war front to Kabul and the rest of the non-privileged bodies remain on the spot.
                                                 20
NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin sources report from Faryab that early this week
 in an armed clash between the military and militias of the atheist regime in Faryab, Hashem Paikarwalai, the Governor of the Province and two •senior generals of the regime were severely wounded and 14 people from both sides killed.
 - Military installations and security posts of Kabul regime in Sorobi of Kabul Province, were severely attacked
  by mujaheddin 13 and 14 April, as a result of which two important posts which provided security to Kabul-Jalalabad Highway were completely , destroyed. During the operations 13 soldiers, including four officers, were killed and a number wounded.
      A day after the attack, nine troops belonging to the atheist regime, killed their two communist officers and along with their weapons surrendered to the mujaheddin. Earlier this week a big military caravan of the atheist regime came under the attack of heavy fire arms of mujaheddin on Salang Highway as a result of which three armored vehicles and two arms and ammunition carriers were destroyed and their crew killed.
 - The Kabul Airport installations were fired upon by long-distance weapons of mujaheddin, 9 April, as a result of which two standing jet aircraft of the Kabul atheist regime on the tarmac were burnt out.
                                                 27
 NEWS ITEMS:   The mujaheddin exploded
 on the night of 21 April the atheist regime's big arms and ammunition depot inside Balahesar of Kabul. Due to this * tremendous explosion 800 klashenkovs,
 48 grinoys, 38 kalakovs, 13 machine guns, 12 rocket launchers, seven heavy cannons, several army vehicles and a sizeable quantity of equipment Were destroyed.
175
APNIL-vHJNE, 1991
VOL. A NO. []
 - More than 180 military personnel of the Kabul puppet regime fled Gardaiz, Paktia and surrendered to mujaheddin
  with their arms and equipment.
   The Parwan mujaheddin repulsed an Offensive of the atheist regime forces in Safi Mountain and shot • down a helicopter 14 April.
                                      MAY
                4
 NEWS ITEMS: In Chemtal, Balkh, the mujaheddin captured the big military headquarter of the atheist regime and arrested 80 armed men 1 May. During the five hours clash, besides six armored tanks and the battalion's equipment depots, 600 klashenkovs, 25 boxes of hand grenades, four water and oil tankers, two tractors, six gas motors and hundreds of cartridge boxes of various types of weapons were seized by the mujaheddin.
 - In the wake of mujaheddin operations in Helmand and Farah, 21 tanks and transport facilities of the atheist regime were seized by the mujaheddin and 30 troops were killed 2 May.
                11
 REPORT: Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of HIA, recently resigned from his post as Minister of Interior of the defunct AIG. He described the reason for his resignation self-conceit and self-seeking of the AIG leaders. In the course of his remarks he severely condemned the special meetings and sessions of Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Burhanuddin Rabbani with the puppet Najib and the Soviet Ambassador calling it a step towards futility and no-confidence. He added that their action contributed to the definite collapse of the AIG, . its non-commitment  and non-validity.
 In a government, when its senior members carryout visits and meetings with the atheist Najib and is instrumental in the maintenance and survival of Kabul puppet regime, what use will it be to continue performing our duty there. These were the factors o, which     contributed    to Khales'
 relinquishment of his charge and breaking away from the already defunct AIG and discontinuation of all kinds of cooperation with it. In the wake of his remarks he reiterated that jehad should continue till the achievement of revolution objectives and the fall of Najib's puppet regime and non-inter ference of the Russians. He said we should not hold the kind of negotiations which were contrary to the interests of Islam and revolution and were paving the way for;, the establishment of a Russian of American government or its like in Afghanistan.
 He described such moves as repugnant and a treason.
                                                   18
   General Mohammad Kabir Dalil was arrested 14 May when he was trying to offer arms and money to a mujaheddin commander to persuade him abandon jehad operations against the puppet regime and fight another commander of Qargha.
 - A joint operation was carried out by the mujaheddin on Kandahar Airfield resulting in the destruction of the aiports's security posts and depots 7 May.
 - During mujaheddin operations oh KHAD 86 Battalion in Aibak, Samangan, Major Jum a,Commander of the Battalion along ’with 50 militiamen were captured by the mujaheddin. In the operation, lasting three days, 15 militiamen were killed and 20 wounded, 13 May.
176
VOL. 4 NO.3
APR IL-JUNE.
                                         25
 NEWS ITEMS: According to the news
 reaching 20 May, the Takhar mujaheddin have captured the Darqad sub-district during a two day operation. In these operations more than 500 atheist regime officers, soldiers and militiamen with their arms and equipment surrendered to the mujaheddin.
 - The daily Azadi has suspended its publication due to financial strains: Azadi was the first daily newspaper among the jehad publications.The paper, as was evident from its title, was independent, non-aligned and was financed by a few committed persons interested in cultural and Islamic revolutionary values as well as through the sale of the newspaper itself. It is hoped that, with availability of legal financial means, it will restart.
   The AIG Premier Professor Sayyaf, while replying to Afghan and foreign correspondents, rejected and condemned political solution of the Afghan issue proposed by the Russians of the UN. He emphasized the need for unity among jehad forces to topple the Kabul puppet regime.
                                     JUNE
                                           1
 NEWS REPORTS: District commanders of
 Kabul outskits held a meeting to consider the UN plan. The meeting called it a defective plan violating the rights of the mujaheddin and added that it was devoid of .any practical dimension and had ignored all the epical struggles of the mujaheddin. The meeting rejected any plan repugnant to the just cause of the mujaheddin and stressed the continuation of jehad till the establishment of a really true Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    On 30 May, 1991 for the first time in our 13 years of jehad, a general public library "UMMAT" was inaugurated in a befitting manner at Hayatabad, Peshawar. Eng. Hekmatyar, in his inaugural speech, described the establishment of such libraries as an effective means of raising the cultural level of our Islamic society.
                  Khabarnama
                            JUNE
                             10
   Farid Mazdak, Deputy Premier of Kabul puppet regime has admitted to domestic and foreign journalists that intense disagreements have prevailed among different factions of the regime. He complained that extremist groups were responsible for fannig these disputes.
 - In Norway a women was oppressed by the police for her objection to Gorbachev and thus the real face of the west was unmasked in regard to human rights and rights of women. An Afghan woman succeeded to trick the K.G.B. and Norwegian security officers and entered the Oslo Municipal Hall. While she was holding pictures of wounded Afghan children, shouted to Gorbachev to let her present him flowers, but, first you should collect millions of
 anti-children mines planted by you Russians in Afghanistan. The woman wanted to tell Gorbachev other things, bub was forced out of the Hall by the so called defenders of human rights, democracy and free speech. Outside the Hall, a number of people staged demonstrations against the decision of offering Nobel prize to Gorbachev. They were, however, beaten by the,police.
177
 APRIL-JUNEr 1991                          flfflHAMJ[HAD                             VOL.   4  NO.3
   Khabarnama-
                                e-Basharat
                               APRIL
              13
 REPORT: The Agency office of Hezb-e-
 Wahdat-e-Islami Afghanistan was inaugurated in a befitting magnanimous ceremony in Peshawar 3 April. Some of jehad leaders, representatives of the AXG and parties, political figures, military commanders of Hezb-e-Wahdat, a large number of Afghan refugees and mujaheddin and Afghan teachers and students in Peshawar attended the ceremony.
     A number of Iranian diplomats and some Pakistani personalities * also participated in the ceremony. After recitation of the Quran verses Hujjat-ul-lslam-wal-Muslimeen Ballaghi, member of the Central Council of the Wahdat party and Chief of its Agency in Peshawr said: "After the establishment
 of the party all the inter fightings in the realm of this party have come to an end and throughout the central territories of   Afghanistan an
 atmosphere of peace and tranquility prevails and the resistance forces are well poised for onslaught and jehad against the Soviet puppets".
    *      '          I <
     Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and -Hujjat-ul-Islam Waizi also spoke in the meeting and insisted on solidarity.
                        ♦
     At the end, Hujatt-ul-Islam-wal-Muslimeen, researcher Chief of HWIA said,"we ought to be united one and all as God Almighty has ordained in the Holy Quran: Hold- on fast to the rope
 of Allah all and do not scatter.
Khurshed-e- Jehad
               MARCH
 NEWS ITEMS: The Kunduz mujaheddin have carried out their operations with heavy weapons on the Kunduz Airport, as a result of which flight schedule was completely disrupted and the regime aircraft were badly damaged.
 - As a result of successful operations of mujaheddin in the Badghis outskirts, two enemy military posts were occupied and a large amount of arms and ammunition were seized by the mujaheddin. The operation resulted in the burning out of one tank and two armored vehicles and six persons were captured by the mujaheddin. Two of the mujaheddin were martyred and one wounded.
 - A few days earlier, in the province of Kandahar, twelve officers alongwith 16 men of Kabul regime surrendered to mujaheddin with their weapons.
                                          MAY
                                           23
 REPORT: The present government in
 Pakistan finally has decided to go ahead towards the achievement of a political accord in the current developments in Afghanistan. In order to give a practical shape to this decision, a high-powered Pakistani delegation headed by Akram- Zaki, Secretary General of Pakistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs has left for Saudi Arabia and Iran.
     Replying to a question about the future of Najib and his government in Kabul and striking an accord with him, Akram Zaki said:  "The term accord
178
APR IL-JUNE. 1991
mJfHl         VOL. 4 NO.3
should find a place in the scheme of things and Afghans should base their decision on it for the formation of their future government. Such a •government should have a broad political and social formation". He added, "even now we have a good opportunity for initiating a political accord and sincerely ask the Afghan mujaheddin and the refugees in Iran to participate in this political accord".
    Mahaz
                               APRIL
                                    10
MESSAGE: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani,
Leader of NIFA, in a message to the victors of Khost has congratulated them and stated: "The NIFA will continue its
jehad till the downfall of the puppet Kabul regime or its unconditional surrender or till a political settlement guaranteeing the noble aims of jehad according to the desires and wishes of our crusading nation for establishing a proper system in the country.
    "On the auspicious occasion of the victory of Right over the Wrong, in a desired and appropriate manner, I congratulate General Abdul Rahim Wardak, Commander of NIFA at the Khost front, and all the brave mujaheddin and people and the officers who took part in the operation. I hope that the Shooras and the people of Paktia, in consequence of this victory, would perform their duties and obligations in an appropriate manner in order to ensure security and forestall disorderliness, so that they may be blessed with Divine consent".
INTERVIEW:  General Abdul Rahim Wardak,
                       the NIFA commander in Khost, has said
in an interview:
     "In the Khost battle all the jehad parties participated according to their capacity and influence in the region. The mujaheddin were coordinated in the form of jehad shooras at strategic points leading to the Khost city and the quota of mujaheddin belonging to each party, in the shooras, was determined by the party members concerned'!
     "If grading is to be taken into consideration, HIA (Khales) and NIFA may be rated in the first category and HIA (Hekmatyar) in the second category and other parties .in the later categories. But it may be pointed out that the success granted by God Almighty to the mujaheddin at Khost was not the result of any individual commander or any ‘single party’s activity but a sum total of the truthful and durable coordinated efforts of all the parties of the local mujaheddin".
                                        MAY
                                               1
EDITORIAL: "The Head of the Quisling
Kabul Regime, Najib's messages to the Heads of Islamic States in connection with the Khost victory". The editorial condemning the message sent by Najib to the Islamic countries inviting them to interfere in he affairs of Afghanistan and accusing the mujaheddin to have succeeded with others' help, states:
     "The heroic Afghan mujaheddin are warning the defeated Kabul regime for the last time, to accede to the righteousness of Islam, not to incur further devastation on our ruined country and not to cause any more bloodshed involving our innocent people. The objective for which we have put up the resistance, the goal for
179
                                                                                 Ai'im-jUNi:, 19(J1
 which we have given sacrifices and the cause for which we are fighting, will be achieved by us with the help of God Almighty. Thus we would establish the Islamic system in our Islamic country as a Muslim nation and on the basis of our ideals.
                  21
 NEWS TTEMSsThe mujaheddin of Division No. 1, Mazar-e-Sharif, attacked the 'Asyab Gurg Brigade of the Kabul regime at Chemtal District and after defeating it, got the following booty:            six
 armoured         tanks,     two  tanks; 10
 tractors;         four vehicles and    600
 klashenkovs.
      In this operation eight mujaheddin were martyred and 80 militiamen and soldiers         of the   regime were taken
 prisoners.
      The mujaheddin of the First Brigade, Koh-e-Safi, attacked the Kabul Airport op 27 April 1991 with Sukur-20 missiles destroying an aeroplane       and
 inflicting technical damages on a number of other aircraft and made two radar stations also inoperative.
     A scholarly and research seminar, "Media in Future Afghanistan", was held under the auspices of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance, at the initiative of Mr. Sabahuddin Kushkaki, one of the founders of this Council for four days at Islamabad. It considered and discussed various problems and conducted by issuing a report. In-this seminar which was held at Capital Hotel, Islamabad, a large number of Afghan religious scholars and intellectuals read their articles.
                                                             "The executive _manager of the Seminar Mr. Kushkaki said, during his conversation with the representative of BBC, that one of the main/ results of the seminar was that all the
VOL. A NO.3
 participants emphasized the 'existence of a legitimate and free , fresl"tn Afghanistan which should be able to serve the Muslim Afghan nation within the domain of the Islamic Shariat.
            MARCH
     19
 REPORT:  The Three day seminar (7-9
 March) regarding the role of Muslim youth in the future of Afghanistan organized * by the Islamic Cultural Center and in • collaboration with Political Studies Institute of Arabic Section ended in Madinat-ul-Hujjaj, Rawalpindi. Terms of reference of the seminar constituted the following:   (1)
 the youth and challenges of modern age including debates in the fields of political, scientific and cultural difficulties-; (2) the stance of Muslim youth vis-a-vis the problems of Muslim ummah comprising the issues of Afghanistan, Palestine, Kashmir and the Gulf; (3) ' responsibilities of Afghan Muslim youth regarding jehad and current     circumstances      involving
 multifarious military, scientific and political dimensions and (4) the role of Muslim youth regarding the future of Afghanistan . including multitudinous problems in this field.
                                                    J
   According to the report of Moscow News, Babrak Karmal, who was installed by Russian forces in the country and was expelled six years ago, is presently living in the suburbs of Moscow as a detenee in a seven room residence. His daily engagements comprise listening to Western classical music and writing his shameless life memoirs. Moscow News writes that during four years, Karmal was allowed four outings from the building. He says that
180
 \
 APR1L-JUNE, 1991
 he would like to return to Afghanistan at any cost and play his role in the modern history of the country.
                                     APRIL
                                            4
 EDITORIAL: "The Capture of Khost or a
 Sign of the Downfall of Kabul regime". Considering the capture of Khost as the result of the mujaheddin alliance, the paper writes, "supporters of the jehad and the Islamic revolution are of the
                            I
 opinion that what really plays a decisive role in the jehad is the armed struggle which succeeds through unity. The Afghan Mus'lim nation has had useful experience from this since the start . of the April coup, 1978. Unless the battle fronts are kept hot and unless the enemy is held under constant pressure, it will not be possible to attain a political solution that would heal the wounds of this nation. Therefore, the seizure of an enemy post or base at home is by far more important than a whole world of diplomacy abroad.
     The change brought about in the political atmosphere and felt in the public opinion, after the capture of Khost demonstrates clearly that concerted efforts of the mujaheddin against the Kabul regime have direct bearing on the destiny of our Muslim people and the rightful jehad of, our deprived nation.
 NEWS ITEMS: The Hindukush News Agency
 reports that a jeep carrying a number of Kabul regime important figures in Khwajaghar , Takhar, was blown-up by a remote control time-bomb. General Kabir Dalil, Commander of the provincial KHAD unit and two other high-ranking military personnel were killed in the explosion.
VOL. 4 NO.3
                23
 NEWS ITEMS: The valiant mujaheddin of.
 •Jauzjan carried out their during, expansive and effective operations on Kabul regime security posts 19-20 April. Thirty enemy villages were captured in the operation. During the mujaheddin operations on 60 enemy s-ecurity posts, one tank, one lorry and 120 different kindn of weapons were captured and 40 men joined the mujaheddin ranks along with their weapons. Enemy casualties were 70 dead and wounded and among the mujaheddin five were martyred and .17 injurecf.
 -—With the joining of Sufi Isiam and his men with mujaheddin 6 April, the district of Dasht-e-Archi and its suburbs were liberated. According to eyewitness account, prior to his joining the mujaheddin, Sufi Islam during a meeting convened by him,shot a number of puppet Khalq party officers and members and cleared the area off their unholy presence.
 - As a result of Kabul regime firing of SCUD missiles on Asadabad, Kunar, 500 people were martyred, 700 wounded, 400 shops were gutted and hundreds of residential quarters were demolished.
               24
 REPORT: Perez de Cuellar^ UN Secretary
 General declared the following 5-point plan for bringing to an end .the Afghanistan war:  ceasefire; inter-negotia-
 tions among the concerned parties, creation of an interim government, free elections and establishment of a broadbased state.
      The puppet regime of Kabul accepted the plan forthwith. Pakistan, the US and USSR too supported the plan.
      HIA Hekmatyar, called the plan
181
APR1L-JUNE, 1991                      AfflHANJIHAD                           VOL.  4  NO.3
 unrealistic and unacceptable for the mujaheddin and declared that in the presence of the murderer Kabul regime the question of ceasefire does notarise , and elections held under the patronage of the puppet regime has no value.
      A communique issued by* IIA while calling the plan an insult to the mujaheddin said in this plan the people who have sacrificed more than 1} million for the independence of their homeland have been looked down upon.
      Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, once observed, "In case of international guarantees Najib can stay in the government until the end of elections but a number of Afghan Muslims, if so desire, can run the government     provided     there is
 international guarantee to the effect that Najib shall be out within one or two months. We shall never accept holding elections'under the supervision
 of Najib",
 \
      Professor Rabbani said, despite the fact that the details of the plan were not yet available, he was not willing to talk to Najib or discuss ceasefire or negotiate political settlement. He also ruled out a dialogue with* Khaliqyar, calling it meaningless and rejected since the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime was a party to the massacre in Herat.
      Ayatullah Mohseni considered the, resolution of Afghan problem through dialogue between mujaheddin and the Soviets as okay since 99 out of 100 people;, were against dialogue with Najib. '          .
 1     Regarding the plah HWIA speaker
 stated that it had; strong as well as weak points* The first point: rejects ceasefire and negotiations with Najib and the three remaining points i.e. the
 creation of an interim- governmeht, elections and establishment of a broadbased government, are considered strongvpoints.
     Mawlawi Khales said, "The plap will be acceptable provided Kabul regime and Moscow, agree to scrap all military, economic, social and cultural accords made after the. 1978 coup and those unjust accords are declared illegal.
     Pir Sayyed Ahmad Qailani remarked: "During the interim period, an individual or a. group of committed people of Afghanistan, can run the government and general elections ought to be • held and a representative government of the Afghans be established. He added that during this1 period Najibullah should give^ up /his role.                        '  ’ ' •
                                       MAY
                                            8
 EDITORIAL: "Extended diplomatic efforts and necessity for adoption of a. unified political stance by the mujaheddin"; According to the mass media Russia has expressed willingness to .hold direct talks with the Afghan mujaheddin. Pakistan has also made a series of diplomatic efforts to solve the Afghanistan issue and in this context has earlier contacted Iran and Saudi Arabia. 11 goes wi thout saying tha t
 negotiations with Russia or any other country can be fruitful when the jehad forces' policies are harmonised. Due to this vacuum in the mujaheddin diplomacy, foreign countries have always concluded separate dealings with groups and’ individuals and have reaped bumper .harvest.
     Therefore, it iS incumbent on influential jehad organizations and the government to create a political
182
APR 1L-JUNE * 1991                         mUUm                         VOL.  A  N0.3
                                                                           r- '
 commission comprizing the representatives of the entire jehad forces, irrespective of the parties outside the Seven of the Coalition, so that it may at least unify the diplomatic activities particularly to hold talks with the Soviets and other countries concerned with the .Afghanistan issue. The progress of political affairs may be entrusted to this commission.
 NEWS ITEMS: Due to the joint operations of . HIA, HWIA and HEIA the district of Chemtal in Balkh province was liberated. Fifty troops and officers of the Kabul regime were captured by the mujaheddin who also seized heavy and light weapons.
 REPORT:  During  a   meeting with the
 security and local officials Of NWFP, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani said:      The
 support rendered by the people of Pakistan to the Afghans has had a unique place in history. He said, we shell never forget the support given^to us by Pakistani nation. Rabbani was speaking in the dinner, given by him, in honor of Ansar brethren 7 March in Peshawar. He said, "we have stepped into a new stage in the region with a view to unify the Muslims and realize their sacred hopes and, God willing, soon an independent and dignified Islamic Afghanistan will be established in the area, which will serve as an invigorating shot in the arms of the Muslim nation of Pakistan".
 INTERVIEW: Agha Bhahi, a former Foreign Ministei: of Pakistan while talking to the Association of Writers and Speakers
 of JIA said:   The question that arose
 then to Pakistan was,if it did not sign the (Geneva) treaty on Afghanistan it would have virtually meant that we did not favor Soviet withdrawal. Had Pakistan not signed the treaty, many questions regarding the withdrawal of Soviet troops would have cropped up and to answer them would have been very difficult. That is why some ask as to why Pakistan signed the Geneva treaty since 1 the Soviets would have been out of Afghanistan any way.
      If you go seriously over all the discussions, a few other agreements should have been signed e.g. the agreement regarding the return of refugees, non-interference, etc.
      During the treaty of 1985,
 Pakistan insisted on setting of a timetable. I am of the opinion that the
 signing of Geneva agreement has not
 harmed the mujaheddin in any way.
                                                 30
 NEWS ITEMS: A special Russian envoy has met in Tehran with the representatives of the HWIA. The Russian envoy is reported to have told the HWIA leaders that his country was ready to cooperate with the mujaheddin for establishement of peace in Afghanistan as well as self-determination for the people of that country. He has expressed the hope that soon bloodshed will be halted in Afghanistan.
     According, to Hindu Kush News Agency, as a result of serious differences between the Parchamis and the KAR faction in Maimana, armed clashes took place between them 4-5 March which led to imposition of a curfew in the city, as announced by the local Radio of the regime.
 - Prof.. Rabbani in a condolence, meeting held for Martyred Sayyed
183
AI*H 1 L-JUNEr 1991        RHillAN JEHAD                  VOL. A NO. 3
Jamaluddin said: The weakening of Jehad centers was not detrimental to the muajheddin alone but would be harmful to those who had cooperated with us for some time .
   Captain Alauddin in an interview with the Mujahed reporter has said: In order to overthrow the Kabul regime, there must be an agreement among the commanders throughout the country.
                                    APRIL
                                          8
REPORT: Prof. Rabbani in a condolence
meeting for Sayyed Jamaluddin said: By eliminating and terrorizing the jehad personalities, the enemy actually aimed at terrorizing our Revolution. There were various organizations ■ which resorted to any means to quell, and defame the Afghan Revolution. Some times they were trapping us by offering us bribes and if they offer something to one commander, this in fact was aimed at quelling all of us and discrediting our revolution. The strongest defense and guard against this was our own unity. It would be indeed painful if we existed and our Revolution was extinguished.
INTERVIEW: Dr. Faz-ul-Lah Mujaddedi,
the Chief of Jehad in Logar Province, in an interview with the Mujahed has said: In relation to the fate of the country we should take into account the jehad talents and forces and our aim only should not be to evolve an administrative, structure for the country. He said, if the present changes taking place in Russia are due to Gorbachev new thinking, one should bear in mind that this new thinking has been influenced by the Afghan jehad. He said effective publicity had a key role in the success of our Islamic Revolution.
              14
NEWS ITEMS: Our correspondent reports
from Zakheil camp that due to floods caused by heavy rains 1,500 house.s collapsed, 400 drinking water wells, two schools and medical clinics were washed away. The flood which lasted 16 hours brought along with it harmless black snakes. The residents of this camp have asked the charitable institutions and jehad organizations for humanitarian assistance in reconstruction of flood damages and containment of rivar flooding.
-  According to reports received from Kabul, the mujaheddin during their operations on Kabul Airport 4 April with long range rockets destroyed the regime's jet aircraft. According to another report, the mujaheddin carried out, their rocket operations on Qargha Division also resulting in heavy casualties and injuries among Kabul regime troops.
                                       MAY
                                          12
NEWS ITEMS: One hundred families were
buried under the soil as a result of a mountain slide in Kundum Qala of the Keshem district, Badakhshan, 20 April. The number of those killed hasf been reported to be more than 200.
-  News reaching from Logar speak of heavy floods resulting in the demolition of more than 2,000 houses, thousands .of acres of agricultural land and 10 bridges.
              22
REPORT:   Prof. Burlianuddin Rabbani,
leader of JIA, has left for Egypt at the invitiation of the Egyptian government to take part in an iternational conference , on Islam.
184
APR 1L-JUNE. 1991                         AfliHANJEHAI)                             VOL.  4  NO.3
 Representatives of all Islamic coutries-except Iraq and Iran- are attending the meeting. Many speakers are reported to have expressed their support for the Afghan jehad and continued assistance to the mujaheddin.
      Prof. Rabbani-speaking on the fourth day of the conference-appealed to the Islamic world for their continued support of the Afghan jehad and the just struggle of the oppressed Afghan nation and referred to the impressive gains of the Afghan^ jehad for the region and the world as a whole.
      The conference ended 1 May in a brotherly atmosphere after issuing an 18-article resolution dealing with peaceful solution of disputes, the armed power of the Islamic world, government and human rights, cultural and economic cooperation, the establishment of an Islamic common market, the Palestine, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Kashmir, Albania and Muslim minorities.
      Fresh reports from Badakhshan' . speak of land slides in a number of, villages of the Shahr-e-Bozurg district entailing the death of hundreds of! people and demolition of about 1,000 houses. The land slides are caused due to rain and snow as well as earthquakes.
 REPORT:  Prof. Rabbani, the leader'‘of
 JIA, in a seminar held by the CCAR on the role of media in the Afghanistan of future in Islamabad said:    We need to
 think independently about the role of media in the Afghaistan of future so we are faced with an ideological vacuum. In Islamic societies education and
             - - - -y
 • media should serve as a catalyst among different segments. He said, an Islamic country cannot cut-off its links with! the Arabic language. This language has-a place in the depth and heart of Our prayers as well .as our literature. The most important issue about the media in Islam is that all the affairs should be conducted on the basis of truth and fair play. The most important and, indeed, dangerous means that can lead a society towards destruction can be the media.
      He said, in the past among the difficulties facing the media was lack of consciencious, knwoledgeable and committed personnel as well as a proper policy and guide-line. The task of media in the Afghanistan of future, in addition "to its struggle against destructive elements, would also, evolve a sound society.
 Mujahed Ulus MARCH MAY
 INTERVIEW: Peter Tomsen, the special
 envoy of the US President to the Afghan resistance, said in an interview with the editor of the paper Wolusmal, "we have been seriously distressed and disturbed due to the attitude of some extremist Afghan groups who Oppos^ the Allies in the Gulf War,' They also opposed Saudi Arabia, they were Opposed to the American and Kuwaiti efforts to liberate Kuwait. Every action has its own price. We and the Saudip supported the resistance for the ^ast 12 years but when we needed help they betrayed us. That is why we do not want to give anything to these extremist groups. And why should we give them anything? So that once again they use them against us and oppose our stand, . We have expressed this view to our other
185
APRIL-JUNE# 1991
VOL* 4 NO*3
allies, too ...
interest."
 QUESTION: During the past 12 years, you •have helped Hekmatyar to a great extent and Saudi Arabia also helped Sayyaf to great extent, but today the same people have opposed you. During these past 12 years, you did not strengthen the national forces in Afghanistan but so far as you could, you helped the Ikhwanis. For example, my newspaper does not belong to any party and all the Afghans study it with great interest, yet so far the USA has not given one single dollar to me.
 TOMSEN:   Earlier we -and  Saudi Arabia
 sent many things to the mujaheddin but I do not want to go into the details of who got what. Evrybody received a great deal and you can see that as a result of that the Russians were thrown out of Afghanistan. I assure you that the Gulf War made it clear for the Saudis, the Kuwaitis and the Americans that the persons you have named, are our opponents and undoubtedly they do not like us. Whereas we have helped all the Afghans including theSe^persons, but in the hour of need, they turned their faces away and betrayed us. However except the extremist pro-Ikhwani parties, who are in minority, most of the other mujaheddin parties supported the allied efforts for the liberation of Kuwait. Let us look to the future. In future we do not want to send American aid to them and I am sure if you talk to the Saudis and the Kuwaitis, they too have the same feelings.
      MAs regards helping your newspaper, . it may be said that the popularity of your paper is due to the fact that you are self-dependent and an independent Afghan and get no outside assistance. If you received ■ outside help, perhaps your newspaper would not have enjoyed the popularity which it has today and this is in your own
 QUESTION: You have teferred to the Loya Jirgah and we know that the Loya Jirgah . is the only solution. But in case the US government on its own or through the UN prepares the ground for a meeting of 200 - 250 educated and neutral Afghans in a neutral country and bears the expenses of the same, it would be of great help. These Afghans will be able to prepare       the ground      for the
 convention of the Loya Jirgah in this meeting. I am sure, in this way, a door will be opened for the solution of the Afghan problem i.e. it will greatly help find a political solution.
 TOMSEN: Our stand is to support the process of self-determination. But we are faced with a difficulty and that is the absence of any source of legality in Afghanistan. The regime is protected by the._ Russians. The mujaheddin are scattered and disunited. The AIG Tcould not attract otr obtain public support. Therefore, the first phase in this process would be self-determination. But again this process has to be evolved by the Afghans themselves. In case we and other foreigners step on the stage, the Afghans would consider it a process stage-managed by the aliens. The fact is that you should yourselves go ahead and do it. If you think by convening a Loya Jirgah, you can start the ball rolling, it is a very good idea. You must take the initiative. We support every such move which may unite the Afghans and yield a positive result.
      ’’Many people accuse us that the Commanders Council was convened on our instigation. We did not help this Shoora and for this very reason it was fruitful and successful. It was not under foreign influence arjd had a complete Afghan color. We think it was a good step because it gathered the Afghans together. The Commanders,
186
 APR IL-JUNE. 1991
 Council took one year to reach such a. stage. However, it was in the military field. Now in the political field also such a process should be initiated which may lead to a big gathering like a Loya Jirgah or something else. Then an Afghan leader should be elected in this gathering and such a process will be legal and acceptable to the Afghans. At the moment you are faced with such an absence of legitimate source."
 QUESTION: What is your view about the
 ex-King? People say that you do not support him in an appropriate manner, whereas majority of the Afghans support him.
 TOMSEN: We believe that Zaher Shah is a part of Afghan resistance. He was opposed to the occupation of Afghanistan by the Russians. Similarly he opposes the puppet regime in Kabul and does not consider it legitimate. We see that Zaher Shah is playing a valuable role, as an important dimension of the resistance, for the promotion of a political solution. But the US government has no option for selecting a leadership for the resistance. We do not want to select anyone for this purpose because this is something which concerns Afghans themselves. Whoever they select themselves, we shall support him. We do not try to select someone for this role, on our Own.
 COMMUNIQUE:  Sheikh-ul-Hadith Mawlawi
 Saheb of Tarakhel has issued a communique on the present situation. A summary of the verdict, extracted from the journal        Mujahed Wolus is
 presented as follows:     '   . •
      The Russians have withdrawn their troops since two years from our territory. Najib thinks he is a King of a territory covering three miles because entire Kabul is besieged except for three miles ... He has the audacity to call himself a King. These seven parties formed by-Pakistan, which are i
VOL. 4 NO.3
 based in Pakistan, are so shameless that religious scholars, non-religious scholars and Muslims of the entire
             .1
 world urged upon them to get united but they have not been united. ThSy are divided and disunited and yet have the cheeck to call themselves representatives of the nation. These seven parties are actually seven doors of disunity opened by Pakistan. Another such a .door has been opened by Iran,
 which has created seven or eight leaders in that country, opening a door of trouble for us ...
      I say that the Afghan Muslims living inside or outside Afghanistan, who are known tg the mujaheddin as
 being Muslima should get tpgether, ignoring Najib and these other parties and groups and form a forum of
 experienced and seasoned Muslims and hold a meeting in another country except Iran and Pakistan and tell
 Pakistan to close these doors. How is it that Pakistan can dissolve its own government in five minutes but cannot
 close these doors? They should tell Iran, too, to close these doors. They should find a good intentipned
 mediator. They have the option to hold elections or not to hold elections in the future, but now the need of the
 hour is to free the Afghan nation from these bonds. The Afghans should free themselves df the shackles of Pakistan, Iran and other countries and return to
 their own country. This is my opinion and my message. I call upon all the Muslims of Afghanistan not’ to sit idle
 but to rise and try to find a mediator country and formulate a fundamental plan so that God Almighty may t?less the Afghan nation with peace and tranquility and the refugees may be able to return to their homeland.
167
APRIL-JUNE. 1991
VOL. 4 NO. 3
 Neda-e-A dalat APRIL
      The paper.. while condemning rumors about the formation   of  yet
 another  inviable    government by the
 mujaheddin, writes:
 1., A council should be formed by the
 mujaheddin commanders for operations on
 Kabul which should begin at the end of
 the winter season, after the snow
 melts. Relations and/or conflicts among
 the mujaheddin groups and futile ,             _ •     v
 monopoly of power should not deter the
 .liberation of Kabul.
 2. Embarrasing meeting’s’ with the Najib regime wtiich;. according to rumors, have been carried out by the so-called mujaheddin leaders in Gen'eva, should be avoided. Needless to say that such meetings will not give Kabul a kind of recognition by the mujaheddin leaders, but they would also disregard the blood of our martyrs.
 3. A commanding council, of well-known
 mujaheddin leaders,     should    be
 established to oversee military operations on a higher level and political efforts as well. This council can also establish an interim government after the liberation of Kabul until conditions are suitable for holding general elections. The council should not be biased towards a particular ethnic or religious group.
 4.  Political talks will only seem credible when they are backed up by a strong military power. It will only be fruitful then when we can lead our dialogue with certainty, and adopt a favorable position. But even then our dialogue should not be held with , the puppet regime in Kabul but with the Russians^ who still hold sway over the
Kdbul regime. The talks, can only' bd held on the form of interim government for the people of . Af ghanis-becn., excluding the Khalq and Parcliam factions, and under the auspices of tfie UN and Islamic nations. , .
  APRIL-MAY
INTERVIEW: Hujjat-ul-Islam Javeed,
spokesman of the {Afghan Islamic Coalition Council, said in an interview with regard to the political solution of the Afghan problem:
    "Under the circumstances efforts to find a political! solution for the Afghan peoples jehad is very dangerous, because the Russians, the Najib regime as well as the super powers want to confront the mujaheddin with a week position. Actually the political solution amounts to the formation of a coalition government with the inclusion5 of the Marxists, the West-oriented elements and the Muslims. But this goes against the spirit of our jehad and would be unacceptable to the souls of moire than a million of our martyrs. Therefore we sjiouid strengthen our military strongholds and put great pressure on the Kabul regime so that we may be able to topple down this puppet regime through military might; Hence even if negotiations be inevitable, we could talk from a position of strength with an upper hand and should not allow any power or super-power or any neighbouring country to interfere in our internal affairs.
    In response to a question that in case the mujaheddin intend to intensify their jehad operations for overthrowing the puppet Kabul regime, what would be the contribution of the Coalition Council in this respect, he replied:
    "We have declared repeatedly and I am saying it again that our brothers should not depend on others. In view of
18d
APRIL-JUNEr 1991                       AFGHANJfHflD                           VOL.  4 NO.3
 the fact that the Shia forces generally
 and Coalition Council particularly had
                > \                  -
 no part in the liberation of the Khost
 city, we feel very sorry. However, we
 have the  ability    to liberate the,
 cities. It was due to the struggles of
 mostly the Shia Muslim forces that
 Bamian city was liberated in 1988. We
 have other plans    to liberate other
 cities fighting shoulder to shoulder
 with our brothers.
                           Neda-e-Haq
                                APRIL
              14
 EDITORIAL: "The capture of Khost is
 happy tidings for total independence of Afghanistan": In the administrative
 set-up of Afghanistan, Khost was a Loy Woluswali but according to , the map of Kabul puppet regime it was taken as a province. Nevertheless considering its strategic importance, defensive situation and basic structure, it has the significance of several 4 provinces to mujaheddin'. It is because from the very outset, Khost used to be a well, mobilized military center and ,in the post Saur coup d'etat period the puppet Kabul regime further intensified it against the mujaheddin. It was especially when mujaheddin's attention was drawn towards it, then Khost was turned into Soviet arms' depot. It is exactly in this sense that the capture of Khost is happy tidings for total freedom of Afghanistan.
                        N eda-e- Jundallah
                                   MAY
              5
 NEWS ITEMS: The brave fighters of the
 Jundallah Division, Kabul province, subjected the eight division of Qargha and the military installations of the atheist regime in Bagh-e-Dauod 9 April to missile attacks, inflicting casualties and damages on the enemy forces. In this operation on Bagh-e-Dauod, two tanks and one military jeep caught fire and an officer of the regime's army was killed. Two officers and eight soldiers of the eight Qargha Division were killed by the missiles fired by the mujaheddin.
      According to another report, on the same date the Jundallah Division attacked the Fifth District Party office in the center of Kabul city,, killing two officers and 11 soldiers of the regime and injuring two others seriously and setting fire to two military vehicles. According to latest reports, the mujaheddin of the Jundallah Division, in order to condemn the black day of 27 April, fired Sukur-20 and Sukur-30 missiles on the 26-27 April towards the Eight Division of Qargha and the Police Academy of the infidel regime, inflicting heavy damages on the Satanic force?.
                                                22
 EDITORIAL:  "Mujaheddin Victories: Sup-
 port for political efforts". It opines the aim of any fight is to achieve peace and argues that whosoever wins the battle irrespective of the presence of mediators can dictate his terms to the, opponent. Recently the Afghan mujaheddin scored many victories which .the politicians and jehad leaders can use as a grand achievement in their diplomatic activities and promote their negotiations to the best advantage of jehad and the heroic Muslim nation of Afghanistan. Branding the mujaheddin as rough and warmongers, through wild statements, notwithstanding, the fact remains that the mujaheddin apj>reci?te peace hetter than every one and they
189
APRIL-JUNE, 1991               HNIHjlD                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 need peace and are presently guiding an embattled country turned into rubbles, a victim of Warsaw Pact invaders. Although all the Warsaw Pact allies of Russia are collectively fighting the mujaheddin in hot and cold wars, the mujaheddin will not lay down their arms, till the basic rights of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan are restored and the liars of the century are convinced of the real facts. However, achieving this objective seems impossible without intensification of military operations. Mow that military onslaughts have gained momentum, it is incumbent on the Islamic revolution political leaders to heed the desires of the martyrs, destitutes and disabled and the mujaheddin and refugees and try, first and foremost, to realize their goals.
 EDITORIAL:  "The United  Nations  and the
 Unfair plan". The editorial describes the main duties of the UN, and lauds its earlier decisions condemning the aggression on Afghanistan, criticizing its latest plan and considering it-, unjust. It argues:
      "If the. Afghan mujaheddin wanted to talk and to compromise with the bond servant Najib, did they not have the best opportunity to do so, after the flight of the Red Army from Afghanistan and the announcement of the Reconcilia-iation Plan?. If the mujaheddin deemed it fit to talk to the ruthless enemy or to compromise with it, then what was the reason fox continuing the war over two years after Russian exit? If Najib can solve the problem unilaterally then who are the Russians? And why arie they
                                I         ?
 supporting and proppxng up Nagib? If the, UN - recognizes Na jib as peace maker then why does it not arrange a probe into his savage attacks, in the not too
 distant past, on Kunar, Zandajan, Hferat, Paghmah, Logar, Khost, etc. and why it does not condemn it?"
      At the end, the editorial invites the mujaheddin to forge unity amongst themselves and considers armed jehad a^s the only solution to the probem.
   - -    ■ ;     • . s
 EDITORIAL:  "Political blunder is not
 similar to economic blunder". Recounting the political blunders of
 Iraq’s leader, it writes that he had paved the way for three ideologies of communisni, nationalism and secularism.
 He used to say that he could not assist a country or a nation, in the name of religion or Islam because such an act
 is against the principles of Iraq. In this very spirit Iraq’s government has never raised its voice in support
 of the Afghans or Kashmiris but Iraq’s support of Palestinians springs forth from Arab nationalism and does; not have an Islamic foundation.
      While placiiig the responsibilities for Gulf crisis squarely on the
 shoulders of Saddam it Concludes: those leaders who have no control over their
 feelihgs and sentiments always sacrifice their nations and. countries
 at the altar of their ambitions, sfueh nations are exemplified by Germans,
 Iraqis or Afghanistan. Their people turn into fugitives and wanderers who have fallen victims to the expansionism of aliens and have to suffer.
190
              Neda-e- Mujaheddin FEBRUARY- MARCH
april-junf. 1991                      AFGHANJEHAil                           vol.  4  no.3
 am-e-MARCH
                                    27
 EDITORIAL: "Party politics and achieve-
 ments of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan". The editorial discusses the Afghan governments in the past and the ideological confrontation of Islam, and communism. It objects to the selfish stand adopted by the mujaheddin leaders.. It says, "had party politics been replaced by national policy and . highly' religious and national interests had overcome patty interests, the parties could have used the current Soviet crisis to their advantage and-toppled the Kabul regime to establish a mujaheddin government instead. As the Kabul puppet government has been able to exist for more than two years, Russian diplomats in Tehran and Islamabad occasionally meet separately with the mujaheddin organizations making false promises so that the alliance does inot close its ranks. With such a policy of party games the leaders will not only be unable to maintain their Islamic revolutionary achievements of freedom, independence and Islamic government but, it can be said, that even party interests will be doomed. Finally it- is only with united closed ranks,  politically and
 militarily, that the. resistance stance can' be strengthened and in. , the political and military games which are underway the Afghan nation can attain a national government. -
                                APRIL
                                     10
 EDITORIAL:, "Mujaheddin’s victory in Khost, Imperialist agreements and the
 future of revolution". The editorial says:  "Mujaheddin's victory  in Khost
 rendered useless all the US-Soviet agreements made so far (in regard to Afghanistan) and it is hoped that with this achievement, political and military strategies for more, achievements are laid out. Needless to say that by dint of this victory the mujaheddin struck a stunning blow at the super-powers and proved that in the absence of the valiant mujaheddin no agreement or plan can be implemented. God willing this victory will be the harbinger of other greater achievements. Due to this and other achievements to follow the wniijaheddin can also strengthen their military and spiritual positions and forge ahead tdwards the military solution, which is the heroic way of toppling the .regime. At the same time* improvement of the mujaheddin combat and intrenchment positions would transform the mujaheddin into an invincible political and military power. In that case, a* . .political settlement which is being talked about by one and all, the chronic crisis of the country can be resolved in accordance with the supreme religious interests of the motherland, political freedom, • national sovereignty and Islamic government, being the basic objective of the historical struggle of the Muslim nation.
                                                 24
 EDITORIAL:  "Political  settlement of
 Afghanistan Crisis:   Perspectives and
 Views":  The editorial discusses the
 world attention paid to the political solution of the Afghan issue after the fall of Khost, trashes the views of Russia, the US and other concerned countries and concludes:
      Under the prevalent circumstances, Afghanistan is less required to lean towards left, right or fundamentalism but what is, more than any time, from religious and historical , necessity
191
ai'kii -juNi /1991                           AFliHANilEHAII                               voi. a no. 3
 point of view,, important far the resistance the setting up of a political strategy so that in the future, order, security and stability return to the country; Abundant financial resources are also needed for reconstruction. Therefore, solidarity among all the jehad forces, whether moderates or fundamentalists, under the present conditions, is religious responsibility and it will pave the way for an honorable solution of the problem and will guarantee the freedom of the countryi
                                    MAY
                                        8
 EDITORIAL: "Upheavals in international
 politics and the resolution of
 Afghanistan’s crisis". In the context of the Gulf War effects, closeness of US-Russia and the deteriorating relationship of the dark political atmosphere the editorial says; "If our leaders are not attentive and do not create a , congenial and dimensional change, it is           obvious that in the
 corttext of the deplorable situation, where no one is happy including the leaders ' and             their companions,
 conditions detrimental to political as well as military settlement will sterilize the           outcome  of Islamic
 struggle and render the return of political freedom / and Islamic government in the country impossible.
                             MAY-JUNE
 EDITORIAL: "Termination of the American
 Aid and Political Solution of the Afghan Crisis". The editorial surveys the mutual accords between the USA and the USSR and interprets the effect, of the declaration of stoppage of American : aid, on the mujaheddin as follows: 1
 1- During the two months, the mujaheddin  achieved considerable
 military successes throughout the length and breadth of Afghanistan which caused a chill shudder in the spine of the Soviets and their protagonists in Kabul. This declaration by i America (regarding discontinuation of aid) is in fact a gesture / to make the mu jaheddiin , and the political groups of jehad understand that the US is no longer interested in the military dimensions of the war in Afghanistan and considers politics and diplomacy as the only means of, the restoration of peace in Afghanistan.
 2- The announcement of stoppage of assistance to the mujaheddin served as a green signal to the Soviet leaders indicating to them that the US is inclined to leaf through the moth-eaten file of Afghanistan on the table of diplomatic negotiations, rather than back up the war and the jehad of the freedom fighters. This is what the Moscow-Kabul axis really desire.
     Therefore now it is up to the mujaheddin and the jehad leaders of Afghanistan to give up reliance on foreign support particularly American assistance and feel contented with the available limited resources and rely on the- will and religious faith of , the nation so .that an atmosphere may be created for closing the military and political ranks of the Afghan nation.
                                          JUNE
              12
 EDITORIAL: "The leadership crisis and
 the future of the Afghan Islamic revolution". The Editorial considers
                 -r .' 1  •
 the political awareness more important than military victory and, after a lengthy discussion, writes, " different stands taken by the organizations in respect to the UN peace plan for Afghanistan showed that the leadership
192
 I
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991
 crisis still prevailed in the mujaheddin groups. Under present, conditions, when events are leading towards a political solution _ of the • issue, unity among mujaheddin military and political ranks is of vital importance. A commo'n and harmonious stand by the leaders and the mujaheddin groups may be able to lead to political settlement and true independence and sovereignty; otherwise the consequences of their discord on the mujaheddin groups may be graver than those on the Afghan nation".   ' •
Payam-e-I ttefaq
 FEBRUARY-MARCH
 EDITORIAL: "A glance of the 'despatch of
 mujaheddin forces to Saudi Arabia". The editorial discusses the despatch of mujaheddin to Saudi Arabia, from■jehad leaders' point of view, considers it an uncalculated step and as a blot on the status of Afghan mujaheddin. This is obvious that the devastating Gulf War's outcome would not be anything but destruction and loss of life and property to Muslims. Both sides, i.e. Saddam and Fahd want to show off as Muslim protagonists using Islam as a tool to eliminate it, whereas neither Baath party of Saddam nor the Wahabi regime of Fahd is supporter of Islam. In his publicity campaign also, Saddam is using Islamic slogans to his credit and Fahd, too, wants to utilize the good name of the valiant Afghan mujaheddin to his advantage so as to roll up the Islamic role from the Middle East countries which' is the center of' Islam.
 MARCH-APRIL
 REPORT:  During a 3-day seminar pertain-
 ing to the Afghan issue, organized' by the WUFA, Afghan and foreign scholars exchanged views on the Afghan problem.
VOL. 4 NO.3
 In the seminar, held in Hotel Inter-Continental, Peshawar 9-12 March, scholars, lawyers and politicians from Afghanistan, Germany, US, Cambodia, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Poland and Pakistan had officially participated. Mir Afzal Khan, Chief Minister of NWFP, had also attended. Representing the Council of Islamic Coalition of Afghanistan, Hujat-ul Islam Taqaddusi,
• spoke in the seminar offering plans regarding the future of Afghanistan. The concluding session of the seminar was also attended by Ms. Benazir Bhutto, ’ former Prime Minister of Pakistan, who delivered a detailed speech regarding Afghanistan. The seminar ended with the speech by Rasul Amin, President of the WUFA.
   APRIL-MAY
 EDITORIAL: "Lesson to be Learnt from
 the Khost Victory". While praising the unity and initiative of the mujaheddin for achieving* victory in Khost, the editorial states: "In the same way as the mujaheddin freed the Khost city by dint of cooperation and a spirit of brotherhood, the rest of the mujaheddin will also follow the same line. If the mujaheddin • are able to administer the city reasonably during the post-victory period, they must be given the credit of performing a task much more difficult than the victory itself. On the other hand, the rest of the mujaheddin will also follow suit in other liberated cities. In . case the mujaheddin deal with the POWs according to the Islamic Code and abstain from vindictiveness, the soldiers and officers of the Kabul regime army woul<3 instantly join the ranks of the mujaheddin. If the mujaheddin protect the public assets and properties in an appropriate manner, they would deserve universal praise. If the honor and property of the people are safeguarded after the liberation of more cities.
 APRIL-JUNE* 1991
 the people of the rest of the cities too would . cooperate  with the
 mujaheddin. But in case, God forbid, our mujaheddin are.not able to perform these tasks, they would not succeed
   II
 • •
 Payam-e-Jehad
                                    APRIL
     In his message of the New year, Ayatullah Mohseni, pleader of HlA (Mohseni) has said: , ,
 1. Our jehad, has not ended and shall Continue till the es tablishnjent of. an Islamic government and supremacy of the Holy Qufan.
 2. . HIA (Mohseni) remains intact till the achievement of its long term Islamic objectives and whatever Tehran Radio has broadcast is no more than lies,and politicians always lie.
 3. The 'Kabul , puppet regime, in order to divert Islamic revolution, turns to laying’ all sorts of machinations of which all the Muslims especially the mujaheddin should remain on aiert and be watchful.
 4. m It is incumbent for all Muslims to aid and help the mujaheddin because they are waging jehad in the way .of’ Islam and, to protect the prestige of the people.
 5. The greatest duty of mujaheddin and the upholders of piety is fear. Of God Almighty^ good morals and sincerity of practice in the way of Allah".
 6.  Muslim different groups of mujaheddin ought to maintain fraternity, and cooperation among themselves and be endowed with harmony against the enemies of the nation’s faith. They
VOL. A NO.3
 'ought to abstain, vehemently, from rivalries and differences so that God Almighty crowns them with victory.
 7., our position regarding the Wahdat Party remains as befofe. 4
 8.  I recommend to all those responsible to HIA" to maintain order, coordination and the organizational set
 ..up and status of ranks because disorder Would not help any one.
 9.  Qur military strategists should charter a military plan so that the year 1991 turns out to be the year of Islam victory over communism.
 10. Finding faults and grumbling" do not alleviate 1 the hardships. So each one.of us ought to be happy, active and orderly.
    Payam-e-Shuhada
 MARCH APRIL
• ERDITORTAL: "Unity and Solidarity: Ba-
 sic factors to Khost victory’’. The editorial opines that Khost victory is the outcome .of unity and calls upon the mujaheddin to unite in the political field too and do not allow political brokers to determine their future. The enemies, are on the look-out and’ lie in * waiting ready to jump at any opportune moment to snatch this victory from them. It - is here that wisdom and awareness of   the valiant      nation,
 leaders and heads of groups and parties can render useless the machinations of the traitors. Needless to say that the objective of our people, i.e. the success, of Islamic revolution and the Rule of   the    Quran, in      beloved
 Afghanistan can be realized when we all hand in hand, without discrimination, share In the determination of the fate of Afghanistan and do not permit .the
April-june> 1991          RffiHAN JfHAD
 VOL. 4 NO.3
alien political brokers to meddle in our affairs.
                       APRIL-MAY
NEWS ITEMS: Reports from Kandahar state that joint operations were launched by the mujaheddin on all government establishments 15 May with great victories for the mujaheddin.
- The valorous HI A (Mohseni) group of mujaheddin blew up an alchohol din in the Lashkargah Bazaar inflicting heavy loss and material damage to the enemy.
- The mujaheddin in an operation on
the well-known Seh Burjak security post on the Herat-Islamqala Highway', killed and. injured a number of the occupants of. these posts.         . .
 Shahadat
                           MARCH
                                 24
NEWS ITEMS: Under the command of Eng.
Gulhuddin Hekmatyar, the HIA leader, in Khost, the Yaqubi district and Bak sub-district and the Lapa military post of the Kabul regime have been conquered by the mujaheddin.
  The mujaheddin destroyed a Kabul regime military post of Eshaq Sulaiman in Enjeel district, Herat, 10 March. During the operation three military personnels of the post were killed five injured. The mujaheddin seized one da-shaka, three machine guns and large quantities of other weapons and ammunition.
- The mujaheddin launched an attack, 7 March, on the posts belonging to Kayani militias along the northern Salang Highway, Jabul Saraj, and Pul-e-Khumri
 and completely demolished .these posts. They killed 10 militiamen and captured another 10.
 EDITORIAL: "Joint Jehad operations as a model to follow". After a detailed preliminary discussion of the Gulf events, it writes on the joint mujaheddin operations in khost. As in the past, we consider joint' operations, particularly in regard to Kabul, as initiatory- which, God Willing, will soon bear fruitful results of victory. And now that all the mujaheddin witnessed the "gainful outcome with minimum loss" of joint operations in Khost, it is expected that the rest of jehad leaders will also bolster the initiative joint operations of Hezb-e-Islami more and more and will review their jehad line of actiqm.
      Although Khost is considered to be one among three or four big Russian military bases in Afghanistan and, was of immense strategic importance to them. But news media opine that it cannot withstand the onslaught of mujaheddin sweeping operations for long. Presently 1,500 of their troops,1 have surrendered to the mujaheddin and their, casualties are all the more, as such; this besieged city will soon fall to .the mujaheddin. Now that spring has set in and the climate is improved hhe process of joint operations must be maintained assidously and the enemies of Islam should not:     be allowed the
 chance to reassert themselves and reorganize, otherwise if, God. forbid, we lose this opportunity of unity and solidarity then we shall suffer the same fate as in -history: the field y winner falls prey to self-seekings and negotiatings.
 VERDICT: In  regard  to the legality of
 mutton and meat received from China*s welfare institutes in the form of aid.
 195
APR.IL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. A NO.3
the Cultural and Guidance Department of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan sought the verdict, of the Judicial Department of Hezb-e-Islami- the Dar-ul-lfta- whether they are allowed for Muslims' consumption in the light of Islamic jurisprudence? The following verdict was issued by the Department. China is a communist and atheistic country and non-believer in God Almighty and Islamic jurisprudence. Therefore, their slain animal's meat is illegal and falls under the order for the 'dead animal'.Although it is written that the animals .are slain in accordance with Islamic tenets but who can vouch for it that in an un-Islamic. and atheistic country the lsl,amic way is followed. In a nutshell, a legal ^ verdict for its consumption cannot be passed.
                                                28
NEWS ITEMS: Engineer Faiz Mohammad, in
a telegraphic message from Khost Sector, explained that the mujaheddin never harm the women and children. On the contrary, their safety, honor and property are a sacred trust with the mujaheddin. In case the senseless troops of 'Kabul regime give up themselves to the resistance, they will be spared and their life and property will remain secure. He said after the capture of Khost, law and order situation is being looked after well and- necessary measures taken.
- In KushKak, a village in Sorkh Road Nangarhar, due to a bomb blast, planted by KHA15 spies in a mujaheddin vehicle, 10 mujaheddin were martyred, one was injured and the vehicle destroyed 16 March. The mujaheddin belonged to "Khu-maini" Front.
                                                 31
REPORT:    The    valorous Qarabagh
mujaheddin, near Kabul, after inflicting heavy losses upon the Kabul regime troops, captured the district from the
Kremlin hirelings about the middle of 1990 (stet) and took control of the Kabul- Hairatan Highway which passes in the middle of the town.
     The Commander of the Omar Farooq region in the area, commanding a force of 1,600 experienced mujaheddin and who has captured all military posts extending from Karez-e-Mir to the Bagram Cross Roads on this Highway, has said in an interview that harmoneous and concerted mujaheddin efforts would finally ensure their victory and the overthrow of the puppet Najib regime.
     He added, "in relation to the overthrow of the Kabul regime I am sure that coordinated and well-organized and concurrent operations on all government positions, particularly Kabul, will put an end to the shaky Najib rule. During the operations government troops will be invited to join the mujaheddin forces. If this happens they can be used against Najib forces and this will speed up the fall of the Kabul regime".
NEWS ITEMS: A military coup against the Najib regime was discovered before it was to be executed. The discovery was followed by the arrest of over 40 military officers including General Nabi Azimi, the Deputy Minister of Defense.
   According to reports from inside Afghanistan the capture of the; strategically important cit/ of Khost by the mujaheddin forces has made the Kabul regime position very unstable to the extent that many military officers have lost confidence in the government.
-  Mawlawi Jalaluddin' Haqqani stated in a press conference, "now that the city of Khost is administered by a mujaheddin council, a call has been made for the return of its inhabitants to their homes".
-    After the capture of Khost, large 196
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 quantities of arms, ammunition and food supplies have fallen in; the hands of the mujaheddin. It is reported that the supplies will serve the dual purpose of strengthening the control on Khost and marching towards Kabul.
 - The Pakistan government has urged the UN Secretary General to make all out efforts to reach a political settlement in Afghanistan. Sheikh Rashid Ahmed, Press and Publicity Adviser to the Prime Minister, said at the end of a cabinet meeting that Pakistan has decided to contact the US, the Soviet union, Saudi Arabia and Iran to assist in solving the Afghan problem through peaceful means.
                                       APRIL
                                            2
 REPORT: Khosb has been liberated. The
 sixth artillery unit, the 59th and 60th Units, the     tank and the genelal
 anti-aircraft units and the general command have all fallen to the .mujaheddin cJf Hezb-e-Islami. The Radio Station, the School of Mechanics, the Khost hospital and the Animal Husbandry Farm are all controlled by the mujaheddin. Fifty tanks, two helicopters, six field guns and hundreds of military transport vehicles also fell to the mujaheddin.
 - After the capture of Khbs t, the Executive Council of Hezb-e-Islaiiii will hold its first meeting In Khost 2 April. The Secretariat of Hezb-e-Islami reports that ’ the meeting will be presided over by Hekmatyar, leader of the party. A number of important issues will be discussed in the meeting and necessary deci'sions taken. The holding of the meeting in Khost has been ordered by Hekmatyar. .
                  4
 EDITORIAL: "The Prideful Victory and an Important Responsibility". It is now up to the mujaheddin how- effectively they can utilize the capture of Khost to victories in the political arena. It is now their responsibility to follow this by similar victories in other areas &nd to trace the wounded enemy by similar blows through unity and alliance. Another important mujaheddin task is to capture other towns and areas and. to see, first of all, that no anarchy and looting of. public property occurs. Otherwise it will substantiate enemy propaganda that the mujaheddin are not capable of' administering liberated areas. The capture of Khost, a great victory as it is, places an equal responsibility upon the mujaheddin shoulders.
                  7
      HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, in a message from Khost has said that the conquerers of Khost are those brave mujaheddin who, with their blood, liberated that city and it was necessary that by. using this opportunity, all jehad forces with all the power at their disposal start an'attack on Kabul and inflict their resolute and final blow upon the enemy.
      Prof.. Rabbani, leader of JIA, in , his message has congratulated the Muslim and mujahed nation of Afghanistan, specially the Paktia mujaheddin and others, for the liberation of Khost. Rabbani has said that the liberation of Khost in the month of Ramadan reminds the Muslims of the Badr battle during the time of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon' him.         ~ ■
 REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
 the HIA, in \a training seminar of the HIA officials said, we should prepare ourselves without any delay v. • for inflicting the last blow on Kabul./
 197
APR IL-JUNE!. 1991                AHlHAN JIHAD                      VOL.  4 .NO.3"
  \ On the concluding of the seminar, 8 April, he said that the seminar was a useful step; He Said, "I urge our brethren that they should preserve the transformations that have occured in them as a result of this seminar; I propse to my brethren, let us continue this work and ev&ry week we should gather and* hold such seminars .and make them a point for meditation in which we should think. It is possible that as a’ result of this, we may be able to guard ourselves from many things * which cause our annihilation."
                 11
 EDITORIAL: "Political Settlement Suicidal for Islamic Revolution'*: Discussing the intrigues of the enemies in the post victory of Khost it writes: Regarding the consequences of the great victory of Khost, one of jehad leaders, in an interview with a Western correspondent observed, "The capture of Khost will bring us nearer to a political settlement. How one can find out whose wpr*ds are these. This kind of overtures can only be sung by an American or a Russian. Were these enormous sacrifices given only to bring the’ political settlement nearer? Those who are raising' such irresponsible voices ought to know that behind the great Islamic revolution and; immense sacrifices of the Afghan nation lies a righteous and revolutionary generation. They warn' all
 the internal foes, the westernized and irresponsible elements, of the heroic nation.’s wrath and anger. Without an .Islamic government any other transaction pertaining to a political settlement will not be saved from national trial- by the martyrs and no step will be allowed other than the one facing the Qibla of Islamic order.
 REPORT:  In the end of training and
 seminar of HIA employees .6-8 April, after giving instructions regarding the. current situation. Engineer Hekmatyar
 observed, "Do not think ' that the weakness of Kabul regime armed forces was due to lack of equipment (military hardware) but the main reason of their weakness and absence of resistance is tbe perturbed and perplexed situation in :Kabul".
      "The situation in Kabul was never so much confused as it is now. I am sure if such an attack is launched on any other place it will fall to mujaheddin. I am calling on all the organizations, all the brethren and all members of HIA to pay the greatest attention to launch an all out 'campaign against Kabul, and our forces should make a move right now. We should encourage the mujaheddin and prepare ourselves^ for a big offensive on Kabul.
      "Some of the organizations are worried that HIA got a hold on the facilities in Khost, occupied the state installations and deprived others of their ishares ".
      "In Khost, I have' assured the mujaheddin commanders of the concerned organizations and have told them that regarding the'- state installations and the decisions made earlier, .all the mujaheddin shall honor those decisions. A joint administrative cell ought to be created and the security of Khost must be maintained. Certain circles have made extensive publicity and have spread rumors here, arguing that if an attack is launched on Kabul, a similar state of affairs may be repeated there also. The HIA will again benefit and the others will be deprived".
     "I can assure all* the leaders of the organizations and parties that- the HIA has no. such designs in mind. We . wan-t joint operations, but prior to this, a joint dell should be formed to take over the administration after the. fall of Kabul. We have had such a cell before and we shall ' make it again
198
APR IL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 provided the commitments are honored"*
                 14
 NEWS ITEMS:   The 3rd detachment of
 "Sepah-e-mujaheddin-e-Islam graduated 12 April. In a function held on the (occasion, , Hekmatyar, the HIA Leader dwelt extensively on the necessity for promoting Islamic revolution into a regular, systematic and powerful mujaheddin army committed to God Almighty.
 - In the wake of blitz operations, the valiant Baghlan . mujaheddin captured three posts of the puppet regime in Jailagar area and killed a large number of local militiamen.
 - Lashkare-e-Isar (the Army, of Sacrifice) shot down a reconnaissance aircraft of the puppet regime in Logar, killing all- the crew 30 March.
                 16
 REPORT: Engineer Hekmatyar, in Jehad
 University at a seminar on "Review of political and military conditions of the country" responded to questions of. the audience 9 May:
 against the parties, how can we support that?
      To the other part of the question he replied:    The mujaheddin declare
 amnesty and when a small group surrenders’ to them, they pride in it and press conferences are organized in that connection. But after the bombardment of Presidential Palace and as a result of a great historical feat which imbalances the very foundations of the regime, when a greater group takes shelter with the mujaheddin, I am at a loss to understand as to why it should be frowned upon. Had HIA ever made a joint government or common administration with these forces (then we could have been prone to criticism). We are ready for every one's criticism but the doors of amnesty are open to one and all.
      If some of the brethren opine that as a result of harmonious, large and joint operations we cannot topple the Kabul regime, I do not agree with it. I think it is possible.If the march towards Kabul is maintained and it is kept under firing, the points will easily fall.
      QUESTION:  Why the HIA does not
 cooperate with the Commanders' Council? The HIA wants to establish a government in Kabul in collaboration with Khalqis whose hands    are      soaked with  the
 nation's blood. BUt it cannot trust and rely upon the commanders.
      ANSWER:  We are in agreement with
 a genuine all commanders' Council. A standard ought to be set for the commander:   Local Commanders'  Councils
 should introduce their legal representatives to the all commanders' Council, The Council formed in such a manner will be         supported by  HIA
 forthwith and without let,or hindrance in the first place. But the Council being set up in Peshawar, God knows by whom, whose intimation and what for,
      QUESTION:  Why the HIA through
 Pakistan, talked with the Kabul regime representatives in Geneva?
      ANSWER:  I reject this because no
 talks were held between the Kabul regime representatives and mujaheddin. If at all they were hdld then we were not there and no talks were held through the mediation of Pakistan with Najib. We are not in favor of talk;s with Najib neither we were nor we.shall be.
      Regarding meeting Qaddafi and discussions with him he said:   I do not
 see any obstacle in talking to Qaddafi (that no talks should be held with Qaddafi).
Al*l< 11 - JUNL". * 1991
 * A seminar on the future of media of Afghanistan was held in May by CCAR in the Capital Hotel of Islamabad. Around 40 press activists were invited to the inaugural ceremony of this seminar. Years and age of the invitees indicated that some of them were related to the press prior to revolution. A number of jehad press workers also participated.
     Prof. Rabbani was invited to deliver the inaugural address and, as scheduled, after the speeches of the President of the meeting and two members of CCAR, he delivered his address.
     Rabbani, called the role of media important in the reconstruction of the country and, he said, the building of mind was assigned to the press.
                                                  21
 REPORT:  The HIA leader, Gulbuddin
 Hekmatyar, in a message to the grand trenches on the occasion of Eid of Ramadan has said, "We should once again promise ourselves that until the overthrow of! the puppet regime, the establishment of an Islamic government, the attainment of the right for self-determination, we shall not put aside our weapons and will not forsake the trenches. It is necessary that we should figh on three fronts:  the altar
 of the mosque, the trench and the office. He said, from these places we should fight the enemies of Islam, the hypocrats and the opportunists.
                 23
 NEWS ITEMS: The  mujaheddin staged an
 operation 8 April, on Kabul regime military posts in Darwaza-e-Kabul and Darwaza-e-Kandahar as a result of which the Darwaza-e-Kabul posts were captured and 13 of its security personnel were killed, two injured and two others
                                                                                     VOL. 4 NO.3
 captured by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin in this operation also seized 12 pieces of light and heavy weapons and a large amount of other military supplies. Five mujaheddin were also killed.
 - A large supply column of the Kabul regime moving from Torghundi towards Herat was attacked 6 April by the mujaheddin as a result of which 20 personnel and officers were killed and six officers Captured. The mujaheddin also demolished three cargo vehicles and captured 20 pieces of light and heavy weapons.
    The Koh-e-Safi mujaheddin in a successful operation 7 April demolished two Kabul regime jet aircraft/by firing rockets.  They  also  inflicted heavy
 damages to enemy establishments.
                                                  28
 NEWS ITEMS:   The Baghlan mujaheddin
 captured one   post  in  Pul-e-Khumri
 district 7 April and arrested 20 of the regime personnel.
    The same mujaheddin captured one post in   Baghlan-e-Jadeed  killing or
 wounding nine of their men 18 April.
 - The mujaheddin in Ghazni shot down one enemy helicopter 23 April
                                                  30
 NEWS ITEMS:. The Herat mujaheddin captured a military battalion in Khushrabad and arrested 28 men and officers 12 April.
    In Kunduz the mujaheddin captured the Abdul Aziz Street posts and the old Qishlaque killing six militiamen, wounding  nine others and arresting 12
 with their arms 15 April,
 - The mujaheddin in Samangan province
 AiMUL-jUNi:, .1991             AFGHANJEHAI)                  vql.  A no.3
 attacked a militia company 10 April and captured 69 of them.
                                        MAY
                 2
 EDITORIAL: "Fulfil the only desire  of
 the oppressed nation:  "unity". Ur-
 ging unity among jehad organizations, it reassures on behalf of HIA: As far as the HIA is concerned it is whole-heartedly prepared for unity in accordance with the decision of the Central Council. It is , also ready to cooperate with all Islamic organizations with a view to coalesce guided by the alliance. The HIA has declared time and again that it wants the rest of jehad forces also to take step in this regard and fulfil this only desire of the oppressed nation.
                 7
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin completed
 operations, 21 April, on Kabul  regime
 positions in Chaukab region as a result of which 24 regime personnel were killed, 60 injured and a military depot was set ablaze.
    The Balkh mujaheddin in their operations, 21 Aprij.1, on the security posts of the district in which houses are built for 500 families of the Kabul regime personnel, conquered one post.
                 9
 NEWS ITEMS: The  mujaheddin  shot down
 three Kabul regime •helicopters in different parts of Ghazni province 23, 28 and 30. April.
 - The Paghman mujaheddin in operations on regime posts 27 April demolished one armored tank and two cargo vehicles. Fifteen communists were killed and 13 injured in these operations. On the same date, the mujaheddin, in there
  operation on che, Kabul Airport, destroyed one jet military aircraft and damaged the radar installations of the airport.
                  12
  INTERVIEW: Leader of the HIA, Gulbuddin
                      • r
  Hekmatyar, in an interview with the Arabic newspaper Al-Enqazul Watani of the Sudan bas said the US wants to impose its imperialistic designs under the name of the New Order over the Muslims. If we are able to establish an international organization really exemplifying Islam, in that case the most important objective of the Muslim world will be realized.
     Hekmatyar in an interview, 9 May, with Afghan and foreign journalists in Jehad University said the Najib regime had lost chances for its survival and will shurely be overthrown by the mujaheddin.
                                              14
  REPORT:  The 3-day seminar of the
  officials of the HIA attended by 200 persons was opened 12 May. The seminar was attended by the leadership cadre of the HIA, our "Ansar" arid Islamic movement brethren from Pakistan, Sudan and other Muslim nations.
     . Hekmatyar in his opening speech said "today the Russian and American stand vis-a-vis the Afghanistan issue is identical. However, they want to impose another government of their own choice on the Afghan nation in place of the Najib regime. Until now conditions for the creation of such a government are not provided and until the jehad forces are weakened, they cannot impose an alternative government on the Afghan nation acceptable to both Washington and Moscow.
                                               19
I NEWS ITEMS: The HIA leader, Hekmatyar,
i*
201
APRIL-JUNK, 1991              AFRiMHAD                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 in a . speech at the Emam Mohammad Shaibani Congragational Mosque said 10 May, at present "if the mujaheddin put more pressure on Kabul than other parts of the country, Kabul too will be liberated like Khost.
    In the victories achieved by the mujaheddin in the Yangi Qala, Khwajaghar and Dasht-e-Qala districts and Darqad sub-district, 30 armored tanks and more than 2,000 light pieces of weapons have been seized by the mujaheddin from the enemy.
    News reports from the Chahab district, Takhar, say that as a result of heavy floods, in addition to the destruction of 20 houses, about 20 million afghanis damages have been inflicted to the people of the area.
                                                21
 INTERVIEW:  Engineer Hekmat-yar in an
 interview with the daily Al-Quwwat-ul-Muslimah, in Sudan, i speaking about the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan, remarked:
      "The Islamic Movement was started in Afghanistan 23 years ago by the students of the Kabul University. In the first instance it was merely a movement by the university students but after the coming into power of Dauod, its scope expanded. We felt that we had
 to face brave confrontation with the government. Therefore,, in 1975 we started our jehad against Dauod taking up arms to be prepared for a fight. The only source of our weapons and means were domestic sources, and cooperation of many army detachments with the mujaheddin, especially after the coup staged by' Noor Mohammad Taraki. But after the occupation of Afghanistan by the Russians, some parties which felt the Russians threatened their interests, tried to interfere in Afghanistan affairs.
     "However we did not permit anyone to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan under the cover of aid to the mujaheddin. It must be said that Pakistan as a neighborly state, by accepting to accommodate nearly 3,5 million refugees, helped us. Similarly a large number of Afghans migrated to the Islamic state of Iran, which also considered the presence of the Russians as a threat to its security. Thus Iran also helped us. But those powers who helped the mujaheddin because of the threat of Russian presence, have changed their policy, and are now plotting 'against the mujaheddin.
                23
REPORT:   The leader of the HIA
(Hekmatyar) has told a HIA seminar, the credit and credentials of the HIA at present were so high that most Islamic movements are counting on HIA. The only party which all world Islamic movements pray that God Almighty may establish in Afghanistan is the HIA. In the future elections of the HIA God willing, -the* number of followers of this party will rise to about one million.
                26
     The HIA has proclaimed its position vis-a-vis the UN plan about Afghanistan. It says:
     "While the mujaheddin are achieving big military victories one after the other, the enemies of Islam and a number of Islamic countries, by offering political alternatives, are trying to block the success of the mujaheddin. They have undertaken cowardly efforts to bar the establishment of the mujaheddin Islamic government which they consider as a threat to their interests. The latest efforts by the UN and its Secretary General's plans in relation to the Afghanistan Issue is more in the form of,- a
202
APRIL-JUNE. 1991             RHtHANJfHAU                 VOL. 4 N0.3
 generality, and cannot be considered as a way o£ solution to our issue.
 - "In this plan, the issue of a ceasefire between the waring sides has
 been emphasized which is unacceptable, to the mujaheddin until the Najib puppet regime exited.A ceasefire will be practicle only when the cause of war-the existence of the hated Najib regime- is eliminated.
    "The plan relies on intra-Afghan dialogue. But our Muslim nation will never be ready to sit around the negotiating table and to talk about the future order and destiny of the mujahed and mortyr-loving Afghan nation with the murderers of their children and the destroyers of their country and those fugitives who have caused these tragedies, crimes and miseries.
 -  "It is strange that while criminals of the World War II are still being prosecuted, how is it possible that the mujaheddin will negotiate with the murderers such as Najib and his friends who have had no less a hand in treason and savagery.
 -  "An interim government should be formed before holding elections in. accordance with the wishes of the people and no interim government can assume power without the consent of the mujaheddin. It is also not possible to hold any kind of elections imposed upon our nation under the supervision of the Najib regime or auspices of an office under foreign agreement.
 -  "If the West, led by the US, stops its plots against the mujaheddin and Russia refrains from its support and financing of its puppet regime and this regime is not assisted from outside, Najib will never have the power of resistance against the mujaheddin.
 - "Our mujahed nation which has begun
 . its rightful jehad for the realization of its noble Islamic aims and will not lay down arms until the formation of an . Islamic government, is sure that it will solve its problems without foreign intervention and will itself determine its destiny".
                                             28
 NEWS ITEMS:  Recently a jehad council
 has been established in Kandahar province. The council is leading military operations in the province. Each component of this shoora is engaged in jehad with 40 mujaheddin and the shooras are represented by all the seven organizations. In a news item / quoting the shoora, it has been said that its mujaheddin staged a number of operations 19 May on the military posts of the Kabul reqime at Chehel Zina demolishing one armored tank and killing 12 persons.
 - The Kandahar mujaheddin shot down 19 May a Kabul regime helicopter which was engaged in bombing the Mohmand village of Daman district. All helicopter crew were also killed.
 -   Prof. Rabbarii, leader of JIA, in connection . with the solution of the Afghan problem has rejected the proposal pertaining to holding talks with Najib. He also described Khaleqiar, the Prime Minister of the .Kabul regime; as a part of Najib regime and refuted, his claim that he was not a communist. ,
                                               30
 REPORT:  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the HIA
 leader, in a speech in the concluding session of the annual training seminar of the leadership cadres of the HIA said, it is not a virtue to put finger' on shortcomings, but the true virtue is to solve the problems and eliminate ' defects and shortcomings. He said the HIA was capable of forming a strong and
203
APRIL-JUNE. 1991,
VOL. 4 NO.3
AFGHAN EVENTS
                          APRIL
  *  The Khost military airbase, which played a crucial role in keeping the
i Garrison and city in regime's control, fell to Afghan mujaheddin 29 March. The mujaheddin shot down three transport planes of the Kabul regime in the course of three days of fighlting in Khost Garrison.
        ,  .        '             . i ■
        The commanders who captured the Khost Airport included, Muallim Meraj Gul, Haji Nasrullah, Meer Ahmed Khan, Shah Wali, Wali Khan, ‘ Arntah and Fazlur Rahman.
        The Chief of Hezb-e-Islami 'Afghanistan,.     Engineer. Gulbuddin
  Hekmatyar, who ,is in Khost and is supervizing mujaheddin's operattio®s, inspected the - mujaheddin's positions. (PT)          •■■■                 . *
  *  A task force has been set up by the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan under ' the name of "Sipahr-e-mujaheddin-e-Islam" on the basis of intensive military training. AAP recalls that already a force- the "Lashkar-e-Eisar"- Was operating on the basis ,of special training.
        Informed circles describe it as a measure for initiating regular military training for the mujaheddin. (AAP)
 * Nikolai Kozyrev, Ambassador at Large with the Soviet Foreign Ministry while in Tehran, had met with leaders of the Islamic Unity Party , of Afghanistan, comprising nine Shia opposition groups in Iran. Kozyrev said, on his return from Tehran that Iranian view on the settlement of Afghan problerir is on the whole, in consonance with the Soviet position. He said Iran too wanted that Iran, the USSR and Pakistan should try to stop bloodshed in Afghanistan arid arrange for political talks .under international control.' Kozyrev, while describing Islamabad's position on the Afghan problem as tough; and non-constructive, said nevertheless was hopeful that Pakistan will eventually join in the common effort to bring about a political settlement. The Afghan Shia groups are reported to have told the Soviet representative that they favored a political solution to the Afghan problem. At the same time, the Islamic Unity party pf Afghanistan had put forward the resignation of the current Kabul leadership as a cpndition for starting the settlement processs.
      Kozyrev rioted that ,h is meetings were construtive, although for the time being, they failed to achieve mutual
 understanding on a series of issues.
 (MLM)
      The- government of Pakistan has, dismissed Pakistani employees working in Afghan Refugees' Commisslonerate in NWFP. This is said to' be the first
APRIL1 JUNE, 1991                   mum                    VOL- 4 NO.3
 phase of a large scale retrenchment plan to be implemented in the next few months.
      The working otaff, in a show of sglidarity, has announced total boycott of both official work as well as distribution of relief goods among refugee camps and other points (JG)
 *    Radio Moscow reports that • Afghanistan has accused Pakistan of directly supporting mujaheddin in their war with Kabul regime forces in Khost and the Kabul government has .sent a complaint to UN Security Council. (NTN)
 'A...    \ ' •_   '                     ,
             ,, ■ •,        ■' ' 1
 *    The mujaheddin have started operation in Khost, a city of about
 50,000, to flush out Kabul troops who may have gone into hiding in the now conquered city. Khost fell to the mu^srheddin around 4 p.m. after 17 days of fierce battle which claimed large casualties on both sides. More than 2,200 officers, soldiers and militia are said to have been captured by the mujaheddin. Around 1,200 , militiamen of Kabul along with their families have fled Jaji Maidan and. crossed over to, Kurram Agency in Pakistan.
    ’ !                 I' '       ■
      Meanwhile, following the fall of Khost Garrison, the AIG Presidency has requested the ICRC to visit the area and provide assistance to the wounded. The AIG has offered its cooperation to international humanitarian agencies for the protection and well-being of the wounded and local population.
      ANA says that mujaheddin have captured, after the fall of Khost Garrison, thousands of troops, three military helicopters, 50 tanks/armored vehicles, tens of military trucks and huge quantity of heavy and light ammunition.
      According to an order issued by
 the leader of Hezb, all members of the Exective Committee of the party have gone to Khost to hold a meeting in that captured city. (NT)
 * The Spokesman of Jalaluddin Haqqani,
 General Commander in'Khost, has said in a TV interview with the V0A the mujaheddin   broke the  security belt
 ground Khost,14 March and occupied the airport. They intensified 30 March their offensive and occupied the new airport on the following day. The city, together with its Garrison, fell to the mujaheddin around five in the afternoon.   Thousands  of    the  Kabul
 regime officers arid troops were taken prisoner in these operations and another 500 soldiers were injured during the   fighting and    were  later
 transferred to safer areas. The exact number of those killed was not known.
      The spokesman said all the mujaheddin had   taken part  in   the battle
 under the command of the local council.
 (VOAPS)
 *  At least 80 government troops and 18 mujaheddin were killed in the operation conducted for the liberation of Khost. Mujaheddin said that they shot d0wn one transport aircraft and one helicopter Sunday evening and in 24 hours of fighting they occupied 18 security posts of the*regime. (VOADS)
 *  The mujaheddin state , that they captured 2,000'troops during operations on Khost and hundreds more defected to them. (VOADS)
 *  The mujaheddin groups say that 8,000 troops and Jauzjani militiamen' surrendered to the mujaheddin during the Khost war. (BBCPS)
        . *      ‘ '                     4
                                                  2
 *  Mujibur Rahman, a prominent leader of Pashtun Khwa Milli Awami Party and Chairman of the Bacha Khan Peace Conference, has expressed his concern
213
  APRfL-JUNE, 1991                  Mill                        VOL.  4  N0.3
 over Pakistan's alleged interference in
 the internal affairs of Afghanistan and has termed it as violation of the Geneva accord..
      He has said. that daring the presence of Russians in Afghanistan, the, government of Pakistan exploited the Afghans in the name of Islam and used 1 them against the invaders and now after the withdrawal of foreign troops,      its presence there       is
 meaningless and will never be accepted.
      The PKMAP leader added that, according     to clear   evidences,  the
 Pakistani militia and army were being used in the Afghan civil war but, unfortunately*  our     politicians  are
 tightlipped about the issue.
      Meanwhile, Nasrullah, provincial office Secretary of the party, in a press statement, while condemning the involvement of Pakistani troops in the attack on Khost Garrison* said that the IJI government was directly responsible for the  present          civil war   in
 Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  A spokesman of the Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) told The Nation that, after establishing positions in and around Khost, the mujaheddin are now planning to launch massive attacks on Kabul, Gardez and Logar.
             '     '  I
      The spokesman said that after capturing Khost, the mujaheddin ^in their first session formed a joint Shoora for the security,'administrative and other related matters of the city.
 (NTN)
 *   The AIG Information Minister, Najibullah Lafrai, has told AFP that at least 15 people have been killed in a SCUD .missile attack by Kabul regime troops fired on Khalil Makas Base near Khost. (NTN)
defensive wall around Khost city while capturing a large number of tanks and armored cars and 1 great quantities of arms iand ammunition. They have also seized ,the Radio Station, Mechanical School and other government buildings. Six hundred Kabul regime troops, under treatment in city hospital, have been transferred to safer places and hundreds of Kabul regime fleeing soldiers have been captured. (NWT)
       There are around one hundred aeroplanes parked in the o(ld and new airfields of Khost which will be utilized in organizing an airforce for, the mujaheddin. Pilots will' be called to make use of serviceable crafts. The governor, along with the Garrison Commander, have fled and the SCOD missile attack by Kabul regime on the city of Khost, has failed to hit the targets.•
       Meanwhile      the      Amir     of
  Jamat-e-Islami, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, rejoicing over the news of conquering of Khost by the mujaheddin, has opined that this year mujaheddin’s struggle will definitely produce conclusive results because the resolution of' the Afghanistan problem through political parleys is impossible.
  * The Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami, Qazi Hussain Ahmed has said that he had clear indications that if the mujahed-• din were willing to allow the PDPA participation in the elections, the Kabul regime would agree to the formation of an interim government paving the way for elections. But owing to the atrocities committed by the PDPA, the Afghan mujaheddin are dead against their participation. (PT) .
                                                             * Pakistan has urged the UN to help stop the Kabul regime's "brutal” SCUD I missile: and air attacks on Khost, whibti
The mujaheddin have formed a
                                                                                                   214
   APRIL-JUNE* 1991                            HUinWItlllUlU                               VOL.    4   NO.3
   __M_________________________. . _   ■'   .    '   . ■ • ,___,       '____^_•___;__ • , .  i
 has been liberated by the Afghan mujaheddin. ,
      The Pakistani Ambassador to the UN, jamshed Marker,proposed the despatch of a UN team to observe what he called the deplorable situation in that area. The UN Chief has said his personal representative on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, who is currently in the area, was in contact with all concerned parties.
      In Washington, a senior US official said the capture of Khost had exposed the weakness of the Soviet-backed Kabul regime.
      The US Under Secretary of State Robert Kimmitt, speaking on a world , network program beamed by satellite to South Asia, has said it indicates the fragility of Na j.ibullah' s regime and his ruling party'*. He said the US will ’ continue to suppprt . the Afghan mujaheddin.                   •
      According to reports, the local population in Khost has welcomed the mujaheddin and end to the fighting in Khost.
      The UN Secretary-General, while expressing "deep concern" ^.about the loss of life and devastation in Afghanistan, has urged the Afghans to resolve xtheir differences through a political process which would ensure the exercise of their right to self-determination and establishment of a broad-based government in Kabul. (PT)
 *  The mujaheddin captured the Hazara village in Faryab province 27 March. They also captured 100 regime militiamen. (PT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have' scored a remarkable triumph in Khost. The mu-jaheddin should close their ranks and think of their future in rational
* and practical terms. It is time Najib realized that the big Russian bear is no longer willing or able to back its irrational intransigence. Kabul must come down from its arrogance to the terra f irma and see the facts on the ground as they really are., Pakistan, -would like to see a truly free, united and non-aligned Muslim Afghanistan. Afghanistan’s western neighbour, Iran, wishes Afghanistan no less well. (MLM-Editorial).
  * Heavy concentration of Kabul forces has been reported from Gardes which could be the next major target of the
. mujaheddin following the fall of Khost. Reports^received from across the border said that former Kabul regime Defense Minister, General Shah Nawaz TAni, who escaped to Pakistan and joined the resistance after his abortive coup against Dr., Najib, was associated actively with ""the thrust on Khost and though a die-hard communist, his contacts had helped the mujaheddin •operation which was a joint effort by different organizations. Reports from Kabul indicate that retaliation in some form should be expected from. Kabul which could either be in the form of intensified SCUD attacks or bombing on .mujaheddin concentrations. (MLM)
  * Khan Abdul Wall ,Khan, Chief of ANP, while criticizing Pakistan's policy on Afghanistan, has said that the war between the Kabul regime and mujaheddin was a civil war instead of jehad as abundantly proved by the recent Khost operations. He asked, what services have we rendered to \Islam by interfering in the internal affairs of a neighbouring country and thus causing the massacre of Muslims? The ANP leader criticized the presence of Afghan refugees in Pakistan for the last 13 years and said they had caused a serious strain on the economy of Pakistan and affected the life style of the people. (MLM)
APRIL-JUNE. 1991              flfGHMAD                   VOL. 4 NO.3
       Wifi Khan further , said that the Afghan jehad had given Pakistan nation the gifts of heroin and Klashenkov culture, and law and order problem.
 (MLM)
 *  Aga Murtaza Pooya, Amir of Pakistan Hezb-e-Jehad, in a statement, has congratulated the Afghan mujaheddin on their recent victory in Khost and prayed to Allah to bless the souls of. martyrs with eternal peace and the mujaheddin with greater unity, without which military success is rendered futile. (MLM)
 *  The daily Jang in its editorial has described the capture of Khost Garrison city by mujaheddin as a major victory of the Afghanistan jehad. The editorial says, the Afghan problem can be solved by supporting the Afghan people's struggle, and dislodging the foreign backed puppet Kabul regime. It * says, the other option, would be to stop all kinds of fbreign assistance to Najib’s regime and mujaheddin and letting them to settle their scores between themselves. (JG)
 *    The Ulama       Council   of    the
 Hezb-e-Islami in a verdict has said food sent for the Afghan refugees from non-Muslim      countries     are > not
 permissible under the Shariah. The daily Shahadat of the Hezb in a report has called the tinned mea,t harmful *to health. (PT) *      ' v
 *  Due  to the     firing of  four  SCUD
 missiles on Khost, captured earlier by the mujaheddin, at least 10 people have died. (PT)
 *  The UN Secretary General in the wake of the fall of Khost.to mujaheddin, has urged all parties concerned to treat the prisoner^ of war in accordance with international norms and allow them access to ICRC. (PT)
 *  A second missile fired by the Kabul
 regime forces hit the Khost city bazar and killed 14 persons and another 30 were severely wounded. (NWT)
 *   The daily Nawa-e-Waqt in an editorial about the capture of Khost by the mujaheddin has said, the propaganda that the mujaheddin are not united and < they no longer pose any danger to the Na jib regime has been rendered meaningless. (NWT)
 *  After the capture of Khost by the. mujaheddin, the question arises whether, it is the beginning of a fresh compaign for assaults iand attacks or the start of political parlies towards.a solution to the Afghanistan problem. In its analysis, BBC has said that* after the capture of Khost by the mujaheddin, the Pakistani Foreign Ministry has dispatched a formal message, through UN, to the Kabul regime assuring Najibullah that Khost's capture does' not signify the start of a fresh military attack but can provide an opportunity to end the political s talemiate.
      According to informed sources, the Kabul administration has dispatched a great number of armored units to an area 30 miles away from Khost. The prominent Afghan mujaheddin commander Ahmed Shah Masood has also said that he is starting his operations in Takhar. (NWT)
                                                    4
 *  More than 2,000 Afghan troops and tribal militia., including 40 high ranking officers, surrendered to the mujaheddin in 17 days of intense fighting. Admitting the fall of Khost the Kabul regime President called for a day of national mourning. Ten people have so far been killed in four SCUD missile attacks by the Kabul regime.
 (NTN)
216
  APRIL-JUNE. 1991               BHlHflH
 * The UN Secretary General's special representative on Afijf^uiistan, Benon Sevan; has said that the Geneva Accord-has failed and we cannot repeat the process of imposing decisions on the Afghans. The Afghan question, he said, can be solved only through political means by establishing a broad-based government which enjoys• the confidence of the majority _of Afghan people. (NTN)
 * The mujaheddin sources say that more than 200 mujaheddin were killed and 500 injured in the Khost battle. The Afghan mujaheddin also destroyed in rocket fire another 2 4 aircraft, mbs):’ of them, transport planes, at ("he airport. xAll the planes had red star markings of the Soviet Union. (NTN)
 * The 23-member council of commanders with Jalaluddin Haqqani as its main leader, has jtaken control of some vital installations like the radio station and agricultural centers in Khost.About 500 prisoners were kept in' one building while Haqqani said his forces were holding 2,200 soldiers.
 *  The mujaheddin commanders have re-inforced their positions on Gardez-Khost Highway to counter any attempt by the enemy to approach Khost. Meanwhile Khost city is still under curfew with short breaks in the morning and evening. (NTN)
 * Japan has donated $ one million food aid for 120,000 flood affected and earthquake stricken people in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  In an emergency meeting of Afghan cfell in Islamabad 3 April, President Ghulam Ishaque 'j Khan re-iterated that Pakistan would continue supporting political solution of the ; Afghan problem i.e, the establishment of a broad-based government in Kabul .acceptable to the people of Afghanistan, return of Afghan refugees to their
                                                                              VOL. 4 no.3
 homes with honor and dignity and restoration of the non-aligned and Islamic.     sovereign      status    of
 Afghanistan. (MLM)
 * The Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami, Qazi
 Hussain Ahmad, accompanied by the Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, visited 3 April the recently liberated      Khost      province    of
 Afghanistan. They were accorded an enthusiastic and warm welcome by the Afghan mujaheddin* Both of them addressed a gathering and' congratulated the mujaheddin for their victory. (;JG)
 *  Three Kabul regime planes indiscriminately dropped 20 incendiary bombs 3 April causing several feet deep craters in the ground with dark clouds of smoke all over the city. They were, how*ever, unable to hit their targets. Kabul regime also fired eight SCUD missiles 2 and 3 April killing 13 people and injuring more than 20. The attack coincided with the visit to the liberated Khost city by the Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami Qazi Hussain Ahmed and Hezb-e-Islami Chief Gulbuddin Hekmatyar along with a party of journalists.(NWT)
 *  Rahmatullah Khan, a former Russian soldier converted to Islam, was killed after hitting a mine in northern Helmand. He fought along with the mujaheddin to the last against both the Soviets and the Najib regime soldiers.
 (NWT)
 *  After capturing Khost, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, while declaring general amnesty, said that no one will be persecuted except the aggressive soldiers who shall be detained. About the number of Kabul prisoners Mawlana Haqqani said they may be around 2,000. (NWT)
 *  Najibullah, President of the Kabul regime, has said that he will recapture Khost from the mujaheddin. He has accused Pakistan to have used military
217
APRIL-JUNE. 1991              HIURHUMI                   VOL. 4  NO.3
 means in order to establish the mujaheddin government in Khost. Pakistan, however, has denied any involvement in the operation on Khost.
 (VOADS)
                     5
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin who liberated the Khost Garrison city have set up their administration in Khost and have taken control of the city and adjoining areas by flushing out the Kabul regime troops. ^ They have also captured 40-kilometer range six Soviet made D.C. guns in Khost intact. The New York Times says that 80% Afghan territory is now controlled by the mujaheddin. The US officials say that the Soviet Union sent its military advisors to fight against the mujaheddin in the guise of Afghan troops in Khost and also used SCUD missiles against them. The . paper also says that the Soviet Union should now realize the futility of future assistance to the Kabul regime and try to . resolve the problem through political means. (PT)
                                ' ' ' ' ''O' '
 *  Some 3,500 Kabul regime militiamen reached Mali Khel in Kurram Agency.and, joined the mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *  Talking to newsmen in a jehad bunker the Hezb-e-islami leader Gulbuddin Hek-matyar said the victory of Khost has disproved Najib's tail claims of invincibility and mujaheddin's weakness. Now our next target will be Kabul, he said. The weapons we seized in the war of Khost has no precedence so far. Only Hezb-e-Islami. captured 24 tanks, two helicopters, 6,000 klashenkovs, 600 anti aircraft guns and 150 vehicles, he added. (NWT)
 *  The leader of Hbzb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that 2,200= Kabul regime troops have been taken as priosners in the Khost battle. Of these 400 are wounded* About
 the mujaheddin casualties, he said since the attack on Khost was made from six different sectors, the exact number of total casualties is not known but roughly speaking some 80 mujaheddin may have been martyred^;(NWT)
 *  In an attempt to prevent mujaheddin from making Khost their political or military base, the Kabul regime forces have made 15 air raids with, one devastating SCUD missile attack on Khost, reports BBC. (NWT)
 *  The Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Action Committee meeting chaired by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in a jehad bunker, of Jehadwal Military Headquarters discussed in detail matters concerning administrative affairs of postwar Khost city and practical measures regarding attack on Kabul. (NWT)
 *  The whole city of Khost has turned into a heap of rubbles in consequence of indiscriminate SCUD -rockets fired by the Kabul* regime forces after- it was Captured by the Afghan mujaheddin. A deathlike silence prevails over the qity as not a single dwelling or building remained safe and all its inhabitants, includiing even animals and birds have fled in horror. Upto five days after the battle, corpses of Kabul regime troops could be seen lying in the. city. So far, 50 mujaheddin have been martyred and wounded by SCUD missiles. Innumerable broken bottles gf Russian vodka could be seen scattered on city roads. A lot of photos and pictures of Indian actresses were found in record room of Khost fortress. In the battle of Khost a good number of sophisticated weapons were also seized by the mujaheddin. (NWT)
 * The Jamaat-e-Islami Amir of Peshawar
    t. •               -    .
 Division, shabbir Ahmed Khan, has said that after the capture of Khost by the Mujaheddin, the complete liberation of Afghanistan and establishment of an
APRIL-JUNE. 1991             RHlHANJill                  VOL. 4 NO.3
 . ‘ t                     #  #
 Islamic government there is m sight. He congratulated all the mujaheddin on this glorious victory. (NWT)
 *  After the capture of Khost, no trace of AIG activities could be observed in the city, reports the daily Nawa-i-Waqt. in the war of Khost Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Jalaluddin Haqqani's group of mujaheddin played significant role and important defense installations are controlled by Hekmatyar. The NIFA mujaheddin also participated in the battle. (NWT)
 *  The Washington Post, quoting its
 special correspondent for mujaheddin^, has described the capture of Khost by the mujaheddin as "a glorious victory”. The New York Times has described it a stupendous feat and said that the mujaheddin's supply line towards the south-eastern provinces will open up now. (NWT)                           '
 *  Talking to newsmen in an If tar par ty hosted by Ejazul Haq, Pakistani Federal Minister for Labor and Manpower, the AIG Defense Minister, Nabi Mohammad has said Pakistanis equally deserved to be congratulated on the victory of Khost. (NWT),
 *  Replying a question by the Jang newspaper about the - visit to Khost inside Afghanistan, the Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami, ' Qaz‘i Hussain Ahmed, said it seems there are no frontiers among the Muslims. Imperialism has divided us bn the “basis of groups, areas and language whereas Muslim ummah is one and indivisible, (JG)
  ; a.       ’        • 1     '          •
       s ■
 *  Talking to newsmen in Miran Shah after his return from Khost, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hakmatytar, has said western countries are not in favor of our military victory and prefer a political solution to the Afghan problem. Large
 scale intrigues are being hatched against the mujaheddin but, despite that, our Jehad> God willing* shall be successful, he said. He disclosed that' when they, were just on the brink of capturing Jalalabad under a pre-planned scheme, Ojri camp explosion took place and their arms supply was stopped.They* want to subjugate us by their own men, he said. Hekmatyar said, "We want to
 keep a balance between Russia and the
    1 „ /
 US because had we depended entirely on US then our victory through jehad would
 have been impossible. We won the Khost battle through our own means and weapons. (JG)
 *   In bis analysis of Afghanistan situation a prominent Pakistani Journalist, Ghani Eirabi, says the (JS interest in keeping Soviets put of Afghanistan has noticeably declined and its attention shifted to Eastern Europe. The US arms supply and the humanitarian assistance to the Afghans is also declining. He has also attributed the stalemate in Afghan jehad to a decline in the US interest. (NTN)
 *  The mujaheddin report that the Kabul regime■forces have continued their air raids on Khost to force the mujaheddin vacate the city which they occupied only recently. Meanwhile, Najibullah, the Kabul regime leader, has asked the leaders of Iran and Turkey to prevent Pakistan from interfering in the internal ,affairs of Afghanistan.
 (VOAPS)
 *  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has told
 AFP in an interview in Khost that arms and ammunitions captured in Khost would be jointly used in the operations on Kabul. He added that the mujaheddin now had two objectives:   (1)  to  strengthen
 their hold on Khost, (2) marbh on Kabul.
                                                               The AFP correspondent has said that 10 SCUD missiles have been fired
219
APRIL-JUNE. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 on Khost so far and that General Gal Aqa, Commander of the Khost forces, was among those captured by the mujaheddin. The report adds that General Rahmat Shah, Commander of the KHAD forces in Paktia,    General Mohammad Ali the
 Political Commissioner and General
 Darya Khan, a representative of the Kabul   Defense  Ministry,     have     all
 disappeared. Haqqani added that about 30 aircraft,     including     Migs     and
 transport airplanes were also Captured by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 * Hamed *’ Elmi, the BBC? correspondent who had             visited Khost, gave the
 following reasons for the mujaheddin victory in Khost:  (1) harmony among the
 mujaheddin forces, (2) deployment of heavy arms i such as tanks, (3) the              security     belt,     (4)
                   re^nsive from a weaker supplies to the 6) bad climatic led the -air force s.
                                                                                                                 - ^-rector of the A an interview
                                                                                        vost\as the firgfc
                                                                                                                   Vmong the w c\c ante abou t
                                                                                         trateg^0pted ^
                               . ,, General
                           :s at
                           ns ago.
                           lin’s n\
                                                                                                 mbt the
                                                                                                 with thl
                                                                                                 .. \ctory
                                                                                          :c“PL.A"ing
                              as well **rms' hkaki add! a effective with a ne' by the them final v
*ana of asked move, leddin
            6
 ident, se^gk' \id that **°®
 tory proves the righteousness of our cause. Due to this jehad, he said, communism and socialism ideology is being rooted out from the entire world. (NWT)
 *  The daily Nation says in its editorial 6 April that the Khost victory has indeed been a major success for the- mujaheddin and should prove a morale booster for their strife-r-ridderi ranks. The high-powered Afghan cell by deciding to step up diplomatic efforts for the setting up of a broad-based government in Kabul'has taken the right course, the paper added. (NTN)
 *  Quoting his sources in Kabul, the chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said after the Khost victory by the mujaheddin a plot to overthrow Najibullah regime has been uncovered in which 40 senior military officers including Deputy Defense Minister, Azeemi, have been arrested. He claimed that somh senior Kabul military officers have started liaison with the mujaheddin. (JG)
    i
 *  Gen. Gul Aqa, captured by mujaheddin after the seizure of Khost, has said his soldiers after fighting for 12 long years, were demoralized. He admitted that mujaheddin's last attack on Khost was unexpected and .stormy. Meanwhile, the bodies of Kabul regime
 \soldiers are still lying without coffin 4,nd uncared for as a prey for stray dogs and animals. (NWT)
 *  Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the AIG Defense Minister, has said that the victory of Khost was the last nail in the coffin of Kabul regime and its days were numbered now. Khost is the mujaheddin's present to the Muslim ummah, he added. (NWT)
 *  Without naming any country an Indian xternal Affairs Ministry spokesman has
  id that the military* operations in
                                                                                                                                    hi:
                                                                                                                                    isl
                                                                                                                                    waj
                                                                   te
                                                                                                                                      £
                                                                                                                                    sec
 t
                                                                                                                                    ior
                                                                                                                                    Lnc
                                                                                                                                    lov
                                                                                                                                    tov
                                                                   Ln
                                                                                                                                     P<
                                                                   al
                                                                   a
                                                                   ny
                                                                   igj
                                                                   ad
                                                                   LI.
 vh
 P<
 t
 (K
 i
 -I
 3i
 is
 r
 n
 0 hi Id fa
 1 s
 K
 c
 h
 n
 APRii-juNE. i99i           AFGHAN JIHAD                 vol. 4  no.3
 then there would a true Islamic government as envisioned by the people of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  A Pakistan Foreign Office spokesman has once again categorically rejected Kabul regime's claim about Pakistani
 involvement in the liberation of Khost and reiterated that the fall of Khost to Afghan mujaheedin is solely and wholly the fruition of their own untiring efforts coupled with the cooperation of the Khost natives. The spokesman also said that SCUD missile attacks by the Kabul regime forces and their indiscriminate bombardment on civilian targets are not only against Geneva Accord but also detrimental to regional peace. The spokesman added that Pakistan has appealed to the UN , Secretary General not only to send an investigating team to Khost but also to use his influence in stopping barbarous attacks of Kabul regime on Khost and elsewhere. (JG)
 *  TAlking to newsmen in Parliament House in Islamabad, the leaders of Pakhtunkhwa National Alliance (PNA) and an MNA has said if interference in Afghanistan continues, the Pashtun nation will fight each other, one group against and the other for Najibullah. Criticising the Amir of Jamaat-e-lslami for having gone to Afghanistan, he said if the Amir can go there and get himself involved in the internal affairs of that country then he can also go to Kandahar to defend it. He said the leader of Jamaat-e-Islami should be taken to task for having violated the law of the land. (JG) *
 *   Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has ordered that the dead bodies of Kabul regime soldiers may be buried- separately according tp Islamic rituals. However the kith and kin of Russian b'orn Jauzjanis had appealed to Commander Haqqani for the transfer of their dead
 •to Northern Afghanistan but ICRC has excused itself for cooperating in this task. Hence, . they will be buried with the rest. (JG)
 *  Aziz Aqa, a commander from NIFA, has told the BBC correspondent in Peshawar that eversince the liberation of Tirin Kot, the inhabitants are facing difficulties from lack of education, health facilities, clinics, pesticides as well as chemical fertilizer. Presence of mines in some areas also caused hazards to the local populace, he said. (BBCPS)
                   9
 *  Over 160 Afghan villagers were killed and about 3,000 injured in the recent floods and earthquakes in Baghlan, Balkh and Kunduz provinces of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  The acting consul of Afghanistan in Quetta, Abdus Saboor, while talking to journalists at his residence, said that his government wants cordial relations with Pakistan based on Geneva Accord so a permanent . solution to the Afghan problem could be sought. He said that Hekmatyar had approached Kabul regime through PLO representative, Abu Khaled and had claimed two main forces, the Hezb and Hezb-e-Watan (formerly PDPA) were the fore-front for any bargaining, regarding the Afghan problem. But this offer was rejected by Kabul regime saying that participation of the entire groups was a pre-requisite to any kind of dialogue. (MLM)
                I
 *  Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of JI,- said that he cannot see any boundary line among the Muslims and if shown he will accept it. He said propaganda against Afghan refugees was being waged by external elements for their own motives and not by the present government. He said, western . media is trying to sabotage the Afghan jehad by creating disunity and rift among the mujaheddin.
 223
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
. VOL. 4 NO.3
Hesaid, Peter Tomsen, the US Ambassador for Afghan mujaheddin,! is trying to drive a wedge in the jehad movement by sabotaging it and actually this was his very objective. (NWT)
*  After the capture of Khost, the mujaheddin launched a fierce attack on Kabul airport damaging the terminal and destroying two military vehicles. In another attack, the mujahddin raided the Sarobi area and hit government installations. Nine government soldiers were killed and wounded.. On the Salang Highway, the mujaheddin attacked a supply convoy destroying two tanks and a truck. In the Samangan province at Tashqurghan, the mujaheddin seized three trucks loaded with military food supplies. Two murjaheds were also killed and seven wounded in the operation. (.NWT)
*  The National Assembly in Islamabad was informed that during the past decade, the Afghan refugees received UNHCR cash aid amounting to Rs. 7,472,332,608 while food aid by WFP valued at Rs. 1,087,862,103. The number of ^Afghan refugees settled in NWFP comes to 1,373,587; in Baluchistan 841,938; in FATA 845,858; in Punjab 1,777,572 and in Karachi 20,067. (NWT)
*  Maulana Fazal-,ur-Rehman, leader of JUI, addressing a press conference in Khost city, paid glowing tributes to the Afghan mujaheddin on their victory in Khost. (JG) *
 * The Amir of JI, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, said in a press conference in Peshawar 8 April that jehad was the. only way to solve the Afghan issue "but we do favor a dialogue between Soviet Union and the Resistance. He said that Soviet-American lobby was currently engaged in hectic campaigning for a political settlement of the issue aiming to establish a secular system in Kabul. (MLM)
 *  Quoting mujaheddin sources, VOA local correspondent says that the first group of Khost 306 POWs reached Peshawar 8 April. Twenty of these are military officers who include Brigadier Abdul Haleem, Commander of the Special Guard, Brigadier Atta Mohammad, Commander of the KHAD unit and Brigadier Abdul Rahman, another Commander of the Special Guard. The remaining prisoners are militiamen. (VOAPS)
 * Shaharyar Khan, the Secretary to the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan, who is seeking a political solution to the Afghanis tan ’problem,has told reporters in Islamabad that Pakistani envoys would hold talks with Soviet, US, Saudi Arabian and Iranian authorities at the UN. Meanwhile, Pakistani military sources told the BBC correspondent that Pakistan wishes to prevent further bloodshed in Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
 *  Fazl-ur-Rahman, a Pkistani politician, has urged Pakistan in a press conference in Khost to officially recognize the AIG. He added, Pakistan should not wait for a hint from the super powers in this respect. (BBCFS)
 *  Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime, has issued instructions to his armed forces to recapture Khost from the mujaheddin. According to a Radio Kabul broadcast, Najib met with his top military officers 8 April and said that his regime would not only recapture Khost but would .also prevent the mujaheddin from carrying out operations on other areas. (VOAPS)
                  10
 * Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of JI, who returned from Khost visit recently, while . talking to the Muslim in Islamabad, has disclosed that he 'had strong indications of Soviet Union*s willingness to associate the Afghan
224
APR1L-JUNE, 1991             AFGHANJ[HAO                 VOL. 4 NO.3
 mujaheddin for a political solution of the Afghan problem. He said that Soviets were even ready to sacrifice Najibullah for an interim impartial government. He also told that the mujaheddin and their representatives were already in touch with the Soviet Union and these contacts could be enlarged leading to a formal inter-dialogue. (MLM)
 *  A Kabul regime Brigadier, Ata Mohammad Khan, captured in Khost, in an interview with Radio Sada-e-Afghanistan said that Russian military advisors were present at all the strategic installations of Kabul. Meanwhile, eight soldiers of Kabul regime fleeing from Gardez joined mujaheddin in Zurmat, Paktia. (MLM)
                    11
 '* Ih an hectic shuttle between Kabul and Islamabad to settle the Afghan issue      Benon     Sevan,    personal
 representative of UN Secretary General, had meetings with Pakistan Foreign Secretary and Afghan mujaheddin leaders. In Afghanistan he held talks with Kabul regime President, Prime Minister and foreign minister and other senior officials. (PT)
 *  The mujaheddin have released 600 Afghan prisoners in Khost held under different charges by The Kabul regime. The mujaheddin are controlling the city administration and trying to clear the mines planted by Kabul regime to make the city safer for local movement and transportation. (PT)
 *  In an interview with Pakistani and foreign journalists at Miran Shah the Kabul regime captured General Zahir has said that he did not see any Pakistani troops fighting in Khost. He said, due to inclement weather, the Kabul forces were unable to receive re-inforcement and this was the main cause for the
 fall of Khost. After his release, he said, he won’t join the Kabul forces but would work for reconstruction of the country. He said that mujaheddin’s behaviour with the prisoners, based on Islamic brotherhood, was exemplary. (NWT)
 *  Five Generals and five Brigadiers of Kabul regime were captured during the war in Khost. (NWT)
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin commander, Jalaluddin Haqqani, has rejected the Pakistan's proposal of' a political settlement of the Afghan ' problem and said "we shall continue our Jehad and won't leave our people as victims to Kabul regime SCUD missile attacks and barbaric bombardment while waiting for conciliation and compromise." He said there are no plans regarding the transfer of. AIG headquarters to Khost. He said we are not going .to court martial our war prisoners. (NWT)
 *  According to a report from N. Y. a UN spokesman, Francois Giuliani, has said that a UN envoy has begun shuttle diplomacy between the Kabul regime leader, Najibullah and Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Pakistan aiming at finding a political solution to the Afghan problem. He said Benon Sevan, personal representative of UN Secretary General, has met the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad and Pakistan Foreign Secretary before leaving for Kabul. (NWT)
 *  Major General Kabir of the Kabul regime with his deputy are reported to have been killed in Kandahar after hitting a mine. Ten Afghan mujaheddin are also reported to have been killed in similar incidents in Khost. (NWT)
 *   Indian sources have confirmed earlier reports that Asadullah Sarwary, a former Kabul regime Deputy Prime Minister,* who was accused of
225
  April-june> 1991
 •collaborating with an abortive coup against Najib, was in prison in India since a year. According to an Indian newspaper he is charged with travelling to India without proper documents. However, Sarwary says his passport was confiscated by an Afghan Embassy official upon arrival in Delhi. (VOAPS)
 * The Kabul regime has said that the mujaheddin carried out rocket attack on Kabul for the first time after the capture of Khost. One person was killed and another four injured in the attack. (BBCFS)
 * On the basis of a Swiss government request the Kabul regime has sent a delegation to Switzerland headed by General Mohammad Eshaq Tookhi. A report says the delegation has already met with at least one of the mujaheddin leaders. The Swiss government is reported to ''be acting as a mediator in
 solving the Afghanistan problem.(BBCPS)
 * According to a speaker of the ICRC in Geneva, two teams of that organization are currently operating in Khost. Twelve persons from these teams are treating the mujaheddin and government troops who have been wpunded in the Khost war. (BBCFS)
 * As a result of mujaheddin ground-to-ground missiles fired on Kabul, one person was killed and another four injured. One of these rockets hit the Kabul University. (RA)
 * The mujaheddin have captured the Hazar Qala military base near Shirin Tagab, Faryab. The Kabul regime troops have fled the base leaving behind large amounts of arms and ammunitions. (RP)
                   12
 * The mujaheddin have daptured Archi district of Kunduz province on the Russian-Afghan border after a severe
 VOL. 4 no.3
 battle with Kabul regime forces. (NTN)
 * The mujaheddin have destroyed a tank killing its crew in their attack on a Kabul regime mobile force at Erijeel near Herat city. They also hit the military fortifications in Pashtun Zarghoon, east of Herat and killed several troops and injured many others. (PT)
 * A spokesman of Afghan mujaheddin's Commander's Council in Khost sector, Mawlana Mohammad Yaqub Shariatyar, has told AAP that victory in Khost was the outcome of mujaheddin's unity arid solidarity which is painful to Zionism. Therefore the Zionists are trying to weaken such victory by propagating false rumors of rift between mujaheddin commanders on the distribution of captured arms in Khost. (NTN)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin haye captured Pazhda|c, an important strategic district in Kunduz province. They have also captured a Lt. General, three Brigadiers and some senior military officers. Also some young boys, forcibly inducted into Kabul regime troops, were captured and, according to them, they had for the first time handled rifles. (JG)
 * Mujaheddin sources say they have captured an important military post in Dasht-e-Archi on the , Soviet-Afghan border. One hundred of government troops and a large quantity of arms and ammunition were also captured by the mujaheddin during the operation.
 (VOADS)
 * Najibullah, President of the Kabul regime, has told a BBC correspondent that 5,000 mujaheddin were killed during the Khost. war and another 6,000 of them were injured. He did not disclose any figures about government losses. (BBCFS)
 226
APRIL-JUNE, 1991               KM  All                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 * Fifty soldiers were killed when the mujaheddin attacked security posts in Samangan and captured large quantities of arms also. In another attack on Delaram, on the Kandahar - Herat highway, 30 government troops were killed. (RP)
                  13
 * Two Afghan pilots, Sayyed Sattar and Sher Afghan, captured alongwith a Khad personnel after their plane was shot down by Afghan mujaheddin in Khost, have expressed their gratitude for their humane treatment and vowed to fight alongside mujaheddin for the liberation of Afghanistan. (PT)
 * Addressing a Jumma congragation at Shamshatu refugee mosque 12 April, the chief of Hezb-e-islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that victory in Khost was a joint effort of all the mujaheddin since they are all united. He criticized the western media for attributing Khost victory to one individual or another. (PT)
                  14
 * The Afghan resistance sources say that the mujaheddin launched a rocket attack on the security posts near Aibak 10 April killing 18 Kabul regime troops and three mujaheds were also killed. They also killed 32 regime troops when they attacked them on Kabul-Kandahar highway 7 April. In retaliation, the Kabul regime bombarded the mujaheddin positions and five mujaheddin, were killed. (PT) *
 * According to mujaheddin's services office Mustafa Shibli, an Egyptian charged with collecting funds for Afghan mujaheddin for the last six years, has been killed in New York by unknown assailants. The services office believe that Mustafa Shibli has been' killed by Zionist extremists. (PT)
*  Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's envoy on Afghanistan, has asked the Afghans to hold talks with the Kabul regime, reports BBC. Meanwhile’ a delegation of the Kabul regime, led by Najibullah's senior assistant. General Eshaq Tookhi, has gone to Switzerland for informal talks with Swiss government officials. (MLM)
*   A high ranking Kabul regime military officer cooperating with mujaheddin has disclosed that 40 SCUD missiles were fired on Khost till first week of April. The missiles, he said, were transported from Russia and later on despatched to Hairatan near Amu River to Kabul in trucks designed as loaded with chemical fertilizer. (MLM)
*  Addressing a press conference in Mansehra, the chief of JUI and Senator Hafiz Hussain Ahmed has said that Khost's capture was due to the efforts of local mujaheddin over there and their joint action was directed under the supervision of mujaheddin commanders' joint council. The AIG, he said, had no hand whatsoever in the victory of Khost. (JG)
                  15
* AAP sources say that 200 Kabul troops have joined the mujaheddin along with their weapons in Faryab while the other besieged troops have been offered general amnesty for surrendering to the mujaheddin. The Kabul troops who joined mujaheddin have said that so far 40 troops were killed in the fighting. (PT)
♦Afghan refugee sources say that four Afghans, including Mistari Alam, younger brother of commander Deedar of Paghman, were gunned down by unknown assailants 14 April near Baghbanan in the outskirts of Peshawar, (PT)
*  Kabul regime President ' Najibullah
227
APRIL-JUNE, 1991               AH   Ml                   VOL. 4 NO.3
  has in a message, appealed to US President Bush to press Pakistan not to interfere in Afghanistan's internal affairs, reports Moscow Radio. He has alleged that 4,000 Pakistani troops participated in Khost operation last month. (NTN)
  *  A former Kabul regime Minister, Ghulam Dastagir, is reported to have fled his country to seek political assylum in Bulgaria. (JG)
  *   In an attempt to prevent mujahed-idin's advance towards Jalalabad, the
  Kabul regime planes indiscriminately bombarded the south-eastern positions of the mujaheddin 14 April. The mujaheddin shot down     a Kabul  regime
  reconnaissance plane killing the crew. They also attacked a supply convoy and destroyed several tanks and captured 50 regime     troops. Two   hundred  troops
  defected to the mujaheddin with their arms. (JG)
  * A personal envoy of Soviet President
  held meetings with Kabul regime President Najibullah and other Kabul leaders on regional stability and mutual   relations, reports BBC  quoting
  TASS .Meanwhile according to AIR, a senior Foreign office spokesman has said in Islamabad that a high-level Soviet   delegation is  expected to hold
  talks with Pakistani officials later this month. (JG)
  *  On the third anniversary of Geneva Accord on Afghanistan, the UN Secretary General's envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said in an interview that Perez de Cuellar has intensified his
, efforts for a political settlement of fche Afghanistan problem. He said there was a, consensus that there was no alternative to political settlement. Nevertheless, he said, the UN had no specific plan for a political settlement. (NWT) *
  * According to MIDIA, 20 Kabul regime
 high ranking communist party office bearers including, the regime Vice President, Nazar Mohammad and two Major Generals, Syed Mohammad Ali and Ahmad Khan, have managed to escape from Khost and reach Kabul. (NWT)
 *  The Kabul regime, in a decree issued from the Prime Ministry, has declared chat Afghans residing abroad and opposing f *the regime can obtain passports from the Afghan embassies for visiting their relatives in Afghanistan. (BBCPS).
                  16
 *  The leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said in an interview 15 April from inside Afghanistan that his party was ready to hand over the completely, intact and fully protected office and administrative control of Khost to such a fully active interim government of th4 mujaheddin which was ready to work inside Afghanistan and bring forth an elected Shoora by completing the flection process initiated earlier. He proposed that an interim government of the mujaheddin should be activated to face the current challenges and move , inside Afghanistan so as to turn into a de-facto government. (MLM)
 *  The Kabul regime ruler Najibullah has asked intellectuals, scientists, technicians and students who * left the country and have valid Afghan passports to return to the country. Those coming under •' the condition of essential military service have been given six months concession. (MLM)
 *  In an interview with' ANA, Faiz Mohammad, the jehad Amir of Paktia province and commander of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in Khost, has said that the death toll of the regime forces in Khost fighting was about 350 while thousands of them were captured. About 100 mujaheddin embraced martyrdom and
228
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                  AMD                   VOL.  4 N0.3
around 300 were injured. He said the fall of Khost had opened the gate for the capture of Kabul. He said the local commanders have formed seven fronts in Kabul and in every front each group had a fully! experienced commander who was also designated as a member of the local shoora. The whole operation# he said# was conducted          under   the
supervision   of seven commanders. He
said the      mujaheddin    entered  the
besieged Garrison in three groups from three sides:     Wazyan,    Alizai   and
Dakitiand and knocked out regime's defenses.He clarified that not a single soldier surrendered before mujaheddin but they were forced to lay down their arms. (PT)
*  'In an interview with a US weekly the
Kabul regime ruler Najibullah# has proposed that the Afghan mujaheddin' participate in a joint commission having few ministries and enjoying some powers of     the armed     forces.  The
commission,   he said,    should hold
elections under international, preferably under the UN supervision. (NWTj
*   The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said in an Eid message that the victory in Khost was a good omen for the liberation of the . whole country. God willing, the Afghans will celebrate their Eid in future under an Islamic government, he said. (NWT)
*  Fourteen troops were killed and a number of them were injured including the Governor and two high officials in fierce fighting between rival Kabul regime armed groups in the Faryab province center in Afghanistan. (NWT) *
 * In an Eid message the Afghan leader, Nasrullah Mansoor, has urged the mujaheddin to unite for a decisive action against the Kabul regime. He said their independence and the establishment of a real Islamic
government in their homeland was not far in view of the memorable sacrifices of the Afghan nation. (NWT)
*   Five Kabul regime generals, including Deputy Defense Minister, taken prisoner in Khost war, were presented in a press conference by the Afghan mujaheddin. Mujaheddin Commander, Jalaluddin Haqqani, told the press conference that they will remain prisoners until they promise not to fight against the mujaheddin. He said that POWs were neither killed nor, mal-treated by the Afghan mujaheddin. (JG)
*   About the expected Pakistan-Soviet dialogue on Afghanistan later this month, the daily Jang says in an editorial whatever the solution, it should be based on the aspirations of the; majority of the Afghans. The Soviet Union should particularly realize that the Afghan nation will not be willing to accept the stooges of any alien power, otherwise it would not have sacrificed two million lives. The virtual failure of the Geneva Accord lies in that the aspirations of the Afghan mujaheddin were relegated to the background and the doors were kept open for irrational and irresponsible positive' symmetry. Nevertheless, 'the mujaheddin should also accept any rational outcome of the Soviet-pakistan dialogue. (JG)
*   Fazl Ahmad Gurg, a well-known mujaheddin commander in Herat was captured by government troops 14 April and was later executed. (VOIRAPS)
                                                 18
        v            ..               4
*   Don Ritter, a member of the US Congress, addressing the House has said regarding the fall of Khost to the mujaheddin, "in order to ensure the rule of the Najib regime, the Soviet Union has supplied him with $3.5 billion worth of arms and $700 million
229
APRIL-JUNE, 1991                       AFGHANJtHlID                           VOL.  4   n6-3
   worth of economic assistance during 1990, and all this while Moscow has demanded economic aid from the US and the western nations. On the other hand our assistance to the mujaheddin during the same period was less than 10% of the Soviet aid to the Kabul regime. Alone in April, 40 SCUD missiles have been fired on Khost whereas no Patriot Missile has been given to the mujaheddin to combat the ^SCUDs." (VOADS)
   *  Resistance sources report that the mujaheddin attacked government posts in
                                                            * Injeel, Herat, 9 April in which Soofi Mohammad a well-known militia commander » together with his 10 men were killed and another 25 were wounded. Ten of the militiamen were also captured. In
          T- • '
   another' operation in Chesht, Herat, militia commander Hakimullah. and 20 of his men were killed. (VOIRA)
                                                19
   *  Five long-range missiles landed in different parts of Kabul city 16 April, reports ANA. One of the missiles hit where Najibullah was to attend the Eid gathering. One person was reported killed and several were injured. Confirming the report, Kabul Radio says four other missiles strayed and landed in deserted areas.
         According to another report,, four civilians including children and women, were seriously injured in severe bombardment of Kabul regime planes 17 April in eastern Nangarhar. The regime < air force also bombed mujaheddin positions in and around Khost city on the first day of Eid. Meanwhile * mujaheddin inflicted heavy human and material losses to the regime forces 16 April •; night when they attacked the Gardez military base in Paktia. (MLM) *
   *  One person was killed when a SCUD missile fired by Kabul troops landed
 in Lani Khana village in Landi kotal 17 April. (NTN)
 *   After necessary repairs, the mujaheddin have set into operation the Khost radio station captured by them in their recent victory. Renamed as "Radio -e-Sada-e-Afghanistan" (Voice of Afghanistan), it has started daily experimental broadcasts of two-hour.
 (NTN)
 *  The daily Nawa-i-Wagt in its
 editorial 19 April has advised the Afghan mujaheddin to capture Jalalabad as early as possible keeping in view the current changes in the world. The editorial deplores attempts by the UN to protect a regime which neither enjoys support nor confidence of the people and owes its existence only to military might. The paper says the mujaheddin have before them the only objective of the liberation of Afghanistan and restoration of their Islamic identity. This is what the Najibullah regime has failed to understand and has instead made futile attempts of offering the mujaheddin a share in power. (NWT)                \
 *  Resistance sources say that the iBadghis mujaheddin recently launched an attack on Kabul government militia in which chey seized 250 pieces of arms, six ziguigs, five machine guns,, two RPGs and 250 boxes- of shells. A large number of the militia were killed. Also three mujaheddin were killed in these operations. (RFA)
                  20
 *  The International Bureau for Afghanistan in Paris held a one day conference on finding ways for a political solution to the Afghanistan problem. Dr.Mohammad Amin Farhang, who partiqi-r-pa ted in the conference said the meeting, .held 20 April, discussed the following four topics:
230
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
(1) liberation of Khost by the mujaheddin and its impact on the political or military solution of the Afghanistan problem;
(2)  the impact of the Gulf War on the Afghanistan issue;
(3) the Pakistani position vis a vis the political or military solution of the Afghanistan problem;
(4)  the current prevailing situation in Afghanistan after the liberation of Khost and the condition facing the Kabul regime.
      Soviet and American Ambassadors in Parjis also attended the conference. (VOADS)
                   21
*  Addressing a press conference at the Lahore Airport on arrival from New Delhi 20 April, the ANP President, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, stressed the need for resolving Kashmir and Afghan issues through negotiations. (PT)
*  Ten Kabul regime troops, including a Soviet military advisor, were killed when a SCUD missile fired by them blasted in the air in Dar-ul-Aman, south of Kabul. (NWT)
*  A Kabul regime militia commander Brigadier General, Mohammad Khan, has bjeen badly wounded losing both of his legs, when he struck a land mine laid by the mujaheddiri east of Jalalabad. He was inspecting a militia post in the area. (NWT) *
 * vffte Kabul regime planes bombarded on the second day of Eid- 19 April- the Sarshahi, Batikot and Ghani Khail areas of th^ Nangarhar province in which four people were killed and 11 injured. (VOAPS)
 *  Thirty five persons were killed on Eid day when a passanger bus fell into Kunar River during heavy bombing by the Kabul regime aircraft in Nurgal, sub-division Kheva, Nangarhar. (JG)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have killed the Kabul regime military commander, Mohammad Rahim and his three colleagues in Herat. They also wiped out a military post and captured 18 klashenkovs. (JG)
 *  The Kabul regime aircraft dropped 50 bombs on Khost in the wake of its bombing of the town which started on Eid day and continued for two more days. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin have destroyed a security post at the Bagram Airport killing eight regime troops and capturing five. They also seized a mortar gun, one rocket launcher, seven klashenkovs and ammunition in the operation. In Baghlan province, the mujaheddin attacked Khad office in the provincial headquarter and killed two troops and captured two others seizing 10 klashenkovs, one rocket launcher and a machinegun. The mujaheddin also captured three military posts with a large quantity of arms and ammunition. (JG)
                  22
 *  Informed sources in Peshawair, say
 the US and Saudi Arabia- are discussing the possibility of establishment of another Afghan mujaheddin alliance to secure' a political settlement of the Afghanistan     problem.     Led     by
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the proposed alliance will include‘‘the four major parties of the AIG. (NWT)
 *  Agency reports say that about 300 people were killed and 700 injured in Asadabad bazar of Kunar province when two ground-to-ground B-2 missiles were fired oh the bazar- and dozens of shops were gutted. Meanwhile, more than 100
APRIL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 houses were destroyed when a severe earthquake jolted the Gandam Gul area in Keshem, Badakhshan. (MLM)
 * The AIG Premier, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has called upon the Muslim youth all over the world to remain steadfast in their resolve to fight for the cause of Allah and protection of the honor of Muslims. In a message released by Al Bunyan News Service, he has reminded them that the current happenings inside the Soviet Union was a clear evidence of our lofty hopes and noble expectations. Forces of evil and subjugation have reached on the brink of their collapse and final downfal", he added. The disintegration of Red Empire would not be any single biggest event of its kind, but it would serve as a never-ending chain reaction for the destruction of many other evil powers too, he said. The forces of evil, subjugation and aggression' could only be fought with the iron-will and unfaltering resistance of the Muslims, he added. (PT)
 * The administration of the mujaheddin in Kunar province has started an operation to destroy the standing poppy crop. Official have destroyed poppy crop over 40 acres of land. They are also destroying poppy crop in the valleys of the province. (PT)
                  23
 * Commenting on Kabul regime SCUD missile attack on Kunar province’s capital of Asadabad 20 April the Pakistan Times says in its editorial 23 April that targetting a densely populated area of their own country with deadly missiles reveals Counting frustration of the Kabul regime's rulers in the wake of humiliating defeats suffered at the hands of the mujaheddin at Khost and elsewhere. The attack on Asadabad is believed to be a tactical move by the Kabul regime to
 deter an assault on Jalalabad for which the mujaheddin appear to be poised. (PT)
 *  Inaugurating a two-day international Badshah Khan Amn (peace) Conference in Peshawar 22 April the ANP leader Abdul Wall Khan has said the bloodshed in Afghanistan is not a jehad but a conflict in which one section of the Muslims is killing the other so that the power-hungry fundamentalists could capture territory. He added that the change of government of Afghanistan was purely an internal matter of the people of that country and Pakistan had no right to interfere therein. America, he said, had -called-off its interest in Pakistan and had now directly shifted to the Gulf because of the oil wealth while it had developed friendship with Moscow. So Pakistan was now compelled to have an improved relationship with India, Afghanistan and other neighbouring countries. (MLM)
 *    Pakistan has condemned the destruction caused by Kabul regime SCUD missile attack 21 April on Asadabad. Its permanent representative at the UN, in a letter to the UN Secretary General said that such attacks directly affect Pakistan. He
 said that following the attack hundreds
   • . * ............................ •
 of injured Afghans and their relatives have started arriving in Pakistan's border towns and hospitals. (MLM)
 *  Death toll of Kabul regime SCUD missile attack 21 April on Kunar capital Asadabad has risen to 500. About 300 bodies have bieen pulled from the rubbles. An eye-witness says 10 bodies could not be identified and hundreds of people are searching for their nears and dears. (NTN)
 * A UNESCO report says that about
 2,000  schools have been destroyed in the war in past 10 years in Afghanistan and as many teachers have .either been
232
APRtL-JUNE, 1991
IHNJIHAD                 VOL. 4 NO.3
 killed or have left the country. (NTN)
 * Speaking in a conference recently
 held in Islamabad under the auspices of the     International     Bureau     for
 Afghanistan, an Afghan intellectual, Naeem Majrooh, has said the 'hmjaheddin should continue exerting military pressure on Kabul regime in order to pave the way for political solution to the crisis and if there is no military pressure, a political.solution is not possible. He said, the mujaheddin and refugees should get out from foreign influence by exploring ways and means to stahd on their own bottom. The foreign assistance, he said, has resulted in emergence of a large number of groups apd parties among the mujaheddin. (NTN)
 * Military experts say the Kabul
 regime used the recently Soviet supplied     sophisticated ballastic
 missiles and not the SCUDS in its attack on Asadabad 21 April. (JG)
 *  In a message read put in two-day international Badshah Khan Amn (peace) conference inaugurated by ANP leader Abdul Wall Khan in Peshawar 22 April the Kabul regime President Najibullah has accused Pakistan of balatant military interference in Afghanistan and direct military involvement in Khost. The message read out by the Kabul reigime Consul in Peshawar further said they can well retaliate but they want friendship with the government and the people of Pakistan. Pakistani rulers should not prolong bloodshed in Afghanistan and adhere to peace, the message added. (JG)
 *  Commenting on Asadabad incident the Kabul regime said it was caused by internal fight of the Afghan mujaheddin groups, reports BBC. (NWT) *
*  In an, interview with ANR the chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin
 Hekmatyar, has said they would avenge the Kabul regime SCUD missile attack on Asadabad. The Home Minister of mujaheddin's provincial administration,
 Rozi Khan, has also said "we are planning for a major operation to avenge the incident." (NWT)
                              - t: •
 *  The AIG has condemned the Kabul government rocket attack on the Kunar province and has urged the UN and other international agencies to prevent further attacks by the regime on Afghan areas. (VOAPS)
                  24
 *  In an interview with a BBC • correspondent, the U.S. special envoy for Afghan refugees, Peter Tomsen, has said the US is annoyed with. Afghan leaders such as Sayyaf, Hekmatyar and Rabbani for supporting Iraq in the Gulf War and has therefore stopped its assistance to these groups. About former Afghan Monarch, Zaher Shah, the US special envoy said he is part of Afghan resistance. He ' is playing an important role for the unity of Afghan people and seeking a political solution
 to the Afghan problem. However, the US does not want to select anyone as leader of the Afghan people. We would support any person elected by the Afghan people. We would support anyone except what ha called the terrorist groups of Sayyaf,,. Hekmatyar and Rabbani. (MLM)
 *  The UN ' special envoy for Afghanistan, Banon Sevan, has expressed satisfaction over his talks with Iranian leaders in Tehran on efforts to promote a political settlement in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  The Kabul regime has said that a fierce clash between two rival mujaheddin factions caused an explosion in Asadabad, Kunar 20 April resulting in hundreds of deaths. The
233
APRIL-JUNE, 1991               HM  JIM               ,  VOL.  4 NO.3
 official news agency said mujaheddin missiles hit fuel and ammunition dumps belonging to another group. (MLM)
 *  A US state department spokesman says the US deplores the reported rocket attack . by Kabul regime 22 Aprii on AsaddB'ad, Kunar, and has made its view known to Moscow. (PT)
 *  Fifteen shops in the central bazaar of Qarabagh in Ghazni were destroyed with damages worth hundreds of thousands of rupees when the district came under severe bbmbing of the Kabul regime jet planes 22 April. Two mujaheddin were killed and four others severely injured. Meanwhile, a regime personnel was killed and a military truck destroyed in an ambush by the mujaheddin at Qala-e-Lai Amir Khan on Kabul-Parwan Highway the same day. The mujaheddin captured three security posts in Karam district 21 April, inflicting severe losses to regime forces. (PT)
 *  A Moscow Radio report warns that escalation of war by the Afghan mujaheddin can engulf Pakistan a's well.
 (NWT)
           \ ■ • '
 *  A Foreign Ministry spokesman in Paris has said that intensity of war in Afghanistan has once again proved that there must be an immediate solution of the problem under the UN. (NWT)
                    „                   v
 *  The Kabul regime representatives are reported to have met senior* Pakistani officials in Geneva to seek the release of Khost POWs. (JG) *
 * The daily Jang said in its editorial
 24 April that SCUD missile attack on civilian targets by the Kabul regime is a clear indication that it does not want a peaceful solution        of   the
 Afghanistan problem nor does it .'ant
 the Afghan refugees to come back in the previously declared "zones of peace". The Kabul regime tries to isolate and suppress the resistance through international pressure. Failure of diplomatic efforts so far to resolve the Afghan issue lies in neglecting the basic fact that Afghans are key to the real solution of the problem. Obviously they will never accept the formula of power sharing with Najibullah otherwise they would not have sacrificed their millions of lives. Hence the Afghans must have the chance to determine their own destiny. (JG) /
                25
 *  A Foreign Office spokesman in . Islamabad has categorically denied and termed as fabrication the news items appearing in a section of the press regarding Pakistan-Afghan talks in Geneva later this month. He did not rule out the possibility pf disinformation designed to cause confusion. (PT)
     Reliable sources in Islamabad say the US will completely stop military and financial aid to Afghan mujaheddin after October this year. (PT)
 *  Commenting on a reported broadcast by Moscow Radio about Pakistan's alleged involvement in the escalation of hostilities in Afghanistan, a Foreign office source in Islamabad said it was looking for an authentic version of ' the report and / what had been published was based on total misunderstanding and misinterpretation of Pakistan's policy which was primarily aimed at finding a political solution to the problem. (MLM)
 *  In an interview with The Nation the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has said the solution of Afghan problem is impossible as most of the mujaheddin and refugees are against talking to
234
APR It-JUNE. 1991                rniJlD                    VOL. 4  no.3
 Lash-e-Jaween* district in Ghor province fell to Afghan mujaheddin 5
Najib. He said neither America nor the Soviet Union will be able to find out a durable political settlement to the Afghan problem. (NTN
*   An Afghan mujaheddin Shoora, comprising 63 prominent commanders, met near Kabul 21 April and divided the province into three military zones for an integrated attack on the capital, Kabul. Communication has also been established between the commanders of all the three zones. (NWT)
*  Six Kabul regime aircraft heavily bombed the Sarkani sub-division in the liberated Kunar province of Afghanistan 24 April. (JG)
*   Resistance sources say that 63 commanders belonging to different mujaheddin organizations in areas around Kabul, held their sixth meeting to discuss their plan for the liberation of Kabul city. The commanders are reported to have divided Kabul province into three zones for this purpose, the first being Sorobi, Bagrami, Char Asyabj the second districts being Deh Sabz,Qara Bagh,Mir Bachakot and Shakar ^uara and the third Paghman and Chardehi, All these districts will be connected with strong radio communications. (VOADS)
                 26
*  The Kabul regime has admitted for
the first time the presence of the military elements having links with the mujaheddin within the ranks of the army, resistance sources quoted a military committee investigating the bomb blast at the Bala Hisar military garrison last week. The blast claimed the lives of 18 Kabul troops and destruction of arms and ammunition including BOO klashenkovs ,*        34
machine guns and 16 mortar guns. (PT)
 *   A delayed report says that
April.They captured the district after killing      dozens      of      regime'
militiamen. The mujaheddin also captured arms in the operation. In another operation 10 April they attacked Ibrahim Beg militia and captured more than a dozen security posts in Palao Surkh, Darumak, Surkh Ali and Shahs Najgai areas of the province. Fourteen militiamen including the commander, Abdul Ghafoor, were killed. The mujaheddin also captured arms and ammunition. In Dalkhaki area of Samangan province five militiamen were killed and large number of arms and. ammunition was captured by the mujaheddin... Two mujaheddin were also killed, A military convoy on the main highway between Kabul and Hairatan was attacked .in the same province causing heavy financial and human losses to th& regime forces. In Tashqurghan six military vehicles and a BM-41 launcher were destroyed and four military transportation vehicles captured alongwith logistics < and arms and ammunition by the mujaheddin. Three militiamen were killed and another eight were captured.
     Meanwhile Kabul regime planes bombed Loghlajo and Ahmed Khail villages 23 April killing three persons and injuring three others and destroying a number of houses. Also three children and a woman were seriously injured 20 April in severe bombing by the regime planes. Air raids continued on Hisar-e-Shahi 24 April causing heavy material and financial losses. The regime forces fired BM-41 rockets at Kama, Nangarhar 22 Arpil. Four mujaheddin were injured. (PT)
* In an informal talk with the Nawa-i-Waqt 25 April the Foreign Secretary, Shahryar Khan, has said Pakistan will not hold direct talks on Afghan issue with the Kabul regime.
235
APRIL-JUNE. 1991                      RfTllAIIJIHAD                         VOU..  4   N0.3
                                               war-torn Afghanistan. (MLM)
 political solution of the problem in its talks with the other parties. The UN* he said, has also started taking interest in the matter.. (NWT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin are reported to have attacked a military convoy carrying Soviet supplies to the regime forces in Noorgandi 17 April and forced them to retreat leaving behind one tank and heavy quantity of arms and ammunition. Ten regime troops were killed and injured and four were captured and three vehicles were destroyed. A mujaheddin commander and four other mujaheddin were also killed in the operation. (PT)
                  27
 * The Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has in a statement said, the present understanding between the US and USSR is only the result of unilateral surrender and defeat of Soviet empire to world imperialism. The Soviet surrender and helplessness could be gauged from the fact that the USSR remained a silent spectator to the plight of its Iraqi ally when it was subjected to showering of hundreds of tons of explosives and bombs. The Soviets did not object to the occupation of the Gulf by the Americans which is equally vital to the Soviets as is to the Americans, he added. (PT)
 *  The Soviet Union     has   informed
 Pakistan that its top man Kozyrez will shortly visit Islamabad for talks on Afghan issue to carry forward the process      started by UN   Secretary
 General's personal representative Benon Sevan. Foreign Office sources say Pakistan believes that the added dimension which the UN has acquired as a result of its role in the Gulf war, can help an enhanced role in the
 *   Fierce fighting is continuing between Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Logar wwith regime forces using heavy artillerry and a big convoy of troops with tanks and armored vehicles and with air support is heading towards Mohammad hgga district, near the outer defense lin>.e of Kabul. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin sshot down a military helicopter at Qal a-e-Aziz 23 Apiil and their artillery attack on Gardez is continuing. Man^y Civilians have been injured in Nangirtmar in heavy bombing by the regime forcear. (NWT)
                 28
 *  In a big public meeting a. t Miranshah
 on the occasion of the 14th anniversary of Saur (April) Coup speakers from all the seven major political parties of mujaheddin condemned the communist revolution of April 27, 19"78  and said
 that the day carried a dark chapter in the history of Afghanistan. They said it is because of this so-called revolution that the sufferings of. the Afghan nation have now entered their 13 th year and the nation sacrificed more than 1.5 million Afghans in the wake of which hundreds of thousands of women were widowed, children orphaned and thousands were crippled. They paid rich tributes to mujaheddin and the martyrs of Afghan jehad who sacrificed their lives for the sacred cause of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan and vowed to complete the mission of Afghan martyrs. Similar meetings were also held in other refugee camps in the NWFP. (PT)
 *   Four hundred N Afghan mujaheddin refugees, including women and children, demonstrated in New Delhi 27 April against the Najibullah regime and said their war to oust him from power would, continue. They marched to mark the 13th
236
APRIL-JUNE. 1991               BH1MIIQ                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 mujaheddin seized a heavy quantity of arms and ammunition in their operation against military targets in the outskirts of Aibak city. Two mujaheddin were also killed. In Balkh province they captured three regime posts and arrested three troops. One mujahed was martyred and four injured in the operation. (NWT)          .
 *  In a message to the regional workshop on environmental health management in refugee areas,Pakistan ' Premier Na-
',waz Sharif said that it was focussing due attention upon the fundamental right of refugees to a clean environment and sanitary surroundings. He said it was not sufficient to merely acknowledge these considerations but the ihternational community should take appropriate measures to ensure their provisions. (PT)
 *  According to the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, in fightings between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces in Shirin Tagab, Faryab, a mujaheddin commander Sayyed Alauddin Hashemi has been killed during an attack on a regime post. (VOADS)
                                         MAY
                                              1
 ...            s
 * In their five-hour long operation 27
 April, the mujaheddin captured a mili-trary   headquarter  in Asiab Gurg in
 Chemtal, Balkh. on the occasion of the 13th anniversary of the communist coup in Afghanistan. Eighty troops of the .regime forces were also arrested and several others were injured. From the base, the mujaheddin seized six tanks and APCs, 600 klashenkovs, 25 greiiov rifles, six mortars, 26 boxes of hand-grenades, four oil tankers, two tractors, six military trucks and a large quantity of ammunition. Some 28 mujaheddl^n^were injured .during the attack. In their offensive at Kabul Air-
             \ . ,
 case the same day., the mujaheddin destroyed a plane and two radar stations. They also launched a rocket attack over Balahisar in Gardez the same day. (MLM)
 * According to VOA, a Washington Post
 report quotes the US and regional experts as having said that by fixing priorities in the region afresh, possibilities for diplomatic efforts in collaboration with the UN in order to put an end to the war in Afghanistan, have brightened. The report says a favorable trend has been the US and Saudi decision last month to stop providing assistance to the two most fundamentalist leaders, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, as a punitive action in view of the support extended by them to the Iraqi President, Saddam Hussain, during the Gulf War. The paper also quotes informed sources that Saudi Arabia is inclined to resolve the Afghanistan issue   through talks since Riyadh
 wants  to strengthen its recently,
 established relations with the Soviet Union. (MLM)
 * ANA quotes mujaheddin commander, Ma-
 moor Ghayoor* as having said in a wired message from Baghlan that,“ after five days, of fierce battle, the mujaheddin repulsed an attack on their centers 22 April in the provincial Capital by the Najibullah regime. The mujaheddin inflicted heavy human and material losses to the regime forces. A group commander of mujaheddin, Lt.Nasrullah, and two other mujaheddin also died. In another operation on Kabul Highway in the Qila-e-Lal Meer Khan, the mujaheddin destroyed a regime truck loaded with anti-aircraft guns and three persons on board were killed instantly. Meanwhile, two militiamen, defected to mujaheddin in the Kala Kan village of Charikar          of Kabul
 province . after skilling their militia commander. They brought with them one-
239
APRIL-JUNE. 1991               AMI JIHAD                 VOL. 4 NO.3
 PK machine-gun and two kalashenkovs.
      Meanwhile, in their weeklong operations against the regime forces in Chahab area of Helmand province recently, the mujaheddin killed 24 communist officers and soldiers and another 60 were injured. They set ^ablaze important military installations ^including an arms and ammunition dump besides five military vehicles and . three tanks. A mujahid was martyred and another five injured. The mujaheddin also blocked the Herat-Islamqala Highway. The regime forces are retaliating by bombing mujaheddin positions in the area. At Qala-e-Haidar Khan in Arghandi area of Paghman the mujaheddin killed 15 communist soldiers ( and injured 18 others recently. An APC 1 and two military trucks were destroyed. No mujaheddin losses were reported. In Kabul, a high intensity bomb planted by the mujaheddin went off 24 April and hit the Communication Ministry causing human casualties. (PT)
      According to eye-witness reports, mujaheddin fired 15 missiles over different military targets in Jalalabad including army headquarter and 11th Division of Samarkhail 27 April killing and wounding a number of armed „ personnel and inflicting heavy material losses. The Governor of Nangarhar,Afzal Lodln, has meanwhile issued strict orders to stop movement of any families with the hope that their presence in the target areas will prevent the mujaheddin operations as well as forcing their relatives in militia force to remain in their posts. (PT)
 * A six-member delegation of Russian experts visited Jalalabad 15 April and at their advice, new types of artillery and rockets were deployed in Darunta, west of Jalalabad. The Soviet experts .also issued instructions for fortification of the regime security
 belt in Yaseen Baba in Samarkhail and Surkhroad near the city. (PT)
 *  Strong protests were lodged with the Kabul regime Charge d' Affairs in Islamabad 30 April over repeated balatant violations of the Pakistani territory by the regime armed forces. The government of Pakistan also-rejected a Kabul regime protest which alleged that a Pakistani jet aircraft had violated the Afghan airspace. The Charge d* Affairs was informed that, after investigation, the allegation was found totally baseless. (PT)
 *  The mujaheddin are re-inforcing their positions in a move to foil any bid by the .regime forces to advance in Kulangar and Mohammad Aga in Logar province. Military observers apprehend that the Kabul regime may try to open Logar-Gardez Highway to avenge its defeat in iKhost. Nevertheless, the regime forces will suffer losses, the observers said. (NWT)
                  3
 ■ * Eight mujaheddih were killed in bombardments on Samarkhail and Hesar Shahi south of Jalalabad by the Kabul regime forces. In ground attack on mujaheddin base at Chaparhar, Kadi, Qatarghi, Amloki Qala and Pevikandau in Rodat district, . a number of residential houses were destroyed and a woman alongwith her son were injured and an old person was killed. (PT)
 *  Acceding to Najibullah?s request for more military assistance,Soviet leader, Gorbachev, has despatched 400 SCUD missiles which have been installed in Kabul, Qargha, Dar-ul-Aman and Khawaja Rawash areas in Afghanistan, says a MIDIA press release. (JG)
 *  The Kabul regime planes heavily bombed the Khost bazaar and the
240
APRIL-JUNE* 1991             AFGHANM                     VOL. 4 NO.3
adjoining areas of the recently‘ liberated city of Khost. The planes bombed the city at least seven times starting in the morning and continuing till noon 2 May. (JG)
*  Thirteen persons were killed and 20 seriously wounded in several bomb explosions in Kabul. Meanwhile, thousands of militiamen are engaged in fighting against the mujaheddin and fresh Soviet advisors have also reached Kabul in the wake of increased mujaheddin operations, reports ANA. (NWT)
                   4
* The Kabul regime Deputy Planning Minister Sultan Hussain has said, in worst floods in 40 years at least
150,000  tons of wheat were destroyed this year in Afghanistan. (PT)
*  Latest developments in Afghanistan came up for discussion between Pakistan President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and President Turgut Ozal of Turkey in their informal talks in Karachi during the two-hour stopover of the Turkish President in Pakistan 3 May on his way to Australia. It was noted in the talks that peace could return to that country only through a political settlement worked out by the Afghans themselves. (PT) *
 * In his meeting with the UN Secretary General at the UN 1 May the Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil has sought the UN help in securing the release of more than 2,500 regime troops taken prisoners by the Afghan mujaheddin when they liberated the city of Khost at the end of March. After the meeting, ' the Foreign Minister told a press conference 2 May the Secretary General promised to "speed up" his efforts to promote settlement of the conflict in the country. He further said that the only way to restore peace was to hold mutual consultations on
 the country's future. He said that the resignation of the leadership would not solve any problem and only lead to bloodshed. Some of the powers of the Presidency and the state could be delegated to a body that would oversee an election, he said. (NTN)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin hit Kabul regime military targets in Paghman Valley and destroyed one armored vehicle and two trucks. (NWT)
 *  The daily Jang says in its editorial 4 May that victory in Khost has afforded an important opportunity to the mujaheddin to reorganize themselves in Afghanistan and visibly brighten the chance of an end to the civil war raging there for the past 12 years. This was more possible now because the Soviet Union does not seem to be able to continue arms and ammunition supplies to Najibullah regime in view of its own internal political and economic problems which have reached an alarming proportion and even the Soviet Prime Minister had to admit that if these are not immediately solved they will lead to ultimate disintegration of the Soviet Union. It is perhaps also because of this development that international efforts for a political settlement of the Afghan issue appear to have intensified. .No doubt the mujaheddin should also cooperate in a political solution. But at the same time,forces interested in .a peaceful solution should also keep it well in their mind that the Afghan nation will not forego the very objective for which they sacrificed their 1.5 million lives. Any solution contrary to their basic objective will be a grave mistake and will not achieve peace and stability in Afghanistan. (JG)
 *  According to Reuter news agency, Sultan HusSain,f the Deputy Minister of Planning of the Kabul regime has said that Afghanistan this year will face a


241
 (!
APR 1L-JUNEr 1991                   RHIHANJIHAD                        VOL.  4  NO.3
 deficit of 100,000   -200,000   tons of '
 wheat. (BBPS)
                     5
 * Expressing grave concern over Soviet supply of another 400 SCUD missiles to
 Najibullah regime in Kabul, the Jang .says in its editorial 5 May that, compared to its sufficiently flexible attitude with regard to other international matters         such    as
 withdrawal of its forces from Eastern Europe, elimination of Warsa Pact and the democratic gesture in solving its nationalities and other problems, the attitude of the Soviet Union concerning Afghanistan is meaninglessly adamant. Not only has it imposed a puppet regime there against the will of the Afghans •but is further strenghening it by continuously providing it with most modern weapons. (JG)
 *  The World Bank aid to Pakistan
 consortium . has indicated to make a separate allocation of $    174 million
 for aid to the Afghan refugees, says a press release issued by the Bank. (JG)
 *  Some ' 30  commanders of   different
 mujaheddin parties meeting at Khost 4 May evolved a joint strategy for launching a ground attack on Gardez, the capital of Paktia in Afghanistan. They agreed on the formation of different fronts for launching an all-prong attack on the city in a Khost like operation. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin have        started their
 operations in Dubandi and other areas of Logar and were scoring successes at different fronts. Twenty regime personnel were also killed and two tanks of the 4th Garrison of Kabul regime were destroyed by the mujaheddin. (PT) *
 *  Resistance sources say the Kabul regime claim that the mujaheddin have executed Mullah Gula Jan, who delivered
 speeches on Radio Khost in support of Kabul regime, was baseless. Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani in a telephone interview from Miranshah said that Gula Jan was alive and was living with his family in Miranshah. (BBCPS)
 *  Porter,   a member of the        US
 House of Representatives and Deputy Chairman of Legal Committee in the House, has saitl the rights of the people of Afghanistan have been trampled for the last 12 . years. He said, the Afghan people do not commit oppression against others nor do they accept alien domination and it was regretable that the Kabul regime was receiving arms from the Soviets to kill people. (VOADS)
                   6
 *  Depicting Najibullah a man with two faces, the BBC quoted the 4 May issue of The Guardian as saying that on the one side he seems a.gentle statesman, surrounded by moderate advisors who offer to share power with mujaheddin while, on the other hand, he is a dictator backed by secret police and has been firmly opposing every compromise including resigning from power after the war. (NTN)
 *  The AIG Interior Minister Younus Khales has resigned.- Talking to newsmen 5 May he said that western and imperialist powers were opposed to the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and wanted a governments as protect their interests. It would reflected by the meeting with Najibullah by the AIG Chief Justice and Professor Rabbani’s meetings with the Soviet Ambassador. These people, he said, accept a compromise with the Kabul regime. He said the Afghans will not accept any solution imposed on them from Nth© outside. He said, we are opposed to the division of Afghanistan into Shia and Sunni states. (JG)
242
  APRIL-JUNE, 1991                  nNW                   VOL.  4 N0.3
 *    Informed sources say that
 negotiations are continuing for the establishment of a new government in Afghanistan comprising the Kabul regime President Najibullah, the AIG President Sebghatullah     Mujaddedi,      Defense
 Minister Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and the Chief Justice Pir Sayyed Ahmed Gailani. Confirming this, the Kabul regime Consul Abdul Qayyum said the Kabul regime was continuing its negotiations with these leaders and things Would materialize within a month. He said certain foreign powers were also trying to take in the fold Gulbuddin     Hekmatyar,     Burhanuddin
 Rabbani and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf. The three could not be contacted. (JG)
 *  In a new strategy planned by Soviet .military advisors reaching Jalalabad
 three weeks ago, the Kabul regime forces have been deployed in an aggressive posture around Jalalabad and heavy artillery in the eastern and south eastern areas, say ANA sources. The Soviet transport planes are daily carrying to Jalalabad arms and ammunition and manpower for the past one week.In the eastern and southern areas of the city also regime forces have set up their second defense line which has very much frightened the civilians. Meanwhile, in Sama.rkhail in the east, there are intense activities in the Kabul regime occupied western part of the Garrison. Mujaheddin war strategists say the regime forces were perhaps preparing to reach the liberated border post of Torkham in the area. The mujaheddin have, however, kept up their attacks on Samarkhail since 27 April.
 (NWT)
                    7
       * AAP sources say thac Lashkar-e-Eisar, a regular army of the Hezb-e-Islami with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar being its supreme commander, has gained control of Kabul-Loghar highway and placed it under blockade. Over 50 Kabul
 troops were killed while the mujaheddin captured 34 heavy weapons which had been left over by the fleeing Kabul army in panic.      They  also got 30
 klashenkovs from the battlefield. Earlier the Lashkar had to retreat due massive rains and severe attack of the Kabul troops. Meanwhile, the Kabul troops with the help of airforce were trying to open the Kabul-Gardaiz Highway. The reports said that the Lashkar-e-Eisar lost 38 soldiers and 60 were wounded. A similar army is receiving training in the northern Afghanistan under the command of Ahmed Shah Masood. The Kabul airforce is also bombing the newly liberated garrison town of Khost and eight people were injured in its SCUD' missile attack. Seven mujaheddin were wounded in a mine explosion. (PT)
 * Mujaheddin commander. Engineer Abid, was killed in face-to-face fighting with the Kabul regime troops in Logar, reports ANA. Another Afghan mujahed was seriously injured. (MLM)
 * The Washington Post said 5 May the entire Afghanistan is .almost in the control of the mujaheddin and they have pledged that they will forcibly overthrow Najib, VOA reported; But the Post correspondent, who has met Najibullah, says he wants to play a role in the political future of Afghanistan. The paper writes, after the end of the cold war, the leader of Kabul regime is trying to adjust himself to the situation and is taking careful steps. The paper says some diplomats in Kabul believe Najib cannot resist internal resentment and foreign pressure. A severe blow could bring its very collapse. According to the paper, Moscow fears disturbances on its southern border and that is why it does not want to halt its assistance to the Kabul regime. (MLM)
 * Fifty Kabul regime army officers and
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991                                flfliHIINJFHflD                                   VOL.   4  NO.3
                                      >
 its 500/ militiamen have escaped from the mujaheddin's custody. Earlier the mujaheddin Shoora had decided to exchange them with thousands of Afghan mujaheddin held prisoners by the Kabul regime. (JG)
 *  More than 120 Kabul . regime army
 officers and soldiers were killed in heavy artillery and missile- attack on the regime's military headquarter in Kandahar, a MIDIA report says. Six jeeps   and  five   military    vehicles,
 including two tanks, were also destroyed. The mujaheddin captured five military poets during their attacks in Takhar and Logar provinces. Three military posts were destroyed and four captgred by them at Mohammad Aga. Two posts were captured in Khwajaghar, Takhar. In a clash between the ruling Khalq   and Parcham factions,  four armyi
.officers were killed at Shindand and Col . Abdul Hai and Ma j. Abdul Basir defected to mujaheddin. (JG)
 *  US Congressman John Porther has said
 if a ceasefire came about in
             / ' •                  ••
 Afghanistan, the US will help the Afghans in   their election process. He
 said circumstances were favorable for setting up a government acceptable to all sections of the Afghan society. (JG) *
 *  Commenting on the decision of the chief of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales group) Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales to quit the AIG, The Nation said in an editorial 8 May his • resignation as Interior Minister looks like more of a pressure tactic than a genuine policy disagreement, since the other two Ministers representing his group have, not been asked to follow suit, and he has said that his party will not quit the coalition until the establishment of a better regime. Khales's tirade against his coalition partners, though cast in ideological terms, only signifies the on-going factional strife
 which has very little to do with the objectives of the mujaheddin's resistance. Najibullah may be a. vestige of Soviet intervention and thus unacceptable as a partner in any quid pro quo on Afghanistan, but the fact that whoever is in charge in Kabul has to be accepted as a party to the dispute, has also to be reckoned with. The sooner the ground realities were recognized by the mujaheddin, the better it would be for their eroding credibility as a viable resistance movemen t. (NTN)
 - Mujaheddin sources report they have recently inflicted heavy losses upon the Kabul regime forces in their attacks on Faizabad. As a retaliatory measure, government forces counterattacked mujaheddin bases at Warsaw and Qasht-e-Lala ji but were faced with stiff mujaheddin resistance. Two of the Kabul regime troops were killed and another four were captured during these operations. The mujaheddin also downed two helicopters deployed to supply the regime forces from Mazar-e-Sharif. One ZK-1,  68 cases of
 carabean shells, 230 cases of shells for anti-aircraft machine guns, 27 cases of klashenkov shells together a few klashenkovs also fell to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
                  8
 ** Western diplomats say that the Kabul regime has begun extensive bombing of the eastern provinces of Afghanistan. The offices of the ' UN demining operation, situated away from the combat area, were also destroyed by the bombing raids. The- UN has recalled its officials from Kunar and Paktia provinces and it is said that Logar, Paktia, Paktika, Kunar and Nangarhar are heavily bombed by the regime airforce. (VOAPS)
                   9
 * According to AAP, the Afghan
APRIL-JUNE. 1991             OHJIHAI1                    VOL. 4 NO.3
 mujaheddin have tightened their siege around Kandahar and formed a Shoora on the pattern of Khost which is represented by all the seven Afghan organizations besides some important local personalities. Kabul authorities have made special arrangements for the security of the Kandahar Airport and have stocked weapons and food in large quantities. The mujaheddin have blocked the western side of Kandahar on Herat Highway as this is the only route from where the supplies can be sent by land. (PT)
 * Rejecting the news broadcast by VOG about the eschpe of a number of Kabul regime high ranking officers from mujaheddin custody, a spokesman of the mujaheddin said 7 May that as many as eight generals captured during the Khost operation, are still in mujaheddin's custody. The spokesman also clarified the reports about the escape of Munshi Sader Gul, the former governor and the General Secretary of PDPA in Khost. He said his real name is Saadat Gul Ahangar. He did not escape but disappeared two days before the fall of Khost. There is no report of him reaching Kabul. He and some of his friends may still be hiding somewhere near Khost. (NTN)
 * An AIG Information Department press release has contradicted a press report concerning ah agreement between Kabul regime leader Najibullah and moderate Afghan leaders. (NTN) *
 *    VOG has quoted mujaheddin's representative in India as saying that the US has stopped its aid to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf groups of the Afghan mujaheddin due to their support of Iraq in the Gulf war. (JG)
   Sayyea Mohammad Gailani of the NIFA reports from inside Afghanistan that the mujaheddin have captured a number of posts from the Sayyed-e-Kayan
 militia forces. He has said that according to Baz Mohammad Khan, the NIFA Chief Commander in Baghlan, eight posts together with their commanding base have been captured in Baghlan, 20 Kms. away from the general command of Sayyed-e-Kayan militias. (BBCPS)
                 10
       ; \
 * . Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 9 May., the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has disclosed that out of the 282 v districts and sub-districts of Afghanistan 2„47 ?re in mujaheddin possession while only 35 are controlled by the * Kabul regime. He said the solution of Afghanistan was possible only through jehad because Najib was not ready to quit and he could only be removed by war. It was neither Moscow's nor Washington's business to decide about the future of Afghanistan and the mujaheddin were determined to establish an Islamic government in their country, he said. (MLM)
 *   According to mujaheddin sources Sudan will open a separate diplomatic mission in Pakistan for the Afghan mujaheddin at consulate level. The establishment of diplomatic mission was requested by a visiting Afghan delegation last week during an official meeting with Sudanese President in Khartoum. Similarly the Sudanese government has asked the Afghan resistance to send a qualified diplomatic mission to Khartoum. The Sudenese President, Gen. Omer Al-Hassan Al-Bashir, has also extended a staniding invitation to he AIG Premier, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, to pay a visit* to Sudan. «. (NTN)
 *   Addressing the ' JI provincial committee workers in Peshawar 9 May, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, chief of Hezb-e-islami Afghanistan, has said that an interim government . ought to be
245
 formed in Afghanistan for holding general polls. An elected shoora would then chalk out a program for a government, he said. Western countries were sabotaging the Afghan jehad oy launching baseless propaganda campaign against them, he said. However, the mujaheddin would continue joint efforts for securing their objectives, .he emphasized. Elaborating his opposition to America and other Islamic countries for their stance on the Gulf war, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said we oppose injustice and brutality everywhere. He said the assembling of American troops in Saudi     Arabia wets a conspiracy
 against Islam. (NTN)
 “ The Supervisory Council Military office reports that Commander Abdul Baseer Khalid has shot down two transport planes of the Kabul regime which were supplying the besieged government troops in Faizabad. (BBCFS)
 - Amnesty International reports that the detainees are being subjected to regular beating and torture in the intefrogation centers of the Kabul regime police, and are kept in solitary confinement for months. Quoting a former KHAD official from the
 Shashdarak detention center in Kabul,
        > * . .
 Amnesty International says in 1989 the children of a detainee were tortured in front of him so as to force a false confession out of him for his anti-government activities. According to the official, Shashdarak is one of the worst and most infamous detention centers of the regime. (VOGDS)
 •* According to the HWIA, their mujaheddin groups together with others from Snolgarah, Balkh,carried out joint attacks on military posts at Paikan Dara district 30 April. Eleven posts were occupied by the mujaheddin during the operations and a number of Kabul regime personnel were killed or wounded. Ten mujaheddin were also killed and another two were injured. (VOIRA)
                11
* Afghan refugees coming from Khost to
Pakistan's tribal areas have said during the successive regimes of Khalqis, Babrak Karmal and Najib, religious education was not a part of teaching     in     the    educational
institutions of Khost, whereas all the religious schools had forcibly been closed down after the beginning of the resistance movement and- mosques were abandoned. The refugees are unaware of the basic teachings of Islam and are now being imparted Islamic education in the camps. (PT)
- Shairkhan Jalalzoi, NIFA Commander, has said that the Commanders, Council in Khost have decided to preserve the aircraft and other transport vehicles, captured during the Khost war, as valuable relics of the jehad period. He added these relics would serve as great honors and valuable he'ritage to our decendents. (VOADS) .
                12
* The Afghan mujaheddin have captured 38 vllages and a number of posts in Almata Dara areas and killed 18 militiamen and captured 27 alive alongwith the communist commander Mohammad Asif 30 April in Jowand Baghdis. No loss of life to mujaheddin is reported. The residents of the area, however, were inflected with heavy financial losses due" to severe bombing by Kabul regime jet fighters and shelling.
     In Balkh, the mujaheddin captured two military posts alongwith arms anc ammunition and some troops. In their operation near the Balkh Airbase 7 May, two communist officers were killed and a wireless system was destroyed and two soldiers were captured by the mujaheddin. FortV klashenkovs alongwith a number of ammunitions also fell to mujaheddin. (NTN)
246
APR IL-JUNE# 1991’          AFIlHAN J[HJ)0                  VOL. 4  NO.3
april-june,, 1991                            HninflllJinfUl                                vol.  4.no.3
 *  Talking to Benon ievan, the special representative of UN Secretary General on Afghanistan, Amir of Jamiat-e-Islami Burhanuddin Rabbani, apprised him about the intervention of Soviet Union in the internal affairs of Afghanistan saying that the Soviets were riot only supplying fresh contingents of SCUD missiles but were also helping the Kabul regime in their indiscriminate bombing of civilian areas. The latest example is the bombardment of Qaisar district of Faryab' province by the Soviet fighter planes. He requested the UN to help stop the Soviet interference. (NTN)
                           t - V   .     )
 •» The former King of Afghanistan Zaher . Shah in an interview with the Reuter news agency, has proposed the introduction of parliamentary system and holding free /elections in the country, reports BBC. The plan envisages setting up of a committee comprising political leaders both from inside and outside the country and other personalities. The committee should set up a ijirgah and establish its own administration. The measure should be followed by the preparation of a constitution and then parliamentary democracy should "be set up in the country. (JG) *
 *  Talking to newsmen in Chakwal the •AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,
 • ?ias said that jehad activities would be intensified after the melting of snow and after gaining control over a few towns in Afghanistan, the capital Kabul would also be captured. He said they would not seek assistance from any -super power for the liberation of
 Afghanistan. (JG)
          N               ........
 • » ' A JIA report from Zendajan, Herat, says that hundreds of the Kabul regime troops have been killed or injured during week-long fighting in the area. Because of retaliatory shelling by the regime artillerv units, losses were ■ also inflicted Vcpefa the mujaheddin and local inhabitants. Fierce fighting was
 repriL'ted from the Herat-Torghundi road.
 (BBCPS)
 - A seminar on the future of media in Afghanistan was held in Islamabad May 11-14 by the CCAR in which a large number of Afghan journalists had participated. The inaugural session of the seminar was opened by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami. Sabahuddin Kushkaki, Director and founding member of the CCAR, said, "this is the first seminar of the CCAR during the current Afghan year and is related to the mass media in Afghan society".The 4-day seminar was attended by a number of Afghan and foreign specialists. (BBCPS)
 - It is reported that a number of the Khorasan Camp refugees, near Peshawar,
 "have recently returned to Afghanistan. Hamed Elmi,the BBC Afghan reporter says that 7,500 refugee families, mostly from northern Afghanistan, were living in this camp. Abdul Bari President of the: Camp told the Afghan reporter that re-: ductiori of aid to the refugees, the' closure of the AIG offices, lack of job opportunities and lack of an effective government have disappointed them and have thus decided to live in the liberated area of Afghanistan. (VOADS)
                13
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have begun their attack on the defense line of the capital Kabul killing 23 regime troops including four officers. They used missiles which hit the Qargha cantonment and the policy academy. One of the missiles hit the military area near bread baking factory "Silo". In the area near Paghman valley two tanks and one military vehicle were destroyed. (PT)
 - Reports from Kabul" state that in a rocket attack on Kabul orie person was killed and 17 others were wounded. Radio. Kabul says that another rocket attack on Kabul two weeks ago1
VOL. 4 NO.3
APRIL-.>UNE. 1991
       V'V      ■ '            .
    killed nine persons. (BBCPS)
    “     The    mujaheddin     fired    12
    ground-to-ground missiles on Kabul 12 May killing one person and injuring another 11. (ra)
                     14
    *  Addressing a gathering of refugee elders at Kacha Garhi refugee tentage village in Peshawar 13 May, a British member of Parliament and deputy leader of Labor Party, Roy Hattersley, said
 u  that the withdrawal of Russian forces
    from Afghanistan was not the end of k problems as the ordeal and sufferings of Afghans still continue. He said that it was the policy of the UK government as well as his party that Afghan refugees should return to their country with peace, honor, dignity and they should be given an opportunity to determine their destiny. He said the UK was determined to see the establishment of a government in Afghanistan that is free from external pressures and which is in accordance with the aims and aspirations of the people. (NTN)
    *  The Afghan mujaheddin have captured 10 military posts 12 May after two days of fierce fighting with the regime forces in the outskirts of Dasht-e-Qila Takhar. They also captured a number of. Kabul regime soldiers and recovered a considerable quantity of arms and ammunition. (NTN) *
     * A spokesman of the JI told a BBC correspondent that hundreds of Kabul
i regime troops had either been killed or arrested by the Afghan mujaheddin in the clashes last week. The spokesman said that mujaheddin and civilians were also killed and residential areas were repeatedly hit by the shelling of the regime troops. (the news items has: not mentioned the venue of the operation). The spokesman added that fierce fighting is also going on along
 Herat-Torghundi highway and near Herat Airport. A Shoora on the pattern of Khost has also been formed in Kandahar. It comprises members of all the leading mujaheddin parties and a number of local figures. (MLM)
 *  According to mujaheddin sources, Hashmat Kayani, an important figure for KGB during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and one of the most trusted persons of Najib, hhs reached Canada on forged documents alongwith his family including his wife and three sons. Meanwhile, Afghan nationals staying in Canada have demanded the government that a merciless murderer like Kayani should not be granted political assylum in Canada. (PT)
 * Reliable sources say that the UN
 Secretary General's special representative, Benon Sevan, is having informal talks with Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, America and the Soviet Union in an effort to convene their representative meeting to find a political solution of Afghanistan issue. Certain countries have, however, expressed the view that the desired results will not emerge from the proposed meeting without a unanimous representation     of     the     Afghan
 mujaheddin. (JG)
 *  Radio France International has in a commentary said that the Afghan mujaheddin would not care if the US stops their aid in the next year budget. The Radio said that the mujaheddin have to a great extent adopted the policy of sej.f-reliance in their war resources and are now well versed in their war strategy. (NWT)
  *  In a clash between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces at Gurgabad, Farah, one tank and two transport vehicles were destroyed together with their occupants. Two mujaheddin were wounded during these fights. (VOIRA)
Ill
APRIL-JUNE* 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 * In an interview %*ith The Muslim Prof.Ashraf Ghani Ahmedzai in the
 vUS has said that the US has now reached the conclusion that the Afghan war is no longer an international war rather it is a civil war. He said that the international communism having collapsed and Soviet Union now only a regional power, the issue of the Afghan war does not enjoy key position in the US policy. Relations between US and the Soviet Union are not only linked with Afghanistan rather they are of international nature. The role of the Soviets in the Gulf war was very positive for the US. Another fact, he said, is that some mujaheddin organizations have provoked the snake in the grass in the Gulf crisis because they had risen against the US and Saudi Arabia. Therefore, they reached a conclusion that the continuation of Afghan war will not be in the interest of the US. (MU!)
 *  At least 25 persons were killed and 30 wounded in indiscriminate bombardment by the the Kabul regime force on Herat city and Zindajan district inside Afghanistan. (N*TN)
 *  In an important meeting % of Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad all the Afghan mujaheddin parties have agreed to evolve a comprehensive and agreed formula for the solution of Afghanistan problem which will be based on the proposals presented by a councijL comprising representatives of all the Afghan parties based in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The formula will be later signed by the heads of all the parties. The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, however, did not attend the meeting. (NWT) *
 *  Peter Tomsen, the >US special envoy to the mujaheddin says that the US assistance to the mujaheddin is
 continuing a>id will not cease in the future He added the US was helping the mujaheddin in their efforts to attain their right to self-determination and they should have the right to elect their leaders according to their own free will, and this US policy has not changed. (VOAPS)
                                                16
 * A Soviet Foreigh Ministry spokesman in a statement in Moscow 14 May said that a breakthrough in the Afghan settlement could be real if? the Afghan opposition and those who back it would cease to call for the Afghan government's retirement from the political scene. The Soviet Union and the Kabul regime ascribe to the view that a settlement can only be achieved by Afghans themselves through dialogue. It must be based on the ^enunciation of force, a reasonable arid fair compromise reflecting reality and a balance of interests between the opposing sides, the spokesman said. The Soviet Union, the spokesman added, is prepared to cooperate with the Afghan side to implement the future settlement. (PT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin totally conquered Takhar province 14 May and also captured 5,000 armed militiamen and soldiers. Another report says that mujaheddin have captured 25 outposts of Yangi Qala district of the same, province since 14 May and are. concentrating their attacks to conquer Hakeem Siddiqi's militia headquarters of the regime in that district. Fierce fightings are going on for capturing Yangi Qala and Rustaq districts. Another, important strategic security post of the communist regime alongwith military personnel and arms and ammunition surrendered to mujaheddin in Dara-e-Pashaie of Paghman 12 May. The mujaheddin also killed two soldiers and wounded others in an attack on Kabul regime security posts in Arghandi and
APRIL-JUNE, 1991              AfCWflWJfHAD  VOL. 4 NO.3
wrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmMmm
 Qala-e-Haider near Kabul the same day. (PT) *
 * Women announcers and newscasters of
 the Kabul TV have again taken off scarf and other head-wears which began to be used during the Khost war for deceiving the Afghan people. The Afghan resistance sources say. that the citizens of Kabul felt the changes when they saw the heads of TV announcers and newscasters were covered with scarves and other head-wears during the second week of March. However* the change remained   for  few weeks only  and  now
 after facing   the defeat at Khost  the
 Najib administration again carried the routine as in the past. (PT)
 * in their operation on KHAD military
 regiment  No.   86 in Aibak,  city   of
 Samangan, 8 May, the Afghan mujaheddin captured the regiment commandar. Junta along with 50 militiamen. They also killed 15 militiamen and injured another 26.About 612 assorted weapons,six military   vehicles and a huge quantity
 of ammunition fell to mujaheddin. One mujahed was killed and five injured during the 3-day operation. The regime forces used about 600 families residing near the regiments as a shield against mujaheddin. Later on mujaheddin removed these families to the areas under their control. In another operation, the mujaheddin captured one post, killed 38 soldiers and two officers and injured some others 9 May along'Hairatan-Kabul Highway in Rubatak Pass of Samangan. The highway was closed until 11 May. Another report from Samangan says that Lt. Momen, a ^KHAD officer, alongwith seven KHAD members surrendered to mujaheddin with their weapons 12 May* And in Baghlan province the mujaheddin destroyed one tank killing all on board in their operation over the Said Kian posts in Tala-wa-Barfak. The jet fighters of the regime severely bombed the areas injuring two mujaheddin. (PT)
 * A spokesman of the Afghan mujaheddin
 according to BBC, has said that the mujaheddin fighting inside Afghanistan under the leadership of Ahmed Shah Masood launched fresh military opera-ations 11 May against the Kabul regime. The mujaheddin had occupied one city and had cut Off one of the two highways leading to the Soviet Union. (NTN)
 *  A UN spokesman said 15 May that the UN Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar welcomes all steps that would contribute to a political solution of the Afghanistan problem. (NTN)
 *  A mujaheddin spokesman has said that the Afghan mujaheddin have captured Khunjrab town near the Soviet border. Fighting was still going on for the control of 55th division headquarter of the Kabul regime forces outside the captured city, the spokesman added.
 (NWT)
                 17
 *  Pakistan's Foreign Affairs Secretary General Akram Zaki told newsmen in Islamabad 16 May that a senior official
. of the Foreign Office will visit Moscow by the end of this month to initiate direct negotiations with the Soviet Union on a political solution of the Afghanistan problem. This is in response to the Soviet request for a preliminary exchange of views which would be followed by a high level contact between the two countries. He said that he himself was leaving for Riyadh and Tehran 19 May to continue at a higher level the discussions already’ held with     the Iranian and      Sau£i
 officials by the Director General of Afghan desk who is to visit Moscow. The US representative on Afghanistan, Peter Tomsen, is due in Islamabad 17 May for exchange of views, he added. (MLM)
  * Afghan Resistance sources     report
  that the    mujaheddin began     their
  operations on Kandahar 15 May .by using rockets and other long-range arms. The report adds that the entire security
250
APRIL-JUNEr 1991          flfllHAN JIHAD                 VOL. 4 NO.3
belt of the city, the Airport and Qeshla-e-Jadeed (the New Garrison) have come under heavy mujaheddin fire. There has been no report of casualties.. Wali Mohammad, a JIA official, has said in Quetta that the occupants of two secu-ity posts surrendered to the mujaheddin 14 May without resistance. (VOADS)
       V
*  A mujaheddin spokesman has stated that, after the fall of Khwaja Ghar district in Takhar, the mujaheddin captured 5,000 of the Kabul regime troops. Another report from Herat says that the Hezbullah mujaheddin in their attack on the Kabul regime positions at Sultan Abdul Wahed-e-Shaheed area destroyed two tanks and 12 security posts. As a retaliatory measure the western residential sector of the city was placed under heavy artillery and rocket fire by the regime forces. (VOIRA) .
                18
*  In their joint operation under a unified command, all the seven major political organizations of mujaheddin as well as the Harakat-e-Islami of Ayatullah v Mohseni and other Shia mujaheddin parties launched a strong operation on Kandahar 16 May and rocked the military installations around the city with heavy artillery and missile fire from different fronts. The heavy gunfire continued for the second consecutive day 17 May. Initial reports speak of heavy human and material losses to the besieged regime forces, reports ANA. The mujaheddin also hit a regime military helicopter at Zurmat, Paktia, 17 May. The plane crashed in a regime controlled area. In Takhar the mujaheddin captured 17 tanks and a considerable quantity of assorted weapons. (MLM)
 *  A Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad told Nawa-i-Waqt that Pakistan supported diplomatic moves for the
 solution of Afghanistan problem and believed that convening of five-country conference at this stage was unnecessary. (NWT)
 “ In their major attack on Zurmat,Paktia, the Afghan mujaheddin have killed 235 persons including high ranking military officers and Soldiers and inflicted heavy material losses to the Kabul regime forces, (date not given) Thirty Afghan mujaheddin were also killed in the operation. (NWT)
 *  The NIFA office in Tehran, quoting Commander Shair Mohammad, has said the mujaheddin attacked the Nawbahar military post in Farah 8 May destroying two tanks, killing three soldiers and wounding another six. Tour other troops together with Akbar Malyar, Secretary of the Communist Party of Farah city were captured by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 *  Commander Payendah Mohammad of the HIA (Hekmatyar), in Tirin Kot, Urozgan, while complaining against thfe relief organizations at Quetta is reported to have said no humanitarian organization has taken any measure in. the agricultural and irrigation* sectors after the capture of Tirin Kot by the mujaheddin.
 He added, there were no schools in Tirin Kot and that the mortality rate among children had Visen. He said the * UN officials who were there for survey wprk promised to take necessary steps on return to Quetta, but nothing has happened. "They must have forgotten us", he added. In relation to the humanitarian organizations in Pakistan he said, "they are boasting about humanitarian assistance but they do nothing about it". (VOADS)
 *  As a result of mujaheddin rocket attack on Kabul five persons were killed and another 20 wounded. According to a Kabul Radio report many rockets hit populated areas of Kabul.
 (BBCPS)
251
AI'RIL-JUNE, 1991
                  19
 * The AIG has lodged a strong protest
 over the bombing by Soviet aircraft in northern Afghanistan. The AIG sources said that Foreign Minister Prof. Rabbani told Benon Sevan that the Soviet bombing over the unarmed Afghan citizens was a violation of the Geneva Conventions and the UN charter. (PT)
 * Former Afghan King Zaher Shah has in an interview, hoped that all the parties involved in the Afghanistan conflict had realized the fact that peace and stability could be restored in Afghanistan orily through political means. He said Afghans are peace loving
 people and want peace and stability in
                          *
 their country. About the fall of Khost the former King said it had been under mu jaheddin siege for a long time and was captured with the help of local commanders. Realization by mujaheddin of the importance of unity and coordination among their ranks led to their victory. About his return to Afghanistan, he said it depended on the will of the majority of Afghan people. (MLM)
VOL. A NO.3
 for the Afghan opposition in the secret budget of the CIA. In the opinion of Radio Moscow observer Victor Volichanov the reason for this is mujaheddi extremist. groups played a negative role by supporting Iraq in the recent Gulf war. Also owing to recent changes throughout the world, there remains no more US-Soviet confrontation over the Afghan issue. (MLM)
 *   Three Afghan leaders, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi of NLF, Pir Sayyed Ahmed .Gailani of NIFA and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi of HEIA, have formed a new alliance for a peaceful and durable solution of the Afghanistan issue. Mujaddedi and Mohammadi ■ have left for Iran to apprise the Iranian leaders of the details of the new alliance. (JG)
 *  The resistance sources say that
 three mujaheddin groups of the AIG -NLFA, NIFA and HEIA (Mohammadi) - in a joint statement have said, in view of the  present political and military
 situation in’ Afghanistan, the establish ment of unity in political# military and  cultural affairs is of prime
 importance for tHe solution of the complicated problem of Afghanistan according to the will of the nation# (VOAPS)                              i
 * A source of the HEIA (Mansoor) group says, a large Kabul regime reinforcement contingent, supported by 600 tanks, has reached Gardaiz during the past fortnight. The military convoy was attacked by the , mujaheddin at Shaikhan Khail. They killed 200 troopd and. militiamen as • well as four senior officers and destroyed 30 tanks and transport vehicles, , The report adds, the mujaheddin are putting up stiff resistance against the government offensive in Zurmat. A Kabul regime helicopter was shot down by a blow-pipe ground-to-air missile two days ago. Six religious figures, 20 mujaheddin and 11 civilians were killed by enemy shelling. (VOAPS)
 * A Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman has said on the occasion of third anniversary of the signing of Geneva Accords that the Soviet Union would continue to work fpr political settlement of the Afghan issue. Meanwhile, a radio Moscow observer has said that the Kabul regime has been resolutely explorxng ways for a political settlement but, on the contrary, the opposition impedes all ways and means to peace. (MLM)
 *  American* officials have tOld a Los Angeles Times correspondent that the Bush administration has opposed provision of American aid to Afghan mujaheddin. The paper has also come to know that no funds have been earmarked
252
APNIL-JUNE, 1991
MUM                          VUL-  4 NO.3
                                               20
          ^ .
 * In an article published in the Wall
 Street Journal 17 Mav, US Senator, Orrin Hatch, has urged the administration to continue aid to the Afghan mujaheddin; Unlike the Kuwaitis or the Kurds, he said, the Afghans seek no direct US military involvement and if the US stands firm and adopts the right strategy, we can prevail sooner than many might     think.  "With    all our
 pre-occupation with the Persian Gulf, we run the risk of developing a moral tunnel vision that blinds us to the tragic fate of the Afghans who have suffered more than the Kuwaitis and the Kurds combined", he said. Sen. Hatch said , the US should take steps to increase military pressure while creating diplomatic incentives . for Moscow diplomatically to accept a just political settlement. (PT)
 *  The Nation has learnt through a reliable source about the leaders of the newly formed Afghanlparties , alliance as struggling to get support of Peshawar-based independent groups alongwith individual Afghan commanders and Iran-based Shia Afghan groups. The activists of the alliance have also formed a commission to present proposals and suggestions for expansion of the alliance and for achieving support of the independent groups.
 (NTN)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin attacked a regime military base at Qala-e-Sukhta village, Jauzjan, 15 May and killed 160 militiamen and captured 50 others and large number of arms. Five mujaheddin were also killed and 11 injured in the operation. Earlier, the mujaheddin destroyed three ammunition dumps of the regime militia in the village by rocket fire. (PT)
 * Benon Sevan, special'envoy of the UN
 Secretary General on Afghanistan, briefed the Kabul . regime Prime Minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, about the outcome of his visit to the region and contacts established with the parties involved in the Afghanistan problem. Khaliqyar apprised Sevan about the results of the process of national reconciliation, Kabul radio reported.
 (MLM)
 IV* Fierce fighting was going on between Kabul regime forces and mujaheddin in and around Kandahar, Kabul, Gardez, Logar and other areas, said advisor to AIG Premier, Moallim Baz Mohammad at a press conference in Quetta 19 May. .He said the mujaheddin have now launched a
 major offensive inside the rural areas. Kabul regime land forces in these areas have been wiped out and the regime has now resorted to barrage of air attacks on mujaheddin strongholds, he said. (MLM)
 * Criticising the handling of Afghan problem. The Muslim of Pakistan says irt its editorial 20 May that it should have been tackled as between One superpower and the' other. We got into the mess as the US cat's paw to pull its chestnuts out of the Soviet fire. This is the price we have had to pay and may go on paying for a long time to come. The drug menace is direct fallout of the Afghan mess. The klashenkov culture has come straight from the Afghan imbroglio. We have more than three million people who do not know what to do with themselves, and we know even less what to do about them. Three million people with an irrepressible martial tradition in our midst and armed. Cancers do not go away, without causing the deepest damage and anguish. .The damage has been sustained. Some bit is perhaps possible by way of limitation, but not much. The drug menace will take years and billions of rupees to eradicate. The klashenkov culture has become more or less a paft
 253,
  APR IL-JUNE* 1991
  of pdr life. See what is happening in Sind. The only sensible coarse is to ... deal with the reality and deal with it realistically. Keep the best interests of Pakistan first, and the genuine interests of the people of Afghanistan the closest possible secbii'd. (MLM)
  * A Kabul regime transport plane was destroyed at Kandahar Airport by the Afghan .mujaheddin. AAP says that a number of installations at the airport were destroyed in a rapid attack by the mujaheddin 17 May. (NWT)
                                               21
  * In a meeting in Tehran between the visiting AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Deputy Foreign Minister for Asia Alaeddin Boroujerdi 19 May Iran has asked the mujaheddin to employ political means to attain their goals, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi,leader of HEIA alnd Burhanuddin Rabbani of the Jamiat-e-Islami, also attended the meeting. (NTN)
       In an operation in Usman Beg, Badghis, (date not1 given) the Kabul regime batallion commander was arrested, Gul Agha and 25 other military officers, soldiers and militiamen were killed by the mujaheddin. Forty-six
  different types of weapons and one-wireless were captured and a militiaman alongwith 25 klashenkovs is reported to have defected to mujaheddin. Fierce, fighting is continuing in the area. In Chakari, Kabul province, the mujaheddin have killed 15 soldiers of the regime and destroyed five military transport vehicles and two tanks. In an offensive on the regime post in Paghman five soldiers were killed and a heavy machine gun destroyed by the mujaheddin. (MTN)
  * The third phase of income generating project for Afghan refugees, scheduled
 VOL. 4 NO.3
 to be effective 1 January 1992, is estimated to be completed at a cost of about $ 28 million. The phase includes 68 sub-projects in roads, forestry and irrigation sectors. This was disclosed at a meeting of the visiting World Bank appraisal mission With the Secretary of States and Frontier Region in Islamabad 20 May. PT)
 *  In an informal talk with newsmen in Chinese Embassy in ^Islamabad 20 May the Pakistani Foreign Secretary, Shahryar Khan, said there was progress in political solution of the Afghanistan problem. The UN Secretary General's special representative, Benon Sevan, has given certain proposals for the establishment of a broad-based government, he said. Pakistan's special rep-presentative, he said, will visit Moscow later this month . for direct balks on the Afghan issue. (NWT)
      The Kabul regime fleeing army generals have been recaptured in Logar province by        the  mujaheddin of
 HIA (Hekmatyar). They were captured in Khost battle by Jaialuddin Haqqani and were admitted in hospital' for the treatment of their injuries. (JG)
 * The US has decided to supply seven
 thousand  tons    of   the ammunition
 captured  from   Iraq  to the Afghan
 mujaheddin. (JG)
 *  The AIG News agency/ MIDIA, reports that the Kandahar mujaheddin under the Command of Akbar Aqa destroyed! a transport plane at the Kandahar Airport 17 May. At the same time another mujaheddin group opened fire on (the New Garrison destroyingran ammunition dump and two military trucks. Two officers and 17 soldiers surrendered to the mujaheddin during the attack.
 - An NILF report from Tehran says, AAF pilots Abdul Hai, Abdul Baseer and Abdul Khaliq, surrendered to the NILF
254
APR I L-JUNE w 1991                                    AfllliflN JfHlIII                                        VOL.   'I  NO.3
 commander in Arbab Daulat, Shin Dand, and sought refuge in Iran. (VOADS)
 * As the Afghan mujaheddin are locked
 in a battle with the Kabul regime forces around Kandahar, the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar has presented a five-point plan to resolve the Afghan issue. The plan envisages:      (i) The
 necessity of preserving the sovereignty, > territorial integrity, political independence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan; (ii) recognition of the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form.of government and choose their economic,
 political and social system, free from outside intervention, subversion* coer-sion or cons train t. of any kind whatsoever; (iii) the need for a transitional period; transitional arrangements acceptable to the vast majority of the Afghan people; a mechanism to provide them with the necessary assurances to participate in    a , free    and fair
 elections and cessation of hostilities during the transition period; the advisability of assistance* as appropriate, of the UN and of any other international organization during the transition period and in electoral process; (iv) the necessity of an agreement- to be implemented together with all agreed transitional arrangement- to end arms supplies to all Afghan sides, by all and (v) the recognition.' of the need for adequate financial and material resources to alleviate the hardship of the Afghan refugees and the creation of the necessary conditions for their voluntary repatriation, as well as for the economic and social reconstruction of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  In his talks with Iran's Forfeign Ministry Deputy for Asia-Oceania Alaeddin Boroujer^i in Tehran 20 May the Pakistan's Secretary General of
 Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, has emphasized the significant role of Iran in settling the Afghan issue saying the issue will not be settled without Iran's cooperation. Boroujerdi said a free election was the best way for coming to power of an independent Islamic and non-aligned government in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  In his meeting in Tehran (date not given) with the Iranian First Vice-President Habibi the AIG President Seb-gHatullah Mujaddedi stressed the need , for the groups to form a united alliance for a united and sovereign Afghanistan. Iranian VicerPresident said Iran also believes that unity among all the groups will serve the interest of the Afghan people. (MLM)
 * The Kabul   regime  has  re-appointed
 ex-military     generals     to foil
 mujaheddin's attacks on various cities. These generals have been given unprecedented powers including death penalty    at  their   own   discretion.
 Meanwhile, the provincial Secretary
f-General of the Watan party in Balkh was found    dead in       his     office in
 Mazar-e-Sharif. He had in his statements .criticized the regime's-policy of forced military service and sending the youth to military operation against the mujaheddin. (NTN)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have killed a
 general   and 26 militiamen including
 three commanders, 15 May in Doshi, Baghlan. They also launched an operation in Hasan Tall, Baghlan, 20 May. The mujaheddin shot down a regime transportation plane while landing at the Kandahar Airport 18 May and killed several communists* The same day, the mujaheddin destroyed a tetpk in Qala-e-Mir Ahmad khan of Kandahar city. They destroyed a helicopter in Mohammad village in the same province 19 May and , killed all those .on board. Fierce fighting was reportedly continuing at
APRIL-JUNE,
1991
 Kandahar Airport and around the city. (NTN)
 *   Gulbuddln Hekmatyar, leader of HIA has said in a meeting at his headquarters with a Kashmiri leader, Nisar Ahmed Shaiq, that thousands of trained Afghan mujaheddin would respond tp the call for participation in Jehad-e-Kashmir anji Kashmir would be their next destination after Kabul. (NWT)
    The assistant chief of the Soviet General staff in Afghanistan has said that 200 Soviet top advisors were killed during the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. Fourteen thousand troops were also killed in Afghanistan during the same period. (BB.CPS.)
                                                 23
 *   The Kabul regime President Najibullah has discussed in Kabul with the ON Secretary General's envoy Benon Sevan ways to settle the Afghanistan issue and questions relating to the UN participation in the process. (MLM)
 *  Addressing a seminar at the Pabbi refugee camp (date not given) the AIG Premier, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that the former Afghan King Zaher Shah is an infidel, his proposals for the solution of the Afghan problem were un-Islamic and the mujaheddin will never allow him to play with the fate of the Afghan nation. He described Zaher Shah as a traitor who was responsible for more than a decade long devastation in Afghanistan. The AIG Premier rejected the tri-partite accord between Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and said it bode ill for the unity of Afghan mujaheddin. About the visit of the Afghan leaders to Tehran* Sayyaf said that Afghans would never accept an imposed solution. He said tie would oppose any plan which has
tHHll                      you-  A no.3
 not emenated from the ""mujaheddin themselves. He proposed a number of plans for reuniting all the Afghan groups under one leadership. The AIG Premier disclosed that Saudi government, donated $ 5,000 million to the Soviet Union which they indirectly gave to Najib. He 'said .that he would give a documentary proof that Saudi government aid was cut off to mujaheddin under American pressure. (MLM)
 *  Responding to briefing on the Latest situation in Kashmir and Afghanistan by Pakistan's Foreign Secretary, the Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani has said that the kashmir andi the Afghanistan issues were the common problems for Pakistan and Iran and the two countries should cooperate with each other to solve them. (MLM)
 *  Addressing a seminar in the Pabbi refugee camp (date- not given) the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf-, has said that any compromise with the communists or other enemies of Islam is in direct conflict with the fundamental aims and principled of jehad. He declared his opposition to attempts by the super powers and the UN to impose "an un-Islamic infidel coalition" or an interim neutral government on the people of Afghanistan. He said, we
.never believed in secret negotiations with the Russians or their Marxist puppets in Kabul. We believe that the future of Afghanistan belongs to those who fought for its liberation. The Afghan problem cannot be solved through behind-the-scene compromises with the enemies of jehad and Islam* (PT)
 I
 *  Twenty-six Afghan mujaheddin were -killed and many injured when four SCUD
 missiles hit the center' of Khawaja Ghar, Takhar, 20 May; (PT)
 *  On suspicion of having contacts with the Afghan mujaheddin, the Kabul regime .President Najibullah is reportedly.
256
APRIL-JUNE, 1991             flllilllU                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 going to replace ail the high ranking army officers in Paktia, Ghazni, Nangarhar arid Logar with his close colleagues and officers belonging to Parcham faction. (JG)
    Informatioii sources report from Peshawar that fighting broke out in Kunar Province 19 May between HI A (Hekmatyar) group and that of the Al-Daawa under Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman (known as the Salafis). The report adds that both sides suffered losses. (VOADS)                             ■
                 24
 *  The Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayatti and Pakistan’s Secretary General for Foreign Affairs Akram Zaki, who is in Tehran to attend the Ministerial Council meeting of the ECO, agreed in their formal first round of bilateral talks (date not given) on the need to find a political solution for the Afghanistan issue. (PT)
 *   The , Afghan teachers imparting knowledge to refugee children in camps staged a demonstration in front of the Education Ministry of the AIG in Peshawar 22 May to protest over the failure of the Ministry to pay their salaries, reports ANA. (PT)
 *   The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, on a visit to Iran at the invitation of the Iranian authorities, in an interview with the Persian Service of the BBC said he will accept a government which is provisionally headed by Najib provided he (Najib) steps down after elections, reports ANA.
      Reacting to his remarks, an Afghan mujaheddin Commander Sher Ahmad said: Najib is a criminal and criminals canriot be accepted as heads of state. He should be tried. If Mujaddedi allowed him for ari interim period why should we fight against him. Another commander Khiali Khan said: Mujaddedi's
 assertions about Najib and the dubious role played by Iran recently are equally intriguing. Iran invited Najib to Mashad sometime ago and now has invited other Kabul regime higher officials including its Deputy Primp Minister, to Tehran where he is holding talks with other delegations. (MLM)
 *  Reacting to UN Secretary General's Peace plan for Afghanistan the chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said, if the Nazis in
          and other European countries a*e prosecuted and most of them are still languishing in jails on charges of crimes against humanity, how the‘UN can propose to the Afghans to talk to those who have devastated Afghanistan and killed and wounded millions of people. The Soviets must cease their support to Najib and the US must renounce backing Najib's rule. Hekmatyar regretted the role of a Muslim country in paving the way for a coalition government of Kabul rulers and some weak elements calling themselves mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *  A Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad has hoped 23 May that the UN peace plan will lead to an early political settlement acceptable to the people of Afghanistan, the establishment of peace there and return of Afghan refugees to their homes with honor and dignity. (NTN)
 * The Consullar of the Kabul regime in
 Peshawar Abdul Qayyum Khan, informed The Nation 23 May that the regime. President Najibullah in a speech on' Radio Kabul 22 May accepted the UN' Secretary General's peace plan for Afghanistan. (NTN)         .
 *  In his reaction to the UN peace plan for Afghanistan the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, said
 23 May the UN efforts centered around giving the communists free hand to play
257
APRIL-JUNE, 1991              MGHMJHMD                   VOL. 4  NO.3
with the    fate of Afghanistan   in the
future and re-instate those exiles, who betrayed their country and fled to the West for safe haven. It could be clearly concluded that the UN plan is aimed only at preventing the establishment of a government which is desired by the silent majority of Afghans, he said. (NTN)
*  Talking  to APP in Islamabad   23 May
Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of JI, said that .the   US and India were the    two
hurdles in the way of establishing friendly and Islamic government in Afghanistan (NTN)
*  In an official statement issued at
UN headquarter. Secretary General, Perez d$ Cuellar has appealed for an end to Afghan war. He said on the basis of consultations of his special envoy Benon Sevan with the Kabul regime and mujaheddin leaders inside and outside Afghanistan, war could be stopped in Afghanistan for a transitional period wherein a broadbased government can be formed through free elections. He also appealed to all the governments to support a   political settlement  of the
Afghan conflict without foreign interference. (NTN) *
 *  Briefing newsmen in Lahore 23 May Foreign! Secretary, Shahryar Khan said Pakistan is settled down for the political solution of Afghanistan and in this regard it welcomes the five-point plan presented by the UN, Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Ahmed Zaki, who was on a visit to Iran and Saudi Arabia had taken up the Afghanistan issue with the leaders of these two countries in the light of the UN peace proposal. He said, he himself .had discussed the issue with the Chinese leaders during his recent visit there and now Riaz Ahmed Khan, another Pakistani high ranking diplomat, would take up the UN peace plan with the Soviet leaders during his visit to
 the Soviet Union. He said the visit of the UN delegation to Afghanistan was the .part of the peace proposal laid down by Perez de Cuellar ' which he believed was not a covert move. He said that the UN delegation had gone to Afghanistan to discuss peace proposal with the mujaheddin leaders after which it would hold talks With the Kabul regime as well as with the government of Pakistan. This was aimed at evolving international consensus to Set.tle the Afghanistan conflict through political means, he said. (NTN)
    The mujaheddin sources report that eversince their operations were launched in Kandahar, two helicopters and one transport aircraft have been shot down by the mujaheddin rockets.
 (VOAPS)
    In a telephone interview with the BBC regarding rumors about Najib remaining in the office till the end of elections provided he (Najib) gives international guarantee in this respect, Sebghatul'lah Mujaddedi> the AIG President said, "By saying so I did not mean that it should specifically be Najib but that any Muslim and impartial Afghan who can take over from Najib, but under international guarantee, can remain in the office until ■ the elections, are over. We have never agreed that Najib be in power till the end of the elections. We do not want his rule and we do not wish to form a coali.tion with him. But if other Afghans want to do so, provided there, is an international guarantee, I will have no objection."
 * .Two of the mujaheddin leaders, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, in a statement have declared that the UN plan to end the 13 year long Afghan, war was an insult to the Afghan mujaheddin. The plan is a disgrace to all those who have sacrificed 1.5 .million lives for the liberation of .their country, furtlier--
258
APR I L-JUNE * 1991         AFGHAN J[Hi                   VOL. 4 NO. 3
 more, according to the statement, the plan puts the two conflicting sides under a single roof. (BBCFS)
                 25
 *  An independent Afghan leader, Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan, has rejected the UN Secretary General's peace plan saying that it totally ignored the Afghan mujaheddin. He said, it has no guarantee about removal of Najibullah from the office which is a prior demand of mujaheddin. He said that Najibullah could get advantages from the ceasefire' to be implemented under the UN plan.
 (NTN)
 *  The leader of the Iran-based nine parties Afghan alliance Hezb-e-Wahdat, Murtazawi and the visiting AIG leaders, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi and Pir Sayyed Ahmed Gailani, in a joint communique after their meeting in Iran have agreed on joint efforts for the solution of Afghanistan problem and establishment of a real Islamic government in Afghanistan. They . also called for immediate halt to super powers’ intervention in Afghanistan.
 (NWT)
 * The Afghan Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has inaugurated the first AIG bank in the liberated Afghan province of Takhar., The bank transactions will be based on a profit and loss without interest. The bank will also set up its branches in the liberated areas of Afghanistan. (PT) *
 * The Afghan mujaheddin launched a joint attack on Kabul regime military posts in tha capital of Baghlan province 20 May and, after four days of fighting they liberated seven villages, captured 100 regime militiamen,killed 30 and injured 25 others. Three, mujaheddin were also killed and two injured in these operations. Mujaheddin also captured three heavy machine-guns
 and 50 other assorted weapons alongwith a considerable quantity of ammunitions. In Faryab province they captured a regime commander Juma Khan and his deputy Yar Mohammad along with a number of regime soldiers during their operation on the Ab-e-Khurma security posts. They also destroyed a can on, one ZK-1 and one PK . machine-gun. in Nangarhar province, they repulsed a regime attack on their positions in Samarkhail three days back. (MLMJ
 *  The Soviet Union supplied 20 modern jet fighters to the Kabul regime 21 May, reports MIDIA. After the fall of Khost, the Russians are sending transportation planes almost double the previous ones. . Twenty-four supply
 planes daily land in Kabul,. The Russians also supplied 100 SCUD missiles to Kabul regime 22 May. (NTN)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin captured 17 regime troops alongwith a military supply vehicle loaded with ammunition 19 May in Mardyan area of Jauzjan province. At least , three military officers and 16 militiamen were killed and five injured in attacks by the mujaheddin over military positions of the regime forces in Gardaiz city, Paktia, 19 May. A tank alongwith six persons on board caught fire when the mujaheddin attacked the Qala-e-Padshah military posts in Karak, Paktia 20 May. Heavy fighting between mujaheddin and the communist forces is still continuing in the area. (NTN)
 *  Akram Zaki, Secretary General of Pakistan Foreign Affairs told newsmen in Islamabad 24 May the "atmosphere is turning conducive for finding a peaceful political solution of Afghanistan issue". He said Director General Ri&z Ahmed Khan is leaving for Moscow 26 May to have preliminary talks on Afghan issue with the Soviet officials. He said Iran’s view point was that both Pakistan and Iran should
259
                                                                                VOL. A NO.3
 the airport and were sent back Russia. (PT)
 to
 * Eighteen notorious Ghelam Jam militia, deputed by Kabul regime to ioot the residents, were killed in a clash between the militiamen and soldiers of the Gardaiz city battalion 20 May. Four soldiers of the battalion were also killed. (FT)
 APRIL-JUNE- 1991 '
 join.tly strive for a broad-based Afghan government by affiliating the various mujaheddin groups in both the countries. He said "in Iran, the nine-party mujaheddin groups have merged into a single unit- the Hezb-e-Wahdat". in Tehran, he said* a meeting between the Afghan mujaheddin in Iran and representatives of mujaheddin from Pakistan was held and, an atmosphere of complete understanding and identity of view was visible. (NTN)
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin killed 235 militiamen and soldiers and captured another 61 in their offensives over the
* regime posts in Sar-e-Pul district of Jauzjan 21 May. They also destroyed 13 military posts and liberated five villages. The mujaheddin also captured 193 light and heavy weapons alohgwith ammunitions. Seven mujaheddin were killed and     11 injured during these
 operations. In Sheberghan, Jauzjan, five communists were killed and three injured in mujaheddin's attacks over the oil and gas project posts 16 May. A tanH alohgwith those on board was also destroyed     and   huge  ^quantity   of
 ammunition    fell to, mujaheddin.    In
 Samangan, a post was captured and four militiamen were killed and four arrested by them in their assault on Takht-e-Riis tarn military post. A large quantity of arms and ammunition also fell to the mujaheddin. (PT)
 *   The Deputy     Trade  Minister,  the
 Deputy Aviation Minister and the director of 45th KHAD department of the Kabul communist regime have fled to India. (PT) *
  * Due to the intensified rocket and artillery attacks by the mujaheddin over the Kabul Airport, the regime planes are facing problems. A Russian cargo plane caught fire and burnt completely after a rocket shell hit it last week over the airport. Several other Soviet planes sent from Russia vehen -reached Kabul could not land at
   Twenty-six ' persons were killed and 20 injured when Kabul regimes troops fired four SCUD missiles over Khawaja Ghar, Takhar, 21 May. (PT) •. ,
 * The mujaheddin destroyed an arms and ammunition dump in Qeshla-e-Jadeed, > Kandahar, in their long range attacks over ; the regime forces 19     20 May.
 They also captured 16 militiamen alongwith their weapons. Three tanks and a number of the military positions besides; two vehicles with thos.e on bbard were also destroyed. Another six soldiers were <rkilled . and four injured. A muTjahed was killed and four injured during these attacks. Nbrth of Kandahar Airbase, the mujaheddin captured a post and arrested 16 militiamen alongwith their weapons 16 May. In Kabul province four soldiers.were killed and two injured when the mujaheddin attacked a regime post at Badam Bagh,Paghman,18 May. Two tanks of the regime forces were also destroyed. In Kargha and Kariz-e-Mir, * Kabul Province, five soldiers, including an officer, ' were killed and six injured ,„in heavy mujaheddin attacks 19 May. (PT)
   The mujaheddin rejected Kabul regime claims that they have forced the mujaheddin commander Ismail Khan out of his base near Herat- City. They say that fierce fighting continues between the two sides. (BBCFS)
 * A US States -Department spokeswomen, Margaret Tutwilfer, has-. said in Washington "we believe that a dialogue-
                                                                                                                                               260
: /' • ' ' . .
APRIL”JUNE* 1991                          flfllHANJFHAU                             VOL.   4 NO.3
  among Afghans aimed at defining a transition process leading to a representative government mast begin as soon as possible”. She said we look forward to continuing to work with the UN and the international community to move to a political settlement in
  Afghanistan and the elements outlined in UN Secretary General's :statement would serve as a basis for that* (PT)-
  *  Official sources in , Islamabad have said the UN sponsored bilateral talks betwelen Iran based Afghan groups and Pakistan based seven parties ajLliance would soon be held in Peshawar to pursue a. further political solution of the Afghan problem based on the five-point agenda of the ' UN Secretary General . A delegation of Iran based Afghan groups would arrive in Islamabad early next month, the sources said. A
  ^Fo^eign Office spokesman in Islamabad has also said although the Afghan leaders maintain their own perception of the situation, they are not totally averse to any common approach. Meanwhile, the Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, is understood to have assured the visiting Pakistan officials that if the two .Afghan groups could not evolve consensus during the forthcoming bilateral talks, Irani would be glad to work hand-in-hand with Pakistan to persuade the two sides to forge unity and come to an agreement. (MLM)
  *  The AIG cabinet in a statement issued after its meeting chaired by Premier Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has announced that except for the mujaheddin . government no other government can be acceptable in Afghanistan. Accepting Najib and his comrades not only as the head of Interim government, but even as its members even for one day cannot be an issue of discussion. They do not have any right whatsoever to participate in the future political life of our
                                                                                                   261
 nation, the statement said. (PT)
 *  Rejecting the proposal for talks on ways to find a political settlement to the Afghanistan problem by the Kabul regime Prime Minister Fazal Haq Khaleqyar, the leader of the Afghan mujaheddin Burhanuddin Rabbani has said as Khaleqyar is part of the Najib regime, the question of talks with him does not arise. He also rejected the statement made by the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi at a news conference 23 May that the mujaheddin groups would agree that Najibullah* should remain in power during a period' when the interim government would, supervise elections in the country (PT)
          ' 1           ,         i   •
 *  Some of the recently Soviet supplied long range DC guns have been captured by the Afghan mujaheddin and they are chalking out a strategy to use them in the Gardaiz fighting. Meanwhile,as part of aggressive defense measures at the
 \Gardaiz front, the Kabul regime has set up its first defense line in Zurmat,
,eight kilometers away from Gardez. (PT)
 *   Responding to an appeal by Najibullah, the 1 Soviet Union has supplied 400 SCUD missiles to the Kabul regime ih addition to 20 modern jet fighters supplied 21 May, \ a MIDIA report says. (PT)
 *  Reacting tq UN Secretary General's peace plan for Afghanistan, the AIG Prime Minister Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has said that no settlement could be implemented against the will of Afghan Muslims and if any attempts are made to > impose one, the entire responsibility shall lie on tt;ose who chalked it
                                                                                                       #r
 out without considering the actual facts of the Afghan realities. (PT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have liberated 10 strategic positions 18 and 19 May in Shahrak, Ghor, and captured 50 communists,Eight mujaheddin were killed and
April-june, 1991            AFGHAN JEHAD                 voi.. a no. 3
 12 injured in the operations. In heavy mujaheddin attacks . over military positions in Gardaiz city 19 May, 16 Kabul regime militiamen were killed and five injured.A regime tank alongwith six persons on board took fire in fighting as well. (PT)
 * Commander Ismail Khan, reporting from Herat, says that in their attack on a military supply line on the Herat-Toor Ghundi road 19 May, the mujaheddin destroyed 14 trucks loaded with ammunition and killed 15 militiamen. The mujaheddin had no losses during these operations. (VOADS)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime plane while bombing the liberated area of Zinda Jan, Herat, (date not given). The pilot and the crew of the aircraft were killed on the spot. Earlier, they frustrated an attack of the Kabul regime forces in the same region and the invaders fled away leaving behind wreckage of four tanks and seven vehicles; (PT)
 *  In their joint operation, the Afghan mujaheddin have captured Yangi Qala in Takhar (date not given). The mujaheddin killed 20 communists and injured a number of others^ during their joint attack at Kandahar airbase 24 May. They also killed 10 communists and destroyed a tank with those oh board in their attacks over Qeshla-e-Jadeed, Kandahar City* the same day. A jeep .and a motorcycle fell, to the mujaheddin. Eight local people were also killed and 12 others injured in the operations.’ The mujaheddip killed three officers and seven militiamen and captured 15 others alongwith their weapons in Charbulak of Balkh. They destroyed three posts and killed 15 militiamen and soldiers. The mujaheddin carried out attacks over the military, security posts in Mazar-e-Sharif 22 May and two mujaheddin were killed and five injured in the operations; they killed 18
 militiamen and injured 25 others 19 and 20 May near- the Charbulak, Balkh, and captured a huge quantity of ammunition and logistic materials. At least five mujaheddin were also killed and three injured. Meanwhile, the locals in Herat City staged demonstrations 25 May against the Kabul regime to condemn the aerial and ground attacks recently which is reported to have continued 21. days. The regime forces arrested hundreds of scholars, elders and other demonstrators. (PT)
 *  Four hundred and fifty communist soldiers surrendered to mujaheddin 20 May in Qalawe-Nau, Badghis. The mujaheddin 'attacked military positions of the .city from all the four directions and captured as well two security posts in Surkhabii Four mujaheddin were also killed. The center is under siege and heavy fighting is continuing. Meanwhile 500 militiamen and soldiers alpngwith their arms and ammunition have also surrended to mujaheddin in ' River Amu areas of Darqad, Takhir, 21 May. Fierce fighting is continuing in other areas. In Hasantal, Baghlan, 20 soldiers and two officers defected to the mujaheddin 23 May. They also brought with them ammunition and burnt a tank at theij: posts while defecting. (NTN)'
 *  The ' Soviet Foreign Ministry had described as positive and welcomed the appeal of UN Secretary General for a political solution of the Afghanistan problem, says a press release issued by the Soviet Embassy in • Islamabad (date not given). It says the appeal proves that the UN is alive to its role in the solution of the problem. (JG)
 ♦Four famous singers of Kabul radio and TV, Rahim Ghaffari, shahrawan, Zaher Howaida and Patang are reported to have sought asylum in India. (PT)
 *  Commander Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has said that conditions are not conducive for free and fair elections
APR IL-JUNE, 1991                                   HlUllflllJiniili                                     VOL.   4  NO.3
 in Afghanistan. Therefore, a powerful shoora should be formed to resolve the Afghan issue. From this shoora, he said> a new parliament and a new government should be formed. He contended that only continued disunity among the mujaheddin's political groupings was prolonging the..final days of Kabul regime. (PT)
 *  Addressing:  a ' huge gathering at
 Shamshatu refugee camp, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said a super-power was hatchig conspiracies against the Afghan mujaheddin in ^ collusion with a neighbouring Muslim country by paving the way for the formation of a coalition government with Najib. He told the audience that the two countries were implementing their plots through some of the weaker Afghan parties which they were financing in the past. He said that those having no grass root support were used as tool for implementing these plots. He said t:he West was trying to implement Najib plans by giving it full publicity, but all the conspiracies will be foiled, and mujaheddin will continue their present struggle till final victory. (PT)
      Sayyed Mohammad Khairkhwah, responsible for the Tehran Central office of the JIA, has said in an. interview With the BBC that the Kabul regime indiscriminate bombardment of Zindajan, Herat, has resulted in the displacement of over 10,000 families inside the country or to the border jareas of Iran. The attack, which began
 • 4 May, still continues. Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA, had earlier requested the neighbouring countries and the international community for humanitarian assistance to these war refugees^ " XBBGFS)
                                               28
            ■ . \ • y'  .. -  ’ ■
 ♦Briefing newsmen in Islamabad, the Advisor on information and Broadens-
 ting. Sheikh Rashid Ahmed, has said the Federal cabinet 7 May approved the government policy for a political solution to the Afghanistan problem and it was in full agreement that serious efforts should now be made to achieve this objective. He said, Iran and Saudi Arabia are also in full agreement that the issue be resolved politically on the basis of the five point formula of the UN Secretary General. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin captured last week one security post of Kabul regime 1 in Tor Kotal, Kandahar. They inflicted heavy losses on an armed convoy while* on its way to Ghazni. The mujaheddin also captured Darqad, Takhar, killing a number of regime troops and capturing a huge quantity of arms and ammunition, (date not given). (PT)
 *  Talking to a correspondent of The Nawa-i-Waqt in Rawalpindi 27 May, the Amir of JI Qazi Hussain Ahmed has said that the Afghan mujaheddin cannot share power with those who invited Soviet troops and decimated the population With their bombardment and SCUD missile fired in Afghanistan. He, said that efforts were being made to bring somehow into power the Najib and Zaher Shah groups in the guise of political solution with representation to some people in the name Of mujaheddin. He said the dream of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan will never materialize through such attempts and immense sacrifices given for the cause will go in vain. Qazi Hussain Ahmed said that the US, Soviet Union and India were trying to sabotage the Afghan, jehad through a political solution and. the establishment of a .broad-based government in Afghanistan. Earlier" at Wah Cantt, while talking to members of the bereaved family of an Afghan mujahed, martyred at Logar front, the Amir of JI said there are only 200 individuals who are a hurdle in the liberation of Afghanistan, and;
APRIL-JUNO, 1991
 are relying on the US and Soviet Union for a solution. (NWT)
 " The National Salvation Society in Kabul has welcomed the UN. formula bn the solution of the Afghan problem and has called on all mujaheddin organizations for its approval.
 (BBCFS)    -
   Two mujaheddin groups . have clashed with each other in Kunar Province with tens of casualties on each side. According to the mujaheddin information sources, the clashes, which started between the HI A (Hekmatyar) gjrbup and the Al-Dawa or "WahabiV group supported by Saudi Arabia, are still continuing. According to the HIA the conflict started when the Wahabis intended to expand their hold in areas controlled by other mujaheddin groups and enforce their rule ( the Amirate. Decrees) on them. (BBCFS)
 » Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former King of Afghanistan, has told the VOA that he would endorse the UN efforts within the framework of the Secretary General * s peace plan, provided it . ensures the return of peace and security, maintenance of stability in Afghanistan, itsi territorial integrity and Islamic identity with due respect to the will of its people. (VOADS)
 - A number of Afghan refugees from the south and southeast of the country in a meeting supported the peace plan put forward by the UN Secretary General. Hayat Aleko , speaker of the group reports from Quetta that there was nothing in the plan that would be against the interests of the Afghan people.. (BBCPS)
 -   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, commenting upon Rajiv Ghandhi's assassination has said that he had no other comment to make except that the Gandhi dynasty have had no sympathy for the mujaheddin throughout
 VOL. 4 NO.3
 our history of jehad. On the contrary they had always supported the Soviets and the Kabul regime stand, though during a recent government they were somehow inclined to regret their stand in the past. (VOAPS)               '
   The Najib government has promoted some military officers who, according to Najib, had taken an active part in the defense of - the country, the maintenance of peace and the realization of his reconciliation policy. They include * General Abdul Sattar and Brigadier Mohammad Moosa Mangal. (RA)
                29
 *  A spokesman of the Kabul regime Foreign Ministry has said in Kabul that talks on a political solution of the Afghan problem with a Pakistan delegation in Moscow would be an important step in this direction and they do not . see any reason to worry about these talks. (MLM)
 * Addressing a press conference in
 Peshawar 28 1 May, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said the AIG does not accept the UN Secretary General's formula for a political settlement of the Afghanistan problem. The AIG believes in military solution of the problem but it supports the political efforts as well. The UN formula, he said, . provides an* opportunity to Najib to have influence' in the future Afghan government which could not be accepted. He said the AIG^ being popular among the mujaheddin-should be accepted to run the interim '» government dethroning the Najib regime* (MLM)          ,
 *  According to survey, over 3.7 million Afghan refugees arrived in Pakistan during the period 1979-1990 and they” were mainly concentrated in NWFP, Baluchistan and Punjab. (PT)
                                                    . 264
APRIL-JUNE/ 1991
 *   Another five refugee families consisting of 28 people and 25 other individuals, have recently returned to Baghlan province from Iran and Pakistan, reports Kabul Radio. (MLM)
 *  In the continued bombardment and
 artillery attacks over Zindajan, Herat, the Kabul regime has destroyed the UN aid depots as well as agricultural projects, irrigation system and many tube wells. A number of mujaheddin and locals were also killed and injured in the attacks. According .to latest reports, the mujaheddin attacked the regime posts in Char Burjak, Kandahar, injuring a militia commander and destroying a BM-41    24 May. They also
 attacked Grishk, Helmand, 28 May and set ablaze three tanks and " four vehicles. They destroyed four regime, posts and killed six militiamen 22 May in Koh-e-Surkh Parwan. They captured 13 heavy and light weapons, a wireless set and foodstuff. Meanwhile, two militia commanders, Maj. Faiz-ur-Rahman and Deen Mohammad alongwith 30 other militiamen, defected to the mujaheddin during the operations. In Dara-e-Ash-raf, Baghlan, t!$e mujaheddin captured three security posts 20 May. One mujahed was killed and two were injured in the offensive. Ancf. in the liberated Khawaja Ghar, Takhar, about 14 mujaheddin and residents were killed and 10 injured in two SCUD missile-attacks 23 May by the Kabul regime. <PT)
   The Najib regime has appointed six persons as Senators. They are: Mohammad Azam Shinwari, Feda Mohammad Dehnishin, Abdul llazeer, Abdul Haq, Qasem Khalid and Ghulam Hazrat. (RA)
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President has called as false and baseless rumors about US assistance to the mujaheddin being cut. He told the BBC cprrespondent in Peshawar that Peter Tomsen, the US envoy to the mujaheddin, has. assured him that the
                                                                                    VOL. 4 NO.3
: flow of US aid to the mujaheddin would continue for the next year. (BBCPS)
    A contract for Afs. 50 million UN aid to the Kabul regime Ministry of Rehabilitation and Rural Development was signed in Kabul 29 May. The fund will be utilized for the repair of irrigation dams, canals and karezes in BaghJLan, Balkh and Badakhshan Provinces..(RA)
                 30
 *  The Kabul regime ruler Najibullah said 27 May he has ordered provincial governors and state authorities . to announce and observe a truce if mujaheddin field commanders in the region ,are prepared to reciprocate. He was ready,he said, to negotiate peace with the mujaheddin anywhere within the framework of a UN peace plan. He said the plan was a preamble to the cessation of hostilities in the Afghan war. Meanwhile, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi1 neither accepted nor rejected the UN formula for Afghanistan saying that it could not resolve the problem as it called for the formation of a coalition government with Najibullah. (NTN)
 * The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has requested the friends of Afghan jehad not to abandon the mujaheddin half Way. He said that both the Kabul regime ruler Najibullah's ceasefire proposal and the UN five-point peace plan were aimed at providing the communist regime victory even though they have lost in the battlefield. He said, those who would come into power in Afghanistan with the help of the UN plan would be used against our neighbours at the behest of super powers. Sayyaf said the UN Secretary General had turned a blind eye to the mujaheddin stand. (.PT)
 *  All the 12 Afghan mujaheddin field
265
Ill
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991
 commanders of the IIA & HIA (Hekmatyar) and HIA (Khales) have vowed to continue their fight till Najibullah remained in power. They also criticized those mujaheddin leaders who have indirectly indicated their willingness to talk to the non-communist officials of the Najibullah regime.'(PT)
                       . \ '
 *  A spokesman of the mujaheddin of
 south and south-western areas, of Afghanistan, Hayatullah, has said they, will approve a ceasefire because peace and tranquillity is the wish of every Afghan. We want the Afghans to decide their future by themselves without foreign interference and Afghanistan to be an Islamic, neutral and independent country. (MLM)    ,
 *  Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA, apprised the Iranian Foreign" Minister Ali Akbar Velayatti in Tehran 27 May of the latest situation in Afghanistan and asked for more Iranian efforts to seek a solution. He stressed that the Afghan problem could not be resolved without Iranian support. The Iranian Foreign Minister assured the continued support and said that the Afghan people should themselves resolve the problem of their country. (PT)
 *  Fifteen military Vehicles,, were
 destroyed and two persons, including an officer of the communist regime, were killed and six injured when the Afghan mujaheddin attacked a military convoy at Tashqorghan Pass, Samangan,   22* May.
 Three mujaheddin were also killed in the attacks. At Sabar Khoshk, Baghlan,i three government soldiers were killed and seven captured by the mujaheddin 24 May. Sixteen heavy and light weapons also fell to' them. A mujahed was injured in the attacks.
 A Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, ■ the AIG President, has rejected Najib's offer for a ceasefire between the government troops and the mujaheddin. He said, it was possible that the mujahedin would accept a ceasefire but not until Najib
                                                                                        VOL. 4 NO.3
 was removed. (VOADS)
    Abd Rab Rasobl Sayyaf, the AIG Premier, has rejected Najib's call for a ceasefire on the ground that Najib's objective and the UN plan for the solution of the Afghan problem were both aimed at the           revival  and
 realization of the Kabul regime reconciliation policy. (VdAPS)
 • » The Kabul regime Ministry of Auqaf (Religious Endowments) and Islamic Affairs has stated that the Saudi Arabian authorities have not yet issued instructions to offices concerned about the issuing of visas for Afghan pilgrims this year. (RA)
    The resistance, sources report pf severe fightings going on between the mujaheddin and the regime forces around Gardaiz in Ghazni Province. The mujaheddin attacked the regime forces at the -foot of the mountain in Zarghunsharh 18 May and forced them to retreat. Six Kabul regime troops were killed and another three wounded. One mujahed wa? also injured, Also on the same date, fighting bfook out between the mujaheddin and the regime forces near Zurmat, Paktia* in which four
 Gelamjam militiamen were killed and three military vehicles were destroyed. One mujahed was also killed and another two injured. The mujaheddiq attacked the Zhak Asya and Pa tan areas of Zurmat 20 and 21 May killing three troops, wounding another seven and destroying one tank and a vehicle. In their attacks on the regime forces at Zurmat ahd Ghazni Province 22 May, the mujaheddin 1 killed .17 Gelamjam militiamen and foiled a counter-attack by the Kabul regime forces.
      In other clashes between the two sides at Zurmat May 24 and 25, . eleven regime troops were killed and 90 transport vehicles destroyed. Two civilians were killed as a result of a
APRIL-JUNE# 1991
VOL- 4 N0.3
 real  bombardment. The report       adds
 that  the Kabul regime has  established
 new   military  posts all   along    the
 Gardaiz-Ghazni route, two of which have already been captured by             the
 mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
    NIFA reports from Tehran that as a result of mujaheddin rocket attacks on the Shindand Airport, the Kabul regime, has suffered heavy material losses One casualties. The extent of the losses has not been disclosed. The airpprt was , closed to traffic for 1 two days.
 (VOADS)
                                                     31
 *  The     Secretary General' s envoy on
 Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, will . submit his report next week to the Secretary General on the latest round of hie talks with all parties of the Afghan conflict for a settlement of the Afghanistan problem. (PT)
 *   Thirty-five field commanders of Logar, Nangarhar and Paktia provinces, belonging to seven mujaheddin parties,
;have in a resolution in their shoora meeting in Peshawar, rejected the UN plan for the settlement of Afghan problem. They said they had given sacrifices for the establishment of an Isljamic government in Afghanistan and would not join in any coalition or neutral government there. (JG)
 ■* The Kabul regime has begun dropping napalm bombs on rural population of Gardaiz affecting badly 17 villages. Their entire population are now moving towards mountain areas, says a spokesman of the mujaheddin Military Council in Paktia. (NWT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin captured a strategic post and destroyed a number of other security posts 26 May in Cheshma-e--Sayyad, Samangan. An officer alongwith 10 other armed soldiers were
                                                                                                   267
arrested by the mujaheddin and a number
                   ■/                   v
of military equipment also fell to
them. In another operation, 86 armed soldiers surrendered in Parwatf 26 May. The mujaheddin attacked the regime forces in Karim Dara and Khwiatiga 24 May while the forces were planning. to attack the mujaheddin. They inflicted heavy material and human losses to the regime forces. Three soldiers were also arrested by the mujaheddin. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin jointly attacked Kandahar Hotel and >Herat Bazaar military posts in Kandahar City 25 May killing 25 soldiers and militiamen and injuring 20. They set ablaze a warehouse in the military Garrison in the same day by long range artillery killing and injuring several soldiers. Eight soldiers were killed while they were running over the mines planted by the regime forces themselves. And in their attacks over the Pashtun Bagh Kandahar City military posts, the mujaheddin killed sfeven regime soldiers and militiamen and captured six others with their arms 24 May. (PT)
   Najib, leader of the Kabul regime, told the BBC 31 May he would not step down from power prior to free elections. His remarks are made at a time when almost all the mujaheddin / leaders have said that they would not hold talks with Najib as the head of the Kabul regime. (BBCFS)
   Dr. Enayatullah Eblagh, former member of Parliament and member of the Supreme Court, in an interview called on all the mujaheddin leaders that in view of the pitiable situation of the refugees, they should come to a compromise so that vthe Afghan problem is solved in the interest of the nation. He said; "The people expect from their loaders to think of the liberation and reconstruction of ^Afghanistan and for this they will have to refrain from some of their demands such as1 the attainment of future
  AI'HIL-JUNE, 1991              AHlHANJfHAII                  VOL.  4  NO.3
 leadership, one of them should step forward and the others should follow him. It is the will of the nation to see the establishment of a healthy Islamic government in the country . (VOAPS)
   The following are* the views of some Afghan' dignatories in Peshawar regarding:. ' - the UN plan for the. Afghanistan issue compiled by the VOA correspondents:
 1.   Mohammad Ali Javaid, Political Deputy Chief of HIA (Mohseni) has rejected all talks with Najib and his proposal- for a ceasefire as long as Na jib was in power. "Our actual opponents are the Russians and not Najib," he said.
 2.  Dr. Azizullah Loodin, Adviser to
 the AIG President:  If  by 'all segments
 of 'the Afghan people' the Secretary General includes also Najib, of "course it will not be acceptable to ‘the mujaheddin orgahiiatipns-. Furthermore, the UN plan,does 'not specify the powers and authority of the 1 impartial transition mech^:nii0'm, ;
 3.  General Mohammad Yahya Nouroz: Much has been said about the cut of
 arms supplies to the mujaheddin* In my opinion though there has been not!cable Change, in this- regard, it has not been Completely stopped* From the assurances given ta -the mujaheddin, the flow Of arms will continue". (VOADS)
 A An article written by Salamat Ali and published in- the, June issue of the Far-Eastern Economic Review .• says, "There is ah ever-increasing concern in Pakistan . about the 5,000 Arabs voluntarily fighting alongside the mujaheddin against the Kabul regime. Those who are rejected and banned from their own countries, cannot be separated from the locals and are suspected of crimes along the Pakis tap-Afghan border areas for which
 the Afghan refugees, used to be blamed in t^ie past". (VOADS)
 * Sergeo Victorov, a Radio Moscow commentator, has said in connection with the mujaheddin reaction to the UN peace plan for Afghanistan: Though the three opposition groups (NIFA’, NLFA and HEIA of Mbhammadi ) * have the plan under consideration, Hekmatyar's statement regarding its rejection on behalf of the remaining four groups is regrettable. (RM)
    The Kabul regime in a decree has pardoned the farmers from payment of their arrears of taxes upto the end of 1990. (&A)
      Inaugurating the Bait-ul-Ummat Library, with 3,000 books contributed by HIA (Hekmatyar), 'jlj.and IIA in Peshawar 31 May, the Amir of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, stressed the need for ideological unity among all the ipujaheddin saying that Islamic revolution - would remain incomplete if- . this front was ignored. The imperialist forces, he said, were pitting national elders against the commanders and were disintegrating the jehad organizations. He quoted a repent interview with VOA of a US advisor on the Afghan, affairs who tpld that during the previous year America spent a handsome amount of money, over the national shoora of Commanders in Afghanistan which^y^alded hundred percent results. He disclosed that such elements were hatching plots to /stop the establishment of Islamic government in Afghahistan eveif if the communists were dislodged by the mujaheddin. (PT)
                            - ‘
                                                                The Vice Chairman of <vthe Kabul regime ruling Watan party, Farid
    Mazdak, said 30 May that extremists in 268
april-june, 1991             AFGHANJFHAD                 vol. a no.3
 the ruling party were restraining Najibullah from giving too many concessions to the mujaheddin fearing they might be neutralized or even eliminated in any political settlement with the mujaheddin. The extremists are stronger politically and the differences are quite serious but they will have to accept realities, he said. (PT)
    Although no further news have reached from clashes between the mujaheddin in Kunar province, due to these conflicts, work carried by international agencies in the province has been hindered . (VOAPS)
 " The mujaheddin say that thousands of people of Herat have escaped' to Iran due to fightings between the. Kabul, government troops and the mujaheddin during past four weeks. (BBFS)
 " Ayatullah Sheikh Muhammad Asef Mohseni in an interview 1 June said if the objective of the UN Secretary General's plan on the Afghanistan issue is to induce the mujaheddin to hold talks with Najib, the mujaheddin will never accept this plan. He said, if this point is eliminated from the Ur< plan, one can become serious ^Mut it. (VOAPS)
                                                  2
    A WFP delegation and Secretary of States and frontier Regions, Dil Jan Khan, discussed in Islamabad.1 June the voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees from Pakistan. The chief of the delegation, Q’.H. Haque said that WFP would also provide one hundred trucks^worth US $ 20 million- to help transportation of the Afghan refugees' relief goods. (NTN) *
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,leader of HIA, in a press conference 2 June said in
.Peshawar that another coup is in the
                          *
 making in Kabul. He added that the Afghan army will resort to uprising in order to pre-empt a mujaheddin pending
 attack. He said, the mujaheddin will soon launch an attack on Kabul. We have to attack Kabul as we attacked Khost, but if the Kabul army transfers power to the mujaheddin, such an attack will not be launched.
      Commenting on the recent political activities in regard to the Afghanistan issue, he said they were mainly aimed at guaranteeing the continuation of the Najib regime and isolating forces which the west world calls fundamentalists. (BBCFS)
                      ■
 f The prices of imported goods to Kabul have raised by 40% comparing them to last year:     for  instance  one
 gallon of gasoline now costs 2,300 afghanis, one American dollars sells for 1,000 afghanis in the open market, four gallons tin of vegetable oil
 17,000  afghanis, one kilo of meat 1,800 afghanis. A laborer has to have 2,200 per day to meet his living costs. (BBCPS)
    Mawlawi /Jalaiuddin Haqqani, the mujaheddin Commander in Paktia in an interview has said, Benon Sevan, the special UN enVoyx for Afghanistan, has so far met several times with the commission of the Afghan Mujaheddin commanders' Shoora in regard to " tfil Afghanistan issue. According tc Haqqani, Sevan has asked the Commission that if the commanders do not accept the Kabul puppet regime and intend to continue their war until the fall of; the regime, would they believe in a' solution based on a number of principles? Haqqani said that Sevan was told about the various crimes committed by the puppet regime and added, until this regime continues, there was no possibility for solving the Afghan issue through pplitical means. Whenever Najib steps down, the mujaheddin will not fight and will start holding political talks. Without, this a political solution will have no, meaning. (VOAPS)
269
APR II-JUNK, 1991            mm JiHJID              VOL. 4 NO. 3
              3
 - snanryar Khan, Secretary of Pakistan Foreign Affairs,, .has said in an interview with the VOA that Iran and Saudi Arabia were inclined towards a politi--cal solution of the Afghanistan issue and delegations of the Iran-based Afghan mujaheddin and the Soviet Union would visit Pakistan to discuss the principles presented by the UN in this regard. He said that the government of Afghanistan would be broadbased-, independent and non-aligned Islamic government and there would be a transitional mechanism under which a broadbased regime would be formed after elections. During our meeting with the Soviet Union there was obviously no consensus on everything but our views were generally identical, he said. He added, we are sending, another high level delegation to the Soviet Union and there would certainly be a headway. (NTN) *
 * Addressing a selected gathering of Afghan ulama in Pabbi 1 June, the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, said that a new alliance is in the offing between JIA, HIA (Hekmatyar) and IIA and the people would hear good news in this regard, reports ANA. tie said that after the Russian withdrawal the West achieved its .goals and they were now trying to prevent the establishment, of Islamic government in Afghanistan. He said western powers had cut their aid to the mujaheddin at a juncture when they were, at the verge of victory over the communist.forces in Kabul. He expressed his shock over the compilation of a list of the Afghans by the UN for inclusion in the transitional government adding that the UN peace plan was a conspiracy against the mujaheddin . (PT)
 " Reliable sources say that the Soviet Union will hold direct talks with Iran Saudi Arabia and Pakistan for a political solution of the Afghanistan
problem and will complete this important round of negotiations within the next four weeks. A Soviet envoy will, visit Islamabad, Tehran arid Riyadh for this purpose. (JG)
 - Answering newsmens' questions at a reception in Peshawar 1 June, the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that inspite of palatable points the UN peace plan for Afghanistan had contra-adietory . clauses. On the one . hand the . plan spoke Of the right of self-determination and national sovereignty, on the other hand it called for a dialogue with the agents of a super power which was tantamount to accepting foreign •aggression. The ceasefire, he said, could only be considered after Na jib was removed and such' a government took his place which is acceptable to the Afghan nation. That government should hold elections within a stipulated period under the supervision of an acceptable delegation.* He said, Najib and his party were responsible for the massacre of more than 1.5 million Afghans, and giving them right . of participation in the elections would be against the sovereignty of the Afghan people. He said that the establishment of any government in Afghanistan under the American influence would not only be against Islam, but also against the interests Of the third World countries. "The Americans are trying to further break-up Islamic countries and haye hatched new plans in the garb of the so-called new 'world order'", he added.
 (MLM)
 * The military sources of Kabul regime say that forces of that regime have launched an offensive On Khawajaghar, Takhar. The aim was to recapture the city which fell to the mujaheddin under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood last month. (BBCFS)
    The Washington Post, quoting .its' reporter from Khost, says after thje liberation of Khost by the mujaheddin.
270
APRIL-JUNE, 1991               AfGHUAO                    VOL- 4 NO.3
 'if the mujaheddin' continue the same military tempo/ they will gain further successes against the Kabul regime.
 (VOAPS)          1
 - Mohammad ' Yaqoob Shariatyar, spokesman of Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haggani in Miran Shah, has said commanders, of various mujaheddin .organizations met under the chairmanship of Mawlawi Haqqani 2 2 May and re jected the UN Secretary General's • plan for the political solution of the Afghanistan issue', fhe commander in a declaration said, they will continue their jehad until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. In this session also a 11)0 .■•member tejkm wa? selected to supervise,' the administrative affairs of Khost. In addi tion to the representa tl vps. of seven Peshawar based organizations,the representatives of Mawlawi Nasrullah Martsbor are also included in   this team.  (BBCPS)
      :           4 ;:       -            ■
      Some retired high officials, including a retired Air Martial, in a meeting in Peshawar 3 June' said that Nowshera blast was a repetition of the 0jheri disaster and the government must realize, that no country in the world would like its people to be killed without any cause. They urged the government    to tell the Afghans frankly,
 to shift all their .^activities' across tfte Du grand Lins where they claimed to t?e controlling 90% of Afghanistan,
 • •/. ■ • ■ . o • .■ i".
 Innocent people of Pakistan should not be killed because "of the infighting among the Afghans, they said, (MLM)      .
   The Afghan mujaheddin field commanders of Kandahar and Zabul in a press conference in Quetta 2 June, rejected the UN peace plan for . Afghanistan saying they cannot believe that infidels would set up a government in Which they do not ’ believe. They said.., the Afghans alone-and not others- have
the right to determine their fate. The mujaheddin had not waged their jehad on the behest of the UN and its allies and neither they would give it up on their directive. (NTN)
- The Kabul regime militia and police commanders in Herat have resented the regime's decision to launch operations in the area. Special Guard Commander, Asif Dilawar, met with the authorities in Kabul, and then rushed to Herat, to tell the militia and police commanders that the mujaheddin will not spare them even ig their garrisons if they stopped resistance agAinst them. He also warned' them that if 'they could not/,- take action according to his strategy, the mujaheddin may inflict heavy financial and human losses to them. Dilawar also told them that 30 -40 fighter bombers would be received f rpm Russians to bombard the Zindajan district and its surrounding areas. He asked them to Use chemical gases if needed. Meanwhile, ' two militia commanders Abdur Rahim and Ali, ^Ibpg.with 195 families and 295 weapons defected to mujaheddin in Badghis province 25 May. In Khum-e-Abasi in the same province, one tank and one vehicle were destroyed and 11 soldiers and militiamen killed by the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were also killed, and six others were injured. The mujaheddin also, liberated 45 villages in Ghor Province. They captured 50 communists and killed five militiamen. (PT)
"According to a local correspondent of VQA in 'Peshawar, a source belonging to Ahmad Shah Masood forces has reported that the mujaheddin have frustrated a Kabul regime attack to recapture 1 the Khwajaghar city, Takhar. The source added that a big Kabul regime military force, protected by helicopters, left Kunduz in the beginning of the week for Takhar;. However, they were besieged in Dasht-e-Archi by the mUjaheddin... (VOAPS)
" The head of 'the ■ pbi^^b^i/.'bffice of
271
APRIL-JUNE, 1M1             AHiHAH JlHflll               VOL- 4 NO. 3
 the Commanders' Council of Afghan mujaheddin in Peshawar has said 1 June about the fightings now going on in regions north of Kabul city that operations began for blocking the Salang, Jabul Seraj, Bagram and Totom Dara roads and so far the following objectives have been achieved:
      Eleven tanks# 12 vehicles in Jangal Bagh, one tank in the entrance of Salang have been set ablaze and several military posts have been demolished. Also in these regions four military officers have been killed and 12 regime soldiers injured. The Salang highway has been closed for the past two days. The Kabul regime military aircraft are pounding civilian areas in the region. (VOADS)
 " Shams uddin Majrooh, a former D.eputy Prime Minister of Afghanistan, who had come to Peshawar to participate in conference has said’ in the US on his return that he has found the political and economic,condition of jehad serious and a matter for concern both in Pakistan and inside Afghanistan. He has added, the newly established commanders council faced two problems:    (1) there
 was still no sufficient unity among the commanders yet, (?) the government of Pakistan wants to utilize the command’ ers for its own aims. (VOAPS)
 " Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy for the Afghan mujaheddin in a speech in the Khurasan Camp near Peshawar said 3 June, the only way to end the tragedy Of the Afghan war was the stepping down of Najib from power. He added, now that the Afghans have been able to expel the Russians from their land, another phase of the Afghan waj^, has begun i.e, to evolve a political order and achieve unity and this too should .v be done by the Afghan's themselves. (VOADS)
 " Mohammad Anwar Arghandiwal, the De-
 puty Prime Minister of the Kabul regime has rejected a claim by Gulbuddin Hek-matyar that recently he had had meetings with several mujaheddin leaders in Iran. He said, that in dates given by Hekmatyar for such meetings, he was undergoing medical treatment in India. (VOAPS)
                                                      5
   Mohammad Aslam Watanjar, the Defense Minister of Kabul regime, has claimed that the regime forces have recaptured the Khawajaghar town which was earlier liberated by the nfujaheddin. He said, the   Kabul regime      established its
 control over the city by making a deal with a. number of local mujaheddin commanders. He said in order to prevent an attack on tjie Kandahar city. General Noor-ul-Haq Uloomi,. the Kabul regime Commander in Kandahar, also resorted to same tactics.
      News reaching Peshawar from1 Ahmad Shah Masood indicate that due to, heavy air attacks by the regime aircraft, the mujaheddin have evacuated Khawajaghar temporarily as tactical retreat (BBCFS)
 * An Iranian reporter, Fraidoon Ganjwar, has reported that in the Zendajan, Herat, the mujaheddin forces including Mohammad Ismail Khan, the mujaheddin Commander of JIA, are besieged by the Kabul regime forces. Ganjwar who has returned 5 June from Zendajan, says heavy air and ground Kabul1 regime attacks are continuing on Zendajan. He said 50% of the city was damaged. He rejected the Kabul regime claim that its forc^3 have ejected, Ismail Khan and the mujaheddin from the Zendajan center. (BBCFS)
 - According to a JIA and HEIA report, the mujaheddin last week in an attack on Kabul regime armored convoy in Haji Aurang, Jauzjan, have killed 70 military personal and set ablaze eight armored vehicle and,, as a result.
 272
APRIL-JUNE, 1991                 i'HMl                  VOL.  4 NO.3
 the convoy was forced to retreat. The’ mujaheddin say that they have captured government military posts in Aranji, Neman Klai and Khawaja ArchaK and have killed another 70 regime soldiers and 300 of government troops have surrendered to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
 - The mujaheddin sources say that since 31 May the Zendajan mujaheddin of Herat have resorted- to an organized offensive against the Kabul regime forces and fighting was continuing. Reports say that the intensity of these fightings in the area was mainly confined to the northern section and the mujaheddin have so far destroyed with heavy weapons five tanks and their crew. Sixty militia and government troops have been killed in the Pilwari area. A 200-militia group in Adraskan have have joined the mujaheddin with 1,357 heavy and light weapons and |2 military vehicles and 10 motorcycle.
 (VOADS}
                   6
 '• Reliable sources told The Nation
 that the Kabul regime former Defense Minister, Shah Nawaz Tani, has left for the Soviet Union to help in finding a political solution to the Afghan problem. During his stay in Moscow, he would persuade the Kremlin leadership to replace Najib with a PDPA leader who recently left Kabul. (NTN)
 * Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 5 June, a Foreign Office spokesman confirmed Pakistan and the Soviet Union have divergent views on the Afghanistan issue, particularly on the transitional period for establishing a broadbased government. The spokesman said the USSR was inclined to include Najibullah as part of the transitional period. Both Pakistan and Afghan leaders were hot ready to accept such an arrangement. It is believed that conditions for the trans-i tional period would be resolved
 following the start of the second round of consultations by Benon Sevan, the personal representative of the UN Secretary General, he said. The spokesman said both Saudi . Arabia ' and Iran, have stressed the need for peaceful political settlement of the problem. (MLM)
 * The- Afghan mujaheddin destroyed five '^regime tanks and two military trucks 3f June killing all those on board in their attack on a military base near Thana between Kabul and Maidan Shahr. In an attack on a supply convoy, in the same district the same day the mujaheddin destroyed four regime tanks and two military lorries and forced the convoy to retreat. In Khwaja Musafer, near Kabul, they book over a military post the same day and the personnel in ■ the post; surrendered to the mujaheddin* One wireless set, four RPG-7 and 12 klashenkovs were also' captured by the mujaheddin, Another post fell at Bagh-e^paud-, near Kabul, and six regime soldiers defected to the mujehedd£n (dai^e • pot given ) i In Kandahar the mujaheddin attacked the airport 2 June and destroyed two tanks' and forced six regime soldiers to surrender. 6rte mujahed was killed and another injured in the operation* In &end, Kandahar # the mujaheddin > attacked regime positions killing : five ■ soldiers arid injuring three. In Arghandab, near Kandar city, the mujaheddin attacked regime -security posts forcing six soldiers to surrender (date not given)*-In heavy bombing of the regime airforce six civilians were killed and two others injured, (PT)
 - In an interview with The Muslim, the Information Minister, Dr. Najibullah*s Lafrai, said the UN Secretary General representative Benon Sevan, has been clearly told that there was no question of talking to the Kabul regime as long as Najib was there. But so far as the Soviet Union was concerned, th£
273
APRIL-JUNE,'.1991                              AfllHAN JEHAIi VOL. A NO. 3
 resistance was ready to talk to it as it believed that the Afghan issue was one between Afghanistan and the Soviet Union and once the door was opened to involve any third party in the dialogue, there will be no end. In case Iran and Pakistan were involved,, as was being suggested by certain quarters, then SaUdi Arabia and even the USA could also be considered. But such an approach, he said, would not be helpful 'and rather complicate the problem. The key to the solution of Afghanistan was with the Soviet Union and, as such, one to one dialogue was expected to yield positive results. (MLM)
 " The mujaheddin sources in Peshawar have described as baseless claim by the Kabul regime Defense Minister Aslam Wa.tanjar that cue regime forces have recaptured the Khawajaghar town, Takhar, as a result of a deal with local commanders. The sources- said that according to a decision by the Commanders’ council, the mujaheddin have retreated to the heights .surrounding Khawajaghar and have not concluded any kind of deal with the regime forces. Ahjnad shah Masood in a message has refuted another Kabul regime claim that the regime forces have captured the Archi district. Commander Masood said that the Salarig Highway was still closed and attacks were continuing throughout the length and width of the highway* He has said that in. Tapa-e-Surkh the mujaheddin have burned an ammunition dump of the regime. (VOAPS)
 " An official of the ICRC in Peshawar has said that 25 wonded soldiers of the Kabul regime captured in khost battle have escaped from the ICRC hospital. He said that 16 of these soldiers have been sent to Kabul after receiving .treatments. Mark Walter, representative of the ICRC in an interview said ■ that in May 25 wounded personnel captured.in Khost and under treatment in the - ICRC hospital, had escaped. However, the
 ICRC had no hand in their escape. He said, although the ICRC had taken security measures, it should be remembered that a hospital cannot be converted to a jail, He said, according to an agreement with Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, 43 such persons have been handed over to him. He said 16 of the injured personnel have been sent to Kabul in two flights.. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin sources say that as a result of these unilateral actions* ICRC-Mujaheddin relation have been deteriorating because even now thuosands of mujaheddin are in Kabul regime jails. (VOAPS)
 - According to- sources in Pakistan government, a high-ranking Kabul regime KHAD official, Nazar Hussain son of Ghulam Hassan, was captured in April in the Khyber Hospital of Peshawar and is now being interrogated. (VOAPS)
                                                                                                        •.
 * It is reported . that. a bomb which killed four persons 4 June in a Soviet village near .the Afghan border, was dropped by a Kabul plane. A Soviet unofficial pews agency quoting official
 sources sa^ that the Soviet border guards had distinguished the attacking plane. (VOADS)%
 " The BBC correspondent . in. a wireless interview with Commander Masood about the situation in Khawajaghar has said that heavy air and SCUD rocket attacks as . well as unsuitable terrain- for organized fighting were the main factors for the mujaheddin forces in' their retreat from the Khawajaghar town. However, he said this was a tacticle move and the mujaheddin had in their control all the heights surronding the town. In regard to the claim made by the Kabul regime Defense Minister that the regime forces actually recaptured the Khawajaghar. town through bribing local commanders said for a Defense Minister such lies! were indeed shameful. The mujaheddin
274
april-June, 1991                                    AfiillllNJfUltll                                     vol.   4  no.3
 fought, two of their well-known comman-nders alongwith six .mujaheddin . and 50 Kabul troops were killed. (BBCFS)
 * Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, in an interview with the VOA has said:  (1) I myself on the basis
 of Islam, reject direct talks with the Kabul government, (2) we have not delegated anybody the power to hold talks with the Kabul regime or Russins in regard top the Afghan issue. Neither we will accept a third party to do the job in this connection,- (3) the claim that the Kabul regime and Pakistan official* have .met in. Geneva on the Afghan issue has been refuted by Pakistan, itself and at any rate, we have not delegated anybody to talk on our behalf with the enemy,. (VOAPS)
 > The Kabul regime has -apologized to the Soviet Union for the death of four and injury of nine persons in a'Soviet border village as a result of a bomb, dropped by a Kabul regime plane.. (VOADS)
 "■ An Afghan gathering in Quetta 6 June welcomed the UN plan for the political solution of the Afghanistan issue.
 , (BBCPS)                            ‘
 - Shahla Sultani, a 21-year old Afghan girl disturbed a ceremony held in Oslo, capital of Norway / offering* the : 1991; Nobel Peace Prize to Soviet leader Gorbachev * The girl said that the Gorbachev hands were stained with the blood of thousands of innocent Afghans. (VOADS)
   As a result of rains in central and northern Afghanistan 1,500-5,000 people are reported dead and thousands homeless. Mujaheddin sources have appealed for international assistance. (BBFS)                            * . .
             .       7 •.
 » The Afghan mujaheddin, after a day
 long fierce battle 2 June, forced' a Kabul regime military convoy to retreat towards Hairtan river port leaving behind seven trucks which were captured by     the mujaheddin.  The   convoy was
 carrying   Soviet made  arms, ammunition
 and military supplies but was intercepted at Tashkurghan Pass while heading towards the Afghan capaital. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime has threatened to use chemical gas against the mujaheddin and the   rural localities  at Herat front.
 (PT)                            .
. Talking to The Muslim, member of Pakistan National Assembly from Bartnu,
, Nasir Ahmed Khan, has said that the Afghan refugees are mainly•responsible for     the   worsening. law    and order
 situation in the district. . He : said, unless the thousands of Afghan refugees loitering about in the Bannu district, armed to teeth with sophisticated
/weapons, are either totally disarmed, confined to their camps, or, Still better, sent back to their homes in Afghanistan, the alarming law and Order situation' in the district , could not’ improve in , the foreseeable future.
 * \A 'Poraign Ministry spokesman in Islamabad has said, though the Soviet Union ai*d Pakistan both have stressed, the' need for.: consensus on a political sbltitiori of the Afghan problem, the question of > Na jibullah' s role in the 'transitional period has not been settled. According to the monitoring report of The Muslim., some people say that the Soviet Union has assured the. allies of the Afghan resistance, including the US, that Najibullah will go out at a certain stage of the process. Recent talks between Pakistan Foreign Ministry officials and the Soviet authorities in ‘Moscow have, however, shown that the Soviets are not willing to kick out their ally. They have been saying that they will riot!
275
APRIL-JUNE, 1991           HfflHUN JFHAIJ                VOL, 4 NO.3
   rely on any individual but the resistance side has - not been able to come forward with a workable solution. In this situation Moscow's demand for Najib's induction in the transitional set up is not astonishing. (MLM)
   - Interview with three Afghan personalities ’ regarding the UN Secretary General's Peace Plan for Afghanistan:
   ■1. Sayyed Eshaq Gailani:    The present
   mujaheddin leaders are^ unable to establish a united front. Najib's stay for a short transitional period is not
V            .    •            ....
   a difficult problem if it is for ending the war and the nation's sufferings.
 %
   2. Dr. Mohammad Yousuf:  I  am not fully
   aware of all the details of. this plan, but I believe it is a positive move. The US, the USSR and Pakistan hav-e welcomed i.t and I also approve it.
  - 3; Abdur Rahim -Chinzai:    The US  and
   Pakistan had both insisted in the past upon the mujaheddin government to replace Najib but they now say that the Afghan people should form a government. It is a welcome move provided the UN does not. make the mistake of imposing Najib's rule on the nation. (VOAPS)
                                                  9
       Addressing a tribal jirgah in Peshawar 7 June, the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said the enemies of Islam and Afghans are out to sabotage the Afghan jehad when it is at the verge of success. He said the •current mujaheddin military victories
I have worried the West and their agents who do . no.t want to see a strong, sovereign and Islamic government in Afghanistan. Instead they wanted a government that could be dictated by them. He said the US and her western allies choose the outdated jirgah system for the Afghans and prefer democracy for themselves. They choose to hold the Nazi generals of the Second World
 War as war criminals and punish them, .but are asking for the recognition of Najib and his party who are responsible for the killing of two million Afghans and devastation of the whole country. (PT)
 - Seven hundred militiamen alongwith their families defected to the mujaheddin in Jauzjan province 5 June. (PT)
    According to the mujaheddin sources, seven persons were killed and 50 injured when the AAP raided the Sholgera market place, Balkh. Forty shops were also raised to the ground during the raid. (VOAPS)
     Press reports indicate that the mujaheddin captured the Daulat Qala, Kalabu and Ahmadzai military posts 8 June from the militia force. MIDIA reports that the Faryab mujaheddin also launched an operation 4 June on the government headquarter in Khazan, Daulatabad, killing 25 soldiers. In another attack near Shirin . Tagab* Faryab, they captured three security posts killing or wounding 50 troops.
      An eye witness, who has just returned to Peshawar, has said that the Haqqapni mujaheddin seized control of the Gardaiz-Zurmat road two days earlier. The road was controlled by the Kabul regime which Used it for logistic supplies to Ghazni.
      The Mulla Aziz mujaheddin attacked a military convoy at Arghandeh, near Kabul, 3 June and destroyed, four tanks and two transport vehicles!. In another attack under Sher Alam at Khawaja Musafer the mujaheddin captured a security post. (VOADS)
 *. The Kabul regime claims to have captured. Adalat Kh^n s/o Abdul Hameed Khan in Paktia Province. Adalat Khan who, according to, ' the claim is a Pakistani resident of Rawalpindi, has been accused of collaborating with the
276
APRIL-JUNE, 199 I               DM JEHAD.                VOL. A NO. 3
 mujaheddin. (RA)
                 10
 -  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the JIA leader and the AIG' Minister for Reconstruction, has told the MIDIA in an interview that the Afghan problem can only be solved when (1) the Russians do not ^ intervene and (2) Najib is overthrown. Regarding his recent trip to Iran, Rabbani said .he . held discussions with the fiWIA leaders to encourage them to take joint decisions with those in Pakistan in relation to the Afghanistan issues. (VOAPS)
 " Abdul. Samad• Hamed, a former Deputy Premier of Afghanistan, has said regarding the UN Secretary General's peace plan for Afghanistan that it was now necessary more than ever before for the Afghans actually engaged in Jehad, and those sympathizing with it, to pave the way for an intra-Afghan dialogue for reaching a . common strategy. He added, "as long as the Afghan circles cherish the hope and the possibility thait they can win the general elections through the influence or funds of international or regional powers, not. only will it be possible to hold free elections, but an effective transitional mechanism cannot be formed also. (VOAPS) ,
 -    Mohammad Esjnail Arghandihwal, a-♦former advocate and founder’in 1979 of
 the Islamic Organization for Defending the Mujaheddin Rights in Iran, has said ini an- interview in Peshawar that according , to a survey by . his organization/ 12,800 Afghan refugees have been handed over to the Kabul regime officials at the Islam Qala border post. Most of these-unfortunate refugees have been executed by the communists between 1985-1987, he said.
 (VOAPS )            ^ ^
                                                                Commenting oh : the ; arrival in
 Pakistan of representatives of former King Zaher Shah to hold meetings with the government of Pakistan and the Afghan     mujaheddin,      the    daily
 Nawa-i-Waqt said in its editorial 11 June that it was Zaher Shah who allowed his people- to suffer for years and chose for himself luxurious life in Rome without uttering a word in favor of his people m their sufferings in the waxe of. Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. That is why the Afghans consider him a criminal, treat him at par with the puppet Kabul rulers andtreject him for any role in the establishment of a broadbased government in their country.4 We have also been in unison, the editorial says, with the Afgha^vs^ and the mujaheddin rejecting any ifihiSricah backed role for the former King and the present government also claims to be the follower of this Afghan policy. It is the same Zaher Shah who opposed Pakistan's inclusion in the. UN and played a negative role during the 1965 Indo-pakistan war. Despite all this the former King is acceptable to the Soviet Union for its past- experiences with him and is preferable to the US rather than the staunch religious Afghan mujahedin. The editorial says the government of Pakistan should take into confidence the people of Pakistan about the real motives of the visiting representatives of the • former' Afghan King so as tc alleviate any misgivings*. (NWT)
. “ ^Addressing... a press conference in Islamabad. 10 June, the AIG Minister for Reconstruction, Burhanuddin Rabbani, s.aid that in the presence of Najib, who has committed countless crimes, no /■ peace initiative is acceptable. He said the Kabul regime has been killing innocent people using all kinds of * weapons, including chemical weapons. He said with the indiscriminate attacks, mos t of the • hospi tals, food depots and over 40,000 houses have been destroyed in Herat which has been turned into ruins by the regime forces. He said the UN peace formula did not come under
                                                                                                          277
APRIL-JUNE, 1991      flfllHflH JfHflll                    VOL. 4 NO. 3
 discussion during mujaheddin leaders' meeting with Pakistan Foreign Office officials. However, he said, the attitude of the Pakistani officials seems as if they reject the formula in the presence of Najib. He observed that Pakistan would not adopt any position against the wishes of " the Afghan people. (PT)
 » One of the two Kabul regime aircraft,•bombing mujaheddin positions in Shahrak, Ghor, 7 June, was shot down by the mujaheddin. (PT)
 - Eighteen seriously injured children, with many of them having lost their limbs during the Afghan war, arrived in Frankfurt 9 June to receive medical care in Germany and Austria, say German authorities. WHO is bearing their hospital costs. The organization has transferred about 300 Afghan children to Germany for medical care since December 1988. (PT)
   Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the mujaheddin, has told the Afghan refugees and UN officials in Quetta that the US supported the Afghan right to self-determination. During his viisit to Quetta from 5-8 June, he' was told about the shortage of food supplies in Afghanistan and that the refugees had not received any assistance' for three months already. Representatives of the Commanders' Council stated that the mujaheddin organizations meddled in the Council's affairs directly or Indirectly. (VOADS)
 » News reports from Peshawar say that Sultan Mfthmood Ghazi, a cousin to the former King Zaher Shah, and Abdul Sattar Seerat, a former Justice Minister, have met with Foreign Office officials as well as some mujaheddin leaders. They met Sharyar Khan, Secretary of the Pakistani Foreign Ministry 8'June. (VOADS)
                                                                 Noor Mohammad, AFP correspondent.
 reported in The Washington Times 11
 June that when Commanded Ahmad Shah Masood captured ' Khwajaghar, he had forgotton that it was situated near the border with Russia. Hence, there was no room for astonishment, when the Kabul regime launched large scale offensive to recapture it. A military officer of th^' Kabul regime confirmed that the mujaheddin control over Khwajaghar was a matter of concern for both Kabul and Moscow,, and added that Masood went a little too far when he indulged in the capture of Khwajaghar. "We cannot sit idly by and watch what he does," he is reported to have said. (VOADS)
 " Gulbuddin Hekmatyar-, HI A leader, told a gathering in Peshawar 8 June our enemies are trying to engage us in inter-Afghan. clashes. He said an intelligent group was involved in recent events that led to clashes between the HIA and the Wahabis ' in Kunar . (VOAPS)
 * The Red Star of Moscow has published
 in one of its recent issues a KGB
 report saying that Najib regime foiled
 two coup attempts, hatched by the
 dissident officers and soldiers in > .
 Afghan army after the fall of Khost,.
 after receiving information from the
 Soviet state intelligence Committee.
 The first plan was foiled in Qargha
 Garrison near Kabul where 18 high
 ranking Khalqi officers were arrested.
 The second plan was foiled with the
 arrest of 100 high . ranking officers.
 Most of them were later freed through
 mediation of the Soviet advisors with ft
 view to forge unity among the member^
 of Watan party. The report further said
 that the regime Defense Minister, Aslam
 Watanjar, had also supported one of
 these attempts against Najibullah.
 Letters written by the former Defense
 Minister, General Tani, urging him to
 topple the Najib regime, were also
 found in his possession. (P1?)
278
APRIL-JUNEr 1991                          AfltHANJIHAII                             yOL.   4 NO.3
 " Commander Esmail Khari has r.eported' from Herat that the Kabul regime forces launched a* series of operations on Zendajan 4 .May-10 June in „which 20,000 troops,   1,000 tanks and transport
 vehicles and 30 jet fighters and helicopters were deployed. According bo General Asef Delawar, commander of the regime forces in the. area, 110 government tanks and vehicles were destroyed, 2,700 militiamen were killed, five helicopters and two jet fighters were shot down . by thd mujaheddin. Twelve mujaheddin and civilians were also killed during the operations*and tens of others injured. Commanders Mohammad Ayub, Shair Ahmad, Mohammad Aslam, Mohammad Amir, . Sofi Noor Ahmad and Noor Ahmad-e-Jang were among those, killed from the mujaheddin side. (V0ADS)
 " Dr. Wadir Safi, the Kabul regime Minister of Civil Aviation, has said that it was hoped the Ariana Afghan Airlines would resume flights to Frankfurt, Germany, from next month. Arrangements for signing a contract has been made through the German Embassy in Kabul. (BBCPS)
                                                  v
 " The Kabul regime executive -delegation of the Central Council of Watan Party has expelled Dastagir, an official of the Kabul regime Embassy in Bulgaria, from the party as well as the Central Council for treason. (RA)
                  13
 ■» Cgncerning arrival for talks on Afghan issue of two representatives of former King Zaher Shah of Afghanistan the daily Jang says in its editorial 13 June the best solution of the problem is to hold free elections under the UN auspices. Any attempt to bring Zaher Shah into power through a back door will only lead to* a worst type of civil war and anarchy in Afghanistan which
 may even involve Pakistan.. The US attitude on the issue has altogether changed since, the Withdrawal o% Soviet troops and a US-Soviet compromise. The US prefers a coalition with Najihullah instead of a government Of the • Afghan mujaheddin in Afghanistan and has accordingly stopped its military and financial aid to the mujaheddin. Furthermore, certain leaders of the seven-party mujaheddin alliance are in favor of the former King artd would like to share power with him in the future government. The government gf Pakistan should not change its Afghan policy despite pressures and pursue its , unambiguous stand and efforts for a peaceful solution of the problem so • that the Afghans can safely go back to their homes with honor. It is also the responsibility of the Afghan mujaheddin •leaders to forge unity in their ranks so as to protect their interests in a dialogue. Millions of Afghan refugees also live in Iran and therefore it is imperative that Iran is also taken into, confidence in any solution. (JG)
      After negotiations with the mujaheddin, a whole battalion of the Kabul regime surrendered to the mujaheddin headquarter near Sheberghaii province of Afghanistan (date not given). After this the mujaheddin have further narrowed their siege around Sheberghan. Another batch of 195 Kabul troops, including two commanders, Abdur Rahim -and Alam Khan, has also reached this mujaheddin center (date riot given). Meanwhile, the mujaheddin during an attack 6 June captured 45'      /
 security posts near Chaghcharan and the Kabul troops fled without putting up resistance. Mujaheddin also attacked the military targets west of the provincial headquarter killing 15 Kabul troops and capturing two bthers. (PT)
 - According to a new report by the Khales group of Kabul mujaheddin, a 4-man Russian delegation has come to
279
APRIL-JUNE, 1991           AlllHAN JIHAD                 VOL.  4 no.3
 Kabul to analyze the military situation and to review the factors which led to fall? of .Khost. The delegation has suggested that a force of 25,000 men, 1,300 transport vehicles and 200 aircraft, were needed for the recapture of Khost. But instead it was decided that the Kabul regime forces in Gardaiz be strengthened and mujaheddin, positions in Logar,' Ghazhi and Maidan should be attaked. (VOADS)
 A Chris Powers, the BBC correspondent in Kabul, reports "that Sultan Ali Keshtmand, the Kabul regime former Prime Minister, has returned to Kabul and has attended a session of Watan Party Central Council. (BBCPS)
 " ; A report from' the mujaheddin
 commanders in Helmand states that fierce fighting between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces has been continuing east and west of Greshk since the middle of May. Seven tanks and military vehicles have, so far, been destroyed and 50 troops killed or wounded. The Greshk Garrison, near the Greshk Bridge, is also reported to have, sustained heavy casualties.
                   14
 " Quoting the Kabul regime ambassa6dor to India a correspondent of a Romanian paper "II Messagerd" has reported that the regime haft agreed to allow former President, Babrak Karmal, to return home, (pt)
 » The Iranian Vice      President,  Dr.
 Hassan ' Habibi, has assured'       the
 Pakistan's Additional Foreign Secrecy, Khalid Mahmood,       of Iran's full
 support' to Pakistan on Kashmir and Afghanistan issues reiterating       its
 resolve to work closely with Pakistan for an early political settlement of the Afghanistan problem. (PT) *
    According to . a Soviet magazine, Krasnaya Zvesifta, the Kabul regime airforce was engaged in "devastating bombing raids" on the liberated areas of Afghanistan. The magazine says that after, "the successive defeats" of Najib
 forces, the morale of. Afghan mujaheddin is very high and it is expected . tha*t they will • consolidate their successes and launch large scale attacks. The magazine says that Kabul:     regime  is
 using every possible tactics to thwart mujaheddin onslaught. It says that HIA leader Hekmatyar is the real rival of Najibullah regime, and the regime airforce in particular is bombing, on HIA centers and fortifications in .the liberated territory. (PT)
 - Thirteen militiamen, five tanks and three army vehicles were captured 10 June by the Afghan mujaheddin in their offensive ag.ainst Kabul regime posts in Ibrahim Khail, Wardak. They also killed 10 . mi'lltiamen and injured a number of others 11 June in their operations over regime positions in Pul-e-Surkh, Basraq and Shakh-e-Kabul of Wardak. Four tanks and a large quantity of ammunition fell to the mujaheddin and severe fighting was going on in the area. A number of regime troops were killed and wounded 8 June in mujaheddin's operations over the strategic posts on the highway in Tkngi Tashqurghan, Samangan. A miii tary,officer and 14 militiamen- and ammunition were also captured by the mujaheddin. In Sarobi, Kabul Province, the mujaheddin destroyed a military base 7 Jane killing a number of regime forces. A day before the operation five members of the KHAD were also killed and eight wounded in mujaheddin's operations in the district. A mujahed was also killed. In Kandahar city at least 14 soldiers and militiamen were killed and lb others injured in a bomb explosion planted by the mujaheddin in an ammunition dump. Twenty-three
 cannons,large quantities of weapons and logistic material were also destroyed during the explosions. In . Zindajan, Herat,nine communists were killed and
 17 injured in a rocket attack by the mujaheddin who also pushed back the regime forces in that district 11 June
 280
   APRIL-JUNE, 1991                 mUMMI                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 setting ablaze a vehicle and two tanks. A mujahed was killed in the operation, in Paghman, Kabul province, mujaheddin captured* five tanks, arid inflicted heavy .losses, on the regime forces. (NTN)
 * A report from Sayyed Mohsen Haqqani in Quetta says that the mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime aircraft at Shahrak, Ghor, 6 June and captured military posts at Mazar-e-Sharif, Jam Muriar, Khoroshan and Jilgai> Meanwhile, the Kabul regime forces recaptured the Ghormach district, Badghis, 22 May. (VOAPS)
 " Farid Ahmad Mazdak, Assistant to President Na jibullah,. has spoken of large iscale corruption, in the party and regime establishments in Kabul. He added, bribery and coritrabarid traffic has become contagious throughout the entire political system but the government prefers to bririg peace to the country before taking any steps in this direction^ Quoting Najib in the Central Party Council* Mazdak said, the government expenditure was twice that of its income. Mazdak has said he hoped the sale of natural gas to the Soviet Union will resume, adding that the government had closed the pipelines for security reasons'. "Gas provides 40% of the net state income," he said. Najib has said that Babrak Karmal, the former Kabul regime President, can return home if he wished(BBCPS)
 * The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Vladimir Petrovski, has termed positive and constructive the Iran-Soviet political consultations over the Afghan issue during the current visit to Moscow of Iran's Foreign Ministry official for West Asiai Mir Mahmood Mousavi, who called for continuation of such contacts. The Iranian official said Tehran wanted a comprehensive settlement of the Afghan issue and wad looking, forward to return of peace and
 stability to Afghanistan and hoped that essential steps would be taken for the establishment of peace in that country. (MLM)
 " A number, of Kandahar local mujaheddin commanders, including Mulajan Akhund from HEIA and Haji Ahmad Khan, General Commander of . the NLFA organization, and a large number of the mujaheddin supported 13 June the UN peace initiative for Afghanistan.
' (NNCPS)
 " Due -to floods in the Zakhail, Maicheni, Khazana and Sourezi refugee camps, near Peshawar, thousands of homes have been inundated, hundreds, of refugees have been killed or wounded and a number have been missing. The Pakistani government has so far not taken relief measures. (RA)
 -•* During their operation on the Herat-Torghundi Highway, the mujaheddin have captured a Kabul regime military base together with a large quantity of light and heavy arms. Four soldiers were killed and another four captured by the mujaheddin during the attack. (VOIRA)
 * Don Ritter, a Pennsylvanisan member in the US House of Representatives, has ' said, "we must admit that the Afghan Resistance have played a major role in forcing the people to turn their backs to communism." He added that Prestrioka and GlasnoSt in. the Soviet Union were, bo a large extent, the outcome of the Afghan resistance. (VOADS)
                                                     16
 «* The Kabul regime officials say the mujaheddin . have stepped up their rocket attacks to overthrow the Najibullah regime. They said, three’ rockets hit the city 15 June killing three persons and injuring two others. Also last week rocket attacks caused extensive  damage    in. Kabul, 'the
 officials said. (PT)
281
april-june, i99i . AHiHANJEHAD
 VOL. 4 NO.3
 -  Foreign Office sources said in Islamabad 15 June the Soviet Union has informed Pakistan that it would be sending a high level delegation to Islamabad ' to discuss UN Secretary General's proposals to resolve the Afghan issue through peaceful means.
 (MLM j
 " In their attack on Zarghoon area of Balkh province the mujaheddin killed 40 Kabul regime militiamen and injured 14 others (date not given). in Farah also, the mujaheddin killed 10 regime troops, injured a number of others and destroyed a tanH 13 June. In retaliation, the Kabul reairae has killed five mujaheddin and wounded 10 others. (NTN)
 -  During the mujaheddin rocket attack: on Kabul, three persons were killed and two injured. At least two of the rockets hit Kabul directly. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime has claimed that its forces have ejected the mujaheddin from Wardak. Quoting diplomatic circles, the AFP has said, fighting has stopped in Wardak and the mujaheddin have fled the area. (VOADS)
 " Hussian Haqqani, Chief of Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif Press Department, has said in an interview in Washington regarding the UN peace plan fbr Afghanistan that a political solu-1 ' tion to the Afghan problem will be realized when a government suported by the Afghan people is established in Kabul and that Pakistan would defend any effort that would help to reach this goal. He added, Pakistan was in favor of a political settlement of the Afghan issue. Haqqani said, the UN peace initiative . must be acceptable to the mujaheddin, because they have struggled for the liberation of Afghanistan. When asked whether the UN plan envisaged the dismissal of the Kabul regime, Haqqani made.no^comment. In reply to a question regarding the Afghan refugees in Pakistan, he said that the Afghans were there as a necessity because war . was
 still raging in their country. "The refugees" he said, "wish to return home safely and in honor". (VOADS)
               17
 " Thirteen- tanks and 17 vehicles were destroyed and about 200 militiamen were killed 14 and 15 Jurte in Khwa jaghar .district, Takhar, foiling several attempts by the Kabul regime forces against. the Afghan ' mujaheddin's positions in the area. Two Generals-' one belonging to Rashid Dostom's Division No. 55 and the other to the regime's special guard- were also killed. In their operation on regime posts =pin Kilagai, of Pul-e-Khumri, Baghlan, three posts were captured by the mujaheddin killing 15 militiamen and injuring . 10 others, . At least 20 klashenkovs, four heavy machine guns and 50 boxes of ammunition also fell to the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were, killed and three others injured (date not' given). Meanwhile, three mujaheddin were killed • and four injured in heavy artillery fire by the regime forces oft mujaheddin positions and residential areas in Khanabad, Kunduz. A large, number of. houses were- destroyed and huCje material losses were inflicted upon the locals. A number of regime security posts and an arms and ammunition dump were destroyed at, the Kandahar Airport by the mujaheddin. Iii retaliation, the AAF severely bombed mujaheddin positions around the airport with no loss * to the ihujdheddin. In the strategic Grishk district, Helmand, 30 soldiers and militiamen were killed and a military vehicle was burnt in artillery and rocket attacks by the mujaheddin, (date not given) (PT)
 - The Afghan mujaheddin have’ Completely destroyed a missile launching statio’n near Kargha Dam, northwest of- Kabul 13 June killing 10 soldiers of the.Kabul regime, informed sources told The Nation in Peshawar 1.6;' June. Sixteen regime troops, including
282
 officers, were also killed -when the mujaheddin attacked a security post'in Musai area, near Kaibul. (NTN)
 "A six-member delegation of Iran-based Afghan mujaheddin (HWIA) arrived in Peshawar 16 June-. The chief of the delegation, Murtazavi, said on arrival the purpose of their visit to Pakistan was to hold talks with the mujaheddin organizations based in Peshawar and the Pakistani officials to seek a solution of’ thfe Afghanistan problem. ,(NTN)
 - A" commission,. . comprising all mujaheddin., organizations, held its first session in Peshawar to draw out a plari-for the settlement of the Afghan issue. Twentytwo members out' of a total of 28 participated. (BBCFS) -
 " According to resistance -sources the mujaheddin attacked a military convoy in Farah 13 June destroying four tanks and seven transport vehicles. (VOAPS)
 " A JIA report from the south west region says the mujaheddin killed 108 government troops -in Zendajan, Herat, destroyed seven tanks and military transport.vehicles and captured a number of enemy entrenchments. The muja-aheddin attacked the enemy headquarters 8 June, killing 28 soldiers and destroying one tank and an armored car.. The tank's , crew was also killed* The Herat-Shindarid highway was closed to . traffic by the mujaheddin at Sarjangal 9 June. One jeep . and an. armored car were also destroyed and their occupants of 22 troops wejre killed. A military transport vehicle was hit by the mujaheddin artillery shells on the Herat-Shi.ndand road 10 June. Twenty troops were killed- or wounded in the incident.. The mujaheddin attacked enemy forces west of Zindajan 11 . June, killing 27 military personnel, destroying two armored cars and occupying enemy positions. (VOIRA) **
 ** According to HWIA reports 50% of agricultural land, 10% of irrigation.
 canals, 150 km. of roads, 25 culverts, 20 shops, 30 water-mills, 70% of tree plantations . and 30% of residential areas have been destroyed by the recent floods around Bamian, central Afghanistan. Two hundred persons have also been killed. (VOIRA)
                 18
 " Fifty, officers and soldiers and the chief of staff of the 22nd Batallion of Kabul regime Qargha Division were killed when the Afghan mujaheddin launched ' their offensives oh the western part of the Kabul city. In Maidan Shar, Wardak, the mujaheddin destroyed a missile launcher. In retaliation, the regime's- artillery and rockets     severely    pounded     the
 residential areas in the province demolishing numerous houses and-causing heavy damage to, , agricultural and irrigation systems. . Eight mujaheddin were killed and a number of others were injured. A number of locals were also killed. In Zerd Kamar ana Toosabad of Khanabad, Kunduz, 20 soldiers and militiamen were killed and a big number, of others injured by the mujaheddin. Eleven militiamen and soldiers were killed and. several posts were destroyed in Sayedan, Grishk district, Helmand. Regime forces were pushed back by the mujaheddin in the area setting ablaze two tanks and one vehicle. Two mujaheddin- were also killed and six others injured., (PT)
 *     A notorious militia commander of the regime. General Rashid Dostom, who was assigned to bribe mujaheddin commanders for recapturing Khwajaghar, has embezzled 20 million afghanis. (PT)
 *  The mujaheddin captured the regime security post ,at Kachnar Bagh, Faryab, 10 June. The regime troops bolted in Panic leaving behind 10 dead and a sizeable quantity of arms and ammunition. (PT)
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991           ARlHAN JEHAD                 VOL.  A NO. 3
283
APR I L - JUNE * 1991                AFGHAN J[HAD                        ,VOL.  4  NO.J
 “ The Peshawar branch of the South Western Region reported that General Asef Delawar, the Commander of the Kabul regime forces in Herat, asked Commander Esmail Khan to allow his troops to enter Zendajan' for two hours only to shoot a documentary film, after which they would withdraw and retreat from the area. The demand was naturally rejected by the Commander of the mujaheddin forces. General Delawar appealed to local elders to influence Esmail Khan at least not to, assault the enemy troops during their withdrawal from the area. Eversince the enemy offensive on Zendajan 2,700 military personnel have been killed in combat but Kabul regime has .not been able to transfer their bodies to Kabul or Herat. The report adds that some of the bodies were thrown into the Harirod River. Two hundred and fifty of these bodies were later recovered by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 - MIDIA reports that the Kabul regime had cut the water supply to Zendajan a month before. • The water from the Ghorian Canal was also diverted 12 June. This forced the inhabitants of Zendajan to move to other, areas. The situation has caused damage to standing crops and orchards. MIDIA adds that due to the scarsity of water,
 40,000   families from zendajan and Ghorian have migrated to other areas. MIDIA reports from Badghis that 200 militiamen defected to the mujaheddin in the south of the province 9 June and another batch of 60 surrendered to the mujaheddin near Qala-e-Nau. (VOADS)
 -   Mujaheddin sources report that rocket fire in Wardak has damaged the potable water system in some places. The chief of staff of the Division 22 iand 40 of his men were^s also killed during the attack. (VOAPS)
 * The EEC in a statement has supported the UN peace plan for the settlement of
 the Afghanistan problem. (VOAPS)
    Abdul Sattar Seerat, a former Minister of Justice and Sultan Mahmood Ghazi, said during a meeting with Pakistani officials they have had no direct meeting, or telephonic conversa-sation with representatives of the Kabul regime. (BBCPS)
                19
 * According to a MIDIA report the mujaheddin destroyed a Kabul regime rocket launcher in the north-west of Kabul and foiled four enemy attacks on their positions in Wardak. (VOIRA)
 " Twenty tanks ana armored cars of the Rashid Dos tom militia were destroyed and over 100 Kabul regime troops were injured in a mujaheddin attack in Takhar province. The regime Brigadier General, Mohammad Amin, was also killed in the operation. In Baghlan province the mujaheddin ‘destroyed four military posts near Pul-e-Khumri.•Two mujaheddin were also killed and seven others injured in the bloody fighting. The Kabul troops left behind four machine-guns, 20 klashenkovs and a large quantity of ammunition. (PT)
 - Reliable sources told ANA that a delegation of the Iran-based Shia muja-huddin,      Hezb-e-Wahdat,     reached
 Islamabad 16 June. Meanwhile former Afghan diplomats, Abdul ’Sattar
 Seerat, Justice Minister of (Zaher Shah
 regime, Sultan Mahmood .Ghazi, cousin
 of Zaher Shah and Abdul Rahman Pazhwak,
                                        * %
 Kabul*s permanent Ambassador to the UN for 15 years, have also reached Islamabad. In the wake of political dialogue at its peak, the Kabul regime has also, under Moscow's influence, allowed the former Afghan President, Babrak Karmal, to return to Kabul. Former Prime Minister of Kabul, Sultan ~ Ali Keshtmand, also returned to Kabul for forging unity in the Watan Party, the sources added. (PT)
    The AIG Premier, Abd Rab Rasool
284
 I
                                                                            APRIL-JUNE, 1991
 Sayyaf, has said in an open letter to the brotherly Pakistani nation and the government that the new Afghan formula, jointly prepared by the Soviet Union and the US and put forward under the supervision of the UN, would nullify Afghanis' Islamic Jehad and ruin their cherished hopes. He said "by the mercy of Allah we are just standing at the door of success and victory. A little more endurance and- persistence is needed". There is a Pashtu maxim which says, "you eagerly ate 95 onions for the pleasure of your friends, then why lose your patience to finish the remaining five too". (PT)
               20
 » The Afghan mujaheddin, in their operation in Sayedan area of Grishk district, Helmand, 15 June pushed back the regime forces killing 11 militiamen and soldiers and destroying several posts. Two tanks and one vehicle were also set ablaze. Two mujaheddin were killed and six injured. Severe fighting continues. (PT)
 - The former Kabul regime Defense Minister, General Shah Nawaz Tani, in an interview with the ANA 18 June said, "War in Afghanistan will never come to an end as long as Najib is in power. He is not loyal to anyone. The people of Khost, who defended Najib for 12 long years, came under indiscriminate bombing of Najib forces after the fall of Khost, and their homes and hearths were pounded with SCUD missiles". General Tani called upon the armed forces to stand by the nation and stop shedding further blood only to prolong Najib's despotic rule. He described as false reports regarding his visit to Moscow. He added "we will not form any coalition with Najib and his rule should be terminated because he is not acceptable to the Afghan nation". (PT)
                                                            Three Kabul regime high ranking
 VOL. 4 NO.3
 officers and five soldiers were killed when a mine, planted by the mujaheddin, went off in the KHAD office in Kandahar city. In Ghazni, Najibullah's deputy and Militia Commander Rashid Dostom and 24 militiamen were killed and 40 injured by the mujaheddin during their attack on the regime's security belt posts. The mujaheddin heavily damaged the Kunduz airport runway and installations. (NTN)
 *  Sultan Mahmood Ghazi, cousin of former Afghan King Zaher Shah,currently visiting Pakistan as his emissary briefed refugees and, the mujaheddin,, including tribal elders and ulama, on the peace formula of former King for a political solution of the Afghan problem. He said there were no” vast differences between peace formulas of former King and the UN Secretary General. He urged the audience to play their due role in settling the Afghan problem. He suggested that those opposing political efforts should present their own formula and exchange views on it with their supporters and sympathizers. (NTN)
 * On the resumption of USSR-Pakistan
 consultations on Afghanistan in Moscow, the Soviet Ambassador at Large, Nikolai Kozyrev, has said:    "The Soviet and
 Pakistani delegations still have a number of differences in their assessment of the situation". The Pakistani side proceeds from the premise that the majority of Afghans do not support Najibullah regime and agree to end hostilities and negotiate general elections only after Najibullah resigns. The Soviet side is against any major political force being removed from the political scene and the Soviet experts say this kind, of settlement could not be comprehensive and acceptable for the Kabul leadership. Nikolai Kozyrev says:      "The Afghans
 could be advised to hold a direct, broad-based and informal meeting in a
285
APR IL-JUNE, 1991
AHiHANJEHAD■                         vol.  4  no.3
 third country, without any detailed agenda. (NTN)
 “ A leader of tribal peace mission, Malik Nadir Khan Zakha Khail, has after three hour talks with the Afghan Reconciliation Commission comprising former King Zaher Shah’s emissaries, Sultan Mahmood Ghazi and Abdul Sattar Seerat, told newsmen in Peshawar that all the patriotic people of Afghanistan agreed that power should be transferred to former King Zaher Shah in Afghanistan. The Afghan commanders and the leaders of the Afghan refugees also attended the talks. (JG)
 - Eighty-eight POWs, captured by the mujaheddin during the Khost war, were freed from the Shaki Camp, Peshawar, 19 June. Their release was affected through a decree from Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA. An ICRC delegation was also present during the ceremony. (VOAPS)
                 21
 » It is said that Babrak KarmalV the former Kabul regime President, has returned to Kabul after five years in the Soviet Union. (BBCFS)
 » A US Stats Department official has said that the US and the Soviet Union have not succeeded to cut their military assistance - to the opposing sides of the Afghan war. (VOADS)
 " Canadian High Commissioner signed in Islamabad 20 June a memorandum of understanding with the Government of Pakistan providing Rs.  220 million for
 food- aid for Afghan refugees' living in Pakistan. (PT)
 “■ The seven-party Afghan alliance meeting in Peshawar 20 June failed to reach consensus on political settlement of the Afghan issAie.The representatives explained their point of view on UN formula for Afghanistan. The one point they agreed to was that Najibullah was
 not accptable in any capacity. The Afghan sources said some of the participants plainly said that military solution of the problem was not possible and all attempts should be directed towards a peaceful solution. However, the others, did not agree to this approach to close all other options. (MLM)
 - Eleven mujaheddin were killed and 10 injured in indiscriminate bombing by Kabul regime planes in the surrounding areas of Khost city, Paktia. Five houses were also destroyed in the bombardment. Meanwhile, the Afghan mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and seven military vehicles of the Kabul regime in Wardak. They also captured 86 Kabul regime militiamen. (NWT)
                 22
 * The US Assistant Secretary of State, John Kelly, told a June 20 hearing of the House Foreign Affairs Sub-Committee on Asian and Pacific Affairs in Washington, the best chance for a political settlement irr Afghanistan lies in working toward a cut-off of US and Soviet lethal assistance to opposing sides in the conflict. To that end, the US officials continue consultations with the Soviets at senior levels as well as with the UN officials and the governments of Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. He said^ the US is convinced that a total arms cut-off or "negative symmetry" would provide the likeliest opening in that direction. The Saudis, he said, continue to share our goal of a political solution. The post-Gulf War establishment of diplbma-tic relations between Saudis and the Soviets is a good development which could lead to a better dialogue on Afghanistan, he said. He attributed the apparent stalemate in Afghanistan to the general "disarray" within the resistance. The AIG, he said, was not at
 286
APR IL-JUNE* 1991
ARiHANJHMII                         vol. 4  no.3
 functioning entity. John kelly stressed that the US policy parallels and complements the UN peace-making efforts in Afghanistan, and Washington welcomed Secretary General Perez de Cuellar's May 21 plan for a political settlement. The intra-Afghan dialogue, he said, would lead to a transition mechanism to set Up a broad-based government and an end to hostilities. He said free and fair elections were possible with Najibullah if his powers were circumscribed. John Kelly also made clear that the US concern for Afghanistan extends beyond an interest in the Afghan people and encompasses the entire region. (PT)
 " In their guerrilla operation 18 June the Afghan mujaheddin killed or injured 12 Kabul troops and captured two others with their arms at the military headquarter of Qeshla-e-Jadeed, Kandahar.Two mujaheddin were also killed and nine injured. (PT)
 - The Kabul regime has set up two SCUD Missile launchers in Gardaiz, Paktia. They are commanded by KHAD and the Kabul army. It is also reported that Uragan missiles had been sent to Logar province. (NTN)
 * The mujaheddin attacked a Kabul regime supply convoy 18 June in Chowki Arghandi, Paghman district, Kabul, setting ablaze two tanks, seven army vehicles and killing a number of soldiers and militiamen. They also attacked the Hazrat Sultan posts 19 June in the same district killing eight people and injuring several others. Two mujaheddin were also injured. In Laghman , the mujaheddin attacked the Surkhakan> and Khyrokhel posts recently killing IsbX soldiers. Two mujaheddin were also injured. In Balkh, the mujaheddin attacked a regime supply convoy 18 June in Charbolak district and captured 40 militiamen with their
 weapons. They also captured eight ammunition vehicles and killed and injured a number of militiamen. One mujahed was also killed. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime war planes bombarded Koshan and Sarooty areas around Gardaiz city 17 June killing three mujaheddin and destroying three houses. (NTN)
 - The Kabul regime has sprinkled with poisoning substance the orchards in the 'liberated area of Khost, Paktia, killing.one mujahed and the condition of several other citizens being very serious after they ate poisonous fruits. Meanwhile, the Afghan mujaheddin have destroyed a number of defense installations of the Kabul regime in Kandahar. (NWT)
 " The Afghan mujaheddin have recaptured Khwajaghar city, Takhar, The regime forces have retreated to Kunduz. (NWT)
 •  The VOA correspondent says from Quetta that Sultan Mahmood Ghazi and Abdul Satar Seerat, representatives of the former King, conveyed the King's greetings to a gathering of mujaheddin representatives, ulama, tribal representatives, chiefs and intellectuals in Quetta. Seerat said, "the Afghan mujahed nation, which conducted the jehad successfully, will, in the same manner, not allow anyone to play with its destiny. He described his talks with the Pakistan President and Prime Minister effective and useful, adding that the door was now opened and there would be further meetings in the future. (VOAPS)
 *  The Chief of Health Affairs for south-western Afghanistan, Dr. Mahmood Shah who returned to Peshawar after a tour of the region 16 June, has said that because of indiscriminate bombing of the Kabul regime forces, health centers in Zandajan have*been demolished and injured mujaheddin and the local
287
APR IL-JUNE, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.3
 population of Zendajan are facing tremendous difficulties. (VOADS)
   Upon the proposal of the Kabul regime Prime Minister arid approval of its President, Mahmood Baryalai has been dismissed from his post as the first Deputy Premier. (RA)
                   23
   Addressing a press conference in Quetta press club 19 June, field commanders of the Kandahar front have rejected the UN peace plan for Afghanistan saying they would not accept any solution which included Najibullah and former King Zaher Shah. They said the mujaheddin will never accept foreign interference, including that of Iran or Pakistan, for ceasefire and continue the jehad till victory. They denied the news published in international media that field commanders of Kandahar had accepted the UN peace plan. They said in recent fightings, they have killed 260 Kabul regime troops and injured 300 destroying three transport aircraft, two helicopters and seven ammunition depots. (MLM)
    Twelve civilians were seriously injured and more than 20 houses were destroyed 19 June in Kabul regime bombing in its attempts to break the siege of Kabul-Kandahar Highway by the mujaheddin. Meanwhile, in their blitz attacks, the regime security posts in Kandahar garrison 17 June, eight regime troops including a militia commander, Najibullah Khan, were killed by the mujaheddin. They also destroyed two trucks and captured a huge quantity of arms and ammunition. (NWT)
   The VOA local correspondent reports from Peshawar that the Kabul regime has recently installed two SCUD launchers in Pul-e-Alam, Logar, and another two
in Gardaiz for Lana rockets. The report adds that another four SCUD launchers are established in Dar-ul-Aman, near Kabul. (VOAPS)
* Our local correspondents report from Peshawar that, as a result of air raids upon surrounding areas of Gardaiz and Khost 14-15 June, 14 mujaheddin were killed and another 13 injured. (VOAPS)
   The Kabul regime authorities claim that there are at present some 70,000 regime troops and militiamen in Herat Province. Only in Herat City there are 25 different groups of militia who were formerly cooperating with the mujaheddin and now have joined the government forces. (BBCFS)
   Sources close to the resistance say that the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, told the mujaheddin, .the refugees and tribal elders after Eid prayers, that he had contacted the UN, the Islamic and other nations to seek an acceptable settlement for the Afghan problem. Similarly Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, told an Eid congragation at Shamshatu that the mujaheddin were at the threshold of victory and that the dark days of the imposed war were soon to be changed to the bright dawn of victory. (VOADS)
   The Kabul regime has claimed that its forces still controled Khwajaghar, and has refuted mujaheddin iclaims about the district's recapture. (BBCPS)
                24
    When asked about the UN Secretary General's peace plan for Afghanistan, Anthony Arnold, American author and specialist of Afghan affairs, said that he was not aware of the details of peace plan, but according to an article in the Economist, the plan had some positive points. (VOADS)
288
APRIL-JUNE# 1991                       AfllHANJIHAD                           VOL.  4  NO.3
   Mohammad Naim Majrooh, head of the AAP in Peshawar, has said that Afghanistan's national wealth, such as forests and precious stones, were being exploited unlawfully and unfairly. He added, the items were being senb to jPakistan by contraband traffickers and from here to the. western world. (BBCPS)
                 25
   Sultan Mahmood Ghazi and Abdul Satar Seerat have told reporters at the end of their talks with Pakistani authorities that the purpose of their visit to Pakistan was to meet their countrymen and to seek a settlement of the Afghan issue in the light of the 5-point UN proposal, so that the majority of the Afghans would take part in it and establish their own leadership. Seerat said, "to contact the Kabul regime in this regard will be tantamount to f ai thles-sness to the nation". He said no party, including the Watan, has been formed according to the constitution and has, therefore, no legal authority to take any decisions (regarding the. fate of a government). Seerat added, only the Afghan nation has the right to decide their own future and not the parties. (VOADS)
   One hundred and fifty commanders of the IIA, under Prof. Sayyaf, have joined the HEIA (Mohammadi). These commanders were active from Ghazni to Badghis in 10 provinces* Meanwhile, Khalifa Rustam, a well known HIA (Hekmatyar) commander in Herat has defected to the NIFA. (VOADS)
   According to reports from Kandahar, the mujaheddin have destroyed a number of government posts killing 18 troops. Another report says, the Kabul regime has fired SCUD missiles on Khost after its capture by the mujaheddin. Recently the regime has sprinkled, from the air, poisonous chemicals on villages surrou-
 unding the city which has affected food crops and fruits. (RP)
                 26
   On his return from Libya and the UAE, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, leader of the ANP, said in Peshawar that the US Ambassador, Robert Oakley, had told him that as soon as the American aid was stopped to the Afghan mujaheddin, a severe problem of law and order would be created in the NWFP. The Ambassador also said that it was difficult for America to continue aid . to Afghan mujaheddin for more than six months. The ANP leader said that American arms and ammunition supply has been extended to various groups of the Afghan mujaheddin throughout the country, including Sindh, and this is causing law and order problem in the entire zone. He said that under the New World Order and after reconciliation with the Soviet Union, the Americans had turned their eyes away from Pakistan. (NTN)
   Addressing an Eid congregation at Shamshato refugee camp in Feshawar the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that the enemies of the Afghans were afraid of mujaheddin victories and the consequent establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. These enemies, he said, were trying to impose ■ a solution of their choice on the Afghans in the guise of a ( political settlement otherwise why they did not propose this solution earlier. He said the days of the puppet Kabul regime were numbered and the mujaheddin would soon_ be able to establish an Islamic government in their country and the Afghan refugees would go back to their homes with honor and dignity. (NWT)
   The six-member delegation of Iran-based eight party alliance, HWIA, is still busy in Peshawar holding talks with the seven-party leaders and
APR1L-JUNE, 1991
independent Pakistan based Afghan ■ groups on a five point UN formula for ' the solution of the Afghan problem. Meanwhile, a spokesman of the Pakistan Foreign Office has said that Pakistan had no hand in the on going deliberations and it was entirely upto the Afghan leaders to come to a consensus on this matter. The talks with them, he said, would be held in the light of the outcome of their mutual agreement.
(MLM)
                 27
   Around 200 prisoners of conscience who were recently released from the notorious Pul-e-Charkhi jail have in their gathering at Hayatabad in Peshawar demanded that the nation should jointly foil the global conspiracies against the sovereign, non-aligned and independent status of Afghanistan and its Islamic character. They said that whoever bargains on the blood of the Afghan martyrs will hot be spared and will be given befitting punishment. They proclaimed that gains of Jehad in Afghanistan will be upheld at all costs. They held the former diplomats and technocrats responsible for the devastation of Afghanistan and demanded their trial under an Islamic court. In a number of resolutions passed on the occasion they demanded of the ex-diplomats of Zaher Shah's regime to stop their conspiracies otherwise the devotees of jehad would bring the elements on their hit list. (PT)
   An underground ammunition dump in . Pul-e-Charkhi was blown up in Afghanistan when a time device planted hy unknown guerrillas went off at midnight 23 June. The explosions continued for five hours killing five regime personnel, and injuring seven others. A number of military vehicles and armored cars were also destroyed. (PT)
VOL. 4 NO.3
 " In the worst ever bombing of the newly liberated town of Khost by the AAF 25 June, 20 civilians were killed, 80 injured and dozens of huts and shelters of the inhabitants were destroyed. (PT)
 " Talking to newsmen at his residence in Peshawar 26 June, the Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Abdul Qayoom, has blamed Pakistan of increased sophisticated arms supply to Afghan resistance groups. He said , Pakistani rulers should contact the Peshawar-based five Afghan groups to accept the UN peace plan for Afghanistan. (NTN)
 " Delivering his- Eid message in Peshawar     the     AIG      President,
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, informed the Afghans that the AIG's contacts with a number of countries were in progress for setting up an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He said that Afghan people had a right to decide, their future without foreign intervention. (NTN)
                                                                 Christina Lamo, a Financial Times
 correspondent has disclosed in- her^ book "Waiting for Allah" that th^ former President of Pakistan Ziaul Haq had planned to form a confederation of Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey,Pakistan and some of the Central Asian states and the same was, perhaps, the cause of ^is death. The US had started describing him as a burden and the Soviet Ambassador had threatened to teach him a lesson for his support to the Afghan mujaheddin. (JG)
     The Afghan mujaheddin and the concerned parties have discussed a new formula for holding elections in Afghanistan,      important      figures
 associated with the Afghanistan problem disclosed in New York. Under the formula the country will be divided into nine zones and the population of each zone will vote according to their local requirements, UJiey said. (JG)
290
APR IL-JUNE, 1991           AFllHAN JHIAD                  VOL.  4 NO.3
 -  The ANA reports that the Kabul regime bombed Khost and its surrounding areas 26 June killing 20 persons ar 1 wounding another 80. (VOADS)
   The Commanders' Council reports from Peshawar that the Kabul regime forces have attacked the Khanabad district, Kunduz, which is controlled by the mujaheddin. There has been no report of casualties or damage. (VOADS)
 " Mujaheddin sources report that an ammunition depot was destroyed completely in an explosion          at
 Pul-e-Charkhi, Kabul, 23 June. The explosion is reported to have also damaged extensively military vehicles belonging to the 4th Armored Division and killed a number of troops and officers. (VOADS)
 " An article in a recent issue of the The News, newspaper of Pakistan, says the importance of the UN peace initiative for Afghanistan lies in the fact that it has been supported by the US, the Soviet Union, Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia. (VOAPS)
                  28
 - Speaking at a function held in Islamabad 27 June in the office of the Chief Commissioner for Afghan refugees in connection with a donation of Rs. 12 million for Afghan refugees, the Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan said that his country would continue to support Pakistan's efforts for a political solution* of the Afghanistan problem. He also expressed his country's grave concern over the situation in Afghanistan. (JG)
 •» More than 30 Kabul regime troops were killed in clashes between regime troops and the mujaheddin 20 June in western and southern parts of Kabul. Eight mujaheddin were also killed in
 the operations, a' SCUD missile launcher was also destroyed by the mujaheddin in Darul Aman. (NWT)
 " Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leadSr of HIA,has told the VOA reporter in Peshawar that current efforts to find political settlement for Afghanis-stan would not be effective. He said, "some are raising their voices in favor of Zaher Shah and some others are talking about national reconciliation, but I think that the only way to solve the problem is to use force". Regarding talks with Sultan Mahmood Ghazi and Abdul Satar Seerat, he said when he heard of Seerat's arrival he went to welcome him, but when he heard of his mission, he did not meet him. (VOADS)
 " A mujaheddin source reported that the Kabul regime bombed Khost city indiscriminately 27. June killing or injuring over 100 persons and damaging crops and commercial areas. (BBCFS)
 " According to reports from the resistance sources, fierce fighting has broken out between the mujaheddin and the regime forces near Khanabad, Kunduz. Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has said that the mujaheddin were all united in the defense of their trenches and that they were fighting the enemy under single command. (VOADS)
 - Mohammad Basir s/o Mohammed Moosa), an AAF Pilot, has been promoted to the rank of g.eneral by a decree from Najib, the Kabul regime leader. (RA)
                  29
 * In an interview in Peshawar 27 June Hezb-e-Islami Chief Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales s&id that lasting pea6e could be restored in Afghanistan only through a military victory. He said restoration of peace under the UN plan could not be achieved without removing Najibullah from power. He said that
291
 APRIL-JUNE, 1991              DHlHANMD                   VOL. 4 NO.3
 only bhose could lead the i^ture of' Afghanistan who shared the pains and sympathy of the . nation. "Those whr>, bargained with the East or West oyer the interests of Afghanistan will not be allowed to adorn their business", he said. (PT)                '
 " The Kabul regime official weekly Akhbar-e-Haf ts has said that many hundreds of colored television :sets costing millions of Afghanis! are missing from the regime o,wned foreign trade centre. These television sets were imported from Hungary and East Germany last year. (PT)
 " The Afghan mujaheddin foiled an attempt by the regime -troops to recapture Khanabad 26 June. and forced them to retreat inflicting heavy losses upon them. The regime troops left behind hundreds of rifles and tens of cannons. (NTN)
 ** With the return to Afghanistan of the former regime president Babrak Karmal the ruling Watan. Party has" divided into two groups, one led by Babrak Karmal and his brother Mahmood. Baryalai and the other by Najibullah. Soviet Union is also reported to have agreed to an interim set up in Afghanistan which.will include Babrak Karmal and the former Prime Minister, Sultan Keshtmend. (JG)
 ** Twenty-five people were killed and hundreds of mujaheddin were seriously injured the previous day in Kabul regime bombings of Khost bazar, Tanai, Zurmat    and Seta Kandau areas of
 Paktia province. (JG)
 " Commander Ismail Khan reports from Herat that although the Kabul regime forces have been defeated and have withdrawn from Zendajan, they launched attacks from three sides - Qala-e-Naw, Qala-e-Raig and Mahal-e-Khwaja 19 June.
 Fighting continued' until 23 June in which 11 tanks and military vehicles were demolished and 150 government personnel killed. (VOADS)
 ■ ' P. "                    1 ^ ' '
 " Na.matullah Azizi, the mujaheddin laison officer in the the southwest^ region, quoting Commander Ismail Khan, reports that so far 250 mujaheddin and civilians have been killed or wounded in Zendajan but the government suffered 2,500 casualties and the destruction pf 110 tanks and transport vehicles.
 (BBCFS)
 ■* Murtazavi, leader of the visiting HWIA, delegation told the BBC in an interview in Islamabad his party has accepted, in principle, the UN peace plan for Afghanistan but they want to bring about some amendments in the proposal. It has been insisted in the HWIA amendment that no coalition could be formed with Najib or his Watan party. The HWIA delegation is in Islamabad at the invitation of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry to form a representative committee from Afghan parties in Pakistan and Iran. (BBCPS)
                 30
   Speaking- in a hearing conducted in Washington by the House of Representatives Sub Committee on Foreign Affairs of the US experts on US policy towards Afghanistan, the Assistant Secretary of State, John Kelley, said the US Government is of the opinion that a permanent solution of the Afghan conflict can only be made out of a political settlement. This could only be implemented through a political framework leading to the establishment of a broad-based government. He said, the US supported the five-point peace formula of the UN.
 ** A US expert, Sleg Harrison, said the US should unilaterally stop supply of
292
APRIL- JUNE ,1991                mm MAD                      VOL. 4 NO.
             ■ > ■■■ . ' . ■ 1 1 arms to Afghan mujaheddin. He said:    I
 do not think that a confrontation with
 the Soviets is in, the interest of the
 US While we are trying to establish
 good relations with the Soviet Unir^Y
 all over the world and when the S'/iet
 Union is retreating from most of its
 positions and cooperating in creating a
 new atmosphere in the third world.
 Another expert, Brand Roband, said that
 instead of unilateral stoppage of
 weapons the US should support the idea
 of an agreement on stoppage of arms
 supplies according to the UN Secretary
 General's proposal and support his
 framework for settlement. He said funds
 for military aid should be spent on
 efforts for peaceful settlement of the
 issue. • (PT)
 - Talking to the Jang correspondent in Islamabad 29 June the leader of the Iran-based HWIA, Hujjatul Islam Syed Rahmatullah Murtazvi, said they would accept nothing less than the government of all the mujaheddin groups in Afghanistan and their military and political struggle would continue till this objective is achieved. (JG)
    A Kabul regime foreign ministry spokesman says that three rockets fired by the mujahedin fell on Kabul city 27 June causing no' casualties. Diplomats says at least two rockets fell near Kabul airport. (MLM)
                                                              . j Chris Powel of BBC reports from Kabul that the former ruler, Babrak
 Karmal, will not be accepted by many of the Afghans but Najibullah could achieve some political advantage by exploiting past sentiments of the people. Some circles say the hardliners due to rift in the ruling party have succeeded to bring back their xleader to Kabul. But some people say that Babrak Karmal could have never been granted permission if he had been a real danger to Najibullah. (PT)
 " Resistance sources ,state that 36 persons have been graduated from the Institute of Radio Education in Peshawar. (VOAPS)
 -  Peter Tomsen, the US envoy for the mujaheddin, says that the UN Secretary-General's peace plan for Afghanistan/ published recently, is a collection of principles but not a solution or plan for a settlement. In that case it should have contained details to follow as well as a conclusion, he added.
 (VOADS)
     It is reported, special envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has arrived in Kabul to seek a political solution for the Afghan issue. (BBCFS)
 -  MlblA reports that 40 troops of the Charwazgai Division at Chakari, near Kabul, have defected to the Logar mujaheddin after killing six of their officers. They also brought with them 55 pieces of weapons. (VOAPS)