                                                                                                                                                                                   .4* U
                                                                                                                                                                                   k i ’               /    t
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1


Editorials:
 IN WE NAME QF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
  AFGHANISTAN AND CURRENT PROBLEMS
      There is no doubt that every move is motivated by a goal and every goal is persistently pursued by a movement so long as i,b is not achieved* Good fortune smiles on the one whose activity and effort is in harmony with his goal* otherwise one gets confused, disturbed and frustrated. Any sensible man would not make any move unless he has a distinct object in view, because an aimless effort is nothing but insanity., similarly a wise man would have in mind certain options and certain means to reach an end in the best possible manner and in the shortest possible time without any danger. God Almighty has ordained:
      "As for those who strive in Us, We surely guide them to Our paths, and lo! Allah is with the good." (Surah Al-Ankabut-Verse: t>9)
      This holy verse refers to the object and to the effort to attain that object, particularly an object which is acceptable, desirable and advisable by Allah. Therefore the efforts made to achieve this goal should be entirely for the sake of Allah, to seek Divine pleasure and to traverse the path of truth and righteousness. Only such an object can be defined as righteous and for the sake of God, which could be endorsed by the Islamic Code arid should be devoid of immitation and doubt and suspicion. However the maiift difficulty is the recognition of facts in an objective and logical mannerf otherwise everybody thinks that he is on the right side and justified. As a matter of fact, truth has only one single aspect and cannot be double-faced or Contradictory so that each one of the rival parties should think he is justified. In reality one is justified and the other is the aggressor. That is why God has clearly introduced the righteous, in the above Quranic verse aiid has promised to help him. Therefore when we find that our efforts do not bear fruit., we must conclude that these efforts were not made for the sake of Allah or that the means chosen for-that particular end were not proper and legal.
      When we took up arms against the infidels and the communists, both the means and the end were evident to our nation. That is why, despite all forecasts, estimates, imaginations and assumptions of all the research centers and intelligence networks of the world and predictions of political organizations, God helped us and granted us victory over the enemy. The
                                                 3
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 undermentioned promise of Almighty Allah disgraced our enemy and blessed us with an honorable destiny:
      "...It may be that your Lord is going to destroy your adversary and make you viceroys, in the earth that. He may see. how you behave. " (Surah Al-A'raf: Verse-129)
              • ■ - . . . - \ ' - . '
      With this victory, we are faced with a new challenge and have been put to another test, to prove our worth and our mettle after being the master of our destiny:                                                    .
      "... He will surely make them to succeed ( the present rulers ) in the earth even as He caused those who were before them to succeed (others) and that He will surely establish for them their religion which He hath approved for them and will give . them in exchange safety after their fear. They serve Me. They ascribe nothing as partner unto Me..." (Surah Att-Nur - Verse: 55)
      We have been ordained to ensure supremacy of 6ur religion, in the country, after taking the affairs of our homeland in our own hands, and to conduct our daily life, in an atmosphere of peace and discipline without any ’fear or apprehension and to thank Allah by saying our prayers, and by obeying the Law of God. But instead. We axe cutting each others' throats and-like the tribe of Bani Israel, are suffering further hardships, in the wake.of victory over Pharaoh and his annihilation in the Sinai Desert. We are suffering from the. same fate. Our selfishness, ambitions and lack of vision do not allow ’as to sit side by side as brothers and to look after the sick and the wounded and to > plan for the reconstruction of our war-ravaged country. We should heed the. warning in the words of the Holy Quran:
      "Say: Shall We inform you who will be the greatest losers by their works? Those whose effort goeth astray in the life of the world and yet they reckon that they do good work." (Surah Al-Kahf: Verses-103 and 104) •.
      Those who act according to their personal and selfish interests and those who follow them blindly and support them, perhaps think that they are on the right and will get a good reward in the hereafter. Or they think that the other party is on the wrong side aihd is not justified or inspite of knowing that they are backing the Wrong horse, keep On doing so purposely. However, we are not concerned with the followers of a particular line, but we should like to say this to their leading group i.e. those who act under the influence of their own personal dictated, that when you came to the conclusion that you could not gain anything by such a line of action, and could not reach the desired goal or found out that the results were mpre harmful, then why do you dupe yourselves with the deceptive appearance of your actions and why do you insist on it? We should'stop and ponder Ove? the fact that either we have not correctly appreciated, the object or have not chosen the right path to reach the desired goal • This situation requires a re-assessment and fresh scrutiny.
     "Falsehood" always hides its face behind the "Righteousness" because it has no existence of its Own and the moment the face is unmasked, it loses its credibility. Therefore, it tries to ljLve in turmoil. God has compared this
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
 october-december, 1992 Hfuti/ln(i[flnll                 vol. 6 no. 1
  situation to the sw$ll of the surf. When the foam and swell of the sea subsides and surf is separated from water, it evaporates into thin air and i-s no morp;
       Although ambitions and selfishness are the natural instincts in a human being but they should be kept at a moderate level so that they may not get ofBt of control.
       Now we should try to find the. cause of overcharging of this instinct and determine the ways and means of controlling it in a proper manner. The .causes may be classified as under:                                                '
  1.   I3lind groupings of fellow combatants.                       • ‘
  2.   .Isolation of the religious scholars and intellectuals.
  3.   Relying on the enemies..
  4.   Callousness of some of the fellow combatants.
  5.   Interference Of aliens.
  b.   Apparent sympathy of the neighbors.
       1.  GROUPINGS
       This phenomenon is basically an offshoot of .disunity, diversity and non-existence of the spirit of solidarity and Islamic unity. Such groupings shatter the genuine and recognized reformative and Islamic standards and instead re-introduce the paganish traditions and give preference to personal relations over the principles off the.;.- Islamic' Code.. Is it not factionalism which Jias degraded the standard of electing a Muslim head of state? Does .it hgt provide an opportunity to hand over.the trust of statecraft to inefficient people? Is it not a fact that a judge or a ruler belonging to one particular faction, interprets the law in a different manner with reference to the rival faction and does it not implement the rules and regulations justly and fairly in relation th another group? Does it not involve the police or law enforcing agency of one group as the irreconcilable enemy of the rival group?.
       In order to differentiate Right from Wrong and to get rid of ignorance which is an Islamic duty, one .should first of all clear one's mind of all' the mental cobwebs and wash one's conscience clean and then weigh an issue in the scale of logic and common sense and analyse events and happenings in an objective manner, in order to reach a correct conclusion and to appreciate the fact of the matter. One should bear in mind that inspite of highest degree of piety, a human being is never immune to Satanic temptations. Allah has said:
       "Man prayeth for evil as he prayeth for good; for man was ever hasty". (Surah Al-^Isra : Verse-11) .                            A  ,
      Similarly to issue a decree without investigating the truth and without coming, to a definite conclusion is not permissible and involves one in wilful legal contravention. That is why God has Ordained us that?
      "(O man), follow not that whereof thou.hast, rto knowledge. Loi the hearing and the sight: and the heart - of each of these it will be asked;" (Surah Al-Isra: Verse.36)
                                           5
VOL. 6 NO. 1
      The Holy Quran has named two parties, called the Party of Allah and the Party of Satan, and has described the attributes of the Party of Allah in verse 56 of surah Maeda and verse 22 of Surah Mujadelah in the following manner:
  •1. Friendship with Allah and His Prophet and the Faithful.
  2.   Not having friendship with the unbelievers , however close they may be to
      you ■
  3.   Haying faith in God and the Day of Resurrection.
  4.. ; Seeking God's help for victory and salvation.
  5. Seeking God’s pleasure.
   ’ ' ' • • •
         •r                                           .
      As regards the Party of Satan,’ verses 14 to 19 of Surah Mujadelah and verse 6 of Surah Fater give the following description:
  1. • Friendship with the Jews.
  2.   Hypocrisy, falsehood, swearing and debauchery.
  3.   Using the name of Islam and Religious Faith as a shield or a mask.
  4.   Misleading the people from the path of Allah.
  5.   Being under the influence of Satan and forgetting the name of God.
      Therefore, as we see, the latter party i.e. the Party of Satan has no place in Islamic society. But the question is, whether the first group can emerge in the ghape of different parties and factions? A glance at the various Quranic verses shows that the dissemination and division of the Islamic Ummah into numerous groups and parties has been condemned. The following verses in the Quran are noteworthy in this connection:
      "And (He coromandeth you, saying). This is My straight path, so follow it. Follow not other ways, lest ye be parted from His way..." (Surah Al-An'am: Versa: 15 3 ) .       ;
  - "And be ye not as those who separated and disputed after the clear proofs 1 had come unto them..." (Surah "Al-e-Imran: Verse-105).
      "But they (mankind) have broken their religion among them into sects, each sect rejoicing in its tenets." (Surah Al-Mu'minun:Verse-53).
      "(He is able) to bewilder you with dissension and make you taste the tyranny of one another..." (Surah Al-An'am: Verse-65).
      Most of the Islamic scholars have rejected the idea of forming political parties on, keeping in view the Quranic injunctions and the recommendations of the Holy Prophet (PBUH). In any case the parties should- compete i.n enjoining right conduct and forbidding indecency and should in no case indulge in hostile confrontation, enmity, destruction and killing.
     2.   ISOLATION OF RELIGIOUS SCHOLARS AND INTELLECTUALS
                   In the modern world, various functions have become so distinctly classified and professional that even in a college, having numerous subjects of learning, .
                                         6
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 JfGllflN JfH/tO                  VOL. 6 NO, 1
  there are many specialized courses. Specialization helps better performance in various scientific fields for the betterment of society as a whole. Allah says:
      "Allah commandeth you that ye restore deposits to their owners..." (Surah An-rJissa: Verse-58).
      This verse stresses the importance of selecting efficient, expert and of course religiously faithful persons and appointing them at public service posts in order to have disciplined and orderly society. Otherwise, in the words of the Holy Prophet (PBUH), chaos will prevail. lie has said, "if the affairs of the state are assigned to unworthy persons, then you should wait for the Day of Resurrection."
      today if peaceful political atmosphere prevails in Afghanistan, all our specialists who have acquired more expertise and experience equivalent to the level of advanced countries, in the course of their migration, besides their previous educational qualifications and vast experience, can provide better remedies for our political, administrative and economic ailments than foreign experts. They are all waiting anxiously to return to their homeland. Reconstruction of the country would not be possible without art active participation" . of these elements. Therefore, it would be advisable to stop •pick and choose' or ‘trial and error' methods of handing over posts and responsibilities to the various factions and their supporters, unless and until they be very well qualified.
      Election of the head of state is of utmost importance. From the Islamic viewpoint, a head of state should have special qualifications for the post. The Islamic jurisprudents have specified 5 to 12 or more conditions for this purpose. But inspite of all these qualifications, if the selection council should find out that another person has more qualifications, the earlier decision has to be reviewed accordingly. The Holy Prophet (PBLIH) has said:
      "If someone is selected as chief of party, but there may exist another better person blessed with Divine- pleasure, then the selectors have not performed their duty faithfully towards.God, His Prophet and the Faithful."'
      It may be pointed out that if a selected person admits that someone else could have performed the duties better, but does not vacate the post for him, he earns the disapproval of the Holy Prophet. For example, the Holy Prophet (PBUH) said to Abu Zar Ghaffari the most pious companion of*the prophet:
      "I consider you a weak person. Therefore do not accept the command or leadership of even two persons and do not undertake responsibility for the supervision of the orphans' property".
      3.  RELIANCE ON THE ENEMIES
      While describing the character of the companions of the Holy Prophet, Allah says:                                                                        ■ ' . •
      "Mohammad is the messenger of Allah. And those with him are hard against the disbelievers and merciful among themselves..." (Surah Al-Fath:. Verse-29).
                                                7
                                                                                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
      The main stress in this verse is on the term "merciful among themselves" and hence piety, humility, unselfishness and good intentions have been given due importance. Yet in an other surah in the Holy Qurah, we read:
      "Fight them: Allah  will chastise them at your hands and He will lay them
 low* and give you victory over them and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers." (Surah Al-Taubah: Verse-14).
      God in His sublime, mercy has kept in consideration the natural instincts of human beings so that on the one hand He has allowed them to avenge themselves of the atrocities committed by the enemies, in order to provide an outlet to their anger and hatred against the aggressors, but on the other gives them the good tidings of reward on Doomsday and thus encourages them to wage a Holy War (or jehad), so that they may not be easily oppressed and victimized by the enemies* In this connection, Allah says:
      "There hath come unto you a messenger, (one) of yourselves, unto whom aught that ye are overburdened is grievous, full of concern, for the believers full of pity, .merciful;" (Surah Al-Taubah Verse: 128).
      The Holy Prophet is the best model for the Muslims to follow. He feels happy over the happiness of his followers and is pained by their sufferings. He ordains the Muslims to rely on God when faced with the hardships and oppressions caused by the infidels. But in the meantime, justice and fair dealing has been emphasized duly in these Quranic verses:
 -    "...and let  not hatred of any people seduce you that ye deal not justly.
      Deal justly, that is nearer to your duty...” (Surah Al-Ma'edah: Verse: 8)
      "...and if you give your word, do justice thereunto, even though it be
      (against) a kinsman..." (Surah Al-An'am: verse-152)
      "...and let not pity for the twain withhold you from obedience to Allah, if
      ye believe in Allah and the Last Day. And let a party of believers witness
      their punishment." (Surah An-Nur: Verse-2).
      The Muslims have been repeatedly commanded to .’avoid unhealthy sentimentality - and s.emSational feelings so that they may not transgress the Divine bounds. But'alas today our actions are contrary to their injunctions due to our worldly temptations and our tendency to benefit from the material power of our enemies and•to seek their helpagainst our Muslim brethren. Consequently, ve fight amongst ourselves and cultivate friendship! with our enemies.
     May Allah grant us the volition to instil the character of the companions of the Holy Prophet in ourselves. May God grant us the will to resist the enemies,  love our Muslim brothers, obey the Divine orders, strive .for
reconstructing our country and reform the Islamic society in an appropriate • manner. ■
     4.   CALLOUSNESS OF SOME OF OUR FELLOW-COMBATANTS
     It is an extremely sorry state of affairs that most of the parties, despite
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 their share in the formation of government and signing the Peshawar Accord as well as occupying the seats of power and possessing high and mighty government positions, have assumed a non-chalant attitude towards party in-fighting or direct confrontation between one group and the government, which in any case result in the loss of life and property, social insecurity, chaotic conditions and last but not the least, strike at the roots of the state, destabilizing the government. Thus the said parties ignore their individual and social responsibilities and also their religious obligations. The Holy Quran says:
       "...and if two parties of believers fall to fighting, then make peace
       between them..." (Surah Al-Hujurat: Verse-9)
       "...and if one party of them doeth wrong to the other, fight ye that which
       doeth wrong till it return unto the ordinance of Allah..." (Surah
       Al-Hujurat: Verse-9)
       "...then, if it return, make peace between them justly..." (Surah
       Al-Hujurat: Verse-9)
       Naturally if the aggressor suffers physical losses and casualties, he himself is to be blamed. It clearly indicates that Islam values peace, order, stability, justice and restraining cruelty more than the physical loss of the aberrant Muslims.
       After the above two phases, comes the restoration of peace. The Holy Quran reads; "... and act equitably. Allah loveth the equitable." (Surah Al-Hujurat: Verse-9).
       If the aggressor obeys the command of God and accepts the peace proposal,
 ‘ then try for reconciliation between both the parties on the basis of justice, maintaining strict neutrality and avoiding sentimentalism. In the . followingN verse, God has emphasized the point, by saying:
       "The believers are naught else than brothers. Therefore make peace between your brethren and observe your duty to Allah that ye may obtain mercy." (Surah Al-Hujurat: Verse-10)
      The purpose behind our reference to the jehad organizations is that, although the command to reconciliate between the two warring parties applies' to all the people, but the implementation of such an order.. especially relates to those rival groups which are armed with heavy weapons and are in'the capacity of observing or violating this rule, more than anyone else. They are particularly obliged to enjoin right conduct and to forbid indecency. The reason is that most of the people may like and may try to reconciliate and end the fighting.but the armed parties do not listen to them. So the ball lies in the court of the warring parties to feel their responsibility and fulfil their obligation.
      5.  ALIEN INTERFERENCE
                   By "aliens" is meant those who are not in the Islamic fqld. Those who do not believe in the Islamic Code. Such people have been opposing Islam since the
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
                                       9
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 flfGUANJfiifiO                        • VOL. 6 NO. 1
 revelation of the Holy Quran till now and have given abundant proof of their hostility to Islam throughout the history. Perhaps for this very reason, jehad has been declared obligatory against such perpetual enemies:
      "...add if Allah had not repelled some men by others, the earth would have been corrupted..." (Surah Al-Baqarah: Verse-251)
      Even today we can easily observe this hostility towards Islam in different garbs and under various masks throughout the length and breadth of the Islamic world. Paradoxical policies pertaining to identical international issued, is a clear evidence of such age-old enmity. Slogans like support of human rights, freedom, security of life and property and religious beliefs etc. have no relevence to the Muslims. Problems of Kashmir, Palestine, Iraq, India, Bosnia and hundreds of other issues are not given any importance at all. Therefore, the help and assistance extended by the non-Muslims and Muslims to the mujaheddin in pursuance of their policy line cannot be termed as fellow-feeling for the Afghans and Muslims in general. The main cause of their involvement in this affair was their ‘hostility to Russia, because Russia was equipped with destructive weapons and could pose imminent danger to their existence. Although Islam has been actually the more urgent, more, valuable, and older incentive of their jealousy and animosity, yet due to disunity, diversity and differences among the Muslims, it had lost its urgency. But the moment the imminent danger was removed, they concentrated on Islam and they not only stopped supporting the mujaheddin but also concluded treaties with their enemies against the mujahedin and established diplomatic relations with them in order to forestall, the mujaheddin victory and frustrate any more to set up a genuine Islamic government. The best trick on their part was to employ local elements so that they could kill two birds with one stone. They have the following plans in their minds:
 1.   The weapons in the hands of the combatants, being a source of their anxiety, should be done away with, in a convenient manner.
 2.   The public and private assets of the mujaheddin and the people should be
     talken away so that the country may face poverty and bankruptcy.
       » *
 3.   Thje iron-willed manpower equipped with the weapon of religious faith should ber eliminated or paralyzed.
 4.   The voice of mujaheddin be stifled and Islam should be confined in hollow and meaningless slogans, without having any political credibility in the world and without providing a practical example to the world. Hence the so-called fundamentalism would evaporate into thin air.
     Unfortunately the Muslims do not get up from their deep slumber, whereas one thousand years ago, the Quran had miraculously warned:
     "...and they will not cease from fighting against you till they have made you renegades from your religion; if they can..." (Surah Al-Baqarah: Verse-217).
                                         10
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992    MCIIANJfH/IO                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
       Have these above-mentioned aliens not used different tactics throughout the history for this purpose? Whether by enforcing western laws in the Islamic countries, they have been able to deviate us from our path of enforcing our own religious laws?
       "Many of the people of the scripture long to make, you disbelievers after your belief..." (Surah Al-Baqarah: Verse-109).
       "And the Jews will not be pleased with thee nor will the Christians till thou follow their creed..." (Surah Al-Baqarah: Verse-120).
       Another pertinent question is, whether by introducing attractive and deceptive terms like democracy, equality of man and women and freedom of expression, have they not misled the Muslims?.
       "...They satisfy you with their mouths while their hearts refuse..." (Surah Al-Taubah: Verse-8).
                        1 ' —
       As a matter of fact, such efforts for the appeasement of the aliens and
 listening to their orders and obeying them, have caused the destruction of our
 ancestral homeland. \
       6.   APPARENT SYMPATHY OF THE NEIGHBORS
       We have no complaint against our communist neighbors, because their views
 are well-known. But our complaint is against those^neighbors who have for years
 hosted the refugees and have been their back-bones and the existing parties have
 been organized by them and even the formation of government is indebted to their
 thoughtfulness and assistance. These neighbors, on the one hand officially
 recognize the government formed by themselves and on the other, by various
 means, contrary to diplomatic norms and sometimes even like a country-at-war
 help, encourage and instigate the warring parties to continue fighting. They do
 not allow anyone in their own country to stage even a peaceful demonstration or
 indulge in verbal criticism of the government, but give preference to one party
 against the other, express their political opinion, offer political analysis,
 pay visits and invite people from our country. By this means they fan the
 flames of war in Afghanistan or justify the clashes between the hostile parties,
                                                                               **
 whereas they know fully well that peace and security of this region is co-related with security and peace and establishment of a government in Afghanistan. If the warfare continues, eventually the flames of war would reach the borders of Afghanistan, too. In the past they had to suffer from the exodus of the refugees and in future they may probably and unexpectedly face another difficulty besides the present one. If God forbid, the conditions in Afghanistan assume the shape of conditions in Tadjekistan, is it not possible that all their 14 years of suffering may be wasted like the dream of the mujaheddin?
      We ask our neighbors to either keep their hands off from the internal affairs of Afghanistan or perform their Islamic duty objectively and fairly 'by giving healthy and positive advice and stop self-interested interference, which in effect serves the interests of the enemies of Islam and enable them to carry out their nafarious designs against Afghanistan. However, they on their part.
                                            11
  OCTOBER-DECEMDER,. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
  have tljo right to sa.y, why the warring Afghanis come under the influence of such negative overtures and why they do not care for the interests of Islam and the Muslims and their own homeland? Yes, these are pertinent questions which do not diminish their responsibilities. Such questions do not diminish in anyway the obligations of a Muslim to observe the Divine Command of "enjoining right conduct and forbidding indecency". When we realize that one of our brothers is unable to appreciate or understand the reality owing to his egoism, narcissism, selfish ambitions and megalomania, it is our duty as a Muslim to guide him and to put him on the right track and try to stop him from doing anything harmful to himself and to others in the society. Otherwise we will also be considered as accomplices in the crime.
       "Allah hath not assigned unto any man two hearts within his body..." (Surah Al-Ahzab: Verse-4)
    Double-mindedness and duplicity have no place in the Islamic school of thought. A Muslim should be straight forward, truthful and honest because taking contradictory stands and masquerading are called hypocrisy and false pretence in Islam.
 HURDLES IN THE WAY OF
       In Afghanistan the communists' coup of April 27, 1978 and later the Soviet invasion of 27 December, 1979 confronted our beloved country with all kinds of material, moral, humanitarian and social destructions during the past 14 years and inflicted irreparable lq^i^s to every sphere of life.
       from the manpower point of view, one-and-a-half million Afghans were martyred, nearly two million disabled, five million Afghans migrated to Pakistan, Iran, other Asian countries, Europe, Australia, the United States and Canada while two million others were displaced inside the country. Similarly, the orphans and widows also constitute a substantial number. And these destructions include the migration and killing of intellectuals, while 50% of the remaining population could not carry out normal life because of their involvement in the imposed war one way or the other.
       In the agricultural sector, wheat production was reduced, to 50% of the pre-communist level. Seventy-five percent of agricultural land was completely destroyed. The harvest in rainfed areas almost halted. Canals and Dams were damaged on large scale; livestock and cattle were reduced to 50% of their previous number. Thus agricultureal and dairy farms suffered a big loss.
      Seventy percent: of macadamized or asphalted roads of the country were destroyed, bridges and culverts were wiped out on a large scale. No heed was paid to secondary roads most of which were washed away by floods and rains. Thus the communication network of the country was greatly disrupted.
                                         12
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 f)[GIIAN{ItHAfi                          VOL.  6 NO. 1
       Likewise, almost 2,000 schools in the country were destroyed, while classes and teaching process in the remaining schools were stopped and literacy, which was 10% before the war, dropped further and millions of children in the 8^20 age-group were brought up under total illiteracy.
       One hundred-and-thirty hospitals of the country were damaged, many buildings and technical installations of public utility were destroyed during violences. ■                                                 • •
       Similarly 50% of villages and houses were destroyed and damaged and some others were even completely turned into ruins. Large scale merciless subversion Wa ■ also carried out in the cities..
       Some statistics have estimated war losses to ten billion dollars. Another statistical data has put only material losses of the war at 12.75 to 12;90 billion US dollars.                                                .
       In any case> this bloody and imposed war inflicted deep losses to every aspect of . the life of Afghans. Some of these losses are irreparable,. For example, human losses, and manpower. The signs of the ruins of this war, are visible in every sphere of life and are.in dire need of reconstruction.
       After a humiliating defeat inflicted upon the:       Red Army and their
  forceful withdrawal from' Afghanistan, our valiant countrymen as well as the world at large Were expecting that war in Afghanistan was now coming to an end. They were also expecting that a ".jehad for reconstruction" would replace the sacred- and successful jehad of the Afghans. That is why, a number of countries pledged financial and material assistances for reconstruction of Afghanistan and assured the United Natisi^xsi that they would make major contributions to this end.                      '";' V .
       The ongoing war in Afghanistan and afterwards the continuation of fighting after the mujaheddin take over disheartened all the countries which had promised assistance apd made them los'e interest in Afghanistan. They:           gradually
  retreated and even the countries end organizations, which were honoring their commitments for assistance were unable to take part in the. reconstruction of Afghanistan due to the prevalent obstacles.in the country.
      As a result, Afghanistan is still in a state of devastation. The reconstruction work has come to a standstill. The refugees who have returned to the country are also unable to start reconstruction of their villages and lands due to poverty and helplessness.
      The hurdles in the way of reconstruction of Afghanistan are:
 - The presence of mines in Afghanistan, estimated by the United Nation to be from five to. fifty million, out of which very few have been located and defused.
    Fratricidal infighting among groups and organizations, which are still continuing in Kabul, have resulted in killing of people and destruction of property - rapidly spreading to other provinces.
                                         13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992    JMMMH JfWII]
VOL. 6 NO. 1
- Lack and the
 of a central power in the country and its control over the provinces establishment of local government administrations in these areas.
    Lack of peace and stability to the extent that even foreign organizations are looted-, their personnel are harassed and sometimes assassinated.
    Interception on the highways of trucks carrying aid-supplies as well as levying of heavy tolls on transport vehicles.
 - Not benefitting properly from the acquired assistance, its mal-distribution and utilization by the use of force.
      There are other similar small and big hurdles which have caused delay in
 reconstruction of Afghanistan. .
            ! '
      The valiant Afghan nation, which has faced untold miseries and hardship, hopes that the Afghan forces involved in politics and the groups which are depending on others should shun their personal and factional differences in view of their human, Islamic duties and the pathetic conditions of the heroic Afghan nation. First of all .they should establish peace in the center and form a strong central government giving representation to the whole nation. After that inter-linking provinces with the center, restoring peace on the highways, cities and villages.
      The government should also reactivate the Ministry -for Rehabilitation with induction of sympathetic and devoted personnel; seek international assistance; obtain war reparation from Russians; encourage its trained intellectuals and manpower, scattered over the world, to return and start an all-out and comprehensive reconstruction and rehabilitation program in all fields; and launch short and long-term reconstruction projects in all sectors. If, God forbid, the political disorder and factional differences and conflicts continued, our country's ruins will remain untouched             and our suffering
 countrymen will get entangled in new miseries and hardships.
                                          14
 | OCTOBER-DECEMSER, 1992 flfGHAHJIHftO_______ VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Political Dimension

  The Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Council passes through a tumultuous way.
       IPolitical Differences lead to Bloody Armed Conflicts.
 ^Global Cooperation with the Afghans is Slowly Diminishing.
     Despite practical implementation of the Peshawar' Accords, reached among different jehad groups, political instability continued to the extent that resulted in bloody military clashes, causing destruction to thousands of houses and killing thousands of citizens in Kabul. This instability on the one hand, reduced sympathy with the. Afghans on international level and on the other, foreign relief organizations could not succeed in supplying essential commodities to the Afghans due to human and material ..losses they suffered during such missions. As a result, the miserable Afghans remained confronted with new and old problems both;
     This tense situation is still continuing which we should like to discuss step-by-step.                          '
                    THE PLAN FOR AHL-E-HAL-WA-AQD SHOORA (COUNCIL)
     Under the Peshawar Agreement, the second leader of the Interim Government was bound to convene Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora within four months and transfer power to it. J3ut before preliminary discussions on the plan of the Shoora got underway, an important controversy and complication cropped up regarding the "term" used for this council. The fundamentalist leaders insisted upon "Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd" and the persons eligible for its membership were those approved from the Islamic point of view. They were required to fulfill three important conditions of the membership:  The members should be judicious, be
 fully knowledgeable with foresight and be a statesman to the extent to take initiatives. But the nationalist leaders proposed that the Shoora be called the "Loya Jirgah" which on the one hand has the past experience in our history and on the other the people are familiar with its name. In support of holding of a "Loya Jirgah", the representatives of nine provinces of South-Western Zone also passed a resolution in Kandahar and a number of commanders and national jirgahs also demanded it.
     The government announced the holding of Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora for the election of the future leader of Afghanistan and in a decree, announced the setting up of a commission to convene the Leadership' Council.
      The latter also made a decision that five percent of the members to the Shoora would be nominated by the President and 15% by the Leadership Council.
                                           15
 OGTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992    '  flfGllllllJllllO           - VOL. 6 NO. 1
 This was a controversial issue which created a host of differences. The former politicians of Afghanistan termed it a usurpation of the right of the nation. The rival group leaders considered five percent nomination as the monopolistic ambition of the President. Even the spokesman of the Leadership Council, Ayatullah Mohseni, said he was opposed to the idea that the President of the Leadership Council and the Leadership Council itself should nominate 20% of the members to the Shoora. He said, "all the members of the Shoora should be elected by the people". Mr. Gailani too termed this concession as unjust and' a number of intellectuals, in a joint statement said, if the government was elected by such a Shoora, it would not be a representative government at all.
      Another decision of the government about the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora was that members to this Council be nominated in the light of population ratio and not on the basis of distribution of administrative units. In an interview, the leader of the commission on Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora, Sayyed Noorullah Emad, explained in a dialogue that two representatives would be nominated from every district having 1,000 to 30,000 population. And if the number is in excess of 30,000, there would be an extra representative for every 18,000 population. Similarly, every district having population of 1,000 to 15,000 would have one representative       and if this number exceeded the 18,000 mark, another
 representative would be nominated. This part of the plan also faced great opposition. The main criticism was lack of reliable statistical data. The argument was that all the refugees had not then returned to the country, therefore, population census could not be ascertained. And if the plan moved ahead, it would take much time. And that it should be accomplished with greater care and consideration, and should not be hastily carried out. Hekmatyar and Mohammadi proposed election of two representatives from every district.
      The appointment of the Chairman of the Commission for the affairs of the Ahl*-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council was also widely criticized. This was because Rabbani, the leader of the JIA was the President of the government and he had appointed Sayyed Noorullah Emad, the deputy Chief of the JIA as the head of the Commission. There was. great opposition to this appointment and there was once a news report that Sayyed Noorullah Emad was replaced by Mohammad Shah Fazli, but which later proved to be incorrect and despite the opposition, Mr. Emad retained this assignment till the end.
      Under the Peshawar Accords, the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora should have been held before 30 October on which date the new president of the country should have been elected. But despite its all-out efforts, the government could not succeed in convening the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora on schedule.
      To make up for the non-convening of the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora, the government held the meeting of the Leadership Council and extended the tenure of Prof. Rabbani for another six weeks. In this way, it filled the gap of power on the one hand and on the ^ther made recommendations tp the government to hold the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora during this extra time and transfer power to it. But it also prompted large scale reaction. Engineer Hekmatyar termed the extension of Prof. Rabbani1s office-term as violation of' the Peshawar Accords and Prof. Mujaddedi also openly opposed it. But despite these oppositions, the government! continued its work and once again diverted attention to this council by
                                         16
  OCTOBER-OECEMBER. 1992      HfUllilNJfHllfl            VOL. 6 NO.  1
  accelerating efforts for the holding of the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora. Thus the ground was paved for new and fresh differences with regard to the council.
       To  enhance the credibility of   the Ahl-.e-Hal-Aqd Shoora,   the government
  appealed to t,he UN and the OIC to provide financial assistance for the holding of the   council and participate as   observers    in the meetings to  be held on
  December 10,  1992. But instead of rejecting the proposal, the United Nations
  pledged for consideration of their proposal. Prof. Mujaddedi also demanded the supervision of this Shoora by the United Nations but Hekmatyar dismissed it as, "interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan."
       On the other hand, all the concerned parties launched their struggle to have representation of heir own choice in the Shoora. The .'Kochis (nomads) demanded representation in the Shoora on the basis of three and a half million population. The leader of Jumbesh-e-Milli Islami (Islamic National Movement) of Northern Afghanistan, Rashid Dostum demanded due share and representation in the Shoora.  He also warned that if his   demand was not met, he would    convene the
  meeting  of the leaders of Northern provinces to  take a decision. To protect the
  rights of the "true" Shias, HWIA leader, Abdul Ali Mazari, expressed his intent for participation in the Shoora. The jehad commanders, ulama and leaders of Kunar province in a meeting decided to send their representatives to the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd council.
      The more the formation of the Shoora approached closer the more it drew opposition and reaction from the people. Mujaddedi termed the formation of the Shoora impossible and proposed that the Leadership Council and Ulama Council should jointly elect a leader. On December 11 he described the Shoora as a "concoction". Rashid Dostum also announced his official opposition to Ahl-e^Hal-Wa-Aqd council and did not term the ongoing process as legitimate. Even the spokesman of the Leadership Council, Ayatullah Mohseni, described the formation of the council a difficult task and proposed that the Leadership Council should elect a leader instead.
      The seven parties demanded the postponment of the Shoora 13 December and accused the government of interfering in the elections and misuse of funds. Hekmatyar termed further extension in power of Prof. Rabbani as violation of the agreements and described it as declaration of war against the nation. He said that seven Out of nine groups had rejected the Shoora. The representative of HWI^ termed the process of the shoora as "selection" and not "election". He said that some of the true representatives of Shias had not been invited to the Shoora and those who attended it "had been1 purchased. "    ■»
      On the other hand, besides Prof. Rabbani, Pir Gailani had also announced his. candidature for the post of future President of the country. Mujaddedi also wanted to be a candidate but gave the impression that if the people desired so he would come forward for their service. At the last moment Mawlawi Khales also announced his candidature because Pir Gailani did not enjoy support from national and Islamic aspects. But when the Shoora held its meeting, except Prof. Rabbani, no other candidate appeared on the scene and the shoora was approved.
                         The Shoora of Ulama ’and Commanders took a decision in Pul-e-Charkhi 17
                                          17
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER#. 1992 flfGIMN llfHMJ                     VOL. 6 NO.  1
 December that Prof. Rabbani, whose tenure had expired, should resign and his Deputy, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi, should convene the Shoora within a month. Hekmatyar said 18 December that the Afghans were void of a President, and placed the responsibility squarely upon, the shoulders of those who had created the situation. He said that the Kabul Interim Government had brought its supporters from differient parts of the country to hold such a shoora. He added that- the government had rigged and made interference in the Shoora and, therefore, the council had no credibility whatsoever. On the same day, the Nangarhar Jehadic Shoora expressed its apology to send its representative to Kabul. And thie head of the Shoora Commission, Sayyed Noorullah Emad who, alongwith 41 other persons had arrived there   on        board a special aircraft but          returned empty handed. The
 local shooras of Kunar and Laghman also decided not to participate.
      Despite these oppositions and boycotts, the government announced that the process of election of representatives had been completed in all provinces and the Defense Ministry was advised to air-lift the said representatives to Kabul. The spokesman of the government said that the Shoora would be held on schedule. In a statement, the head of the government said that it was the first time the representatives of  a         "Loya           Jirgah" were "elected"  by the people. And these
 representatives would take decision on their own. Prof. Rabbani, without clearly announcing the dissolution of the Leadership Council said that from then on the decisions would be taken by the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora. Hence, the preliminary meeting of the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd council was opened in Kabul 19 December. Seven hundred persons were brought to the meeting but the government announced that the number would be doubled in forthcoming sessions.
      Opposition to Ahl-e-Hal-Aqd Shoora was not confined to statements and arguments alone but it also led to bloody clashes and h§avy losses.
                                NEW HOSTILITIES, NEW OPPONENTS
      The ceasefire between HIA and the government remained intact until the last week in September   but Mr.                  Hekmatyar was demanding from the Peace Delegation
 that the government . should immediately,                 implement the ceasefire conditions,
 namely that it should expel militias from Kabul, remove the communists from the government posts otherwise they would resume fighting. Under pressure from the Peace Delegation, the government sent nearly five hundred militiamen to Mazar-e-Sharif and the Peace Delegation asked Hekmatyar to give time to the government for the expulsion of the remaining militias.
      The Chief of Army Staff of Afghanistan, Mr. Asif Diiawar, who had also served in the communist regime, in an interview 2 October Said, some elements were trying to bring about instability in the Islamic government and wanted to initiate an offensive. He said, his forces would repulse Hekmatyar's if they launched rocket attacks on Kabul. These observations revealed that communists were not aloof after establishment of the Islamic government in Afghanistan and were set to create discord among mujaheddin groups by fanning ethnic violence. The communists wanted to take advantage of this situation for their survival. As a result of the communist conspiracies and plots the situation did not remain calm and peaceful. On the other hand the fighting intensified, involving nearly all the groups. The friends became foe and the rivals became allies. New unity
                                          18
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
  and solidarity among new groups emerged.


       As a result of these conspiracies, the ethnic peace in Kabul once again turned into violence. Fighting aifiong various mujaheddin groups continued for many days. A clash on a minor scale also took place between HIA and government forces 20 October. On this very day the news agencies reported that oh his way back from Uzbekistan, Professor Rabbani had chalked out a joint strategy with the leader of Uzbek Militia, Rashid Dostum in Mazar-re-Sharif * But a day later, a minor clash took place between Uzbek militia and Shoora-e-Nazaar in Khair Khana, a suburb of Kabul.                                  ‘    .
       The fighting' and hostilities reached broader dimentions when A four-hour clash took place between two Shia groups i.e. .HIA (Mohseni) and the HWIA in Dasht-e-Barchi 31 October and General Momin came un&er attack from the rival forces of Mansoof Naderi 9 November* His two guards were killed but he himself escaped unharmed. On 'this very day, the forces of Rashid Dostum captured four posts from its previous ally, the Shoora-e-Nazar an(j also arrested 40 of their men in Chaman and Shah Shaheed areas. A three-hour battle took place between the Defense Ministry ahd its ally, the Uzbek Militia/ 14 November injuring a number of people while a post belonging to Shoora-e-Nazar was captured by militiamen.
  A day later, fighting broke out between HIA (Hekmatyar) and Dostum Militias in the east and south of Kabul in which both sides deployed heavy weapons. A prominent commander of IIA, Mir Waiz who at one time was jointly fighting with HIA against HWIA, was killed by -Hekmatyar forces on the same day. A commander of General Dostum was attacked 19 November and Dostum Militia'- accused that the HIA members with the support of NLFA (Mujaddedi) had brought Kabul under their influence. It may be recalled that the leader of NLFA, Professor Mujaddedi, was the man who, during his term of office as President, had bestowed the rank of "General" to Dostum and had described him as "Commander-in-Chief of Islam."
      Fighting between Ustad Fareed and Ahmad Shah Masood forces in Kapisa province 19 November and heavy clashes between HWIA and IIA in Dasht-e-Barchi on November 1, were new clashes among old rivals.
      After these skirmishes, another heavy fighting erupted in Kabul 5 December wherein the allies of the past turned into rivals. One of the parties to the fighting was the. forces of Mansoor Naderi and HWIA, while the other party was. that of. Shoora-e-Nazar. HWIA sources said, the fighting^ in fact occurred between Shoora-e-Nazar and Mansoor Naderi forces in Taimani. But the Shoora-e-Nazar. started arresting Hazaras and forced HWIA to be involved in the fighting. The HWIA accused JIA of launching fighting in its pride of being in power. But Ahmad Shah Masood said that the step was aimed at preventing the . formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd Shoora and power-thirsty elements wanted .to take power unilateraly with the suppprt of foreign hands. An attack on JIA forces by Dostum militia, 9 November, what the observers termed an act of coup but the government as misunderstanding, turned the two allies and friends of the past into rivals.
      These senseless fightings show that craze for power has spread all over Afghanistan. Let us just wait and see what may happen next.
                                        CHANGING STANCES
                        We saw that the stands of numerous groups involved in power and politics of
                                                  19 /
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
  Afghanistan were rapidly changing. The fast change of directions caused deep political disturbances and bloody military clashes. Political atmosphere was overshadowed by black clouds of mistrust, and nobody was trusting the other. This situation made the old enemies as friends a'hd separated very committed friends from each other. When the joint meeting attended by Hekmatyar, Sayyaf, M'ohammadi and Khales was convened against the northern coalition, the observers were of the view that concerned parties in the Afghan conflict have suffered the
  chronic disease of aparthied and have divided them into Pashtuns and non-Pashtuns. The enemies of' Afghanistan were happy that this move would promote ethnic clashes in Afghanistan and would eventually disintegrate it and its neighbors would divide it in accordance with their whims. But small and big clashes did happen between Dostum and JIA, HWIA and HIA (Mohseni), JIA and HWIA, HIA (Hekmatyar and IIA and others. If on the one hand, it caused great losses to the country and countrymen, on the other it has totally eliminated the danger of disintegration of Afghanistan. Thus not only friends turned •into foes but also brought the rivals closer together.. The closeness of HIA with HWIA and JIA's request to HIA for assistance against HWIA were better examples of the new changing stances. These senseless clashes and fast-changing stances had put the mujaheddin on the path to selfishness and lust for power.
      On the other hand, it enabled Rashid Dostum, who is known for his barbaric fighting in the past, to acquire a place in the politics and attract world attention. It was on account of this newly-acquired importance that he undertook visits to Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Uzbekistan where he was treated as an important political figure.
      Observers believe that if the mujaheddin insisted upon self-seeking and lust for power, their importance and tremendous victories of the past, which they had achieved with regard to eliminating Russia and communism, would gradually become dim and the world and Afghan nation would denounce them as warmongers.'
                  - COVERT AND OVERT INTERFERENCES
      Foreign secret and. open enemies were as much involved in getting the situation tense as were internal greedy communists and those criminals who feared accountability by the nation. On this issue, the jehad leaders and international observers have all equally commented and by this means these countries themselves have practically shown their involvement in the events.
      Engineer Hekmatyar condemned the US interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan 12 October. Without naming any country, he said, some neighboring countries were also following the US policy. He also accused another country, without naming it, of imposing rule of Jafria jurisprudence in Afghanistan. He also asked Uzbekistan and Tadjekistan to stop,interfering in the affairs of Afghanistan. Similarly, an a fierce fighting, JIA blamed HWIA of trying to unilaterally take over power with foreign support. Likewise, ha accused Iran and HWIA blamed Saudi Arabia for interfering in the* affairs of Afghanistan.
                   In response to this, some countries which had been accused of interfering in Afghanistan made their positions clear. The Iranial\ Foreign Minister, Ali
                                                   20

 J
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfCItANJEHAD                    VOL.  6 NO. 1
Akbar Velayati said 9 November, "Iran never remained indifferent to the Afghan.
 issue during the past 14 years, and being an important neighbor of Afghanistan, the activities of Iran have increased with the passage of time. But it does not at all want to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and supports the formation of a stable government in accordance with the wishes Of the majority of the Afghan nation." He added that Iran had always remained a bastion for the mujaheddin and refugees and from religious, historic and Cultural points of view, no country other than Iran was ever so close to Afghanistan.
      Similarly, the Pakistan government also ruled out interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. In a statement, the Pakistan Prime Minister, Mr. Muhammad Nawaz Sharif             said that Pakistan wanted national unity,
 independence, territorial integrity and' lasting peace in Afghanistan.            «
      Likewise, informed sources said that the interest of Saudi Arabia in Afghanistan was aimed at preventing the influence of Iran there.
      However inspite of all these, foreign interferences, particularly those of its neighbors, in Afghanistan are unfortunately deeper and open and the Afghan nation is not negligent of them.
                            DECREASE IN INTERNATIONAL SYMPATHY
      Instability in the Afghan situation, infighting, plurality in the center of power and foreign interferences joined hands to add to the miseries of Afghanistan instead of reducing th’em, curtailing international humanitarian assistance and rendering donor countries, organizations and individuals unable to launch their operations and send their personnel and commodities there because of security reasons. This is why the countries which had promised financial and other assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, gr-adually began backing out after the withdrawal of the Soviets and directed their assistance to other areas in the world.
      As a result, we can say that if the concerned forces in the Afghan politics do not return from the path of selfeshness and lust of power;t_for the sake of Allah then the miserable nation, Afghanistan would, God forbid, experience new: misfortunes and miseries.
                                           21
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992  UNMAN JIHAD         VOL. 6 NO. 1
                                      ■                  .  V
    MAJOR DOCUMENTS
 # PRESIDENTIAL ORDINANCE.                                23
 #  HEKMATYAR’S MESSAGE ON THE DESECRATION OF THE
    BABRI MASJEO (MOSQUE).                                24
 # TEXT OF THE PESHAWAR ACCORD.                           25
 #  RESOLUTION OF AFGHANISTAN ULAMA UNION ON
    CURRENT AFFAIRS.                                      27
 #  AFGHAN GOVERNMENT DECLARATION.                        29
 #  DECLARATION OF HIA GENERAL COMMAND.                   30
 #  RESOLUTION OF TRIBAL AND JEHADIC LEADERS OF KANDAHAR. 31
 #  AFGHAN DEFENSE MINISTRY DECLARATION.                  32
 #RESOLUTION OF THE AFGHAN NATIONAL ALLIANCE.             34
22
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992     AFGHAN JEHAD                 VOL. 6 NO. 1
                     IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL, THE MOST BENEFICENT
       Illegal production, smuggling and use of narcotics is repugnant to the injunctions of Islam and contradictory to the ethics of the human society. Therefore, in order to implement the Islamic code and to fulfil Afghanistan's commitment within the framework of the International Pact about opium dated 13 •January* 1912, International Treaty for Regulation and Control of Narcotics dated 21 June, 1935 and the Narcotics Agreement of 19 March, 1962 the Islamic government of Afghanistan is dutybound to take necessary measures, with all the available resources, to eradicate this negative phenomenon and to fully cooperate with all the countries of the region and the world and the international organisations concerned in this connection.                        .
       In pursuance of this objective, we declare the following measures:
  ARTICLE I: Fight against the illegal production, smuggling and use of narcotics is considered contrary to law and repugnant to Shariat (Islamic Code) in the Islamic country of Afghanistan.
  ARTICLE II:  In order to regulate the fight against the unauthorised production,
  smuggling and use of narcotics, a commission composed of the following dignitaries is formed:
       Honorable Engineer Ahmad Shah, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister as Chairman.
       Honourable Deputy Chief Justice of the Islamic government of Afghanistan as, Deputy Chairman.
       Honorable Minister for Justice, as Member.
       Honorable Minister for Auqaf (Religious Endowments) and Islamic Affairs, as Member.
       Honorable Minister for Agriculture as Member.
       Honorable Public Health Minister as Merhber.
                                                    23
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 mClfiHlJfHAO                              VOL.  6 NO.  1
          Honorable Minister for Information and Culture as Member.
     -    Honorable Minister for Labor and Social Affairs as Member.
     -    Honorable Deputy Minister for Defense as Member.
     -    Honorable Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs as Member.
          Honorable Secretary, Education Ministry as Member.
          The Commission has to perform the following duties:
     1)   To plan and execute the national campaign to fight against narcotics.
     2)   To coordinate the activities and functions of the concerned organs.
     3)   To ensure the assistance of international organizations and countries of the region and the world to encourage cultivation of agricultural crops
     ; instead of po£>py.
     ARTICLE III. Governors and jehadic shooras of the provinces should coordinate their efforts with the Central commission for the sake of stopping the illegal production, smuggling and use of narcotics.
                                                          (Signed)
                                                Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani Chairman of the Leadership Council and
                                                President of the Islamic government of Afghanistan.
   Hekmatyar’s Message on the desecration of the Babri Masjed.

EDITOR'S NOTE: A message by Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA on the demolition of the Babur i Mosque, as published in the 8 December $ 1992 issue of the daily SHAH ADAT is reproduced here.
I
                       IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL, THE MOST GRACIOUS
         We strongly condemn the shameless act of the bigoted Hindus concerning demolition of the Baburi Mosque and consider it as the worst and the most barbaric kind of animosity towards Islam, It is but natural that the Muslim World should react sharply against such a happening. It is not in the fitness
                                            24
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992           MMUM                  VOL.  6 NO. 1
     of things to have friendly relations with a country where life, property, honor and  even places of worship of the Muslims       are not safe and not a single day
     passes without the blood of scores of Muslims being shed for nothing. Hence they should not be employed in the Islamic countries.
         I suggest that:
     1.  All bigoted Hindus should be expelled from the Islamic countries.
     2.  India should be listed as a country where the rights of the Muslims are trampled upon. All economic and diplomatic relations with this country should be severed;
     3.  The  rights of the oppressed Indian           Muslims should be seriously and
         definitely defended. Particularly all-out help should be provided to the Kashmiri mujaheddin.
     4.  If such aggressive tendencies continue    for long, the Muslims in India will
         have  no other option but to fight for    the establishment of an independent
         state for themselves.
  5. The happenings in India, struggles in Kashmir, Bosnia - Herzegovina, Burma, Palestine, Tadjekistan, Afghanistan and other parts of the world bear witness to the fact that the enemies of Islam have joined hands against the Islamic ummah. Therefore, to rid this ummah (Islamic community) from the present state of agony, we have no other option but to unite and to wage a jehad because only through these means we can change the situation and repel the aggressions of our enemies.
    Text of the Peshawar Accord between the Mujaheddin Leaders.

  EDITOR*S NOTE: Following is signed by the jehad groups /Peshawar Accord and which issue of WAFA journal.
 the text of that agreement which was 24 April t 1992 and is known as the we have taken from the 15 November
i
        The composition and process of the interim set-up for the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is formulated on the following- pattern-:
   1.    It has been decided that a 50-member team, headed by Professor Sebghatullah Mujaddedi would go inside Afghanistan to take control of power from the present rulers of Kabul within a period of two months. The head of this team will, during this time, work as head of the state. At the end of this
                                                    25
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 flfGIIIIN J[llilD               VOL.  6 NO. 1
period the afore-said team will work as Islamic Legal Council (Jehadi Shoora or jehad Council) with Professor Mujaddedi still its leader. The tenure of this Council will be four months.
 2.   It has been decided that Professor Rabbani would serve as head of the interim government of Afghanistan and chief of the Leadership Council for a period of four months. He will officially assume his responsibility after completion of two months of the transfer of power.
 3.   Extention of even a single day will not be given in the above mentioned period.
 4.   The Prime Minister and other members of the cabinet would be appointed from the second-ranking leaders of the groups and not the heads of these groups.
 5.   The post of the Prime Minister is being given to the HIA (Hekmatyar) of Afghanistan.
 e>. The posts of Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister is being given to the IIA (Sayyaf).
 7.   The posts of the Deputy Prime Minister and Information Minister is being given to the HIA (Khales).
 8.   The posts of the Depilty Prime Minister and Foreign Minister is being given to the NIFA. '
 9.   The Defense Ministry is being allotted to tlje JIA.
 10. The Supreme Court is being given to the HEIA.
       This has also been decided that besides distribution of and appointments in othef ministries, the Leadership Council will also allot ministries to the HWIA, Shooifa-e-E' telaf, Mawlawi Mansoor and, other brothers.
      1 ; , ' ‘ - .
       The period allotted to the entire process is. six months during which period the consensus Islamic Shoora will decide the issue of the next transitional government, which will remain in power for a period of two years.
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992  MAH JfHAO                VOL. 6 NO. 1
 .........................................■■■■■ jgmmmuammmmmmmm
    Resolution of the Afghanistan Ulama Union on Current Affairs,
         EDITOR'S NOTE:  On November 12 the Ulama and commanders from
         different parts of Afghanistan adopted a resolution pertaining to the on-going situation in the country and the shape and composition of the coalition administration of Kabul• The text of the resolution has been taken from the 26 November issue of the daily SHAHADAT.
                         The Muslim nation of Afghanistan was, for the past 14 years, involved
                                                              f                •
 in one of the sacred Islamic jehads and has, with the grace of Allah Almighty, survived this test very successfully. Now another command of the Almighty is addressed to this heroic and mujahid nation, prevailing upon them to fill the vacuum of government with Islamic leadership and governance. Six long months have elapsed eversince the declaration of Islamic government in Afghanistan but no Amir, Imam or Khalifa (head of the government) ha^ been designated in accordance with Islamic Shariah (Religious Code). That is why divine cqflwnands are in suspension, Islamic revolution is being vilified and hopes of the Muslims are faced with frustration. The responsibility for all these crimes lies with this Islamic society and its leaders. For the accomplishment of this obligation members of the Ittehad-e-Ulama-e-Afghanistan and the valiant jehad commanders held three meetings in Kabul during the past six mohthSL^and put forth their demands to the leaders of the jehad groups. But it is regrettable that our demands have not been met.
      In our first meeting we held deliberations over the issue for 16 days and nights. For the second' time it took 35 days and nights to ponder upon the matter and now for the third time, we are busy for the past one month in fulfilling our due obligation. At this stage, the Ulama» commanders and pious tribal elders repeatedly met with the group leaders individually and in groups presenting to them their demands, but no one has so far offered any positive responseAs the dictate of Allah and the call of the sacred Islamic Shariat upon the Muslims is to unite under one Islamic banner and a unified Islamic leadership, we . will not back 'out of our Islamic preaching until our goal ' is reached.                                                                   ...
     Our latest decision below, was taken 12 November,; 1992 and at a time when the number of the participating ulama, commanders and tribal elders in the meeting was about 800:
                > ■ .... ‘ • • .
     It is unartimously decided that^the un-Islamic Loya Jirgah, wherein faithful
     and infidel, pious and perverted, male and female sit together 'is
     condemnable and unacceptable.
                                           27
1
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 IfGllflN JIHJlfl                           VOL. 6 NO. 1
 2.   The institution of the Leadership Council which tentamounts to leading the
      society collectively   by a group, though    its members be just, pious and
      owners of characters   ascribed by Islamic   Shariat to a Caliph, is in the
      eyes of Shariat an unjust and illegitimate act and has no credibility before Shariat, Particularly the present Leadership Council which has in its fold undesirable elements like Dostum, who was a favored figure of the previous atheist regime, is out-rightly unacceptable, nor wbuld it .be accepted by the heroic and mujahid Afghan people. Any one resorting to such a practice will be     a traitor in the      eyes of Shairiat and will  not
      be trusted by the mujahid nation. He could neither be a claimant nor capable of Leadership.
 3.   In Islam, a coalition government, having Muslims * and perverted elements
      within its ranks at the same time, is unjustifiable. Particularly, the
                          *
      present government of Afghanistan which accomodates the respected mujaheddin, Muslims,   the remnants of the 'atheist regime and    even  the
      leaders, preachers, teachers and murderers from various nationalities like Uzbek, Tadjek, Pashtun, Hazara and others is condemnable and not acceptable in bur Shariat.
 4.   The head and other ministers and advisers of the present government, led by Professor Rabbani and previously led by Mujaddedi, are Muslim and mujahed. However, as this government has not come into being through Islamic allegiance and it also lack's the quality of being powerful and dominant, it is un-successful and detrimental to the Islamic' principles. Hence, we present the following demands for formation of an Islamic government in accordance with the'; Islamic Code:
      A. All those jehad leaders who belong to the Ahl-e-Sunnat-Wa-Jama11 sect should designate an Amir, in accordance with the Islamic Shariat, from among themselves so that first these leaders and then we, members of the Ittehad-e-Ulema-e-Afghanistan, commanders and pious tribal elders swear allegiance to' that designated Amir and pledge him our full cooperation and necessary help. However, this will be on the condition that the Amir will give promise and commitment of implementing the injunctions of Quran, Sunnah and Hanafi jurisprudence.•
      B. If the above mentioned task is not accomplished, and Will probably not be accomplished, then the Afghan commanders, ulama and tribal elders, who are in accordance with the Islamic Shariat, owners of Hal-wa-Aqd, be given the authority to convene the shoora so that it acts in line with the principles of shariat arid by keeping in view the plan of the official commission. The shoora will, with the grace of Allah, prevent all kinds of clashes’, disputes and bloodshed.
     C. If the plan, agreed upon_by the Leadership Council is implemented and members of the Shoora called from the provinces through so-called elections, the following difficulties may creep up:
                          - D. Perhaps such persons would come who may be against the jehad group and even against the mujaheddin and the Islamic government. They may be the
                                         28
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 MGIiANJfHAD                      VOL. 6 NO. 1
      previous communist and atheist elements or they may be supporters of bringing about a Western secular system.
      E.  There are also threats of bloodshed among the people of the provinces
      or districts.  ■
      F.  Large funds from the Baitul Mai (Government Exchequer) have been reportedly drawn without any Islamic authority. Now, in case like-minded people are elected to the Shoora and their decision is not acceptable to the jehad leaders all the expenditures will go wasted.
    G. If they do not give us the authority of choosing an Amir in accordance with the Islamic principles and they themselved also not agree on any one, then the responsibility for all difficulties like retention of the coalition,^ government and strife and bloodshed among the people, will rest with the jehad leaders. They will be accountable to God Almighty and the Afghan people and will be duly punished for their crimes because Afghanistan is the land of martyrs, the garden of the Holy Prophet and the abode of Quran and Sunnah. So if there is even one pious son of Islam in this land, no voluptuous, inefficient or selfish elements would have the right to rule the country.
Declaration of the Islamic Government
    o
    0 EDITOR'S NOTE:    Following  is the communique» released by the
    B government of Afghanistan which calls for more concerted and accelerated efforts by the Afghan jehad leaders for the formation 0 of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Council. This text was first published in g the 12 October issue of the daily ANIS.
    D
a
a
a
      Eversince the take over of power by the Leadership Council, the Islamic government of Afghanistan has been fulfilling its obligations with full sense of responsibility and has implemented its policies with commitment and allegiance to Almighty Allah and the mujahed Afghan nation. Now that the tenure of the present administration, fixed by the jehad leaders, is coming to a close, the Islamic government of Afghanistan, after successfully executing its obligations in social, political and military spheres, is ready to hand over power to that leadership of the country which will be brought about by the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora (council).
     The'Afghan Islamic government constituted a commission, comprising nominees of the jehad groups, for the formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Council and has been endeavoring to establish the Shoora on schedule. However* some circles regretabbly created hurdles for the working of the concerned commission and the
                                         29
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 process aimed at the formation of the council was faced with a setback.
      The Islamic government of Afghanistan is of the view that successful convening of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council within its stipulated time will not be possible without the sincere and concerted efforts of all concerned. The government, therefore, calls upon all the respected jehad leaders to struggle for the formation of the council in accordance with the decision made by the Leadership Council in Peshawar1, so that the process of power transfer to the Leadership elected by the . Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora is completed well on time. The Islamic government of Afghanistan is fully committed to the decision of the leaders of jehad groups with regard to constituting the Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora and is • utilizing all available resources, and capabilities to implement the decision on time and hand over the reign of the country to the leadership endorsed by the Ahi-e-Hal-wa~Aqd council.
      Therefore, the Islamic Government hereby announces publicly that the only way to resolve the prevailing problems is through mutual understanding, negotiations and a realistic approach towards the situation. Resorting to the use of coercion and bitterness can only endanger the national unity and solidarity of Afghanistan. The Islamic government is the guarantor of the integrity and security of the independent and united Afghanistan and it has an unambiguous policy towards every kind of warmongers or aggrandizers.
 Declaration of the  HI A General Command

         EDITOR'S NOTE: Here is a declaration issued by the general command of the HIA forces for overcoming the food and fuel shortage problems of the people of Kabul, as published in the 22 Novemberf 1992 isisue of the daily SHAHADAT,
  •  t * •
  • <
•  9 • <
•  •
* % • •
• » • » •
» » » » 9
                    IN THE NAME QF ALLAH, THE MOST'MERCIFUL, THE MOST BENEFICENT
                                                                         M
       In order to overcome the food and fuel shortage problems of the residents of Kabul and to avoid misappropriation of the relief goods by the coalition authorities and its misuse for war purposes and to ensure the distribution of the relief goods among the needy, all the logistic routes to Kabul are opened on the following conditions
  1.   Private traders and entrepreneurs can supply the said items from abroad to the suburbs of Kabul and special markets within six kilometers of Kabul city, established in Bagramf, Beni Hessar and Maidan Shar and from their the shopkeepers can buy them for retail sale inside the city.
  2.   Charitable organisations can distribute the relief goods in these points,
                                         30
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 IfM JfKA8v
            among the deserving people and .the needy residents of supervision of the authorized and'competent representatives teams.
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Kabul under the and supervisory
       3.   The HI A mujaheddin should shoulder the responsibility of safe conduct of the convoys carrying fuel and foodstuff on the routes of Torkham-Ragrami, Khost-Kabul and Jaj'i—Kabul >' and should not allow anyone to obstruct the transportation of goods or to receive any toll tax or excise duty. Supervisors of the goods' caravans and the drivers concerned should refuse to pay any tax or excise duty- and- submit their complaints in this regard, at the earliest, to the local branch or agency of the HIA Directorate of Security Services so that the defaulters may be penalized and future violations may be stopped.
       4.   The reason behind, such measures is that the authorities of the coalition government, defying the decision of the Leadership Council based on the formation of a competent commission composed of party representatives, for distributing the needful material among the deserving people, wanted to misappropriate the goods, as in the past, and to utilize them for military purposes.
     Resolution of Tribal and Jehadic Leaders of Kandahar.
D
B
D
B
D
a
n
□
a
D
 EDITOR'S NOTE: On 24 September, a grand meeting was held in Kandahar which was attended by a large number of jehad commanders, elders and ulama from Badghis, Farah, Nimroz, Herat, Zabul, Ghor, Helmand, Urozgan and Kandahar provinces. The meeting passed the following declaration regarding the prevailing conditions of the country. The text of this declaration has been copied from the 31 October issue of the WAFA journal.
a
a
□
B
B
D
a
a
a
a
           The objective of the 14-year long sacrifices, jehad and struggle of the Muslim and Mujahed people of Afghanistan was the Liberation from infidelity and atheism and re-imposition of the rule of the Holy Quran (Shariat). With this end in mind a grand meeting of the mujaheddin, commanders, ulama and tribal and national elders from the South-Western region was held 25 September at Kherqa-e-Mubaraka in Kandahar city. The participants of this meeting observed that as with the grace and mercy of Almighty Allah and as a result of the valiant struggle of the Afghan nation, the Islamic revolution has became triumphant, the meeting announces its following decisions: 1
      1.    The protection of the independence, national solidarity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan is the national and Islamic obligation of the
31
 O.CTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 fiffilMNJfHAO                      VOL. 6 NO. 1
       heroic and mujahed people of the country and we condemn every form of foreign interference in the internal affairs, of our country.
 2.    All the internal political differences should be resolved through negotiations in a peaceful and amicable atmosphere. We also condemn coercion and the use of force in this connection.
 3.    The present internal and external problems of Afghanistan need an early settlement and we, the participants of this meeting demand convening of the traditional Loya Jirgah which has, throughout the history resolved the worst kind of difficulties. Such a Loya Jirgah should be convened under the auspices of the United Nations.
 4.    Members of the above mentioned Loya Jirgah should be deputed by the mujahed people of Afghanistan in accordance with their traditions and without any foreign political pressure.
 5.    Afghanistan is a singular, nation and we condemn every kind of rivalries,
       differences and clashes that may cause harm, destruction and misfortune to the Afghans.                                                        '
 ii. Any government that does not represent the will and desire of the majority of the Afghans is not acceptable to the Afghan nation.
 7. All the national and state property, be it in the possession and use of any individual or group, is the wealth of~Afghanistan and its collective protection is our common duty. Any one who encroaches upon this wealth or causes damage to it is considered a usurper and is condemned by us.
       We strongly ask the Islamic and humanitarian countries of the world to extend selfless and Islamic assistance and support to us in the acquisition of our legitimate rights.
an
        EDITOR'S NOTE':   Following  is the communique of the Defense
        Ministry of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan which was issued with regard to re-organization of the Army and wherein appeal has been made for voluntary army services and the conditions laid down for such services• The communique was first published in the October 1 issue of the daily HEWAD•
       Under the decree promulgated by tne President of the Islamic Republic o.t Afghanistans to the effect of constituting an organized Islamic Army, the Defense Ministry of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan calls upon all the armed youth in Kabul and in the provinces to report, alongwith their , arms, and if
                                         32
 •OCTOO£R-DECEMBER, 1992      fifGIIHflJM                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
willing they would be assigned to the sacred armed services on terms and
       conditions as stated below:
                                                                                   r
       1.   Each volunteer will be paid Afs. 15,000 with eight sers of wheat per month.
       2.   The volunteer should be in the age-group 20-35.
       3.   He should be physically fit.
       4.   The tenure of the voluntary service will be one year. However, it can be extended at the will of the volunteer himself.
       5.   The weapon of a volunteer will be confiscated if he deserts his service earlier than the stipulated period.
       6.   The volunteer will be bound to, carry the orders and directives of the Defense Ministry as per the injunction of Shariat and the military regulations of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
       7.   Violation of and non-compliance with the directives will be subject to punishment and fine under the military punitive regulations.
       0.   The volunteer will be bound to protect whatever arms, equipment and
            logistics are entrusted to him and he will be required to indulge^ ‘inc. greater vigil in this connection.
      9.    Before embarking upon his duty, the volunteer will be administered the oath wherein he will pledge forsaking every kind of political and party affiliation and will vow to struggle for safeguarding the independence, territorial integrity and national traditions of Afghanistan.
      10.   The past role of the volunteer in the jehad and the accepted Cond^-tiPO-S for service shou’d be endorsed and guaranteed by two. sworn Muslims.
      11.   If a volunteer is martyred or disabled during, the course of his duty, his beneficiaries will be entitled to the admissible distinctions.
            It is £>ertinent to mention here that a number of these volunteers will also be recruited in the Interior Ministry.
                                             33
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
   Resolution of the Afghan National Alliance
EDITOR1S NOTE:   The following is the statement issued by the
Wahdat-e-Milli of Afghanistan about the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora, This text was first published October 11, 1992 by the WAFA journal.
1
            The present coalition administration of Kabul has, under the unpractical Peshawar Accord of April 24, decided to fprm the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council which would elect the next interim government. Instead of the Loya Jirgah, which is a cultural tradition of Afghanistan, the Peshawar Accord of April 24 speaks of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council. Moreover, the claimants to power have been making different interpretations     and definitions of the said Shoora.                   To some it is
      similar to the Loya Jirgah while others, including the deputy of Professor ^Rabbani, Mawlawi Mir Hamza, are not willing to compare it with the Loya Jirgah, arguing that the "ShooraM     has  a wider Islamic implication                than the latter. In
      his proclamations Mawlawi     Mir Hamza has been closing his                  eyes to the Islamic
      governments that existed prior   to the communist coup, which is a matter of grave
      concern. It seems ,that by forming the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council and exploiting the sacred name of Islam, the leaders of the coalition administration of Kabul want to negate the need for convening a Loya Jirgah and deprive, once again, the Afghans of their legal right to determine their fate and by this means to perpetuate~their so-called rule in Kabul.
            The activists - of the National Unity Organisation of Afghanistan (Wahdat-e-Milli Nohzat) are of the opinion that such exercises of the coalition administration will have dangerous consequences, responsibility for which will rest with those elements who, with the•financial and political support of some foreign forces, want to impose themselves on the Afghan nation. They believe that constitujtion of a commission for the Hal-wa-Aqd council is an act of the group and organization to seek more distinctions for and dependency on these groups. This act is certainly not acceptable to the Afghan nation. The National Unity Organization of Afghanistan is strongly convinced that convening of a Loya Jirgah under the aegis of the United Nations is the only option left for resolving the agonizing Afghan problem. The activists of this organization call upon the Leadership Council and the Interim President to hand oyer power, before October 28, to a powerful impartial commission representing different tribes and nationalities of Afghanistan which would, in turn, make necessary arrangements for convening a Loya* Jirgah with the help of the United Nations in a shorter period.
                         If the Leadership Council and the Interim President want a peaceful and
34
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1
       just solution to the Afghan problem on the basis of the legal rights of the Afghan people to self determination. Professor Rabbani will have to act in accordance with thi proposal of the National Unity Organization of Afghanistan which portrays the wishes and ambitions of a clear-cut majority of the people of this country. Otherwise, the tussle and fightings for power will shed more blood of innocent Afghans and cause iflore destruction to the country.
            Therefore, the only way' left for delivering any good is that the Leadership Council and the Interim President should, by adopting a realistic approach, not make the unpracticable Peshawar Accord as an obstacle in their way and should hand over power to an authorized imx5artial commission by giving priority to the larger and vital interests of the beloved country and its dauntless people, otherwise they will- be forgiven neither by.the Afghans nor by the history.
35
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
                                                                 VOL. 6 NO. 1
   RECONSTRUCTION IN THE LIGHT OF ISLAMIC
        TEACHINGS
US DEPARTMENT OF STATE 1992 HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT ON AFGHANISTAN.
(PRELIMINARY PLAN FOR REHABILITATION OF AFGHAN ENERGY RESOURCES.
      (CAN ISLAM BE RECONCILED WITH THE SPIRIT OF THE 20TH CENTURY.
(FACTORS LEADING TO THE FALL OF ISLAMIC RULE IN SPAIN.
36
OCTOBER-DECEMBER., 1992_BfGHflNJtHflfl VOL. 6 NO. 1
REHABILITATION OF THE MEDIA
o
a
B
D
a
D
D
EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the translated version'of an article by Prof.Habibur Rahman Halah, former Professor of the College of Journalism, Kabul   University.     The article was originally
published in the WAFA journal•
a
a
a
a
a
a
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE MEDIA
      In our country during the fourteen years of the devastating war all the means of life, including the media, suffered different degrees of loss. Normalisation would necessitate reconstruction and rehabilitation of all the damaged means of life.
      As the media, i.e. newspapers, magazines, radio, television and film, for the sake of persuading government departments and organizations to devote their attention to planning or looking after the mode of implementation and motivating the patriotism of the people to cooperate and share the responsibility of ensuring successful implementation of the various development plans, play a valuable and worth-while role in reconstructing the various aspects, of national life, it is essential that they themselves should be reconstructed earlier than anything else.
  ,iT- In the contemporary world, the media, in view of the nature of its duty has earned so much importance that ’'if established itself, side by side with the. former three organs of the state viz; fche legislative, the executive and the judiciary, as the fourth organ. Its superiority over the other three organs of the state lies in the fact that it not. only reflects the modes of their procedures but at the same time forestalls all sprts of irregularities, callousness, irresponsibilities, violations and undue advantage of their powers. However, it can perform its duty and responsibility in a desired manner so long as, contrary to the past, it does not become a tool of prppaganda in the hands of the executive power but performs its obligations as an independent organ. In case the conditions of a society do not permit that the fourth power of a state . should assume an independent posture, the government should at least permit the non-governmental press to act independently side by side with the official press..
      Before going into the mode of rehabilitating the mass media in Afghanistan, it would be proper to throw some light on the duties of the media at this historical juncture. ■
      The duties to be performed sincerely and with a sense of■responsibility by ' the media, are as follows:
37
 QCTOBER-DECEMBER,
1. INFORMATION
1992
VOL.
6 NO. 1
       The media should provide necessary information to the readers/ the viewers and the audience pertaining'to the new and useful domestic and foreign events, developments, tendencies, views and theories beneficial to their life.
 2. ANALYSIS AND -INTERPRETATION
       So that the readers, the listeners and' the viewers may have a better comprehension of the significance of the information communicated to them and demonstrate a proper reaction in this regard, it is essential that all the events, developments, tendencies 'and phenomena should be incisively analysed and the relevant causes and background should be thoroughly discussed. Scholarly Studies should be made in regard to their future effects on the life of the readers, listeners .arid the viewers and the impact of the media on the life of the people, so that the organizations' and departments concerned as well as the members of the society may be mentally prepared to face the challenges or to tajce advantage of them.
 3; GENERAL AND ECONOMIC EDUCATION,
       In eyery country, the scholars, from class I to XII, educate the younger generation as good, useful and decent citizens of the country and provide them such information which may help them overcome their day-to-day' difficulties. Similarly the universities educate the youth in specialized disciplines *for carrying out the multifarious jobs of the society, systematically and successfully. However, the obligation of character-building of the younger generation after the school level and the duty of their economic training after graduation and post-university period would fall on the shoulders of the media. The reason being that the media is obliged to provide specified information to thi university graduates and to provide general information to the ex-school , students. i
 4.    TRANSLOCATION AND GROWTH OF CULTURE
   .   ,   , ("II .                   ,
    ' The media cooperate with the educational institutions in translocating, and with the cultural and research institutions in preservation and growth of social .culture,;
 5.    PROGRESS AND'DEVELOPMENT
 '’'Si ‘ ' ' '       ■         .          ,           '        -   ,
       The media, in this era of technological explosion, are obliged to cooperate, with      societies concerned by ensuring contiguity of the growth rate of
 different aspects of life with the growth rate of the contemporary technology, because then they can pave the ground for industrialization and economic and social development by introducing new scientific ideas and multifarious, technical inventions and their utility as well as persuading others to take| advantage of the increasing by-products of contemporary,technology. However, if they might not be able to coordinate social growth with technological advancement, at least they can lead the society on the path to progress.
                                                 3B
VOL. 6 NO. 1
       After World War II when ideological polarization and cpld war between the capitalist block led by the USA and the Socialist bloc .led by the USSR, had come to a climax, the economic tendency was such that a large portion of the national income of the belligerent countries, particularly the super powers, was expended on the qualitative and quantitative development of advanced muclear: armaments and maintenance of large armies. Subsequent to the disintegration of the socialist order in the former USSR and conclusion of the cold war, the disadvantages/of the stupendous expenditures incurred in the arms race, resulted in global economic recession. Now the world, for the sake of getting rid of the economic stalemate, is trying hard to replace the present economic order with a new one. The on-going processes bespeak of the need for regional economic cooperation which may ultimately assume the shape of regional economic grouping. Actually, what we need for the regional economic growth, is the infrastructural reconstruction.
       Afghanistan, in view of the requirement of reconstruction on the heels of the fourteen, years of a devastating war on the one hand, and restructuring of the regional and global economy, on the other, has to merge both the two types of reconstruction into one another. ,
       As the Western countries are more interested in giving loans and investment in the central and eastern European countries, the volume of their humanitarian aids to the Afghans and the extent of their interest in investment and providing loans to the Asian countries, has greatly reduced. In the meantime, due to the intensification of the power struggle among the Islamic groups in Afghanistan, the prospect of reconstruction work in this country looks quite dim. Therefore, the prime duty of the m&dia in Afghanistan would be to persuade and encourage the warring factions and their supporters, vying for political power, to desist immediately and permanently from the destructive and futile fighting as well as to encourage the Afghan people to participate in the reconstruction work of their ruined country with a spirit of patriotism. Afghan reconstruction stands in need of an efficient bureaucracy and a sympathic and patriotic technocracy'. The reason being that under the protective umbrella of such bureaucracy and technocracy, the media can encourage the Afghans to help reconstruct their homeland and to provide the means for the future betterment of their coming generations by investing the capital earned during the last 14 years and deposited in foreign 'Banks and also by devoting their physical, intellectual and specialised energies to this task without leaning heavily on the foreigners.
 7.   RECOMPENSATING THE LOST EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY
      Owing to the alosure of the absolute majority f of the educational^ institutions, decline in the standard of the remaining educational institutions, participation of the youth in the Holy War, fleeing of youngmen on a mass scale from compulsory military service and their migration to foreign countries, the educational system of the country was completely disrupted and consequently a great majority of the youth remained illiterate or ,, Bemi-literate.> As our educational institutions and literaay centers cannot remove this short-coming
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 RfGII/tN J[H/S0
 6.  GENERAL MOB ILIZATI ON FOR RECONSTRUCT I ON
                                                  39
 OCTOBER-'DECEMBER# 1992 AfGHAN J[HA8                            VOL. 6 NO. 1
 single-handedly, the media, specially the audio-v.isual medium, are obliged^ to extend a helping hand to them by producing educational videos or cassettes and broadcasting and telecasting academic programs in an appropriate manner.
 8.  ANTI-WAR PROPAGANDA AND NATIONAL UNITY
       During the decade of anti-communist jehad, a vast majority of Muslim men in the country were armed and took part in the war. Although the general mobilization caused the defeat of the aggressors but most1 unfortunately, the armed jehadic .groups later served as instruments of self-seeking religious, regional and local elements and instead of devoting their attention to restoration of security and reconstruction of the war-ravaged country, they destroyed many of those things which had remained intact during the communist rule. Therefore the media and the personnel concerned are duty-bound to launch a •jehad against the war-mongers and the self-seeking elements. By inviting the genuine Muslim people of the country to reconciliation, they can lead their .holy war against the self-seekers and traitors.         • ■  ■
       The media can perform their above-mentioned dutieis properly, provided
 that:
 a)    The performance of these duties be^assigned to the relevant agencies.
 b)    Each and every institution ought to be equipped with the required professional and vocational equipments, for effectively implementing the assignments.
 c)    Pious, patriotic, efficient, professional and experienced Muslims should -be appointed in these Institutions for proper. administration, useful exploitation of the resources and successful execution of the plans.
                   DIVISION OF MEDIA DUTIES AMONG VARIOUS INSTITUTIONS
 1.   For collecting- information from internal and external sources of news, due advantage should be taken of the Bakhtar News Agency, as in the past. Meanwhile, its connection with foreign news agencies‘should be urgently reviewed because during the communist rule, this- agency was used as a propaganda organ of the communist world and hence it depended heavily on the news agencies of the socialist countries particularly the former USSR. For better coordination,, it wouldi be necessary to establish fresh relations between this agency and news agencies of the friendly countries. Similarly its technical equipment should.be reviewed and.if necessary, ought to be repaired, completed or altered.
 2.  For prbviding the required other matter besides the news, which comprise more than two-third of the media subject m.att&r, there does not exist any credible agency in the country. Consequently the officials of the media and generally their friends Used to provide such matter with a very low standard,.
      For this reason, the people having ho other option, showed interest in reading the newspapers and magazines and listening t?o the radio and viewing the television. If it is desired that the media may render a proper service to its
 • 0CT0BER-DECEM6ER. 1992         JfGIIIIIJfHAO                        VOL. 6 NO. 1
 beneficiaries by presenting non-documentary items, arrangement may be made to establish a special institute entitled 'Feature Syndicate' for this purpose. This syndicate, by employing distinguished experts in various fields or hiring their service on contract basis, should prepare the required commentaries, informative features, analysis and research work and distribute them among the media. Thus a number of specialized columnists wpuld.be trained who would not only provide specialized information and views to the media but also to the government, if and when needed.
 3.  In order to procure financial help for a part of the publicity and promote
 economic growth on the orfe hand as well as to cooperate with the industrialists
 and traders by providing sound information to the customers and consumers on the
 other, the Afghan Advertising Agency should be put to more and better use. This
 agency pan procure considerable foreign exchange for the country. During the
 I             V      I                   I                              .      «
 reign of Zaher Shah, when Mr. Sabahuddin• Kushkaki was the Minister of
 Information and Culture, I and a yOuhg artist named Israel Roya planned to
 establish a private advertising agency. We desired to acquire the following
 useful things through this venture.
 a.  Enhancement of the media's income.
 b.  Promotion of advertising in the*technical manner.
 c.  Making the publications and radio and television programs more attractive
     and also installing beautiful bill-boards for roadside advertisements.
 d.  Raising the standard of the Afghan Advertising Agency by positive technical
     competition.
 e.  Acquiring foreign exchange by advertising products of foreign firihs, we were
     awarfi- that only the National Company of Japan offered two million dollars for publishing its products in Afghanistan. That firm was ready to sign an s. agreement with our newly established advertising agency. But regrettably Mf. Kushkaki did not permit hs to establish the said advertising, agency. Therefore in future, if permission is granted to establish a private advertising agency side by side with the official one* it would prove beneficial to the national press.
     . These three institutions provide necessary matter to the publicity organs.
                                     i         «
 The organs which should function as the media, are detailed as under:
 (A) PRINTED MEDIA:    It. includes  newspapers,   magazines,  journals and books.
 NEWSPAPERS AND JOURNALS: In Afghanistan, three nationwide official newspapers in Pashtu, Dari and English languages should be published in the capital. In the provinces tljese papers should be published on regional basis. It would be better if in three provinces of the country, one newspaper in the dialect of the majority of the population in these provinces is published by the government. For exaple, one newspaper in Pashtu from Jalalabad for the Nangarhar, Laghman and Kunar provinces, and one in the dialect of the majority of the people living in the provinces of BaJLkh, Samangan and Jauzjan from Mazar Sharif. However, the provinces shohld ^be categorized in such a manner t^hat' one language or dialect should be the language spoken by the majority of the people living in the classified three provinces.                                                      ‘
 OGTOBER-OECEMBER, 1992 fitflllflNJIHAD                         VOL.  6 NO. 1
      So that the press should not be under government monopoly and the society too may be able to participate in the press, free press should also be given an opportunity to function. In this way, on the one hand the standard of journalism improves by healthy competition and on the other, the tendency of autocracy, inefficiency and mal-administration among the state functionaries is controlled. In order to ensure healthy functioning of non-government newspapers, their limits and responsibilities should be clearly stated in the press code.
 MAGAZINES: Publication of general and classified journals side by side with other newspapers, is deemed a pre-requisite for raising the standard of professional and general knowledge of the people. These journals should be published by the government and the non-governmental organisations. However the classified magazines should be published by the specialized organisations whereas general magazines may be published by anyone, according to the rules.
 BOOKS: Printing of books is one of the urgent needs of our country because
 the cultural growth and maturity of a country can be gauged by the number of books published in that country. It would be a pity that, as was customary in the past, we may not write books about our country and take advantage of the books Written by the foreigners about us. As the government, on its own, cannot fulfil the obligation of publishing books on a large scale, permission should be given for the establishment of non-government institutions for publishing un-official. books. In this connection, in the first instance, we should start with translating outstanding books and simultaneously editing and compiling of the required books should be encouraged on the basis of a long-term plan. If we do not take serious and urgents steps in this connection, we will always remain a good market for the books published in other countries, specially those around us. As such our cultural integrity would always be seriously threatened. In view of the facts cited above, side by side with the printing of government books, permission ought to be given to non-government publication institutions, to a large extent.
 B. AUDIO-VISUAL. MEDIA: It covers radio, television, cinema and theater.
 RADIO AND TELEVISION: These two media, like many other countries, in Afghanistan too should be under government monopoly. The government ought to taking maximum .advantage of these media, particularly the broadcasting system for general and special education, growth and projection of culture, to, the majority of illiterate populace of the country, nationwide development, motivating the nation to take part in reconstruction, compensating the lost educational opportunities, anti-war propaganda'and reinforcing national unity. In order to attain these goals in a proper manner, besides the central broadcasting system and television network, special extra radio and television frequencies and channels be launched so "that not^only the existing shortcomings be reduced, but necessary ground be paved for cultural growth on the national scale.
CINEMA AND THEATER:   These  two media  can be effectively utilized whenever and
wherever required. However, till the announcement of government policy in this connection, at present these media cannot be treated separate from the television, i.e.' their productions should be utilized only through television.
                                                   42
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGllilHJtHflfl                            VOL.  6 NO. 1
      For  smooth-running of printing and electronic media, subsidiary
 institutions like printing presses, recording studios, motion picture studios and photographic studios ought to,be established.
 PRESS:  For printing journals, newspapers, magazines and books, government and
 non-government printing houses should be established. As the former government printing presses have been totally dismantled by the counter-cultural elements and hence the government cannot reconstruct and reassemble the former printing centers in a short . time*, the present^ government should allow private organisations and .individuals to establish printing presses. However, the framework of the rules and regulations governing the non-government press publications should be elaborated in the1 press code.
                                                          , < ' _ :
      The government in future should be concerned only with the printing problems of the press, and leave the computerization process to the publishing houses concerned. There is no doubt that computerization would make the task of the press easier than before.
 BROADCASTING SYSTEM AND TELEVISIOtJ NETWORK: Radio and television, both stand in need of technical equipment fof their smooth functioning. Therefore, for taking greater advantage of radio and television, the existing technical" equipment ought to be repaired, rebuilt, altered or replaced with new instruments, keeping in view the requirements of the central and regional stations.
      Motion picture studios, cinematography and art7 centers should be added to the above as per requirements of the different institutions. If for the time being, Afghan Film be amalgamated with the television center; calligraphy and painting with the press; and theater with the radio and the television, the future of Afghan Music should be determined on the basis of the future cultural/ policy of the government.                                                       '
      In conclusion, it may be added that if we desire that our media should not
 be a market place for smuggled productions and we should ourselves be able to
 gradually raise the standard of its broadcasting and cultural level and get rid:
 of purloinment of scientific, cultural* and informative material, we should'.
 encourage our people to pursue creative work and to go for cultural and
 scientific innovations. This target may be achieved when we gradually formulate-
 a copy-right charter for an authorized and legal utilization of others' material1
 as well as for taking initiative in this field. However, the evaluation of sbch
                                                                                 * ■
 material in future should be carried out on the basic of quality, initiative and authenticity and not on the basis of quantity; and the producer should be* compensated accordingly. The copyright formula should explain' the types of filching and the relevant punishments so that the cultural, informative,' scientific and artistic aspects of our broadcasting and telecasting system may improve.
43
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 MU JIM        »OL. S HO. 1 |
  THE BASES OF U.S. STRATEGY VIS-A-VIS THE AFGHAN CRISIS
 .      The United  States of America, whether one likes it or not, is recognized
 as the axis . of power and abundance in t'oday’s new society. America today is considered a powerful center of military strength and a dynamic source of economic power, material 'progress and astonishing products of the modern sophisticated technology.
      All this achievement is a result of intellectual effort and persistent ’hardwork based on planned academic studies, assessments and scientific research inside the country and outside which have been carried out at consecutive intervals by the past generations by taking advantage of the existing capabilities and expertise in the society and at the centers of research and study in general and at the universities and scientific institutions, in particular.
      The total number of -such institutes, scientific centers, colleges and Universities at present is more than 5,000, out of which the most important institutions in relation with the subject under discussion, are as under:
         Strategic* studies institutes.
         Peace and war studies institutes,
      -  Institutes concerning International Reconciliation and US-USSR relations
         totalled 232 in 198a,                                             ’
         American Centers for World Leaders,
         Classified associations, unions and organisations.
         Institutes and centers for Future studies,
      -  East-West Relations Institutes and
     ! 7 . Various institutions of comprehension and understanding.
      As a result of the efforts of these institutions, centers and organizations, a series of agreements have been reached between the two superpowers of the world viz; USA and USSR. For example, some of these agreements are as follows:
 1#; US-USSR Agricultural Cooperation Treaty signed on June 19,     1973 which  has
EDITOR'S NOTEt Following is excerpts from a book in Arabic "Various Strategies vis-arvis the Afghanistan Issue", The book authored by Kamal Al-Halbawi, was translated into Dari by Dr• Mawlawi Nezamuddin Nafey•
                                          44
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
been renewed many a time.
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 2.  Scientific and Technical Cooperation Agreement for Peaceful use of Atomic Energy signed on June 21, 1973 by Nixon and Brezhnev. ^
 3.  Cooperation Treaty for Saving" the Environment from Pollution signed on May 23, 1972 by Nixon and Podgorny.
                                                              *. * ■
 4.  Cooperation Agreement for Scientific Research regarding Artificial Heart
 signed on July 28, 1974 by Kissinger and Gromyko.
      Similarly a series of other treaties and agreements concerning scientific studies in the ocean and the atmosphere, exchange of scientific and cultural knowledge, exchange of information about energy and. space discoveries, utilization of outer space for peaceful purposes and hundreds of other trade agreements some of>-which have been renewed many a time, have been signed between the two countries. Whatever American and.Western specimens and signs we observe in \ the third world in various shapes and colors, are the natural and logical outcome of their intellect, effort, hardwork and intrinsic human urge to harness the forces of nature and material resources. At the same time these are the sighs of strategic tussle among various power groups to dominate the world.
                                 AMERICA AND THE AFGHAN ISSUE
      There are different views and opinions regarding American role in the Afghan problem, notwithstanding the fact whether it was a direct or an indirect rple. On the contrary, the Russian intervention in Afghanistan has, from the beginning, been considered an obvious and direct intervention as well as the basic cause of all economic, social, educational, material and human devastation in the region. Inspite of all these reasons, it seems that the United States is moving towards decadence. Not only towards civic and moral decadence but on the' path to scientific and technological decline. On the other hand, Japan destroyed, by the US in the middle of the '40s, took great strides in the field of development. Similarly it is expected that Germany, after being crushed in. World War II, would once again regain power. Show of strength by these two countries is quite evident from their rivalry in international scientific and cultural, research work especially in the fields of science, mathematics and economics. Allocation of one billion U.S, dollars for developing educational programs in the subjects of mathematics and science in educational institutions in the academia year 198o-87 is the evidence of this power struggle. Somd of the future thinkers and analysts foresee today that .in Asia and Europe, other.domineering powers would emerge and other countries of the world would not fellow, irt the footsteps of Russia and America, as the^ did in the 20th century. Numerous; poles of power like America, France, Germany, Italy, China, India, Japan, Korea and most probably Israel under American Leadership would come into existence^ Soviet Russia poised on the verge of a precipice, will not be able in future to take a stand in the rank of dominating powers. Its decline was evident in the recent past and perhaps the main cause of its disintegration, has been the righteous jehad by the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
      Perhaps Rubsia and America and a logical determination of their future,
                                       45
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AHJIHAD                          VOL. 6  NO. 1
 mmmmmmmmmmmmMmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmmmmmmm
 particularly the way the United States nurtures the idea of world hegemony, might surprise the contemporary reader, because the trend set by them would most probably confront their Leadership with decadence.
     The following outstanding factors might lead to the future decline of the United States:
 - Political bankruptcy: It is abundantly evident from having recourse to the use of arms in international issues by succumbing to J:ewish pressure insidee and outside America.      '      _
 - Giving preference to military operations in most of the cases like in Vietnam, Labanon, Gulf etc....
 - Efforts for balancing power:   It is devoting its utmost intellectual
 endeavors and human and material resources to discover or invent a force which may have the super-most destructive power, without paying that much attention to the ways and means of laying a.solid foundation for the human society. For this reason, the USA suffers from ambivalence in regard to help and strengthen Pakistan and India as well as to attract one. of these two countries so that it may indirectly weaken the volume of Russian influence in this area. The words of one of the senior officials of the US Foreign Ministry in th$ Reagan administration bear witness to the above argument/ which read as follows:
     "In our opinion, the Middle East,including the Gulf, form a great and important party of the politics and strategy in the region. From our viewpoint the Gulf covers an area upto Turkey, Pakistan and Horn of Africa. We regard the Middle East as a single strategic unit requiring thorough comprehension and guaranteeing balance of power concordant with our interests in the region."
     Similarly American threats regarding oil production and insistence on the necessity of stabilization of oil price indicate that America has an aversion to be forced to make alternate arrangement in the oil-rich Arab region. Besides the rapid economic recession, increasing unemployment, rising graph of indebtedness, spread of incurable diseases like the AIDS, disturbances emanating from racial discrimination, earthquakes, typhoons and volcanic eruptions are the divine punishments in regard to their cruelty and oppression.
            STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF THE UNITED STATES AND ITS BASIC AIMS
                               VIS-A-VIS THE AFGHAN ISSUE
 1. Safeguarding American interests at the national and international level: These objectives include defending their interests and developing them. This task has to be performed by their agents called the guardians of peace in the region. Israel at present and the Imperial government of Iran and Brazil in the past performed, this job. Thus it is neces'iary that such countries should enjoy enough influence in the region Similarly these objectives should -include checkmating all kinds of effectiveeconomic competitions like the oil issue which effects the world strategy-'and even the United States itself. Sometimes it takes the shape of efforts to create good relations among the industrial states at a time when they may not have been involved in cold war or competition or
                                         46
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 _MNJ{lfl                                  VOL. 6  NO. 1
 difference of opinipns.
      In order to attain these objectives sometimes the USA relies on its expansionist policy as it did in Vietnam but failed miserably and incurred heavy physical and financial losses.
      It is also obvious that the USA would not desire that its hegemonist policy and strategic aims in regard to the defense of its national interests sh.ould become known to everybody. Sometimes the USA keeps a distance from its friends for preserving its greater interests even though it may harm her for a shorter period. For example, during the last years of the f70 decade, it stopped supporting the Shah of Iran who was its strong and trustwprthy friend in the Gulf. The United States in pursuance of its colonial policy prefers to enter from the back door.
 2.   Struggle against the Communist Bloc Ideologies:      These objectives are
 discernable from the American perception in relation to its defense and support of the human rights, regulating and mobilizing international bodies' opinions in favor of this claim and circulating strong slogans for achieving its goal. It took advantage of the radical national revolutionary movement in Iran to frustrate Russian designs in the oil-rich Gulf region, in its entirety. Quite naturally, after the American success in this venture and successful implementation of the above plan, the United States will have no threat to face but Islam.
 3. Establishing military bases and acquiring facilies in the Third World countries: The USA is trying hard to add to the number of 'its bases as well as to acquire more facilities in this regard. Therefore, it tries to increase the number of its agents. Such bases include the ones in Turkey, Gulf, Somalia, Kenya and the Phillipines etc. Besides it plans to store large quantities of arms and ammunition too which are dumped in strategic areas and centers in addition to the bases. It haq, been stationing rapid task-forces and other essential equipment and machinery outside the periphery of the bases in secret and in a clandestine manner so that the sentiments of the awakened, people may not be aroused against them. This strategy is concordant with the cooperation of the states where such bases are established. Apparently these bases seem to be established for the sake of preserving peace and security of the regions concerned as well as to lend support to the weak and oppressed nations face to face with aggressors and tyrants.
 4.  Protection of leadership in the Western World:     The USA  appreciates the
 importance of the ^Western States, particularly 'Eastern Europe', and knows the background of their ancestors and their military might and desires to avail their rich European experiences. In fact the essence of the American policy is concealed in its sovereignty over the revolutionary nationalists and instigating long-term military disputes (because military disputes weaken nations) and if even this policy does not prove effective, then she uses political means to find a solution for the,complicated issues.
5.  Planning for the future of humWhity: This planning includes protection of Israel's security and its superiority particularly' in nuclear armament
                                       47
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGIIANJ[HAfl                             VOL. 6 NO. 1
 competition and domination over the oil resources and the routes leading towards them. Alongwith this, cooperation and solidarity with the USSR by concluding international agreements, dealing with world markets in dollars, excesses in exploitation by the American companies and agencies as well as offering a considerable quantity of American production and services to the world, side by side with    the American  style of     life has been evident. Thus with best
 utilization of the laws of nature and its healthy employment, it has applied the
 principle of the struggle for survival in its best form.
 0. Ideological struggle against Islam: The first cursory look at things, gives
 the viewer an impression that the United States is supporting the Afghan mujaheddin   and some of   our people      consider it as American help to    the
 mujaheddin. But  the USA,  in keeping   with its own strategy, is averse to  any
 I                    *                  •„
 ideology contradicting American ideology, and Islam and communism stand in this context. However the USA has its own priorities so that in t.he first instance it could overpower communism and put an end to the cold war and ultimately focus its attention to Islam. It has foreseen that at a later stage, the events in Afghanistan should develop in such a way as to cause a bad name for the mujaheddin and to malign Islam. This hostility to Islam, is the root cause of creating doubt among the people and propagating allegations against the mujaheddin.
                                           *
      Besides the well-known natural' factors, we would like to mention here several effective's foreign elements co-related to the American strategic activities. The most important foreign factors, in this context, are as follows:
 1. The oil issue: The USA tries to procure and store maximum quantity of oil, at the cheapest possible rate, from the world markets for its own self and the Western Europe. Similarly it wants to stop reduction of oil prices due to increased oil production. The USA is afraid of total or partial blockage in the export of oil to the West and tries to pay the oil price, through persuading or convincing the oil-riah countries of the East, by importing industrial by-products of oil as commercial commodities from the West. Thus oil is a strong weapon in ensuring success of the American policy.           '
 2. Dollar transactions:   The USA is trying to keep dollar as the only credible
 factor in the world commercial transactions, particularly in relation to such commodities which enjoy superiority and effectiveness such as oil, otherwise by being deprived of dollar as the guarantor of the oil value in the international markets, American imperialism and its broad strategy would fall apart in no time.
     THE MOST BASIC AMERICAN STRATEGIES REGARDING THE AFGHAN 'JEHAD
      Readers of the monthly magazine "Afghanistan Today and Tomorrow"(Second Issue dated 7 September 1989) have gained information about "the impact of world politics on the Afghan issue since the start of Russian military invasion on Afghanistan till its end, as well as the probable extent of the impact of these factors in future". It goes without saying that this subjeot has a deep link with the topic of American strategy in relation to the Afghan problem.
                                          48
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992           llluliAffJlHAO                                   VOL. 6 NO. 1
        These factors weigh and assess the extent of American impact prior to the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan as compared' to the extent of the Russian impact. It is abundantly clear that American support to the mujaheddirj was actually in America's own interest in the region because this was essential for the safeguard of its stakes in this part of the world. In other words the USA is concerned about protecting the oil-rich areas in the Gulf from the threat of Russian missiles which might be fired from Shindand Base or other military basis from the South of Afghanistan. The US. continued its arms aid to the mujaheddin to such an extent as to compel the Russians to agree to negotiations. Then she reached the stage of coming to an understanding with the Russians. Hence, we can summarize the American role in the Afghan War as detailed below:
   (1) Evolving a joint policy with the participation of Pakistan and US representatives in the region, like Anwar-us-Sadaat in Egypt and the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Concerning the Afghan problem.
   (2) Supplying sophisticated weapons such as the Stinger missiles to the mujaheddin which enabled them to shoot down Russian planes and to compel the Russians to withdraw. Similarly the United States persuaded Sadaat in Egypt to arm the Afghan mujaheddin with the Sucker 20 rockets.
   (3) Continuance of diplomatic contacts with all the concerned parties including those having opposite stand.
   (4) Signing   the Geneva Accord, as a guarantor                    for its implementation  and
   insisting on the establishment of a broad-based government (or an un-Islamic governmet) and non-recognition of the mujaJ-Qddin government inspite of the fact that at the time of signing of the Geneva Accord, the mujaheddin controlled 80% of the entire territory of Afghanistan.
   (5) Striving to ensure a political solution of the Afghan problem, forestalling
   its military  solution, sending diplomats one after the other to Islamabad                 and
   Peshawar to   pressurize the parties concerned to come                      to terms with th,e
  mujaheddin, the refugees and the jehad commanders to pave the ground for imposing an    American sponsored regime despite       strong  Opposition by the
  mujaheddin.
          Making serious- efforts including political public opinion in favor of the American plan.
pressure to attract world
   7^|    To conduct research  and analysis of the Afghan issue since the communistv
   coup. Carter had commissioned a number of research centers•including Duke and Nebraska Universities to study and analyse the Afghan crisis.
  8-      Participation in the  Afghan War as a part of the general US strategic
  plan at the regional level where Pakistan and India are the outstanding powers. Therefore each and every political development in the region is in fact nothing else but another American move on the A^ian chessboard. This argument ’is vindicated by the remarks of President Carter in 1980 after the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, who said:
                                           49
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 WflHJM                                     VOL.  6 NO. 1
      "We, as a super-power in the world, feel responsible 't^ take appropriate measures to frustrate Soviet designs to occupy Afghanistan."
      Simultaneously Carter established telephonic contacts with Britain, France, West Germany and Italy and they adopted a unanimous ?; decision that Russian occupation of Afghanistan was the biggest threat, after the second world war, to the world peace. This consensus is regarded, in fact, a new phase in the Afghan war, exploiting the anti-Soviet jehad waged by the Afghan mujaheddin on the one hand and taking due advantage of this war by the Western world. On the same day hp announced his stand concerning the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, known as the Carter Plan. He termed the invasion as a new threat to American interests in the region and then took- advantage of the following points to exert ever-increasing pressure on the Russians
 1-  Prohibiting expansion of consulates in the USA and the USSR and opening of new consulates in either country.
 2- Restricting Soviet commercial transactions and exporting goods to the USSR.
 3-  Postponing exchange of cultural and economic agreements between the two countries.
 4-  Reducing the area of fishing concessions in the American continental waters /which were earlier given to the Russians.
                                                  ✓
 5-   Stopping the sale of wheat to the USSR.
 t>- Boycotting the Olympic games by the United States held in Moscow in 1980.
      One of the ingredients of American policy is the military pressure, to add to the impact of the political activities in the world. This pressure includes a vast gamit of operations ranging from military attacks to official visits which may be summarized as follows
      Support to the revolutionaries, sale- of weapons, prohibiting sale of weapons, inspection of the ordnance factories, investigation of military bases, acquiring bases in exchange of military aid, concluding defence pacts in exchange for help and assistance, bilateral or multi-lateral defence pacts, military treaties or negotiations.
      The most important institution^ playing significant role in the execution of American strategic plan, are:-                                    ►
   The American presidency The American Congress,
   The US State Department
   The CIA and its numerous branches
   The Pentagon
   Various Media
   National Security Council
                                        50
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992       AMJM                       VOL. 6 NO. 1
    Classified centers and departments for research and analysis in the affairs of the US army, navy and airforce.
       John Kennedy's remarks are the best evidence of the importance of American strategy and its advancements. He says:-
       "I believe that the United States is taking calculated steps towards its goal in such a manner that it has earned a special regard in the eyes of all the world, be it friend or foe. America is constantly on the move. It dreams, selects a route and merches forward to reach the desired goal."
     • We dare say that indeed the Americans, with their limitless resources, claim it as their prerogative to have sweet dreams or to dream rosy scenes and to give a practical shape to these dreams and make them a reality, regardless of the Tact whether the entire human race is sacrificed for this purpose or the entire world is destroyed. For the American Administration, the most important thing is the comfort and prosperity of the fellow Americans even at the cost 'of all the inhabitants Of the earth.
       Some of the questions, begging logical answers, which are posed : in the academic sessions of the Universities, are as follows:-
    What will be America's position in case of world-wide disarmanent?
    What will be the destiny of the United States?
 -  What wiM be the nature of Western relations with the Muslims?
 -  When will we witness the end of American power and domination?
    Will necessarily a war bring about the end of American hegemony in the world?
      The fact of the matter is that the USA is the source of all corruption on the face of earth, and conceals it under such a colorful cover that the others are attracted towards it. The USA is not at all ready to lay down its weapons, but tries to snatch other peoples' weapons and this policy is proportionately related to the standard of American credibility in the eyes of other nations and vice-versa. If disarmament is actually implemented throughout the world, America would have to give- up its armaments. As such who will suffer physically and would be deprived of one of its organs of life, existence and security? Therefore the USA will never agree to it, unless she is compelled by unforeseen circumstances in the futre, which is best known to God. Perhaps a hot and cold war, between the west and its allies on the one hand and sincere Muslims,led by Islamic Movements particularly those who have really appreciated Islam and its. universal vision on the other , . may be waged and God willing such a ,;.war would culminate inthe defeat and disintegration of the United States.
 Ioctober-december; 1992 AfGHAN JIHAD                                vol. 6 no. 1
 Ll  ' fl’.I.I ■    , ■■■■■ .... ■ ■■■■                nw I ■■■■!■!! I       ——
  U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE.W92 HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT ON AFGHANISTAN
          EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the US Department of State 1992 Human Rights Report on Afghanistan which mentions torture and other forms of cruel and inhuman treatments that were common during the Najib regime• It also gives examples of how officials of the former communist regime were abducted and executed and how members of rival factions indulged in widespread hostage taking as well as hangingp in publict of criminals and ill treatment under the interim governments after the fall of Najib•
       The political situation in Afghanistan changed dramatically in 1992. After 14 years in power, aided by massive support from the former Soviet Union, the Najibullah regime collapsed in April, and power was assumed by leaders of the Afghan resistance. Most of the resistance leaders agreed to a series of powersharing arrangements to span 2 years with an interim Government in three phases. The first, a Council under the leadership of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, took control of Kabul, in April. Its' mandate expired after 2' months at which time it was replaced by a Leadership Council under Burhanuddin Rabbani. The Leadership Council was originally to govern the country for 4 months, during which time it would prepare a Pan-Afghan Grand Council (Shoora), which would choose an 18-month interim government. The third phase of the interim government was to 3'raft a constitution, establish permanent governmental institutions, and make preparations for holding nationwide elections. This third phase was delayed several times by factional competition for power. This competition pitted the factions that formed the resistance against one another, and included elements that supported the previous regime. In late December, a Grand Council finally met and selected Rabbani to continue as President for a period of 2 years. The Grand Council also reportedly selected members of a national assembly. However, a number of Afghan leaders questioned the legitimacy of the Council and the means by which its members had been selected.
       It is nnclear whether the successive interim governments have established any formal internal secfirity apparatus. Many of the resistance factions, including those in the interim governments, almost certainly developed ad hoc security arrangements prior to their victory over the Najibullah regime. Bloody rivalries frequently emerged between and within these groups. Differences were often settled, and opposition controlled, through the use of force. Such tactics may still be employed by the various factions. It is also possible that elements of the Najibullah regime's security apparatus, the Ministry of State Security, have been retained by the. interim governments.
      The Afghan economy is agricultural, with land tenure in the hands of individuals or family/tribal groups with some land remaining under • feudal control of the traditional Khans. An entrepreneurial/trading class and ■ some gmaill-scale manufacturing exists.
                                         52
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 MGII1INJIH/lfl                       VOL. 6 NO. 1
      The absence of any effective central authority was the factor of greatest significance to human rights problems in 1992. In most areas of Afghanistan, civil authority was in the. hands of local councils, resistance leaders, or a combination of the two. While some councils and leaders have managed to govern effectively, observers have noted the absence of the rule of law and a clear legal system throughout much of the country. Because of the weakness of the interim governments and the continued factional violence, the human rights situation changed from one marked by broad governmental oppression to an environment in which individual rights were neither defined nor protected and were routinely violated. Although the interim governments declared an amnesty for members of the former regime and issued a number < of proclamations guaranteeing human rights, the Government does not have sufficient power to give force to these guarantees throughout the country. Reports of torture, ill-treatment, and extrajudicial execution of prisoners were widespread during the fighting in Kabul which .followed Najibullah's ouster. Innocent civilians were taken hostage, and several politically motivated revenge killings,, of prominent personalities of the former Communist regime were * reported. Robbery, looting, and kidnaping for ransom were common in Kabul. Members of the Sikh and Hindu communities were frequest victims of crimes and attacks, despite interim President Rabbani's call for protection of their basic rights, and thousands fled to Pakistan and India. The rights of women also appeared to be in jeopardy.
                          RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS SECTION, 1 RESPECT FOR THE INTEGRITY OF THE PERSON, INCLUDING FREEDOM FROM:
     A- POLITICAL AND OTHER EXTRA-JUDICIAL KILLING
     While precise information is difficult to obtain^ it is generally known that political killings, including summary executions of political opponents, were common under the Najibullah regime. Revenge'killings of prominent Afghans associated, with the Najibullah regime took place in the months after his government lost power. Some killings were carried out by forces loyal to the' interim government, others by factions acting independently. In the immediate aftermath of the fall of the Najibullah regime, the central Government in Kabul was unable to control such violence.
     The former Afghan Supreme Court Justice Abdul Karim Shadan was abducted, tortured, and killed in Kabul on May 3. Other Afghans prominent in the former regime believed to have been assassinated include: Mansoor Hashmi, the Minister' of Water and Power' during the Taraki and Amin governments; Dost Mohammad, a Pushtun Army officer and former commander of the Kabul garrison; Dur Mohammad Wafakash, former governor of Badghiz; Sher* Mohammed Shuar, a Pushtun from Nangarhar province who served as PDPA (People's Democratic Republic of Afghanistan) Secretary in Nangarhar; and Abdol Ahad Wolessy, a diplomat and Najibullah's ambassador to East Germany-. In addition, other reports stated that resistance forces killed about 40 members of the former government security forces who were taken prisoner on April 30. Eyewitnesses also reported the torture and execution of a member of the former ruling party in the Ministry of interior.         .
     B- DISAPPEARANCE
     Under the Najibullah regime, Afghans opposed to Communist rule frequently
                                        53
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
  disappeared; many were killed and others imprisoned indefinitely. Under the interim Governments, some officials of the former Communist regime disappeared; some were abducted and later executed for alleged political crimes. In addition, hostage taking was common, particularly by members of rival factions. In June sectarian clashes between Sunni and Shia's factions in Kabul resulted in widespread hostage taking. Media sources reported several thousand hostages were taken, most of whom were later released, although some prisoners were reported hanged by both sides. The Government was unable or unwilling to stop hostage taking, but was reportedly able to negotiate the release of some Shia's prisoners (see Section l.g).
      C- TORTURE AND OTHER CRUEL. INHUMAN/OR DEGRADING TREATMENT OR PUNISHMENT
      Before the ouster of the Najibullah regime, torture and other forms of cruel and inhuman treatment were common. Former prisoners of Kabul's Pul-e-Charkhi prison confirmed that the Najibullah regime's torture techniques included electric shock, severe beatings, confinement of many prisoners to small cells, and psychological torture. There were also reports' of torture and ill treatment under the interim governments.
      Some reported executions took place after -inadequate legal procedures, including no right of appeal. At least.three public hangings of criminals convicted by the new Government of robbery, looting, and murder.were conducted by amateur hangmen* resulting in needless prolonged suffering. Some members of the interim governments advocated' the imposition of traditional Islamic punishments such as amputation, public lashing, and stoning for a variety of offenses.
      D- ARBITRARY ARREST, DETENTION, OR EXILE
      According to informed observers, the rule of law has broken down in most of Afghanistan. Justice is administered locally without regard to any clear legal system. Little is known about legal protections under current conditions, and it is doubtful that any uniform procedures exist for taking persons into custody and bringing them to trial. Since there have been few Western observers in Kabul since the fall of the Najibullah regime, it is impossible to provide an accurate assessment of the extent to which arbitrary arrest and detention has occurred in the Capital. There was a report of one foreign national being detained arbitrarily by Kabul authorities.
      E- DENIAL.OF FAIR PUBLIC TRIAL
      The new Rabbani Government declared its commitment to the imposition of Sharia, or Islamic law, and it appeared that the secular court system of the Wajibiillah regime was to be reorganized along traditional Islamic lines. Little is known about how these courts now operate, but there have been media reports of summary trials and punishment, including, executions. Traditional, tribal procedures probably also play a prominent role in the judicial process, particularly in areas outside the central Government's control, in many cases, these procedures constitute denial of a fair public tfiail by international standards.
                                          54
                               OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
          BOMB
VOL. 6 NO. 1
              F- ARBITRARY INTERFERENCE WITH PRIVACY, FAMILY, HOME. OR
                                     CORRESPONDENCE
      After the change of government in April, there were many instances of looting, forced entry of homes, and other.forms of arbitrary interference, some allegedly committed by forces associated with the interim governments. Much of this could be attributed to the deteriorating law and order situation and the release from jail of prisoners held on criminal charges.
    G- USE OF EXCESSIVE FORCE AND VIOLATIONS OF HUMANITARIAN LAW IN INTERNAL CONFLICTS
       Afghanistan's civilian population has borne the brunt of more than a decade of civil war. More than 1 million Afghans have died, 5 million have fled to other countries, and upwards of 1 million more are internally displaced.
       The fighting that marked the fall of the Najibullah regime and the struggle among Afghan factions for control of Kabul resulted in a large number of civilian casualties.
       In June and July, intense fighting between Shi'a and Sunni forces provoked reprisal attacks against civilians, including kidnapings, beatings, and indiscriminate shelling and rocket attacks in residential areas. This fighting left more' than 100 dead and 400 wounded in the streets of Kabul. There were reports of mass hangings of captured prisoners by both sides. The interim Government reportedly negotiated the release of'Shi'a prisoners kept in shipping containers for several days.
       In August the Hezb-i-Islami group of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar began a 3-week rocket and artillery attack on Kabul that killed as many as 2,000 people. Thousands more fled and capital to the countryside or to Pakistan. Millions of landmines sown by Soviet, regime, or resistance forces remain scattered around fortifications and roads and in the countryside. There is a U.N. sponsored program to detect and remove mines, but the devices will pose a significant hazard to civilians for years to come.
      There were continuing security problems for humanitarian assistance workers, inside Afghanistan, including attacks on convoys of relief goods and the murder in April of an International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) nurse. These problems forced most humanitarian assistance organizations to reduce their 'programs in Kabul.
               SECTION 2 RESPECT FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES, INCLUDING:
       A- FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND PRESS
     . Th6 interim governments declared that Afghans have a right to free press and free speech, but lacked the authority to protect freedom of expression throughout the country. The Rabbani Government decreed that all publications, broadcasts, and academic activities must conform to Islamic norms. It also 'announced its intention to confiscate all "un^Islamic" books, but reports on enforcement were sketchy. There are few independent newspapers or journals being
                                         55
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGIIANJEHflO                    VOL.  6 NO. 1
 mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmwmimmmmmaammmBmmmmamBmmmmaBammmmmmmmmmmm
 published in Kabul.
     President Rabbani's Jamiat-e-Islami•faction allegedly used the radio and television transmitters under its control in Kabul to further its own goals, to the exclusion of other groups. A number of faculty members from Kabul University reportedly left after the change of government in April, fearing they would be presecuted for their views or previous political affiliations.
        B- FREEDOM OF PEACEFUL ASSEMBLY AND ASSOCIATION
     The Rabbani Government made no formal statements regarding the right to peaceful assembly and association; however, it announced a ban on all non-Islamic groups.
     C- FREEDOM OF RELIGION
     .The population of Afghanistan is overwhelmingly Muslim. The interim governments have sought to promote greater adherence to strict Islamic codes of conduct.
     President Rabbani called for the protection of "life, property, honor, and prestige "for the roughly 50,000 Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan and declared their complete freedom to perform religious rituals. There were, however, numerous reports of assaults against Sikhs and Hindus during the general disorder in Kabul. Substantial numbers of Afghan Sikhs fled to India and were granted the protection of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.
     D- FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT WITHIN THE COUNTRY, FOREIGN TRAVEL,, and EMIGRATION, AND REPATRIATION
     Domestic travel remains severely constrained by wartime conditions. However, civilian travel between regions does occur, despite arbitrary checkpoints, the prevalence of mines, and unexpected outbreaks of violence. The airport was attacked several times after July and the control tower destroyed, making air travel into Kabul difficult.
     Fourteen years of fighting in Afghanistan have created the world's largest refugee population, comprised predominantly of women and children. During 1992 at least 1.1 million Afghans voluntarily returned to Afghanistan from Pakistan. Roughly 250,000 of the approximately 2 million Afghans' refugees in Iran also returned. The interim governments1 did -not appear to restrict the movement of refugees; neither did local authorities other than, in some cases, to demand payment for transit of their territory.
             SECTION 3 RESPECT FOR POLITICAL RIGHTS-.
        THE RIGHT OF CITIZENS TO CHANGE THEIR GOVERNMENT
     In late December, a Grand Council met and selected interim President Rabbani to continue as President for a period of two years. The Grand Council also reportedly selected delegates to a 200-plus member national assembly. However, a number of Afghan leaders questioned the legitimacy of the Grand
                                        56
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992       flflM Jffl/Ifl            VOL.  6 NO. 1
  Council arid the mean»s by which its members had been selected. It is unclear what steps the new Government intends to take to ensure that the political process is representative of the country's diverse ethnic and religious groups. The delegates to the Grand Council reportedly issued decrees barring the activities of un-Islamic groups, and requiring that only those "faithful to the Islamic revolution" be -appointed to government posts.
      Women traditionally have not played an active role in Afghan politics. This began to change during the decade of Communist rule. It is unclear whether women will be permitted to participate in the political process in the future-.
            SECTION 4 GOVERNMENTAL ATTITUDE REGARDING INTERNATIONAL AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATION OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF HUMAN
                                             RIGHTS
      There are no known local human rights groups in Afghanistan, and the extremely unsettled conditions in Kabul have made it difficult for nongovernmental human rights organizations to play a role in monitoring human rights issues. The ICRC was forced to withdraw its personnel working at its hospital in Kabul as a result of the' fighting in August. One organization, the Afghan League of Human Rights (which is based in Peshawar, Pakistan), condemned extrajudicial executions and appealed to the interim governments to establish the jury system to ensure fair trials and to abolish "secret special- courts" of the type that were prevalent under the Communist regime. The interim government did not respond.
   SECTION 5 DISCRIMINATION BASED ON RACE, SEX, RELIGION, LANGUAGE, OR SOCIAL STATUS
      The participation of Afgfhan women in activities beyond, the home and fields is limited by longstanding beliefs, customs, and religious practices. In the late 1950's, Afghan governments officially sanctioned a wider public role for women, and some women began working in the government and the private sector. Girls from elsewhere in the country attended secondary schools and sought admission to institutes to pursue careers, including teaching and nursing, which in some cases permitted employment in. the provinces. The' Social position -of women in areas controlled by the Communist regime •improved, and the role of women in some nontraditional occupations expanded. Whether the Rabbani Government will permit the continuation of such practices is unclear.
      The interim Government announced in May that it did not believe that Islam prohibited women's activities in political, social, and cultural spheres but that Islamic attire should be worn. There were 'reports that women wearing Western dress in Kabul were sent home- to change to traditional Islamic dress. President Rabbani later announced that wome;n may work but that they ought to do jobs that are "suitable" for them and do not violate Islamic laws. Subsequent to that declaration, reports surfaced of women being' forced from positions in various government, ministries. Women reporters on television and radio were also removed from their positions.    ,
                                          57
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992        ftfGIIANJEHAD                  VOL. 6 NO. 1
  SECTION 6: WORKER RIGHTS A- THE RIGHT OF ASSOCIATION
     There was little reliable reporting on labor laws and practices under the interim governments. No labor rallies or strikes were reported. The Government does not have the means to enforce worker rights at the present time, nor is there a functioning constitutional or legal framework which defines them.
  B- THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE AND BARGAIN COLLECTIVELY
     There is no tradition of genuine labor-management bargaining in Afghanistan. There is no information on any progress in establishing labor courts and other mechanisms for the resolution of disputes.
  C- PROHIBITION OF FORCES OR COMPULSORY LABOR
     There were no reports on government edicts regarding forced or compulsory labor, nor on its incidence.
  D- MINIMUM AGE FOR EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN
     There is no evidence that vthe Government enforces a labor law relating to the employment of children.
  E- ACCEPTABLE CONDITIONS OF WORK
     No information on any statutory minimum wage is available. Provision appears to be made for time off for prayers and observance of religious holidays. There appear to be no effective enforcement mechanisms to ensure fair and safe labor practices.
  i     Since the staff of the American Embassy in Kabul was withdrawn for
 security reasons in January 1989, the United States has no official presence in Afghanistan. This report, therefore, draws to a large extent on non-U.S. Government sources.
                                         58
 | OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 flFCHflH JfSAD VOL. 6 NO. 1 |
      THE PRELIMINARY PLAN FOR REHABILITATING ENERGY RESOURCES OF AFGHANISTAN
      As iii luck would have it# our people have still not got relieved of the miseries of war and nobody finds the ippportunity to play his due part in the practical re-construction program of the country. That is^ why no proper technical and economic program for the re-construction of Afghanistan has. come to the fore. The reconstruction of Afghanistan is a lengthy and complicated process which needs both tiuman efforts and energy resources and the task pannot be accomplished without sincere and deyoted efforts. Every step taken for putting Afghanistan on the path to ecortomic self-reliance must be firm and responding to scientific laws. Jn the first phase, it is necessary that power-supply and communication networks and transport and cbmmunication lines are repaired and re-activated besides, accomplishing other matters of iprime importance within the available resources. It is evident that the greatest role in this connection will be that of experts and the professional personnel of the country. Therefore, at this critical stage of our history, concerned and responsible people should be fully attentive to lachieve the below-stated targets.
 1.   Preventing the drain of experts and technical cadres from the country.
 2.   Bringing back the foreign based experts to the country.
 3.   Providing opportunities for enhancing the professional knowledge of experts and technical personnel.
 4.   Taking note of the economic feasibility and completion period of projects at the time of survey and feasibility studies.
 5.   Taking note of the economic feasibility and completion period of projects at planning and designing stages.
      Keeping in view the prevailing economic conditions and time factor, repair or construction of any project can be devided into four phases from engineering point of view:
      Feasibility study# planning and designing# construction# commissioning
      Afghan experts, researchers and specialists have completed a number of scientific researches for the benefit of the country in their personal
                                          59
 r
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992 MG11W1 JtHfifl                              VOL. 6 NO. 1
 capacities whiqh are of much more ; significance. It is obvious that in the present times •both construction and industrialization require modern equipment eknd advanced technical systems which direly need electricity whereas in our country the Scarcity of electric power is a great hurdle in the re~construction efforts of the country. According to scientific survey* the reconstruction of the country heeds electricity three or four times that of present requirements. This Quantity of energy must be provided for either from inside or outside the country and which is of vital importance for economic development and industrialization.               '     '
                                     \ ' .
      In Afghanistan, there are plentiful energy reserves which could be utilized
 on industrial basis i.e:             \
 (1) The crude oil reserves; (2) the national gas reservesi (3) coal mines; (4) the potential water resources; (5) solar energy; (6) wind energy.
 1               ,             •  •         .                   ’ S           ■
                    *r                              ,
      Utilization of the above-mentioned energy resources is of vital significance for the reconstruction of the country. Indulging in long scientific discussions on the issue at the present stage is beyond possibilities. However, the following index is being presented for the uplift of the energy system:
         I                         Demand  prospect
                             Research and analysis of the energy system Available capacity
                                 The present power generation system
                     The present energy generation capacity and its development
 Link                                                                 Coordination
                       The development of the present power generation system
 Planning and designing                                             Proper options
                                      The balance of capacities
                         Proper distribution of expenses on exploitation of reserves
 Planning & Design                                                     Reliability
      The value of Energy
                       i
                                    Inadequacy in the implementation of a proper Variant
                         The cost of the proper Variant
                       Proper and Economic variants toic the Improvement of Energy Systems
 $?•
                                          60
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 flfGHflNJIHflfl                         .   VOL. 6 NO. 1
      Though our country is already facing shortage of power supply yet scarcity increases when it comes to'the reconstruction of the country which includes Construction and development of cities, electrification of villages and industrial development. The issue is of enhanced significance with respect to Kabul city.' '
      The/ power consumption of Kabul city is fulfilled from the following sources:
 1.   The  Naghloo Hydro-electric Power Station:    This is a 100-megawatt power
      generating plant which at present, cannot generate more than '75 megawatts under the best favorable conditions. '
 2.   The  Mahipar Power Plant:    This hydraulic power house has a generation
      capacity of ht megawatts. However, lack of adequate water reserves of this plant subjects its power production capacity to seasonal variations. Its generation touches its peak value only for three or four months during the summer when water-reserves are high..
 3.   The  Sarobi Power Plant:  This 22-megaw.att hydro-electric power generating
      unit |reaches the peak of its generation capacity under appropriate conditions.
 4.   The  Hoodkhail Power Generating Units: It is a thermal ppwer statipn with
      the  capacity of 4% megawatts. The plant is being run by diesel but it
      is facing tremendoiis difficulties on account of acute fuel shortage and high prices.            '
 5.   The  Khair Khana Maina Power Plant: This thermal power house has the same
      characteristics as that of the Hoodkhail Unit.
      The prevailing conditions and proofs show that the Hoodkhail and Khair
 Khana plants have stopped production since some time. Therefore, the Naghloo,,
 Mahipar and Sarobi units collectively generate a total of 120' megawatts of'
 electricity. But, this quantity of power supply cannot cater to the needs of
                        .v. - %
 Kabul city with its 3.2 million population. The present generation of power
 needs to be enhanced three or four time its present capacity. Solution of this
 problem within a short span of time and under the unfavorable circumstances is
 ‘but beyond possibility. However, to offset this power shortage the following
 proposals can prove useful:
 1.   Improving the quality of the power generation.
 /
 2.   Preventing un-necessary wastage.
 3.   Proper utilization of the available electric power.
 4.   Bringing the rate of electricity at par with the rate of other energy, resources.
      However, in the long term, attention is needed to the question of energy in
                                             61
 OOTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 MilJfHflO                              VOL. 6  NO. 1
 general and electricity in particular if progress of the country and comfortable life of the people are desired. Fortunately our country is very suitable for hydro-electric power generation due to its geological structure. Research and survey show that power generation units can be ,set up on various rivers flowing in the country with the possibility of obtaining a total of 2,300 megawatts of power. Production of power of this magnitute will be by far more that our domestic requirements. This quantity o^ power will be equal to the total power generated ’in Australia in 1980 and more than one-third of that of France in the same year. These figures show that by possessing essential water potentiality due to its physical structure, Afghanistan does not come in the list of poor countries. However, tapping on these resources necessitates hectic Ondeavofs and substantial funds.
      Many .orId countries, in their individual capacity and the United Nations in general are paying special attention to this issue. Explpitation of new and rich energy resources is one of - the top priorities in the outstanding developmental plans of the United Nations. These plans particularly refer^ to construction of small hydraulic power generating units. It is quite possible that the UN aid and assistance in this connection is attracted and utilized under a well devised program. This will be a positive and attractive step towards the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
62
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 Af&HJINJtHAO                 VOL.  6 NO. 1
CAN ISLAM BE HARMONIZED WITH THE SPIRIT OF THE 20TH CENTURY
          EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the last part of a series of articles taken from the original in English entitled "Mariam Jamil a" by Sabahuddin Kushkaki which has been presented to our readers by instalments in previous issues of the "Afghan Jehad",
9
        The critics of Islam say that if Islam does not reconcile with the contemporary world, it would be obliterated. They say, you cannot put the clock back because nothing can arrest the evolution of history. Therefore, we have no other option but to reconcile our religion with the ever-changing exigencies of a society and a civilization which draw a line of distinction between the state and the religion. They say that if the Muslims want to be powerful, they should not follow the traditional interpretation of the Holy Quran and should look at it in the light of the present facts and realities because in all the reforms taking place in the Islamic states, this point is kept in consideration. Now we will discuss the most important aspects of these reforms and their impact on the Islamic society/
        This circle calls the caliphate system in the Islamic society, an antique system and regards this system as the root-cause of most of the shortcomings of the Islamic/ society. It may be added that in the caliphate system, religion and state are/hot separate from each other and all the affairs of the state are run in the light of religious values and laws and hence the leaders of the country concerned ^should not only possess sound knowledge of the technological and economic problems of their society but also have sufficient information about the principles of the Islamic Code and proper understanding of the Holy Quran.
        Opponents of the Caliphate system believe that caliphate is actually not a part of Islam because the mission of the Hol£ Prophet (PBUH) was only to convey the message of God. He was not inclined towards running the affairs of the state, but had to dp it under the compulsion of time and the circumstances prevailing at that stage. The facts of history point out that this theory is really condemnable because Islam, cannot survive without an Islamic state and the Islamic state will not survive without aii organized and coordinated leadership.
        As the modern elite and educated class regard shariat (Islamic Code) as antiquated and outdated and considers its judicial system at a lower level compared with the Western judicial systems and paint it in a despicable manner and think that only the man-made temporal * laws can guarantee the collective welfare of the society. In the eyes of this group, the penalty suggested by the
                                          63
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992          flfGIAN Jf HAD                      VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Holy Quran for sexual immorality, drinking wine, gambling or usury, is cruel and inhuman. But the point to ponder is whether the affectiveness of a law lies in its laxity? Whether a criminal deserves more mercy tti'an the society? Whether moral values will not be meaningless without the enforcement of regulations to safeguard them? Whether the people will observe the letter and spirit of the laws merely by recommendation and encouragement?
      The concept of global and international brotherhood among the Muslims transcending race, language and geographical boundaries, has always been in conflict with nationalism. Today's Westernized leaders, in order to conform with the 20th century standards* insist that the concept of Ummah (i.e. Islamic community) should be replaced with nationalism and local nationalities. Every move for ensuring concord in the policies of the Islamic world and creating solidarity among the Islamic countries, has always been assailed with anti-Islamic and nationalistic motivations, which merely lead to isolation and sowing the seed of discord among the various Muslim nations. Some of the self-complacent people and leaders, instead of taking pride in their common Islamic heritage, describe their own national history as the Golden Age and sometimes go to such an extent that in their self-conceit, they presume that Islam has deprived them of their glorious heritage. For example the Turk nationalists blame the Ottoman Emperor for imposing foreign language and culture on them. Similarly in Iran, although the Arabs introduced the religion of Islam in that land, the Iranians hate them and nurture a strong prejudice against
 them.. So" much so_that the ex-King of Iran, delinked the Iranian calendar* from
 the Islamic calendar and associated it with the old regimes of the Iranian monarchs. None of these countries have given any importance to the Arabic language, in their schools and colleges and for that reason our younger generation has been deprived of first-hand knowledge of the Islajnic texts. A number of Islamic countries such as Turkey, Malaysia and Indonesia have changed their alphabets and have adopted Latin script instead. Similarly leaders of some of the countries have not taken advantage of the concept of Hajj (Pilgrimage to Makkah) which is a pre-requisite for bringing the Muslim nations closer to each other.
                        .            ;         • r '                    '
     We, the Muslims, while learning and -utilising the Western technology, have forgotten the prime objective of economic development. Islam has severely forbidden luxurious living and extravagance whereas on the contrary, one of the consequences of blindly immitating the Western civilization is, bringing into existence a consumer society which has cast a. spell on the individual and the society and has enslaved them to the motivations of greed and avarice to the maximum extent. Modernists are so much enamored of material possessions that capital is the only standard of their vision. Due to disbelief in the Hereafter, all their attentions are devoted to physical health, sensual pleasure, luxury and abundance of wordly goods. But it, would be more advisable not to give a chance to economy and technology to divert the mind from the qiore fundamental and more important aspects of life, including fair distribution of wealth and human welfare and the,Islamic order of enjoining right conduct and forbidding indecency.
     ,In every Islamic country, those holding influential and powerful positions, in order to successfully compete with the rest of the world, insist on the
                                       64
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGHANJIHAfi                             VOL.  6 NO. 1
 adoption of all the modern norms of Western civilization. Therefore 'freedom' of the Muslim women is always considered necessary for social arid economic progress. Unfortunately, the term 'freedom1 in the jargon of these modernists means 'fashion' and wearing improper drees. Actually employment of women in such institutions where man cannot be accommodated or where mostly the female physique is of more, interest^for the owners of these organizations,, results in diverting a women's attention from the duty of looking after her family and ■
 training and educating her children.
 r w ' ' '
      Under the present circumstances, in the Islamic societies* every government encourages adoption of Western dress for the womenfolk and/Turkey has touched the limit by making it compulsory for the women to wear Western dress. For short-sighted people of this kind, the Western dress is a symbol of 'progress' and national dress, particularly worn by the villagers, is, considered a sign of 'backwardness'. As a matter of fact, ali $lfe efforts to eradicate the Islamic identity by immitating dress, architecture and life-style etc, repugnant to the Islamic way of life, tantamounts to. divergence and deviation. The Holy Prophet (PBUH) has condemned those who immitate the non-Mublims.
      What I want to say is that it is not possible to reconcile Islam with the dSviationist spirit of the twentieth century, as the modermists insist, xt is necessary for us Muslims to preserve our standards and not to distort our style of argumentation W that we may bring our religion in line with the exigencies pf the 20th century. If it be said whether it is possible to reconcile the 20th cSntury to the spirit of Islam, then we should better respond by saying that the mote we Muslims may try to 'reform' Islam, so to speak, to make it conform to the contemporary life, the more1 our religion would be weakened. We Muslims should enhance our strength solely by resisting immoral and irreligious phenomena and not by conforming tp the demand of time in all its dimensions.
      The 2dth century spirit demands that while utilizing technology and its economic principles (i.e. capitalism and Marxism) we should neglect our religious values. But while taking advantage of technical and material advancement, we Muslims should keep in mind our religion and should never allow any amendment in our religion based on the Islamic Code.
                              MISCONCEPTION OF THE MODERNISTS
      From the point of view of the Islamic society, a modernist is one who is not content with the recognized teachings of Islam and' who tries to interpret Islam in such a way as to prove that there is no contradiction between Islam and. modern civilization. Such people are Muslims in name only and view Islam from the Western angle because Consciously or unconsciously they have accepted the superiority of the Western thought(and in their opinion, whatever in Islam does not conform with the 20th century civilization, ought to be rejected,.
      We know that the international v/orld, particularly the Christian West, is anxiously concerned about us and the happenings in our countries (although we are politically independent). They are very much afraid lest in our countries, the theocratic governments, leaning heavily on pan-Islamism may renew the call for jehad (Holy War) against all the non-Muslims.
                                          65
         - t
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AFGHANJfHAO                               VOL. 6 NO. 1
      If, on the one hand, we should assure the West that we will not pose any threat to them, we should ourselves be clear in our minds as to what measures should be taken vis-a-vis the Western civilization and our future development in concord with the rest of the world.
      Mostafa Al-Maraghi, a disciple of Sheikh Mohammad Abduh and Vice-Chancellor of the Al-Azhar University in Cairo (1927-1929 and 1935-1945), expressed exactly the same opinion of the modernists in his message to some of the American Muslims s                                                                ''
    ’ ! -
      "These people have acquired their knowledge about Islam merely through
 studying books. I hope they never visit one of our Islamic countries and witness the poverty, ignorance, prejudice, bigotry and backwardness prevailing here."
      Although the modernists consider themselves as the true defenders of Islam, compared to other Muslims, but their attitude and outlook is a*distortion of the genuine Code of Islam.                            . >
      In order to correctly understand the logic and thinking of the modernists, some of their very prominent arguments are presented^ here which, if implemented, would extirpate Islam.
 1.  According to the modernists, Islam was a very "liberal", "progressive" and "rational" religion. But when the spiritual leaders, the Imanis, the jurisprudents, the traditionalists and the religious scholars game to power, Islam changed into a spiritless, undynamic, bigoted, stagnant and reactionary religion culminating in the presSnt state of weakness and ignominy. On the strength of this claim, the modernists say that the religious scholars are the source of all evil and corruption in the Islamic countries. One of them has written:
    "In every Islanjic country from Saudi Arabia to Mauritania and from Indonesia to Pakistan, the 'Muslims are struggling only for their physical survival. The Mullas consider tljie influence of the West as the cause of all this decadence, but they ignore the fact that wherever the Western influence has not penetrated, one witnesses the worst aspects of Islam. In order to be immune to all the evils faced by the Islamic World, we should change all the interpretations of the Holy Quran conveyed to us by the ulama, intellectuals and scholars. The day we learn Islam in a way that is understandable, would be the,day of Islam's deliverance. Then we can restore the lost dignity of women throughout the past 1400 years, and will be able to provide them the benefits of freedom and equality. However, such a change will come on the basis of love and attachment and not by compulsion. Thus life would be free from monotony and the beauty of Islamic essence would shine like a diamond."
      In the opinion of the modernists, the revered Islamic scholars, since the lifetime of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) till today, have totally, misinterpreted Islam and only now,' in the present age, the modernists / have been           to
 comprehend the real sense of Islam under the influence and'pressure of Western civilization. They think that eminent scholars like Imam Abu Hanifah, Imam Maalek, Imam Shaf'ei,\ Imam Ahmad Hambal, Bokhari, Moslem., Ghezali and Ibn
                                                 64
  •OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 WflHJUMP                                 VOL.  6  NO. 1
  Teymiyeh were all wrong and so long as the Muslims do not discontinue following their line and instead follow the line of leaders such as Mostafa Kamal Ataturk, they will never succeed. But they (the modernists) have forgotten that in fact the actual cause of our backwardness is our inability to implement and give practical shape to the basic tenets of -Islam, which are the fountainhead of sincerity, love, cooperation, clean living, knowledge, help and assistance, freedom and all the attributes of human life., The Muslims have been permitted t6 enjoy the material benefits in life moderately and within certain limits so that they may not be oblivious of the existence of their creator.
  2. The modernists believe that those principles ,and fundamental rules of Islam .
  which are repugnant- to the present day norms of life, should be expunged from, the rules and regulations of the modern society and should be Cancelled^ .because these set of rules belonged to the Bedouin Society of the early Islamic period' and hence do not conform With the advanced civilization of today's.world. ?hey believe .that even the basic .Islamic principles such as daily prayers, keeping' fast, paying zaka,t Aid performing..Ha j should be construed, in s.uch a, manner that total adherence.to these;tenets may not be considered obligatory.  '  :
  3. The Muslims contributed so much to the European culture in the Middle Ages :
  that without their contribution and participation, the contemporary . civilization, as we know it today, could not have come into existence* In.other, words the Western civilization is indebted to the noble values introduced by Islam. The Westerners only developed these ideas and embellished them;: However ,t. the followers of the materialist civilization have remained more truthful to the. spirit of Islam than the Muslims themselves. Hence, the modernists say, Muslims can regain their real heritage only under the circumstances .that they1.adopt thbV contemporary culture and abide by it.                                     . X
       In other words, they claim that Islam by itself has no credibility-a.s a^ permanent and distinct way of life and cannot survive- on its* own basis uhl’essV it conforms to the principles intrinsically paradoxical.
       If so, then what would be the use of preserving some part of;the IS1amid, heritage?                                                         ''
                                        67
                                                                          >
 | OCTOBERtDECENBER. 1992     MMUm VOL. 6 NO. 1 I
 FACTORS LEADING TO THE FALL OF ISLAMIC RULE IN SPAIN
 EDITOR'S NOTE: fallowing you shaXlvrread translation of an article by Mohammad Hasheml Al-Mujaddedi which was originally writ Arabic and read out in a conference on 500th anniversary of the fall of the Islamic government in
                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUSi MOST MERCIFUL
                WHY THE ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT IN SPAIN DECLINED?
       Before discussing Spain, it would be better to discuss the factors leading to the formation of the Islamic Ummah. These factors ultimately bring about glory and sovereignty for a nation and eventually the nations seeking religious faith, progress, welfare and security resort to them. Whenever these factors become weak or extinct, the Muslim nationsl face hardships and history bears witness to such a happening. These factors are as follows:
  1- Firm belief in God Almighty and His Oneness. Islam invites man to faith in the, one .and only God Almighty, as explained in’Surah Ikhlass:- "Say: He is Allah the one: Allah the eternally Besought of all. He begetteth not nor was begotten. And there is none comparable unto Him."
       Allah has no parallel and is the creator of all the universe and is eternal. All the things in the world ultimately become extinct except Allah, the ■ omnipotent and the omnipresent. No one can harm or grant benefit unless God wills so. All the creatures worship Allah and thank Him for His blessings.
       Undoubtedly, faith in God and His oneness, is the fountainhead of unanimity and peace of mind as well as solidarity of the Islamic Ummah. It reinforces the feelings df - brotherhood, mercy and kindness to each' other. Indeed if we are deprived of the fear of God and the belief that life and death or profit and loss are subject to the Divine Will,' there is no doubt that we will lose faith in the endeavor to spread the word of God and to resist a tyrant and 'to invite the people to goodness and to check the evil.
                                                     •       i  ‘ '    *  .    \
  2- Firm belief in the prophethood of.Hazrat Mohammad (PBUH), the last prophet of-God, who was assigned the duty to lead humanity on thp path of righteousness, to rid them of ignorance and to guide them towards enlightenment and to teach them the Holy Qur.aii and the Divine knowledge.
                                       68
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 AfGIIAttJfHAO                             VOL. 6  NO. 1
       "Even as We have sent tunto you a messenger from among you, who reciteth -unto you^'Our revelations and causeth you to grow and teacheth you the scripture and wisdom, and teacheth you that whifih ye knew not." (Surah Al-Bakarah- Verse No.151)
       The Holy Prophet was assigned the duty to ensure purity of thought and action in the world and' to enact a code of ethics i.e. shari'at on the basis of Divine Revelation, in order to guarantee the blessings of this world and hereafter to the entire mankind.
       There is no doubt that if human beings worship one creator and follow one Holy Prophet, (PBUH) malice' and hatred will be eliminated from the human hearts, to be replaced by love arid goodwill. Thus all mankind will devote their attention to the betterment of the world and will become pious servants of God, who is the creator of the entire universe, whatever exists on the earth and the space and all the creatures of the world and has absolute power over all.    .*
       Faith in the great Prophet who laid the foundation of a comprehensive order for teaching the Book of God and the Divine knowledge and for purifying our hearts and minds. This social order has clearly determined the rights and obligationfs of each and every individual in the society. By comprehending and understanding these rights and obligations, man is enabled to perform the duties of the Divine Vice-gefent on earth. It goes without saying that the Islamic society consists of men and     women, having a leader and a follower. Islam calls
  this isociety as an Ummah. Irt the words of the Holy Quran:-        ^
       "Ye are the best community that hath been raised up for mankind. Ye enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency, and ye believe, in Allah..." (Surah Al-e-Imran: Verse No.110)
              A-WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THE TERM UMMAH
      The Islamic Ummah, described as the best community,    is not confined      to a
 specific place or a country  but covers the entire world.' It comes to stay      in a
 region where the Divine commands are implemented and taking rpot there it grows and develops in such a manner.as to envelop the entire earth.
      This Ummah is duty bound to propagate the fundamental principles of Islam arid to rid humanity from the misleading worship of the men-made gods and to invite them to worship the one and only God Almighty and to call upon them to follow the Islamic Code (Shariat) announced by the best creature of God who is 'the last Prophet sent by Allah to this world. This invitation to Islam should be made in a decent, logical, soft-spoken and attractive manner. ButK; when the Opponents may raise an obstacle in 'the path, the ummah is obliged, to frustrate , the sinister designs of the opponents firmly and keep the path open . for religious invitation by sincere effort arid visionary approach but it is never allowed to compel anyone to give up his or her religion under compulsion.
1     The Islamic Ummah is. composed of such people who. have come together under
 the influence of a healthy and positive belief and.cannot be influenced by the
                                       69
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992 MfitlAN                                  VOL. 6 NO. 1
  difference in color, language, origin or family background. When people come together pn the basis of race or language or tribal connections without sharing a common belief, most probably, they develop differences and disputes, particularly when they fall under the influence of their selfish ambitions and deviate from the true faith and belief and thus often enjoy the support of foreigners who are always on the lookout to damage the glory and statute of the Muslims throughout the world.
                    B- UMMAH IS A COLLECTION OF INDIVIDUALS
       Allah has created the hunfan beings in the best manner. "Surely we created man of the best stature" (Surah Al-Tinr Verse No.4.)
       The Almighty’decided to hand over the affairs of the entire universe to man and allow him to take desired initiatives to use the creatures of the earth to his own benefit and exploit the hidden and known natural resources and to change and alter various earthly elements to his advantage. Allah has given him the ability to comprehend the assence of the Laws of Nature and acting and God' s vice-gerent, subdue all the other creatures for the betterment and development of the Earth and bring into being a blessed, justice-loving and God-fearing Islamic Ummah.                  < .
       "And (bethink you of) the day when We raise in every Nation a witness against them of their own folk and We bring thee (Mohammad) as a witness against there. And .We reveal the Scripture unto thee as an exposition of all things and a guidance and a mercy and gpod tidings for thgse who have surrendered Oio Allah)v" (Surah An-Nahl. Verse No.89)
       On the other hand, the Holy Prophet has forbidden his followers ^rbni ; inflicting tyranny and harming others on usurping others ' due rights.,;**^ilah' 6as • permitted the Ummah'-to forestall the cruelty of the tyrants and has threatened the tyrants with dire punishments.
       "The way (of blame) is only against those who oppress mankind and wrphgfqlly rebel in the £arth. For such there is a painful doom."( Surah Ash-Shuta: Verse-42).
    " The Islamic Code believes in individual freedom which is firmly based on . respecting' others, freedom and the Divine commands. No one has the right to harass others or to transgress their rights or destroy their property. A Muslim should observe a decent Islamic behavior and hot only injure the feelings of an Islamic society but also should not adopt an insulting posture towards the beliefs of the religious minorities and besides should be careful to observe the modes of dress and manners of the society in general and ;be dressed properly. This ■rinciple applies to both men and women equally.
      Every M'oslim ought to be sincere to the Islamic Ummah, None should sell the ^ domestic xr0fUcts to the enemies of Islam unless such products are surplus, and moreover do not strengthen the hands of the enemies. The rich and the scholars are obliged to provide financial and intellectual assistance to the fellow members in the Islamic society. The rich and wealthy should first of all keep in
                                       70
                                                                                       VOL. 6 NO. 1
  vievr theVfe^                  own  society and so long as these requirements are
  not fulfilled, should not invest or spend them outside the Islamic region.
  ' Now let us .discuss the obligations of . individuals in a, society, particularly those rights and obligations which are the targets of the enemies of Is lath who would like to take advantage of them without caring to know the philosophy, the logic and the rational of such rights and obligations and inter alia mislead some of the lesser informed ones. Islam has given special rights to each of the men and the women in our society and has conferred certain obligations to them. Here I would- like to throw light on the rights and obligations of each sex, which has been elaborated in the Holy Quran in the Surah Momeneen. A man has an independent personality and can own a property and benefit from it. He can marry the one of his own choice and according to the Divine Law and has the right to be protected by the state. Or the other hand he is obliged to pay Zakat arid charities and to fulfil the needs of the family and avoid any injustice to his wife and children and be a model to them. Besides he should not be a source of inconvenience to his neighbors and other members of the society and avoid transgressing their moral arid material rights.
       A woman also has a special and independent personality in the society and shpuld preserve the same.. At home, a woman has certain responsibilities towards her husband and should riot indulge in anything which may harm.the prestige of the family and in the meantime keep contact with her own kith and kin.
       For example, Hazrat Khadijatul Kubra and Hazrat Ayesha and all other wives of the Holy Prophet* (PBUH) retained their names and their own family surnames, despite their marriage with the best person of the human race, i.e. Hazrat Mohammad Mostafa (PBUH).
       A woman in the Islamic society has the right to choose her spouse according to her own . choice and her parents or patrons cannot force and. compel her to accept someone, against her will, as her husband.                   1
  . A group of Islamic scholars except a famous scholar named Muslim, state that Khousa daughter of Khuzam Ansari, when she became widow* was wedded to someone by her father without her consent. She did nofc like this arrangement and complained to the Holy Prophet (PBUH) who declared this wedding illegal.
       Abu Dawood and Ibn-e-Majah have qiio'ted; Ibn .Abbas as saying that another girl, who was a virgin and whose father;had arranged a wedding for her which she did not like, complained to the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and the Holy Prophet Supported her   and declared that she  had the right        to accept or reject a match.
 But one thing  should be noted that   all these actions should take place        within
 the framework of the Islamic Code. There is no objection to the meeting of men and women to assess each other’s personal character and thoughts provided suqjh a meriting or exchange of • idea-s takes         the presence of  one ; of the -family
 members.                                                  -
    .• The non-Muslims have always played Islam from this angle that it has given
 the right of   divorce unilateraliy    to /the man.          This shows that the  above
                    criticism is the offshoot of'their lack of information regarding the Islamic way
                                        71
OCTOBER-DECEMBER
   OC-TOBEfl-DECEMBER. 1992          RfCHAtt il[HAfi
   of divorce.
        First of all it should be clearly understood that every pious'and faithful Muslim believes- firmly that divorce is undoubtedly the most unwanted and undesired situatipn and one should not have a recourse to it except when all the other doors for reconciliation are closed and mediation and arbitration by relatives and friends do not prove fruitful and domestic life has been miserable. The question is, whether such a life or continuation of such an existence would be conducive to a favorable social or individual life? Or would it be better if the bond be severed and each one of the couple should lead a life without tension and bitterness. Under the circumstances the sacred bond of wedlock does not retain its due strength and is broken. After the divorce, Islam contains clear instructions for the protection and upbringing of their children and commands the husband to provide financial help to the minor children, so long as they attain adulthood and become independent. In the meantime, he has to provide financial help to thp divorced spouse for a certain period according to the rules of the Islamic Code. Even during seperation, Islam enjoins respectful behavior towards each other.
    v The topic of bigamy ig another subject being unduly played up by the Westerners. The history of hjuman life bears witness to the fact that, sometimes owing to wars and disturbances, the number of widows and unmarried womengoes up and creates a social problem. Therefore in order.to check and control any sexual deviations among men and women as well as to balance the male and female sex level in the society, it would, be fair to allow bigamy .under certain rules and. regulations. Thus one can avoid sexual disorder and immorality. Pitiably, those societies which do not allow such arrangements, are- faced with such evils and malignant and fatal diseases which cause much damage to.the. world population. The latest US official data) reveals that the number of people suffering inburable sex diseases in the states has reached 43 million. This is a country which claims leadership of the world. Besides one should know that sexual debauchery and violation of the Divine Laws lead to. serious and fatal diseases including the AIDS which destroys body resistence and culminates in death.
        A^ woman in the Islamic society has the riglft to pursue higher studies,’• particularly those subjects which may be useful in her daily life and be helpful in her daily chores. She is a member of the Islamic society and has the very important duty of -bringing up the next generation and is a source of contentment for the menfolk and helps and assists him in performing his duties.- Therefore the genuine and prim©- duty pf a women is being a good wife and a good mother. A mother in her own self is an institution and a school for the training, of the' young generation. Hence there is no need to assign her the duties of the masculine gender while she is already performing such a; great role.. She can •pursue higher studies in gynaecology, child education, home economics,' interior ' d.ecoratiort, handicrafts, management of orphanages (for girls), girls' schools and colleges, kindergartens and child care centers etc, because these subjects'; afe suitable for women folk*
    • It is indeed surprising that some Muslims and otherss criticize the female share of inheritance which is equal to half*the male share* They should first have a look at the laws of the lands where woman are even today deprived of. the
                                          72
                                                 VOL. 6 NO. 1 mmmmmmmmmmam
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992           AfCIliiNJIHllIl                 VOL. 6 NO. 1
  right of inheritance and so much so that all the minor children are deprived of this right, qualifying only the (eldest son to inherit father's or parents' property, in toto. But if we minutely study the Islamic Law in this regard, we find a complete balance in inheritance. The property that a brother and his wife are entitled, is equal and proportionate to the property inherited by his sister in the company of her husband.
       Islamic Law does not allow the father or the owner of the property to apportion more than one-third of his property, in his final will for any charitable or literacy organisation or fund etc, so that his issues may not be deprived of the inheritance. If all members of the Islamic society follow the Islamic -Code to its letter and spirit, there is no doubt that the Islamic society would become an ideal society and will regain its past glory and prestige.                                             ■
   C- RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE NON-AFGHANS IN ISLAMIC SOCIETY
       As Islam does not believe in compulsion with reference to religion, therefore an Islamic st^ate consists of a considerable number of non-Muslims who have neither raised any obstacle in the path of Islamic preachings nor’have they accepted Islam but continue    their normal life as Ahl-e-Zemmah (or minority
  community) under the protection of Muslim rulers. So lorig as they do not violate any of the rules pertaining to the minorities, they lead a peaceful and secure life by retaining their privileges and performing their traditional customs and ceremonies. The Holy Prophet (PBUH) advised decent behavior towards such people in these words, as quoted by Ibn-e-Massood. /
       "Whoever harasses a member of the minority community, I shall personally see to it that on the Day of Resurrection, he is duly chastised".
       Islam does not force anyone to give up his/her religion. On the contrary it gives everyone complete freedom to decide for himself/herself which of the religions to adopt.   Islam    ordains every Muslim to preach     Islam to the
  non-Muslims in soft and sweet and sincere words and treating them decently and' good mannerly. The biggest proof of this claim' «is the presence of a number of non-Muslims in the Islamic countries who have been living in these lands since the early days of Islam.
      The minorities    in an     Islamic state enjoy the rights  of se.curity,
 participation* in all  types of economic activities, freedom of profession and
 trade including establishment of companies and industries which may not impair the interests of the society. They can preserve their places,of worship existing since the pre-Islamic era and nobody has the right to create any hurdle in the path of their religious rites or trample their rights or insult them. Some of the drinks and eatables which are forbidden for the Muslims, are allowed fbr them and they may sell and buy these things in their own community, taking care not to injure Muslim feelings. They cannot sell the ham or religiously unlawful eats or drinks in the open or eat and drink the same in public. They ought to be loyal to the Muslims and should not indulge in any treachery or communicate the secrets of the Muslims to the enemies ,of Islam. They should not be a party to any anti-Islamic government or anti-Muslim conspiracies.
                                       73
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AFGHAN JtHAfl                               VOL.  6 NO. 1
       As the Muslims perform their religious duties by paying Zakat and charities and if needed, participate in the holy war (jehad) to defend their countrythe non-Muslims are excused from such duties due to their religious beliefs- end instead they are required to pay a nominal tax to the Public Treasury called "jaziah" in the Islamic Code. In return the Islamic government is obliged to defend their lives and properties and provide them a peaceful -end secure environment to land a prosperous life.
       The religious minorities consist of the jews, the Christians and the, zaroastrians. But Islam to some extent differentiates between those communities possessing a heavenly book and those who do not. The Holy Prophet (PBUH) says about the Zoroastrians:
       "Treat them as a community possessing a Heavenly Book, but do riot eat an; animal slaughtered by them and do not marry their womenfolk."
       The Holy Prophet (PBUH) has many a isime laid stress on mercy arid mercifuL, attitude towards all the human beings. Thus the flusliras .have been ordered to treat the rion-MUslims in an Islamic country and all other non-Muslims.who have no hostility against the Muslims and even those fighting against the Muslims, in a humane manner and with human compassion.
                                           D- BROTHERHOOD
       In order to create goodwill and understanding among the members of a community and evolve a blissful environment it is essential to infuse the spirit of love, affection, benevolence and compassion of a high order among them. Therefore the Holy Prophet' (PBUH) after his migration to Medina, established: brotherly relations between the refugees and the locals called the "Mohajar"arid 'Ansaar'. Islam has addressed the Muslims as brothers so that they should be fused together into onle common entity. Brethren in religion are preferred over
 brotherhood in race or caste. The spirit of brotherhood can blossom among all the members of a community only when there exists a common bond of ideology, unanimity of opinion and harmony in thought vis-a-vis the life of man On earth. That is why Islam teaches the idea of love for God and fight for the sake of . Allah, to its followers. The Holy Prophet says:    "You  will be considered  truly
 faithful only when you like the same thing for your brother what you like for yourself." Allah has ordained in the Holy Quran^                     *
       "The believers are naught else than brothers. The^ejfjgrje. make peace between your .Brethren and observe your duty to Allah that( happily may obtain mercy". (Surah Al-Hujurat, Verse-10).
        ■i                         •
      It is quite obvious that when a man reaches such a level ;of brotherhjood that whatever he likes for himself, he may like the same for his brother too, he will never, do anything which may be harmful to his brother. He will" respect his rights, protect his honor and property, create an atmosphere of. peace and cordiality, promote friendly feelings and will try to remove differences, if apy, between the two brothers. A Muslim feel9 happy when Ijii brbther Muslims are happy and prosperous and feels sad when they are miserable. A. brotherhood based
   OCTOBER-DECE^BER. 1992 AfGIIANJfHAfl                            VOL. 6 NO. 1
   mmmmmmmmmm/kmammtammmmmmmmmammmmmmuaimmmmammammmmmmmmm.
   on sincerity and honesty of purpose and faith in God, forestalls all kinds of contradictions and injustices. As a Muslim believes that God Almighty is omnipresent and observes his character and behavior, rewarding for the good deed and punishing for the bad one, his conscience Is awakened and makes' himself I accountable jto his own self before being accountable to others. The Holy Prophet says: "Muslims are like parts of one body and if one part has pain, all the other parts feel the pain."
        For this reason, if a Muslim leaves his home to take part in the ho^ly war or to perform the pilgrimage or to do business, he can do so with peace of mind, knowing that his neighbors’; will protect his family, and house, like brothers.
                            E- GUARDIAN. CALIPH, CHIEF OR RULER
        In order to maintain law and order, it is essential that> in an Islamic society, such a person should hold the reins of power who has the welfare of the entire community.near his heart;' is determined to defend the, Islamic territory and is willing to enfote the.Divine Code. Such ah authority who may be addressed by any of the above titles or aby other worthy title, ought to be selected by ;bhe best people in the society and should be elected by people of good repute. Besides, he must be pious, conscientious, wide awake, learned, efficient, politically influential, intelligent and mature.
        A caliph in Islam is sometime selected in consultation with the Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-Wa-Aqd (Council of Trustworthy and Knowledgeable Muslims) and sometimes from amongst an lelite circle of persons well qualified for the job and with the consensus of the circle.
        The selected one should not consider himself distinct from others and at the same time should not discriminate among his subjects. He has to do his best to ensure welfare for all and see to it that arrangements are made to provide all the necessities of life including communications, electricity, water, medicine, educational facilities, jobs, livelihood, scientific and technological advancement etc. to the entire populace. He should not consider himself superior to others and his doors should be open to the visitors. He should help old people, widows and orphans whether Muslims or members of minority community from the public treasury. He should establish a social security fund.
        The second caliph Hazrat Omaf Ibn Al-Khattab (Allah Bless His Soul) saw an old and blind poorman. He asked him about his religious belief* The man replied -that he was a Jew. The caliph said:• •
        "What is the cause of   your plight?" He replied; "I am , asked          to pay
   "Jaziyah  (minority tax) and  besides I ;sm f>obr and old.11 Hazrat Omar took him to
  his house and gave him some f inancia'l help. Then he’ introduced him to the Public Treasurer   and said: "Please consider his case     and-others like him. It is indeed
  injustice   that in his youth we tax him and in     old age abandon him•" Then Hazrat
                   Omar ordered that he and others like him should be exempted from paying "Jaziyah" and instead they should be given sufficient old-age benefit from thfe
  Public Treasury so that they may not find any need to beg *
                                        75
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGllflNJfi/lfl ,                        VOL.  6 NO. 1
       On the other Rand the people too are obliged to obey the Muslim caliph as they obey their God and the Holy Prophet, because theQ he can enforce the Law of God and keep law and order in the country.
                                   F- SHOORA (ASSEMBLY).
       Shoora is one of the basic organs of the state in Islam. God Almighty has said r -
       "... and consult with them upon the conduct of affairs." (Surah Al-e-Imran: Verse-159).  '■
    “The Islamic society is based on Shoora:
       "... and whose affairs are a matter of counsel".., (Surah Ash-Shoora: Verse 38).               *.
       But Shoora, from the Islamic point of view, is quite different from the commonly known shoora (Assembly or Parliament) of today. Today a parliament or an assembly is formed on party basis or affiliation to a certain group and for the election of its members, huge expenses are made. But Islamic shoora ought to be composed of persons possessing noble human characteristics and piety. They should be well versed in the Book of God and the; traditions of the Holy Prophet and the character of the companions of the Holy Prophet. They should not fear anyone except God. They should be wise and,be always in search of safeguarding the interests of the common man.
       From Islamic viewpoint, the elector or voter also should be wise and intelligent and be able to appreciate the needs of the nation. He.should be well versed in the Islamic Code, be pious and should prefer the national interest over his private, personal or party interests.
      The shoora is duty-bound to control the deeds and functions of the state functionaries and keep them on the right track and guide them towards public welfare. It should concentrate on new happenings and new occurences and enact or suggest solutions for such problems on the basis of the Islamic Code and the Holy Quran. The authorities should be accountable to it without any personal or status . consideration. The Shoora cannot enact any law repugnant to the Divine commands and traditions of the Holy Prophet.
      The basic Islamic criterion is that every Muslim has a duty to check the behavior or performance of another Muslim and should as far as possible discourage deviation from the right path. In the words of the Quran
      "Ye are the best community that hatth been raised up for mankind. Ye enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency and ye believe in Allah..." (Surah* Al-e-Imran: Verse-110).
 6- UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES IS FIGHTING AGAINST MUSLIMS PERMISSIBLE?
                   The Islamic Ummah is required to lead a peaceful life. The Islamic rulers are restrained from invading another Islamic country. Sometimes it happens that
                                      76
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 MGIIANJH                                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
 differences emerge between two Muslim groups which may lead to a fight between them due to weakness in religious faith or instigation by the enemies of .Islam or temporal temptations or ambitious considerations and self aggrandisement, in this regard the following injunction of the Holy Quran is noteworthy.
                                                               ' 1
       "And if two parties of believes fall to fighting, then make peace between them. And if one party of them doeth wrong to the other, fight ye that which doeth wrong till it* return into the ordinance of Allah; then, if it return, make peace between them justly, and act equitably,                  Allah  Loveth the
 equitable." (Surah Al-Hujurat. Verse-9).
       Therefore the Reconciliation Committee has the duty to keep in view the standards of justice in conciliation and arbitration. But if it feels any animosity towards the resurgent group, it should avoid arbitration under this condition so that it may riot be led astray by its sentiments and may ndt be unfair and unjust. In the words of the Holy Quran.
       "O you who believe. Be steadfast witnesses for Allah in equity, and let not hatred of  any people reduce you that ye deal    not justly. Deal justly, that is
 'nearer to your duty. Observe your duty to Allah.    Allah is informed of  what ye
 do." (Surah Al-Maidah: Verse: 8)
       If non-Muslims resort to aggression against the Muslims, the entire Islamic Ummah is   dutybound      to help the1 aggressed and to collectively repel the
 aggressor.  As today     unfortunately there does not exist a single and   unified
 Islamic Caliphate and the Islamic Ummah is divided in big and small nations and states, it is suggested that an Assembly of representatives of all the Islamic countries with equal rights and without^ any discrimination should be formed to protect the unity of these countries and to ensure cooperation among them. This Assembly or organisation should undertake the responsibility of ensuring security for all the countries and its decision based on the will of the majority should be applicable and enforceable on all the member countries. This organisation should possess an armed force to be able to repel an aggressor.
      When we cast a look at the Islamic history, we find that the vast size of,a state, its expansion, existence of a peaceful atmosphere, industrial progress, prosperity a!nd prestige and all other attributes are indebted to the application of the Sharia'at (the Islamic Code) in its social life. Any fluctuation in its social life is positively subject to adherence or non-adherence to the Mohammadan Code of Law.
 .       i                                                                  ■ . .
      Now in the light of the basic elements of: the Islamic ummah described above, we ponder.over the history of Spain, which gives birth to contradictory feelings. On the one hand, one feels•immense pride in the glory of Islam and on the other feels a pang of frustration’“and despondency owing to the "absence of responsibility and commitment among the Muslims for having lost the glory arid majesty of the Islamic Ummah.
      When the Muslim rulers of, Spain abided by the laws of Islam and the citizens followed the commands of the Islamic Code, this country was like a paradise on earth; It was a model of culture and civilization, a center of
                                         77
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992           flffillllNJfHAfl             \ VOL. 6 NO. 1
  education, a Nucleus of scholars, an epicenter of researchers, a \cradle of justice and a beacon of light in the Age of Darkness.
       It is indeed beyond imagination that Muslims benefitted from Morocco where the Berbers lived steeped in ignorance or flourished in Spain (Andalusia) where the backward Europeans with a deep hatred for learning and knowledge led a life of superstition and ignorance. In this Age of Darkness^ the Muslims preached Islam and enlightened their minds |-Lth the Divine commands and proved - to the world at large that the followers of this religion are the torch^b/earers of learning and wisdom and avant-garde of new thoughts and innovations.• Although the diehard orientalists with their deep-seated rancour against Islam and their westernised insensible disciples read all these things in the Islamic history but do not have the moral courage to admit' the greatness of Islam. Inspite of the fact that they find( (Spain one of the most 'civilized and most advanced nations  in               that period,1 they  try  to disregard its main cause and      the
  fountainhead of enlightenment.
       The Muslims after conquering Spain could not find any treasure of knowledge to translate in their own language and to benefit from 4-1, except the teachings of the Holy Quran and Traditions of the Holy Prophet. One remembers the , feats performed by Abdur Rahman Al-Dakhel (752-758) who with hKs unshakable faith in Allah, changed the history of this region. During his 33 years of rule, inspite of military expeditions for the establishment of an Islamic government, laid the foundations of such a civilization there that blossomed into an ideal country in that region. The Muslims ndmed it Andalusia which means the line of demarcation between  the age-old ignorance                and   the Islamic civilization. Indeed    the
  disintegration of  the Islamic Empire              in that land and the. rfeadbption of the
  ancient name by the. Christians was a turning point in its history leading it to decadance and degradation.
       Under -these circumstances, the Omayyad Islamic Empire was established in this region which was blessed with unprecedented peace and tranquility, lasting for 127 years. The reign of Abdur Rahman Akbar Ba Nasser (91?-96l AD) can be termed as the pinnacle of growth. He decided to construct the grand mosque and ^Islamic center bhere so that a large number of students who came from distant areas to Cardova, the capital city and the fountainhead of learning, could be accommodated in this institution and could benefit from the newly acquired culture, civilization and amenities provided by the Islamic government. He selected   the              most suitable place for this purpose, but in this area Vinzens
  cathedral was situated. He contacted the^custodians and expressed his desire to build a mosque there. The custodians agreed and were ready to hand .over the place of worship without any compensation. But he did not. agree and paid one hundred thousand dinars which is equivalent to five million GermanMarks today. Although the caliph could forcibly occupy the same or accept their offer yet tfe wanted to show the Islamic chivalry vis-a-vis the non-Muslims and the extent of regard and respect of the Muslims towards the worship places of the non-Muslims. Therefore it was demolished and its debrisl was handed over to the custodians concerned so that they may use it for renovating or repairing their other places of worship. On the contrary, after the disintegration of the Islamic Empire in that land, the Christians demolished the mosque without paying any compensation and replaced it with their own church and massacred the Muslims or forced 'ithem
                                          78
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 x AfGIIANtlEHAfi                         VOL.  6  NO. 1
  to flee or compelled them to become christrians. This is the difference between Islamic tolerance and Christian bigotry. They showed the same bigotry and cruelty towards the jews, too. Yet it is surprising that today the Christians are supporting Israel’and Zionism in Jerusalem against the Muslims. Salahuddin Ayubi, after regaining Jerusalem, said to the great crusader King Richard, the Lion Heart',1 "You should know that Jerusalem is the holy city of the Muslims because it was from here that our Holy Prophet (PBUH) attained ’Meraj* ascension, to Heaven) and the angels encifcled this place. Hence the Muslims are dutybound to protect the Dome of /the Rock and the Al-Aqsa Mosque".
       When we compare the attitude of the Muslim rulers towards the Christians in iSpain\during the Islamic rule, with the attitude of the Christians, subsequent to the' fall,of the\ Islamic government, towards the Muslims, history is a witness to the fact that the Christians!under the Islamic rule, enjoyed complete freedom of religion and took advantage of all the civic amenities. Their places of woiship, homes and life and prbperty were safe and immune. But on the contrary, when the Christians' dominated the land, they destroyed all the mosques and schools of the Muslims and ruthlessly slaughtered those who stead-fastly pursued their Islamic beliefs. But despite all their atrocities against the Muslims and all their efforts to eradicate the religion of Islam, they could not entirely deface Islamic relics or root not Islamic belief. Today historic sites and rfelics pf the Islamic era in Spain are not only a matter of pride for Spain but for all the European   continent. The Al-hamra Palace in Grenada and the historic
  relics discovered in   Cardova Palace and Ishlalia, are a source of wonder to the
  visitors of Spain.
       Prom 752 to 1009 AD, during a span of nearly four centuries, art and science blossomed. In this period, the neighboring regions of Spain, across the mountains, lived like barbarians and thought that the Muslims were assisted by, the devil and were magicians. But later on when the truth dawned on them, they .rushed'to the Islamic universities and academies yearning for Islamic wisdom and knowledge. This state of affairs continued for about 800 years, even when Spain was divided into small provinces. Moreover this condition existed during the reign of Bann Ebad in Cardova and Shahelia and in Granada during the rule of Banu Nasr, too. Regretfully the religious motivation among the rulers had declined and  consequently learning, civ^c sense, and military     power showed a
  downward trend and in the reign of   Mansoor Mohammad Ibn Ali  Amer touched   the
  bottom. Then sparks     of enmity and vengeance flew among the Muslims and    the
  Christians and seeds of turbulence and turmoil sprouted jamong the Muslims and they fell ^ prey to debauchery. Ths Christians and the Christian maid-servants fanned their lust-for power. Struggle for power creaped into the rank and file of the Ommayyed Dynasty and continued till 1031 AD. In the same year the Caliphate in Cardova was declared null and void by Abdul Valeed Bin Jahoor and the country   was divided  in  different parts, each part         clamoring for
  independence  and jumping  at  each other's throats. Under          these chaotic
 .conditions the Spaniards raised the banner of insurgency and taking advantage of disunity among the Muslims, marched victoriously onwards and Francois VI ;conquered Talitalah in 1085 AD and with the fall of Telitalah, one-fourth of Spain (the Islamic Andalusia) was lost for ever.
      After a   short while, the Muslim »' leaders felt the imminent danger of
                                       79
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992          AfGHflNJfHAD                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
 annihilation due to their own weakness then, they had no other option but to seek help of the Murabutah     or  Al-Moravids in Morocco. Hence     they sought th4
 assistance of Yousuf Bin Tashfin who led an army to Spain in 1086 A.D. and stopped the advance of    the Christian soldiers.  Thereafter assuming that the
 Muslim leaders in Spain   had learnt a lesson and  would gird up their loins to
 work unitedly for the Islamic cause, he left for Mdrocco.
      Once again the Muslim leaders of Spain sought his assistance and he returned to Spain for the second time. This time he clearly understood that the Muslim leaders of , Spain were not fighting for the glory of Islam but for protecting their own small states which they called independent states. So after establishing peace and    tranquility, he_sought    a promise   from the tribal
 chieftains not to indulge in internecine struggles7~Thereafter he went back to Morocco. But in a short while he got wind of the Christian malafides and hastily returned to Spain. There he dismissed the tribal Chiefs in 2190 AD and brought the remaining parts of Andalusia under the Al-Moravid flag. Thereafter Spain wa^ed a great holy war against the enemies and repulsed the severe attacks of tbq Christians and shifted the capital from Cardova to Ishbelia. Al-Moravids responded to the call of the rulers of Sargat who belonged to the Beni Hood tribe^. but due to internecine warfares, the Beni Hood were defeated.
      The Murabatah remained in Spain till the coming into power of Mowahideen or Almohads in Morocco. The Mowahideen arrived in (Spain in the year 1160 A.D. and curbed the turmoil .of some of the leaders; in that region. Abdul Momen Ibn Ali, one of* the elders of the Mowahideen became the ruler of iSpain and appointed members of his dynasty in the provinces and shifted the capital from Ishbolia to Cardova, the center of Empire but sopn after again reverted to Ishbelia.
      Abdul Momen Ibn Ali extended the territory of Spain to the great valley canal and Belnessyah canal. In the reign of Abu Yousuf Yaqoob Al-Mansoor the third Mdwahedeen caliph (1184-1199 AD), the Christians under the leadership of Fonso, leader of Kasht^lah conducted a large scale invasion. Al-Mansoor defended his Kingdom valiently and succeeded in repelling the attack; In the battle of Dalafk, one of the famous historical battles, he defeated Fowso and forced him to flee. After this ignominous defeat, the Christian aggressions and invasions reduced considerably and the territory under the Almohad rule* . expanded from Tripoli to the seh *coast and in the ‘north from the valley canal to the' great valley canal in Spain and upto the veraa valley in Africa.
      When Ibh (Mansoor came to power, again the struggle for power among the local leaders reached its climax, because he/did not possess his father's acumen and statesmanship. On the ' other hand, a group of the Murabateh known as Bani Ghassia tried to regain its lost power. These differences weakened the cehteri of the Almohads and tempted the Christians once again to attackAndalusia.Fohso II, with the patronage of the Pope, mobilized' a large army; and challenged the military might of the. Almohads. Mohammad Al-Naseer rose to the occasion and mobilized an army mainly composed of Helali Arabs. But disputes among the
         Andalusian leaders and the' Almohads on the one hand and lack of military training and ignorance of strategy in war against the Christians on the other, culminated in the defeat of Mohammad Al-Nasser in the Battle Al-Oqab. Later,
                                       80

 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 WMIlIM                                     y0L.  6  NO. 1
 especially after the death of Mohammad Al-Nassar the Fourth Mowahedeen Caliph, the Almohad Empire declined. Meanwhile the           brothers of Al-Nasser started a
 fatricidal war to occupy the seat of the Caliphate Abul Ala the ruler of Audalusia, disregarding the designs of the enemies, left for the capital of Morocco. The enemies jumped upon the opportunity. Catlonia and Argon concluded a treaty and jointly attacked the eastern region of. I Spain under the Muslim sway and occupied it in 1237 A.D. The small Muslim states of Balnissa, Mercia, Almaria and              Melka were silent spectators to this tragic episode without
 realising that one day they will face the same destiny.
      In 1248 A.D. King Argon, with the endorsement of the Pope, declared crusades as the Holy and Blessed War against the Muslims of‘Spain and Katshala joined them.  They adopted a joint strategy and attacked and occupied Cardova and
 Belnissa as       well as the areas  around them   in the   east of Andalusia. The
 ^Christians on the west of Andalusia took advantage of the said dissensions among the Muslims and occupied shalb, Faro and Western Saint Marya. Now the Muslims lost everything in the west of Spain and were confined in the eastern part upto the south of the great valley.
      The consecutive defeats, at the hands of theiChristians, shook the Muslims and made them ponder over their plight. Consequently a leadership emerged among them. Mohammad Ibn Yousuf Ibn Ahmad Ibn Nasr in (Jian came to the fore, with a deep sense of Islamic glory and gathered together all the Muslims of the region. The defeated forces also rallied round him. He shifted from iJian to Granada and laid a strong foundation. He succeeded to gain the support of the south Andalusian leaders and backed by some of the southern leaders and Banu Ishkilulah from Jian, gained spectacular victories against the enemies and was given the title of 'Ghaleb' (the victorious).. He established the Beni Ahmer Empire in Granada which ruled for nearly 268 years. During this period, art, science, literature and trade and industry flourished appreciably. The Hamxa palaces in Granada are today living proofs of the great glory of the era.
      Unfortunately once more the political ambition of the royal family and their disputes cut at the roots of the empire. The wars imposed by the enemies of .Islam, challenged the stamina of the dynasty. Although the Banu Ahmer took great advantage of the military prowess of Beni Merin (known as Moshikhatul Ghaza) yet they took a wrong decision to secure the cooperation and assistance of Fernandes lit the Kashtala King;,l a very cunning enemy and an ally of Oleon, against Ishelia. As a result of joining hands with this crafty person, they ,suffered heavily in the long run. The enemy considered this treaty, stupid and ridiculous and after the conquest of Ishbalia, invaded the Muslim territories ar*d dislodged them from the seat of government. On January 2,     1492,    Grenada
 collapsed and then the Muslims, due to their own disunity and fatricidal warfare and dependence on the foreigners, lost their grandeur and very existence. On the contrary the enemies of Islam, with their unity and coordination,^declared the crusades and dominated the region. Consequently the Islamic Spain ivanished into thin air.
      Today that we are holding a seminar on the Five Hundredth Anniversary of the Fall of Spain, we ought to assess the causes of the obliteration of this glorious Islamic civilization, which illuminated the European horizon for 800
                       t                 \ .             -    ’                .  .
                                       81
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGHANJflflfl                              VOL.  6 NO. 1
 years. A historical assessment, in the-eyes of historians, is a good lesson for the future so that we may not repeat the same mistakes. The question is', do we have the capacity to take a leaf out of the history and learn the necessary lesson?
      The causes of the downfall of the ’Islamic Empire in(Spain may be summarized as follows:
 1-    Weakening of religious motivation and getting away of the Civil Administration from the Islamic Code.
 2~ Debauchery and sensual enjoyments.
 3-    Struggle for power among, the ruling family members and unbridled political
       ambitions             .  *   ■  '
 4-    Striving for the deceptive titles of King or Lord at the cost of the country's disintegration.
 5-    Seeking help, from the enemies of Islam for over-throwing a- Muslim brother.
 (>- cooperating with the enemies of Islam against a Muslim brother for selfish ambitions.
      In this discussion I do not intend to evaluate all these aspects but I want to emphasize the overall significance of these causes.
      Since the downfall of Andalusia, history has recorded the downfalls of some other Islamic Empires, too, which enjoyed the same grandeur yet went down the drain owing to similar deficiencies.
      Today the total number of the Muslims in the world exceeds billions and the tptal number of Islamic countries in the UNO is 45. Have they taken concrete measures to help solve the problems of the Islamic Ummah?
      We find ourselves today in an age of groupings and political alignments. The non-Muslim countries around us, despite having different nationalities, languages and economic systems, have created unity in their ranks and are moving forward and the rich among them help the poor states in order to raise their standard of living. But it is a pity that the Muslims are still jumping at each other's throats. Most of the OIC member countries do np.t_..implement the. Islamic Law to seek appeasement of the non-Muslim powers and make lame excuses that non-Muslims are also* living in their territories. They are unaware of the fact that the best of times for the non-Muslims was the time they lived under the umbrella of the Islamic system, because the Islamic Code respects the rights of every individual including the non-Muslims.
     The Muslims know it for sure that religion is not the cause of their backwardness, because Islam ofrdains* its followers to drink dfeep f roty.; t^e fountain of learning and to do research work in scientific matters ^h^vmake
                                        82
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 fifGHilNJtHflfl                            VOL. 6 NO. 1
 progress in technology. The Holy Prophet says: "Knowledge is the Lost Treasure of the Muslims." He advised us to learn "from the cradle to the grave". The Muslims have taken the lead in establishing universities. None of the important and well-known cities in Islamic countries was without a university. There were universities in Medina, Basra, Koofeh, Baghdad, Cairo, Cardova, Granada, Ishlelia, Fars, Kirman, Tunis, Esfahan, Neshapur, Herat, Ghazni, Bokhara, Merv,
                                        u
 Samarkand and Delhi, having renowned academicians and scholarly professors in various modern disciplines of science and arts. The Islamic scholars have written original research books and have made valuable contributions to the world of knowledge appreciated alioVer the world.
      These Universities were run on the financial support and donations of private individuals among the Muslim society. Even today many universities are functioning on Islamic endowments. Side by side with these Universities, centers for medical treatment on the lines of modern hospitals were also established. Those were the days when Europe was not acquainted with the name of hospitals or ..medicine, whereas the patients used to visit churches to seek cure from the preachers who would drive away the devil. One of the popes issued a charter, declaring:                                              '
      "If y<>u are sick, visit your Tribal elder so that he may anoint yoUr entire body with the pure oil'in the name pf Jesus Christ and pray for your health."
      Similarly the church complex in the Nauty City ‘in 895 A.D. issued a decree, as follows:-
      "Every monk is obliged to persuade his patient to let the holy water be poured on him and to participate in7 prayers with him. His -treatment should be subject to the condition that he should make confession in the absence of his family and should be given the sacred bread in the name of the. (body of the Lord) " .
      In view of such "medical treatment", many ’ patients expired before their eyes, even before they could make confession or eat the sacred bread. Father Londre1, One of the Parisian bishops established a special sanctuary tfor the patients called the Lord's shelter. The floor was made of heaped-up earth and the patients were accommodated without any proper arrangement. The priests and the monks sometimes refused to give ithe so-called medical treatment to their enemies or the criminals.
      Approximately* at the same time, the Muslims established hospitals in consultation with the medical experts in suitable environment and in hygienics conditions. History bears witness to the fact that Azadod Dowlah before establishing a hospital, consulted Imam Razi. He instructed that in different areas of Baghdad pieces of meat should be hung up and then select that place for the hospital where the meat did not putrefy early.
      In all the cities hospitals , were, established side by side with the universities and special’ endowment, funds, were created to provide free medical treatment to the poor and the destitute. Ibn Rizwan, chief of the Medical practitiPhffts in Cairo, had issued special instructions, saying:
83
October-d£ce(46er. 1992
VOL. 6 no. 1
       "A. medical practitioner should treat an enemy with the same consideration,
 sincerity and attention as he would treat his friend."
 \ . : <>
       Muslim medicos have left behind valuable medical literature for the next generations. Abdul Qassem Alzahrawi, who was'an expert; surgeon, for the first time threw light on many types and modes of surgery in his books; When the famous French physician Lanfrank travelled to Italy in the 13th century and came to know about Abdul. Qassem's book, he declared that all the French Surgeons were ignorant of the science; of surgery and one could not find a single expert surgeon among them. It shows that the Muslim scholars did not only learn various arts and sciences but also added to them by their own initiative and research, as admitted by famous German philosopher Hanbuld.
       Here I would like to conclude my discussion with these words of Amir Shakeeb ^Ar salan
       "The European continent remained in backwardness and darkness for nearly one thousand years and after that the Islamic civilization dawned on the East and the West. The duration of the Dark Nights for the Muslims was much lesser than that and did not exceed four countries. The main cau&e was the alienation of the Muslims from the Islamic teachings and getting astray'from the guidelines Of .the Holy Prophet (PBUH)."         V
       I hope these nights of darkness have come closer to their end and 'the Muslims have come to the conclusion that their welfare lies in the general welfare of the Islamic Ummah. It is rfow upto the Muslims to regain the leadership to learning and to become the torch-bearers of knowledge and wisdom, because God Almighty has endowed them with the means of such a leadership viz;, intellectual faculty, raw material, talent, ability and energy for hard wor.k. The- only thing they need, is recourse to the Divine Religion and unity and solidarity. They should shun egoistic tendencies and futile opposition to one * another and should not place themselves at'the beck and call of the aliens. The non-Muslims are freely taking advantage of everything and every, technology, including the atomic bomb, but the Muslims are being deprived of their inalienable rights.
      It is my duty to reiterate here the cause of Afghanistan and its holy war Which gained Victory by innumerable sacrifices for upholding the word of Allahl This country with\ its small size and scant population turned the tide of history, and brought .about universal salvation from the evil of communism, infidelity arid immorality. .\
                   Tht, fir;st and the foremost responsibility is that of the mujaheddin to hold fast- the ^covenant' of God, to shun party prejudices and oppositions and to overcome their selfish ambitions and egotism so that they may be able to lay the :foundationi-stone of the Islamic government on solid grounds and put *the first bripks of reconstruction of the lost edifice of Islamic peace and progress over .the debris of their Islamic homeland and, God willing,create such a united force out of it that all should rally around if and enjoy complete independence of
 opinion. Otherwise, there is no doubt that the achievements of the jehad wili go down the drain,, the pure.blood of the martyrs will go waste and the enemies will
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AffiUANJfHAO                             VOL.  6 NO. 1
    have a hay day.                            .
         I prey to Almighty Allah for t.he good luck and welfare of all the Muslims. REFERENCES:
    1-   Atlas-e-Tarikh-e-Islami (Islamic History Atlas) by Dr. Hussain Mooness.
    2-   Al-tarikh Al-Islami (Islamic History) by Mahmood Shaker,
    3-   Hazer-Al-Aalam-Al-Islami (Modern Islamic World)- by Amir Shakeeb Arsalan
    4-   Shams Al-Gharb Taste, Alai Gharb by the German Orientalist Zaker Badhouke
/
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 19.92
VOL. 6 NO. 1
       NEW BOOKS
I
EDITOR'S NOTE: The particulars of the books below are given as they appear on the books themselves. Therefore, the CCAR cannot be held responsible for incomplete names or specifics> if any.
!
 (1)   THE HOLY QURAN: TRANSLATION AND COMMENTARIES VOL. 111 (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR:   The late Abdullah Yusuf All; translated by:      Sabahuddin  Kushkaki;
 publishers: Cultural Council of Afghanistan Reconstruction (CCAR); 549 pages.
 CONTENTS: Translation of Arabic text and commentaries of Section 21-30 the Holy' Quran.                               .
 (2)    SOCIAL BEHAVIOR IN ISLAMIC (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Mawlawi Mahmood Draswal; Publishers: CCAR; £>80 pages.
 CONTENTS: Individual and Social conduct in the Islamic community has been in th^ light of Quranic verses and Prophet Mohammad•s JPBOH) sayings.
 (3)  _ WOMAN IN THE ISLAMIC COMMUNITY (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Nezamuddin Sha'eq; publishers: World Muslim Congress; 190 pages.
 CONTENTS: Education and training of women, woman and faithfulness, Islam and
 Sexual relations, sexual relations today and yesterday,, woman in the Western community, sexual declination in the West.
 (4)         THE CULTURE OF INVITATION TO ISLAM (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abdullah A'alwan;  translated by:   Abdullah Khamosh -Herawi; publishers:
 the author himself; 59 pages.
 CONTENTS:  Islamic    educational culture,  the Quran and its commentaries,
 Traditions of the Prophet (PBUH) and related books, character and conduct of the Prophet (PBUH) and its role, monotheism, Islamic jurisprudence, the Islamic organization.
 (5)    THE LIONS OF TRIPOLI (PASHTU)
 Translated by:   Mohammad. Fareed Bazgar; The Eastern Institute of Culture.. and
 Press; 78 pages.
                                        86
   *
 OCTOBER -DECEMBER, 1992 RfGllflN JfHfltl                        VOL.  6 NO. 1
 CONTENTS: The story of Libyan Heroes of liberation from Italian dominatign.
 ( 6) THE STORIES OF THE PROPHETS IN SIMPLE DARI FOR CHILDREN (DARI)
 Publishers: CCAR, 233 pages.
 CONTENTS: The booK relates the stories of most of the Apostles and Prophets including Adam, Noah, Abraham, Esma'el, Isac, Jaqsob, Yousuf, Moses, David, Soleman, Younus, Zakaria, Jesus Christ and Mohammad (PBUH).
 (7)    JEHAD HISTORY (PASHTU)
 author; Gul Mohammad; publishers: (HEIA) Helmand Region; 61 pages.
         ■ } '
 CONTENTS: A collection of 10-year Jehad episodes related to the jehad heroes of Helmand Province.
 (8)  MODREN JUDICIAL JUDGEMENTS ON THE BASIS OF THE HANAFI SECT (DARI )
 AUTHOR: Maulana Mohammad Ataullah Faizani; publishers: The Tauheed Madrasa; 192
 pages.
 CONTENTS: Various types of worships, reasons for the daily prayers, congregation prayers, proofs of women participation in congregations etc.
 (9)    OUR ISLAMIC REVOLUTION AND ITS UNIVERSAL MISSION (DARI)
 AUTHOR: .Sayyed Hussain ‘ Anwari; publishers: (HEIA) Provincial Council (Kabul Area); 27 pages.
 CONTENTS: With due respect to the glory of the Islamic Revolution, the pamphlet urges on mujaheddin organizations to foil foreign intrigues by submitting healthy plans based on jehadic logical arguments and respecting the legitimate right of all the jehad participants.
 (10)   THE ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN OF TOMORROW (DARI).
 WRITERS:  A collection of Articles by various scholars; Publishers:   CCAR; 600
 pages.                                                  *
 CONTENTS: It contains the articles presented and discussions held In the CCAR
 sixth seminar on "Basic Rules of an Islamic Government in the Future Society of Afghanistan" which was held in Islamabad '27-30 January, 1992.
 (11)   DISCUSSION REGARDING LEADERSHIP IN AFGHANISTAN (DARI) :
 AUTHOR: Mohammad A'asem Al-Mujaddedi; 15 pages.
 CONTENTS: The author opposes the division of power among the mujaheddin
 organizations but is of the opinion that' the Leadership, should be on the basis of authority.
                                       87
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGlUINJEHAfl                            VOL.  6 NO. 1
           ' **!
 Translated by: Dr. Qadeem Khan.Tareq; publishers: Khawar Library; 449 pages.
 CONTENTS: A practical guide to assistant physicians and public health workers on internal diseases.
 (13)   ISLAM AND TECHNOLOGY (DARI)
 Translated by: A. Ashrati. 103 pages. ■ ,f
 CONTENTS:  The relation  of  man  with science and4 technology, the industrial
 revolution, development of science and technology; reasons for under-development' ofi» the Islamic world in science and technology, etc.               ••
 (14)   HEJAYEE LEEK-LUST (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Researcher Dr.. Guljan Wuror-Wardag; 65 pages.
 CONTENTS: A practical book for elders and children alike to learn Pashtu through 40 lessons.
 (.15 ) TEACHERS’ GUIDE TO DARI &RAMMAR
              • _
 AUTHOR: M.A. Negargar; publishers: Afghan Center for Education Development; 114 pages.                    .
 CONTENTS: What is grammar# aims of grammar, sentence, vex'd and its forms, noun, pronoun^ adjective# adverb, prepositions etc.                                 •
 (16)   ABBASEEN (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Mohammad Zafar Wardag; 74 pages
 CONTENTS: A cdllection of poems composed by the author.
 (17)   AFGHANISTAN. KEY TO A CONTINENT (DARI)
 AUTHOR: John C.' Griffths; publishers: Gul Mohammad Takhari; 150 pages.
                    *
 CONTENTS: A quick glance at the dominated Afghanistan, from Shah Shuja'a to Shah Shuja'a, the REDS stir, demonstrations of democracy, who are the Afghans'? with explanations by the translator.
 (18)  MULLAH ASADULLAH HANIFI POEMS (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Asadullah Hanifi; publishers: Students Union of the HEIA; 468 pages. CONTENTS: A collection of passionate, and Jehadib poems.
                                         88
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 MANJIHAD                               VOL. 6 NO. 1
     (19)   AN HISTORICAL COLLECTION (DARI)
     author; Sayyed Abdul Hussain Wa'ez;; 163 pages.
     CONTENTS:  The Afghan history from the advent of Islam to the present times in
     poetry.              #
     (20)   THE SCATTERED PETALS (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Aurangzaib Ershad; publishers: Danish Library; 109 pages.
     CONTENTS: A collection of poems composed by the author.
OCTOBER-DEGEMBER, 1992 AFGHANJiHAO                   VOL.  6 NO. 1
A GLANCE AT THE
90
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
    A l-Badr
                             OCTOBER- NOVEMBER
 EDITORIAL: "Internal coalition and
 external indignation" is the title of • the editorial which says, "as far as the qualitative nature of the present system is concerned, we are discussing a number of those elders who are coalescing with the government internally but externally, condemn the existing order and brand it un-Islamic and openly say that there is no security in the country. But when they return to the country then again appear on the stage and talk of their membership in this or that council and, in order ' to attain more power, introduce and induct their men to the ministry, embassy or directorate. It seems that these elders have become multicoloured as is evident from what Mujaddedi said recently that he can "adopt himself to conditional changes like a weathercock". We have his interview in this issue which has been arranged in London and may be compared with his previous remarks. When, he arrives in Peshawar he clean forgets whatever he had said in London and it seems as if he had given no interview at all. He once again attacks those who are against the coalition government and this is his objective not to be on the wrong side of the present government. Of course, once in Kabul, he is all the more for the coalition and, if <3od forbid, he gets the opportunity of meeting General Dostum, he will, this time, confer on him the marshal's medal."
                                            "As a matter of fact one is taken aback . and is almCst stunned by such persons, since they do not fall in the,
 category of ordinary people. They are leaders that, in their own view, they have struggled for 40 years. On the other hand, when the. honorable spokesman of Leadership Council, Ayatullah Mohseiii, goes to England for treatment he starts criticizing the existing state and describes it as un-Islamic and considers the expulsion of HIA from the Leadership Council as. devoid of realism and an unbribed act of Mr. President, and yet on another occasion talks about absence of security and excesses in regard to life, honor and property of the people. If so, then how .does he explain his participation in such a government or state?"
      "On the other hand Pir Gailani, has an active role in the coalition government and has assigned the various important government posts to his sons and relatives. He has invariably tried to pave the way for the. return of ex-King, and in this mission he is so sincere that if the King himself identify him (Pir Saheb) as a candidate for Presidency, he will abdicate in the King's favor."
      "The coalition government claims that it is confronted with PeshaWar militias and Khalqi Militias and the HIA also claims that it is faced with Gelam Jam militias and the defunct communist regime remnants, and has no conflict with the JIA. But it is not clear as to who is the militia and Who is the mujahed?"
     "Then let us be reasonable and logical, considering God Almighty as our witness, accept the proposal of. HIA and appoint a mission to identify the sectors of militias and the communist remnants."
NEWS ITEMS: According to a responsible source of Kabul International Airpprt, the government of Iran, in the guise
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 of humanitarian assistance, is airlifting men and armament, to Kabul and, through its embassy, distribute them among its supporters in the city and suburbs of Kabul. The mujaheddin source said, "Iran is making use of its experiences in the Lebanon also in the Afghan conflict."
                                                        SEPTEMBER
               23
 DECREE: The Islamic state of Afghan-
 istan in a press release has issued the following decree:
     "In order to remove the food and fuel shortage from Kabul city and the country at large, a mission headed by Sayyed Sulaiman Gailani, assistant to the Prime Minister, has been appointed to start work in this regard and present report to the Leadership Council".
 NEWS ITEMS: President Rabbani had a
 meeting with the peace mission from the Northern provinces of the country, led by Mawlawi Ahmad Nazar, at the Gul Kharia Palace in Kabul 19 September. Sayyed Hussain Javed, the spokesman of the peace mission, offered the unblemished support of the people, armed and jehad forces of those provinces to the Islamic state of Afghanistan. Reciprocating Prof. Rabbani appreciated the invaluable role of jehad organizations and the armed forces of the Northern territories in toppling the communist regime calling it the pride of the valiant mujahedddn. -
 - Prof. Rabbani held a joint session with Mawlawi Mohammadi, Prof. Sayyaf and Engineer Hekmatyar. Regarding the
 meeting Prof. Rabbani told the Bakhtar correspondent later, it was emphasized at the meeting that a durable ceasefire between the government and the HI A be maintained and efforts be made to solve the problem through peaceful means. The HIA also agreed to sent! their delegation to the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council.
                  26
 ORDINANCES:  The press department of
 Afghanistan Islamic state issued ordinances in regard to (i) fight against the production, smuggling and illegal trafficking of narcotics and (ii) to form a commission to determine the remuneration and previleges of mujaheddin who had participated in the 14-year Holy War of the country.
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor Rabbani received the peace mission from the central areas. During the meeting the leader of the mission expressed their readiness for the promotion of peace and understanding and the creation of a congenial atmosphere for this purpose. Professor Rabbani appreciated their cooperation and offered every help from the Islamic state for the removal of their regional problems.
 - In accordance with the decision of the Leadership Council and approval by Prof. Rabbani the following appointments have been announced:
      Dr. Abdul Wahed Sarabi as Commerce Minister, Engineer Mohammad Yakoob La'ali as Minister of Mines and Industries, Mawlawi Ahmed Nazar Balkhi as Minister of Social Affairs, Sayyed Ishaq Gawhari as minister for Rural Development and Dr. Yakoob Barakzai as Minister of Public Health.
    For eradication of illiteracy, recently five literacy courses were opened in the National Security
92
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992
 Departments, one hundred students have joined the courses and are being taught by teachers on voluntary basis. '
     The Presidential Press Department reports that as the country's reconstruction and rehabilitation work calls for economic, cultural and administrative planning * and implimentation, therefore, the government has formed a 'supreme consultative council' from eminent scholars in the various scientific fields.
VOL. 6 NO. I
        28
 INTERVIEWS:   The IIA Deputy, Engineer
 Mohammed Amin Munsef, in an interview with Anis pointed out, to maintain peace it was imperative that the entire jehad and armed forces got organized within the framework of the Islamic government, in the light of their strategic targets. He said, "the maiin elements responsible for fighting ar'e the remnants of the communist corrupt regime and the foreign interference which are blocking the way to the natural conclusion of our Islamic jehad . i.e. the formation of a genuine Islamic government. On the other hand the' number of jehad leadership and their differences have paved the way for intrigues and conspiracies of the enemies."
                                                                                                ' \
      He went on, "we earnestly ask the leaders of jehad organizations to resolve their differences through negotiations and consultations among themselves and stop confrontations forthwith and participate directly in the Islamic state and government".
 - Nilab Rahimi, the chief of Public Libraries, told the correspondent of the Anis daily that the Public Libraries were open to all, irrespective of their level of knowledge and culture, so that to benefit from them at their ease without I
 any moral or material obligations.
                               OCTOBER
              3
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani
 and his entourage returned to Kabul 30 September after an official visit to Pakistan and Iran upon the invitation of their respective governments. While in Meshed 30 September, Prof. Rabbani briefed a large gathering of Afghan mujaheddin and refugees residing there upon developments in the country and the government policy and plans for reconstruction and rehabilitation.
 - Answering questions of the Iranian Radio and Television correspondent about the problems and difficulties confronting the Islamic state of Afghanistan at different stages. Professor Rabbani hopefully predicted1 a bright future.
         6
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled,  "a  fruitful  and
 friendly visit" the editorial throwing light on the recent visit to Pakistan and Iran by Ptof. Rabbani states# "the Pakistan side pledged to Afghanistan i that their economic*, technical arid commercial cooperation withxthe Islamic state of Afghanistan will \ continue and it was also emphasized that under no circumstances no power shall be allowed to use the Pakistan soil for its destructive activities against the Islamic state of Afghanistan. The Islamic Republic of Iran, with whom Afghanistan has long-standing < relations based oh historical and cultural affinities, has also promised the continuity of economic and financial cooperation and in this context the emergency assistance of 50 million dollar credit by Iran Bank to Afghanistan and Iran's
93
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992           |||(|||j|||
 readiness to participate in the reconstruction efforts of our country are worth mentioning.           Iran's
 cooperation with Afghanistan mainly covers the commercial, cultural, economic and other fields. Both the countries have agreed to the establishment of relations between the universities and research centers of each other including the exchange of teachers, students, study groups .and participation in teaching seminars."
                    7
 INTERVIEWS:    The NIFA Commander,
 Brigadier General Jandad Momand, in an interview with Anis said, "undoubtedly, with the testablishment of an Islamic government, one of the objectives of mujaheddin has materialized but as long as the prevalent disorder, confusion and destruction are not set right and a genuine Islamic government is not established according to the will of the entire nation, we cannot claim to have achieved all our original objectives."
      Similarly L‘t, Colonel Khalilullah Ziayee, another NIFA commander,, in an interview, called upon the mujaheddin, specially the jehad commanders to be alert during this sensitive period of history and be prepared to foil any hostile designs. He welcomed the end to fighting and the imposition of a permanent ceasefire. He supported fully the forthcoming .council of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-^Aqd for deciding on the future leadership of Afghanistan.
                                              10
 COMMENTARY:- This is a commentary about the restoration of economic and political relations between US and Afghanistan which states. President George Bush has said tha^; the United States intends to renew its normal trade relations with Afghanistan
 HMD                       voL. 6  no. 1
 because it is” no , longer a Marxist-Lenninist state. He said" that helping Afghanistan now is in t^ie national interest of the US. This decision paves the way for abrogation of puritive tarrifs against Afghan export commodities. The tarrifs had been imposed, while Afghanistan was dominated by Communists. This decision m^kes it possible for Afghanistan to acquire foreign aid and credit.
      A few days earlier the US State Department, in a press release, had lauded the efforts of the Islamic state of Afghanistan to restore peace and stability in this country and had condemned any militancy and hostility against it.
      Bakhtar News Agency says that the steps taken by the United States along-with recent remarks of the US President in regard to the restoration of economic and political relations with Afghanistan mark a fresh era in the restoration of diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. Such measures taken by various countries will contribute significantly to strengthen the active role of the Islamic state of Afghanistan in the international field.
                  12
 INTERVIEW: Dr. Abdul Wahed Sarabi, the Commerce Minister of Afghanistan, in an interview with Bakhtar News Agency, in regard to the restoration of the US normal trade relations with Afghanistan said, "we welcome the remarks of the honorable US President pertaining tO' the revival of economic and trade relations with Afghanistan and consider it a good omen for furthering and strengthening, all the. more, these relations in future. The United States is economically strong and can contribute effectively towards the reconstruction of our devastated and
              i
 war-torn counjtry. We hope th*t this
94
OCTOBER-DECEMBER i. 1992 HftlllAII JIHjlO
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 great country will prove as good in her deeds as in her words."
 - Mohammed Siddiq Chakari, Minister of Information and Culture, in an interview with Anis correspondent, observed, "in the context of journeys and official visits of the Afghan delegations to the Islamic Republics of Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, the governments of the afore-said countries have pledged their support in the reconstruction ofNour war-torn country and have signed beneficial agreements with the Afghan delegations inter alia in regard to the provision of technical equipment, printing machines and professional and vocational training courses. It is hoped that with the acquisition of the above-mentioned means and material many existing problems and some main difficulties in the country’s press and publication departments shall be removed." .
 NEWS ITEMS: An exhibitions of drawings and paintings by Waheedur Rahman Kochi was recently opened in Kabul.
                   14
 EDITORIAL:  Hailing the anniversary of
 the uprising in Nooristan against the communist rule 14 years ago the editorial writes, "almost simultaneous with the communist take-over in 1979, uprisings and revolts erupted in every nook . and corner of the country to dislodge the infidels. The God-fearing and righteous people of Nooristan, fortified and enlightened by spiritual leaders s and local scholars , and initiators of Islamic movement, after the outrageous April coup, realizing the necessity and obligations of jehad against the infidels and their supporters, decided to bring to an end the communist domination and with an heroic effort succeeded in achieving their cherished desire and became the masters of their local administration.
 14 October, 1979. The great people left their indelible mark on the neighboring areas and paved the way to safer places, for the immigration of the people for renewed onslaught, on the Headquarters and centers of the enemies of faith and the land.
 NEWS ITEMS:    A lb-member council,
 comprising the delegates of 8 jehad organizations, is running, the affairs of Zabul province with full agreement and consensus. The council has created unity and solidarity among all the provinces and the entire problems of the people and provinces are resolved through consensus of the Council’s members and jehad organizations. These measures have brought about peace and security to the center and all the suburb^ of Zabul province. This Council is in^ close contact with other neighboring provinces and has played an important role in consultation and resolution of regional conflicts of Kandahar and Ghazni provinces.
                  15
 NEWS ITEMS:  President Rabbani, on the
 conclusion of his official visit to Uzbekistan, in a press conference said, "the opening of the two embassies in Kabul and Tashkent is tantamount to the beginninq of a practical step towards the * establishment of our relations."
    According to a decree by Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Dr. Sayyed Ameershah Hassanyar has been appointed 1 the Chancellor of Kabul University. He pointed out that every effort will be made to create congenial atmosphere so that the students join their classes with full confidence, zeal and interest as quickly as possible.
 - Alhaj Mohammed Akbar Khushhal, the deputy of the department of Pension Fund of the Ministry of Finance, in an
95
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 interview observed, "the Islamic State of Afghanistan has deemed it necessary to -double the salaries of the entire civil servants and employees and taxes on their salaries have been.written off and this order stands effective forthwith. According to the procedure and administrative process of the Pension Fund Department, all those retired government servants who have left their homeland and are residing in foreign countries can claim their entire rights and priveleges, as laid, down under Pension rules, ©n return to the homeland. According to the existing figures, presently a total of 43,0t>9 retired employees have registered their names and as per pension rules are drawing their salaries. Civil and military retired employees along with their heirs are included in the framework of this composition. The documents  of all retired     civil and
 military   employees          are accordingly
 registered in                 the   concerned
 departments."
                   17
 COMMENTARY:     Discusssing Professor
 Rabbani' s visit    to) . Uzbekistan 14
 October, 1992 the •; editorial says, "during this visit both sides succeeded in agreeing on various ventures beneficial to both the countries. The opening of embassies in each other*s countries will strengthen bonds of mutual cooperation. The opening of air traffic between Kabul and Tashkent, agreement on extensive cooperation in all the fields and regional political issues were also discussed.
 NEWS ITEMS: The ambassador of Iran in
 Kabul declared 15 October that Iran was ready to transport all the food supplies, being provided to Afghanistan by other countries under the aid program, by means of its military transport planes.
 - As per Prof. Rabbani*s decree Ghulam Mohammad Yelaqi has been appointed as the chief executive of the "Bank of Afghanistan.
                  19
 NEWS ITEMS:  The first Boeing aircraft
 bought by     "Ariana  Afghan Airways"
 arrived in Kabul International Airport 18 October.   The aeroplane is one of
 the three    "Boeing 727" - aircraft
 purchased from a French firm at a total cost of 12,600,000 US dollars.
 -  A number of Philanthropist Arabic
 organizations 'and Swedish Committees based in      Pakistan    have  donated
 medicines worth 100 thousand Afghanis to the Afghan Red Crescent Society which have been despatched to Kabul lb October.
                 20
 DECLARATION: "Now that the Presidential office-term,    as per   jehad leaders*
 resolution, is coming   to an end, the
 Islamic state of Afghanistan, having carried out its political, social and military obligations successfully, is ready to hand over thje state power, to the new leadership that will be chosen by the Hal-wa-Aqd council. In order to elect members to this council, the government of Afghanistan established a commission, comprising representatives of jehad organizations, and tried to form the Ahl-e~Hal*-wa-Aqd . council on schedule. Unfortunately, the efforts of the commission were hindered by various factors. The Islamic state of Afghanistan is of the opinion that unless sincere and selfless efforts arS) made by concerned quarters in this regard the successful and timely creation pf the council shall remain an onerous task .and almost impossible. As such, the state calls upon the honorable jehad leaders to make all-out efforts in accordance with the resolution of the Leadership Council in Peshawar, so
96
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
  that power may be transferred on time to the person elected by the Hal-wa-Aqd council."
           21
  EDITORIAL:   Discussing the services of
  Red Crescent societies the editorial writes, "our Jpiomeland has suffered a lot over the past 14 years of war and our Muslim people have undergone troubles and miseries due to the war as well as due to natural calamities. Therefore, it is incumbent on all the Muslims of the country, particularly the well-to-do, to come forward and donate generously to ARC so that the society can render assistance to the needy."
  NEWS ITEMS:  Sayyed 'Habib Shah Hamed,
  Director General of Bakhtar News Agency, in a meeting with Press attache's of some of the embassies and foreign journalists in Kabul, explained the new modus operandi of Bakhtar News Agency in the post-victory of Islamic revolution and responded to their questions in regard to the prevalent situation in the country.
    General commander Commanders operations forces in harmonized
 Abdul Rauf Safi, the new of Central Corps-Army and of Kabul Garrison, says the of the entire security Kabul are coordinated and through the Kabul Garrison.
        22
 EDITORIAL:  "The latest resolution of
 the Leadership Council": Commenting on the resolution of the Leadership Council in regard to the extension of Professor Rabbani's office term it writes:
      There is no doubt that our citizens are facing some hardships and difficulties due to economic and social services but we are hopeful that these problems will be solved because of the
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 congenial and helpful atmosphere of understanding created by jehad organizations promising the establishment of durable peace in the country. Needless to say that our people, first and foremost, are in dire need of a reassuring, satisfactory and permanent peace because it is only thru security and peaceful environment that problems can be resolved. We are hopeful that with understanding and harmony among the concerned sides those humanitarian aids of neighboring countries, UN organizations and other countries, meant for Afghanistan and ready to be despatched, will be forthcoming soon. We congratulate the President of Islamic State of Afghanistan, and the chairman of Leadership Council, Professor Rabbani on the extension of his office term and consider it a good omen for the resolution of the people’s problems and the restoration of permanent peace in Afghanistan.
 INTERVIEW:  "3000 refugee families of
 Kabul are being fed in Jalalabad" this is an interview with the President of Nangarhar refugees, Mian Juma Khan Shinwari, about the living and feeding conditions of the Kabul-fighting fugitives who says: "Those refugees who have taken shelter in Jalalabad apprehending insecurity in the battle-torn city of Kabul numbering about 3000 families have been settled under two commanders' administrative areas in the organized camps of Mumtaz Bagh and Haddi Farm. They have been provided immediate relief in the form of tents and tarpaulins and are given from time to time other necessities like Wheat, flour, mutton, quilts, biscuits, clothes etc. For the normal operation of this project so far the Nangarhar Jehad Council has donated 5 million Afghanis, the Afghan Committee 3 thousand gunnies of wheat and 3000 gunnies have been donated by the Pakistan     Commissioner's     office.
97
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Similarly two hundred thousand loaves of bread and mutton of 100 sheep have been provided to them". He said: under the set program, so far 50 maunds of black tea, 1000 gunnies of rice, 1000 tins of cooking oil, 1000 gunnies of frozen mutton, 2000 plastic bags of oil and 15 thousand liters of Kerosine have been distributed among them".
 - Maulawi Ghulam Mohammed, member of "Daawat-Ilal-Quran-o-Wa-Sunnah Society, in an interview with the correspondent of "ANIS" has described peace, brotherhood and re-assuring security as important elements in an Islamic order and, in view of the prevalent sensitive situation, has asked all the mujaheddin and the members of Muslim Community to strengthen the process of1 peace' and security and observe vehemently the motto of brotherhood, as emphasized by Islam, in their lives and side by side with upholding their official and personal status ought to restore peace throughout Afghanistan and instead of seeking vengeance make efforts to observe the guiding principles of Islam and propagate them too so as to enlighten the society.
 NEWS ITEMS:  The UN Secretary General
 special envoy, Sotirious Mousouris, declared during an extraordinary working session in Prime Minister's House that the UN emergency aid for Afghanistan including foodstuff, fuel and building material will be dispatched to Afghanistan before the winter starts.
 - In a meeting with the personal representative of the UN Secretary General, Prof. Rabbani stated, "the Islamic Afghan government is ready to take necessary measures for the proper transportation and fair distribution, among the needy, of the UN emergency assistance."
INTERVIEW; Dr.
  of State for Foreign Affairs, who had accompanied Prof. Rabbani on his visit to Uzbekistan, said in an interview, "official quarters in Uzbekistan are very much interested to forge close relations with Central state of Afghanistan. Prior to the visit there did exist certain questions regarding the Islamic state of Afghanistan and its policies, particularly in regard to its relationship with the newly independent Central Asian republics. Similarly a joint commission was formed for appraisal of economic cooperation and other fields to the advantage of both sides which will, God willing, prove productive in future."
                                              24
  ARTICLES:  "War and Jehad parties of
  Afghanistan" is an article written by Abdul Hafiz Mansoor in which he says, "at the outset of the Islamic movement the JIA, after uprising against Daud's government in 1977, disintegrated and the HIA broke away from it. But during the. general struggle against Taraki, several jehad parties came into being in Peshawar one after the other and which were' blessed with foreign material and moral assistance. Also in Tehran tens of organizations of the Afghan refugees tame into being. Nine out of these various organizations
    f
  later merged together and .formed a coalition."
      "The numerical secret of the Afghan jehad parties is embedded in the individualistic nature of the Afghans and the policy of -- host countries. Fearing future headaches due to the Afghan mujaheddin, general Ziaul Haque encouraged the policy of multiplicity of the parties so that they can be controlled easily and this policy proved its worth to Pakistan till the end because of the bloody clashes among the mujaheddin parties during the 1 later years. Due to the same policy
Najib Lafrai, Minister
                                                                                                    98

OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Pakistan could represent .the Afghan mujaheddin in .international forums. Lately Iran found out that by supporting several scattered groups it could not achieve the objective pf the Afghan people within the framework i of its own targets, therefore endeavored to create the HWIA, which is a combination of eight Shia Tehran-based mujaheddin groups."
      "Differences and rifts among jehad groups are influenced by various elements including faith, area, tribe, race, language and mental .orientation (fundamentalism and nationalism). Generally the slmnis were centered in Peshawar and the Shiias in .{Tehran, although there were some groups/who had their quarters in both the countries. The Hekmatyar HIA based in Pakistan and HWIA based in Iran wer4 enjoying the best possible relations which none could compete with. It may safely be* stated that the support rendered by Iran to the Afghan Shias is part of the policy of that country. But on wh’at ground has Pakistan singled out Hekmatyar's party for friendship-from amongst all the rest of jehad parties? The reasons may be (i) Pakistan wants the Pashtuns to be in ppwer in,. Afghanistan since on the \one hand they have swayed over Afghanistan since the past 2\ centuri-es and on the oth4r hand the Pashtuns' sense of deprivation in Afghanistan have united them across the Durand Line which flares up the "Pashtunistan" problem leading to the breakup of Pakistan and Afghanistan and the establishment of a third country. Therefore Gulbuddin Hekmatyar being ethnically a Pashtun is chosen for friendship. (ii) Hekmatyar being a veteran jehad leader may have a longstanding acquaintance with Pakistan, dating back from Bhutto's period. This coupled with Hekmatyar's personal merits are sufficient reasons for Pakistan. (iii) The most important
 factor being Hekmatyar's personal opinions which have brought him in the good books of Pakistan leaders. In fact he is the one who, after independence of Afghanistan spoke of a confederation of the two countries arid the party's personnel are working jointly with the' Pakistan intelligence. 1 Although* the exact number of men.        each One  of
 jehad organizations is ndt known since defection of men from one to the other group or their joining the Kabul regime now and thOn makes it unpredictable. An important element which contributes to the influence and significance of an organization are the qualities of leadership inherent in the leader. As can be seem that HlA of Hekmatyar, despite vast opportunities of outside work /and better prospects, could not utiliz#, them to its advantage. On the 'other hand JIA has established its credibility inside and outs,lde the cogntry and finally was able to topple the Kabul Communist regime."
 INTERVIEWS:   Mawlaw* SamiulJjah, the
 Chief of "Da'wat-al-Qgran-wa-Sunnah", in an exclusive interview with Anis observed, "the main and basic objective pf Jehad is to uphold God's commandment and the establishment of an Islamic government which ought to work in accordance Quranic guidance and the Traditions' of the Holy Prophet (PBUH)."
  In regard to the Setting-up of the = Hal-wa-Aqd council he said, "Prior to the hoisting . of Islamic banner • in Afghanistan the mujaheddin made a number of agreements in Peshawar. Among these was the one in connection with the election of the state President whose office term will soon come to an end. Regarding thiis, it must be said that we, glory be tb God Almighty,, are Muslims and our predecessors have left theit sacred legacies regarding the Islamic governance which ought to be observed by us. As such, instead of
99
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
 taking after the aliens, it is better that the Hal-wa-Aqd council be created, and as its title implies its members ought to be endowed with Islamism, manhood, freedom, common sense, wisdom, knowledge, justice, bravery, piety and experience without ethnic, racial, tribal, linguistic and organizational considerations. Its members should select a new, wise and capable leader so that the jehad objectives are fully realized."
VOL. 6 NO. 1
        27
 NEWS ITEMS:   Prof. Rabbani received the
 leading representatives of Nooristan people and jehad commanders in the Presidential Palace      October, 1992.
 In regard to their participation in the 14-year jehad Rabbani said, "the brave people of Nooristan, throughout the history of the homeland, like their compatriots, have never surrendered to the oppressors and tresspassers and have fought to the last in the defence of the country's territorial integrity, national independence, freedom and sovereignty of a united and singular Afghanistan." In response. Dr. Mohammad Yousuf Nooristani, on behalf of others, said, "while fully supporting the measures taken by the Islamic state* people 1 of Nooristan are ready to play their role sincerely and honestly in the constitution of the Hal.ywa-Aqd council."
                       31
 NEWS\ ITEMS s ... In
 Mohammed Siddiq Information and Council members
                                                                               a meeting with Alhaj Chakari, Minister of Culture, the Jehad and representatives of
 the people of Nooristan asked for the restoration of their rights and the propagation of their culture. In this context they discussed their proposals also regarding the protection of forests and natural resources of Nooristan and pledged their full co-
operation
 the Islamic state of
 Afghanistan. Skater Chakari appreciated their role in the jehad and promised that the Islamic state shall make every effort in realization of their requests and proposals.
                v
 INTERVIEW: Mawlawi\ Mohammed Shah. Fazli* Chief Justice and Chairman of the Supreme Court, during an interview is reported to have said, "the entire state related cases are being dealt with and
 solved in accordance with Islamic jurisprudence." He said, "the. supreme court deals with criminals, rioters, militants and murderers strictly according to Islamic laws. In case the crime is proved, the necessary sentence may then be passed."
                                NOVEMBER
                1
 ty The Leadership Council of the Islamic state of Afghanistan along with responsible leaders and representatives of jehad parties, in an extraordinary meeting, appreciated the measures and steps taken by the Islamic Estate towards the restoration of peace and security in the country and extended the office-term of Prof. Rabbani for another six weeks.
INTERVIEW: Engineer MOhanunad Azim,
in charge of mine-sweeping operations in Nangarhar, in an interview with Anis said 1,500 mines were defused in the vicinity of Jalalabad and work on the others was continuing.
3
REPORTS: Alhaj Mohammad Siddiq Chakaxi, Minister for Culture and Information, yesterday called upon the officials of tlie Ministry, personnel of the Bakhtar N^ws Agency and cultural activists in tlie country to observe the rules and
 I                      V
100
 OCaObLK-UECEUbtk, 1992 AlllHAN JIHAD          VOL. 6 NO. 1
 wmmmmmmmiammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm&mmBBmmmmmmKmmmmmmmmmmmmm
 regulations of the . Islamic government and to help the government in promoting the glorious Islamic culture in the country. He elaborate^ the importance of the role of women in the country's development and urged tlie women folk to strictly observe the Islamic injunctions in the society.
                    4
    Lt. General Mohammad Moosa Vardag, Commander of Army Medical Academy, in an interview regarding activities of the Medical Sciences Academy Hospital, said, “during the first six months of the year 1991 the entire existing personnel of different sections of medical sciences, particularly doctors and professional cadre, performed their duties with noble human spirit and keeping in mind the sanctity of the medical profession. Despite difficulties and some obstacles in the professional proceedings as well as technical hardships, this academy making proper use of the available resources and untiring efforts, was able to continue its routine activities without any break. During this period, a number of patients were admitted in the hospital and given medical treatment. More than 85% of the
        • m .
 patients were those injured during fighting. About 15,t>80 patients were treated in the out-patient ward of the Polyclinic, out of which 5% were admitted for prolonged treatment. Another 3,229 patients were under major surgical operation and 10,375 were admitted for minor surgeries. Besides more than 10,000 patients were given first-aid treatment.
MESSAGE:  In  an address to the Afghan
nation Professor Rabbani said:      "The
present sensitive circumstances call for unity among all of CJS and emphasizes that all sorts of personal, parachial, regional, linguistic, ethnic and other self seeking consideradations ought to be get aside and only under
101
 the lofty and sacred banner of Islam. We should get together and march forward hand in hand. The people, by now, are tired of fighting and anarchism and are keen to see that peace and security return to their homeland; the energy and resources which are consumed in the way of destruction and demolition of the country thru fighting and battles may be used for reconstruction of the buildings, for healing the wounds of the wounded, curing the injured, removal of the pains and wiping off the tears of the oppressed and grief-stricken and to pave the way to comfort and sense of peace and security. In the past 14 year jehad and after innumerable personal sacrifices and material losses the Muslim ^ nation of Afghanistan is justified to express their opinion and determine the future of their country. Efforts are being made to constitute the council quickly and the constitution of "the elders' council" has been approved by the "Leadership Council".
                   5
 INTERVIEW:   Dr. Sayyed Ahmad Shah,
 Vice-Chancellor of Kabul University in an interview with the correspondent of the daily ANIS said, "as the re-opening of Kabul University is of vital importance for the training of specialized cadres to undertake economic, social, technical and cultural . development as well as reconstruction of Afghanistan, arid at present ten thousand students of the University are idle, the University authorities are seriously thinking about the early re-opening of the Kabul University. For this purpose they stand in need of the following facilities: ,
1. Means of transport for professors and students'.
Repair^of the buildings.
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, '1992           NIullHnI
  3.  Activating central heating systems and provision of fuel.
  4.  Equipment of laboratories.
  5.  Re-activating the cafeteria.
 :               I
 o.  Supply of stationery and teaching equipment.
 7. Making the Kabul University press functionablte.
      "When I assumed the post of Vice-Chancellor,      the     University
 resembled a Ghost town. There was ho electricity, no water and no administrative order. Telephones of the various departments and administration wing were out of order. There was no transport available for the teaching staff and the only thing visible was the presence.of children, women and old men cutting the tree -branches."
               ■ 7             ;
 INTERVIEW:  The Vice Chancellor of the
 Kabul University stated in the second part of his'interview:        '
      "We have taken a number of measures for reviving the University. We~~ had meetings with the Chinese Ambassador, the Iranian delegation, the Indian Ambassador and a representative of the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Higher Education who promised help and assistance in this connection. For the revival of the University, we need seven million dollars, whereas the total budget of the Kabul University in the year 1992-93 is aibout 450 thousand dollars. The central hostel of the University is devoid of ail residential facilities. Meanwhile in the current y^ear the number of students in this hostel has reached 2,563."
                                                             ' "When our * requirements are not adequate, we have in mind two interim
 tllllU                    VOL.  6 NO. 1
 plans for the beginning of the 1992-93 academic year."
 -, First semester from January 5 to Aprii 4, 1993.
     First semester ’ examination from April 4 to April 25, 1993.
     Second semester from April 30 to August 4, 1993.
 -  Second semester exams from August o
 to August 19, 1993.      I
 -  Commencement of academic year from September, 1993.
       The aim is to standardize- the commencement of the academic year of Kabul University on September 22 commensurate with the academic year of most of the.Universities of the world; to avoid wastage of f the       1992-93
 academic year; admission of the students who have parsed the final level school exams by June 1993 and ultimately avoidance of overcrowding of the 'newly admitted students in one academic year..
     "In the second plan, it is proposed to start the academic year on March 22, 1993 with the periods of semesters as mentioned earlier."
                                                   9
 .EDITORIAL:  "Peace  and fraternity are
 the means to our survival and fortune". The mujahed and valiant nation of Afghanistan, after 14 year, jehad, has now achieved its goal i.e. the establishment of an Islamic order in the country and presently is passing thru sensitive stages of their history. Our oppressed nation which bas undergone toils and tribulations and suffered due to the long drawn was and fighting, facing economic hardships, pray to God Almighty that these days and nights be
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992       fUllttHfl t
 mmmmmmmmmmummamBmmmmummi
 the end to their miseries and misfortune and a lasting peace may prevail to bring comfort and happiness to all the inhabitants of this country. This country is a common home to all the Afghans whether they are bring inside or outside; they are all the children of the soil and indebted to this soil and brothers, in faith: and this feeling and sentiments of brotherhood and fraternity, being inherent have been handed over from generation to generation. Therefore it is incumbent on all the Afghans to serve this soil with all their heart sincerely but if they again start infighting among themselves.then their motherland will never forgive them and they shall remain condemned in history for ever.
 NEWS ITEMS: a professional training
 seminar for the police and personnel of Kabul city security zones was convened in the hall of home ministry which will continue for 4 days.
    In Shabirghan, the capital of Jauzjan province in Jin locality* the Darul Haffaz School has been opened recently with 50 students learning in it presently.
   In the province of Nangarhar the district Kana Sangar sarai middle school foundation stone was laid at a ceremony.
                                          10
     ■Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati, Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran arrived in Kabul for one-day visit 9 Novemberer upon the invitation of Sayyed Sulaimann Gailani, Foreign Minister of Afghanistan.
     At the conclusion of his visit the following press release was" issued:
                                                     In these discussions which were held in an atmosphere of complete
 ti11111____ VOL. 6 NO. 1
 understanding and brotherly feelings,
 both the sides exchanged views about
                      v            . ■■
 friendly relations and expansion of
 cooperation between the two neighborly
 Muslim countries in different
 dimensions. Similarly they discussed
 regional and international issues,
 expressing*agreement in all spheres.
       The Foreign Minister of the Islamic government of Afghanistan while explaining the political, military and security conditions in the country and the modality of the Hal-wa-Aqd council, expressed gratitude for the help and political support of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the international forums during the 14 years of jehad in Afghanistan and Iran's humanitarian assistance after the establishment of the Islamic government with special reference to the 50 million dollar bank credit provided by this country for the provision of fuel and foodstuff. He hoped that similar cooperations and assistance would continue in future also and that the Islamic Republic of Iran would do everything possible for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. In response the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran expressed readiness to continue humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan in future as well and to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and to make efforts for expanding economic, cultural and political cooperation between the two countries.
      During the discussions, the two sides agreed to the formation of a joint commission under the chairmanship of the Foreign Ministers of both the countries and to ensure Afghanistan's membership in the Economic Cooperation Organization.
                                                     11
EDITORIAL:    Throwing light on the
103
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
:t!bi
  historical background of Afghanistan-Iran relations and the recent visits of high-ranking Iranian officials to Afghanistan, the editorial adds, "we are obsolutely certain that the Islamic government of Afghanistan and our Muslim and downtradden people, with their faith in God’s help and firm will and determination, will be able to overcome all difficulties in order to reinforce the pillars of national unity, and believe that neighbors and friends like the Islamic Republic of Iran Will not leave their Afghan brothers alone in this struggle against hardships. The government and .the people     of Afghanistan       always
  appreciated the selfless and friendly assistance of our Muslim brothers. In the same way as the Islamic Republic of Iran even now does not hesitate to provide all sorts of economic, financial, cultural and other assistance to the Afghan people, we believe that in future too - further steps will be taken in this field and Iran will play an active and valuable role in our country’s reconstruction.
                    12
 INTERVIEW:  Mohammad Younus Qanooni,
 Director of. Political Affairs in the Afghan Defense Ministry, ■ in an interview with the correspondent of the daily ANIS regarding reorganisation of the army, made the following remarks:
 1. The Afghan Army is an Islamic Army composed of the jehadic forces and the positive elements of the previous army.
 ‘2. The Afghan Army will be an Islamic national army and will not be aligned with any of the political groups and organisations.
      Therefore one of the duties of the army would be to make serious efforts for maintenance of complete peace and security in the country. In view of the basic duty of defending the territorial integrity and independence of the country, this army is ready to hand over the areas and places belonging to the Interior Ministry, to the forces of the esteemed ministry provided these forces undertake to ensure the security and maintain law and order in Kabul and then devote their attention to the general duty of defending the state.
      Since there is great importance attached Kabul because of its central location, it is essential to start organising the army in Kabul and then to establish necessary military units in the provinces. It is but natural that the army, having the mission to pursue its great objectives, should be mobilized and organized in all the provinces of the dountry,' taking orders only from one center of single leadership.
                  14
 NEWS ITEMS:  As per cabinet decision,
 distribution of material to the coupon holders has started. The Ministry of Light Industries and Pood stuff distributes 300 tons of flour! daily through the stores of the Supply Department.      '
NEWS ITEMS:a powerful commission headed by deputy Prime Minister and Home Minister, Engineer Ahmed Shah Ahmedzai, was established in the Prime Minister's office to ward off any problems created by take over of apartments# residential, quarters and other personal and state properties.
3. The army will be devoid of all “ The chief of the police 2nd security kinds     of un-Islamic I’ prejudices, zone, Yahya, told the "ANIS" cbrres-
leanings and inclinations and will be 1pondent that after the declaration made organized in such a manner that it may I by Islamic state of Afghanistan and represent the entire Muslim nation. fdefense ministry the zone had recruited
104
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
  2£00 volunteers for armed service *out of ' which 300 .men had been taken voluntarily in the\ 2nd security zone and the rest were sent to various regiments.
                    16
  REPORT:  The Islamic Republic of Iran
  presented 106 books of scientific knowledge to the Kabul University. These books were hainded over by Mr. Sherzad, diplomatic representative of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of: Iran to Prof. Dr. Sayyed Amir Shah Hassanyar, Vice-Chancellor of the Kabul University, yesterday afternoonk
  - Sayyed Noorullah Emad, Chief of the Central 'Committee of the Shoora-e^-Hal-
  wa-Aqd yesterday received a number of
  .... ... • ••-•- | “ ’. '
  national - traders in:    the DilkOsha
  Palace. He spoke about the necessity of
  convening the Shoora under the present
  'circumstances and the role of the
  business community in helping the
  Central Committee perform . the task.
  During this meeting Haji Sayyed
  Gulabuddin Sherzai, one of the
  conscientious traders, donated two
  vehicles costing 70 million Afghanis as.
  well as five million Afghanis in cash
  to the Central Committee Fund.       ,
                    17
 xNTERVIEW: Professor Rabbani, the Pre-
 sident of Islamic state of Afghanistan, in an interview with "Mujahed Magazine,
 pertaining to the establishment of "the
         \
 elders* council" said: "I hope that the Council will be made up very soon". In regard to the selection of representatives in accordance with the population he said:     "In the selection Of
 representative^ the most impartial method is the issue of population symmetry wherein the nation should be satisfied on that account. The old administrative distribution was o.k. then and reasonable too but now
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1
  conditions have changed and calls for new organization; therefore taking into consideration the, population issue the question of partiality is eliminated and no one feels that he has been wronged or his right trampled and more people can take part in selection. Our. religion states that "Islam eliminates the beaten track" in other words the construction or relationship that has lost its utility for the society and is no longer advantagerus must be chang.ed so that people are reassured and Work together in an atmosphere of fraternity and cooperation."
       In regard to difference between "the elders' council" and "Loya Jirga or grand assembly" he said:    Basically
  there is not much difference between the two but in Islamic political circumstances such supreme council has been called ■ the "Ahl-e-Hall-o-Aqcf Council" i.e. "the elders' council" and\ basically this is an expression used in Islamic jurisprudence- as political terminplogy. In the old "grand Assemblies" or "Loya Jirgas" the procedure of passing a resolution w,as different from adoption of a resolution under the "elders' Council under "Grand Assemblies" approved resolutions; were declared in advance but in the "elders' Council" those persons \ are taken who are capable to decide". Besides the leaders, in regard to other candidates he said: "About the condidacy of others I solemnly declare that there is no monopoly or partiality on this head and anyone can participate". In regard to the participation of women he said: "In the bill general conditions are mentioned and the council does not say any thing in regard to their nonparticipation." In regard to this question that "some believe that JIA had played a basic role in toppling the Kabul regime and the defense of Kabul cit(y therefore they will not easily surrender the power" said:     "JIA had
 105
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL, 6 NO. 1
 always proved that to retain power in Afghanistan legal procedure and public opinion ought to be followed and respected and JIA has invariably follow practised the same, we do not want to start any thing against the will of the people".
                                              21
 ty Professor Rabbani participated in a big gathering of the Ismaili community in thre general Islami Jama'at Khana at Taimani 19 November. At the start of the function, Haji Abdullah and Sheikh Ghulam Ali, preachers of the Central Ismaili Jama'at Khana Mosque welcomed the presence of Prof. Rabbani to the Jama'at Khana and on behalf of Sayyed Mansoor Naderi, leader of the Ismaili Community in Afghanistan, assured him of all sorts of sacrifice for restoration df divine justice, sovereignty of the Holy Quran, maintenance of peace and security and reconstruction of the country.
      In response Professor Rabbani thankincj said, "the Islamic government formed |by dint of our competent a'nd heroic jnation is the product of tbe dear njartyrs of Islam and the sacrifices of all the tribes, clans and nationalities living in this country who have ultimately achieved victory. Islam commands as to live like brothers in an atmosphere of brotherhood."
                            if-
      Then he threw light on the modality of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd shoora which ensures righteous leadership based on the people's free will, according to the teachings of Islam. He stressed the need to elect sympathetic, faithful and pious representatives to this council.
                  28
   In the llOth literacy sector of Kabbul city 21 literacy courses have I
 been established 23 September 1992 - 21 October, 1992 and. 645 pupils are learning.
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Leadership Council of
 tire Islamic government of Afghanistan has strongly urged upon all the Muslim sisters in the country to strictly observe the Islamic veil. Therefore the Ministry of Education is duty-bound to emphasize the observance of the Islamic veil for the girl students.
 - Prof. Rabbani participated in the martyrs, commemoration congregation held by the Seema-e-Shahed society at Jafari Mosque in Chendawal and spoke about the eminent position of the martyrs who laid down their lives 'for the Islamic Revolution.             \
            DECEMBER
 PRESS RELEASE:   The Islamic government
 has declared in a press release that the government has fully cooperated according to the decision of the Leadership Council for the transfer of power through the Hal-wa-Aqd "shoora" and has not hessitated to make the required efforts in this direction. The Islamic government Leadership had provided necessary facilities for the meeting of this council before •extending its tennure. The Commission for the Qouncil was completely prepared to convene it in time, but because of various reasons th^ council could not hold its session on Schedule.
      The Defense Ministry declared in its communique:
      "The Defense Ministry of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan supports the announcement of the Islamic Government regarding transfer of power according to the decision of
 \
106
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
  the "Shoora-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" and with regard to the people's will pertaining to the future leadership of the country".
       A statement issued by the Bakhtar News Agency reads, "...now that the blessings of Almighty Allah and the sacrifices of the Islamic Army and the heroic mujaheddin, renewed efforts . of evil-doors to disturb law and order situation in Kabul have been frustrated and a ceasefire has been categorically established, the Islamic government is in complete control of the situation in Kabul and the awakened, forces of the Islamic Army are fully prepared to curb all sorts of disruptions. Unfortunately, now that peace and tranquility has been restored in the capital and life in Kabul has become normal, some of the foreign media, contrary to the expectations of the Islamic government, have unrealistic-ally published and broadcast the incorrect news that the office of the Islamic government presidency was bombed by hostile planes 9 December, and that some of the government institutions like the Defense Ministry and radio and television stations were besieged. In fact, these rumors are completely baseless and are devoid of truth."'
      The Bakhtar News Agency, as the only national news agency, calls upon all the news agencies in Kabul and the foreign broadcasting stations beaming their programs to Afghanistan, that keeping in view the present delicate situation as well as the acknowledged norms of the sacred journalistic profession and adopting a realistic approach, while reflecting the current problems of the country, should perform their task with a sense of responsibility     and      journalistic
 precision and quote only autentic sources, so that they may not add to the' miseries of our suffering Muslim
 nation and make the confusion worse confounded by creating unfavorable psychological conditions and rifts between the world public opinion and our domestice public opinion.
        19
 NEWS ITEMS: The preliminary session of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council was held under the Chairmanship of Sayyed Noorulah Emad 19 December. More than 1,000 representatives of the nation attended the session.
     The ordinance framing central commission of the "elders' council" met 18 December, 1992, During the meeting the work of the members of investigating team which is in Kabul, was scrutinized. Besides, the documents of a good number of "the elders' Councils" members, prepared according to the central commission's guide lines, were approves and afterwards they will be issued with letters of credentials.
                         21
 RESOLUTION LETTER: The members of "the elders' Council", meeting in Kabul, issued the following "Resolution letter".
 1-  No Muslim country can afford to continue its social life without a muslim leader and the election of a muslim leader is a legal principle and a national and religious obligation and this onerous duty forms part of the council's powers.
 2-  The honourable leaders of Islamic revolution ought to be as good as their words and remain in the Council meeting to prove their attachment to the muslim nation and should respect the muslim nation and carry out their requirements.
 3-  The leaders of Islamic parties or their responsible representatives
107
OGTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 should not shirk from their obligations to the muslim entity and ought to stick to their previous pacts, otherwise to be indifferent to the desires of the muslim nation is tantamount to betraying and letting down this oppressed and innocent nation.
 be irrevocable)
  SEPTEMBER
 4-   Any party or any one, under the prevalent conditions in Kabul in the presence of the representatives of the muslim nation, who create chaos and disorder; their this anti-Islamic step and measure against the national interest is ccmsidered by the entire muslim nation as declaration of war and the muslim nation shall not forgive the enemies of Islam and Muslims and national traitors.
 5-   We request the entire scholars, jehad commanders and the righteous mujaheddin to apprise all those who are bent upon creating disorder, chaos and confusion in Kabul city of the sbrious negative and dangerous consequences and over and above that to warn them of God almighty's wrath and the day of reckoning.
 <o- We started our jehad, as ordained by God almighty, we continued the same and brought it to a conclusive victory, and God be willing, we, have decided to select the head of the country and no one has challanged the nation's choice, nor for that matter can challenge.
 7- Up to the last we shall continue
 this sacred work so that God's will be done,   the martyr's desires get
 fulfilled and the country's national unity#  independence and territorial
 integrity be maintained and protected.
 8-  We assure the Afghan muslim and supreme nation, that to carry out this( great duty and to select as muslim leader for the country, we have decided firmly and our decision shall never waver or weaken (and our decision shall
 EDITORIAL:. "Our Muslim people are all for peace"i The Afghans have fought the infidels in every front and have gone thru all kfnds of oppression, toils and tribulations and by dint of their keen and piercing swords of national solidarity and unity have driven away the dictators and the imperialists thus keeping the territorial integrity of their motherland intact and the title of Afghanistan in the heart of Asia along with its glorious history alive thru the ages;
      Recalling the difficult stages and victory of Jehad, which was achieved thru unity of the Afghans, the editorial      hopefully     concludes:
 "Wherever we',, are and whatever be our position and stance, if we do not keep the torch of peace alight and burning then to regret afterwards will ' be useless. Let us bolster up ourselves with the Afghan determination to maintain peace, to resolve the problems thru peaceful means and to reconstruct our homeland under the banner of one God and his message so that we may be blessed with glory and victory"
                                               27
      In pursuance of the program for complete eradication of illiteracy, recently six literacy courses have been started in the subsidiary branches of the Directorate General of National Security.
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Islamic state of
 Afghanistan Leadership Council honorable member, Hazrat Ayatullah Fazel,
108
 proclaims to the entire noble and iriuslim nation of Afghanistan specially the illustrious people of Kabul that HWIA has resolved its political problems with the Islamic state and its head the honorable Professor Rabbani and henceforth HWIA shall regain part and parcel of the Islamic state of Afghanistan officially.
     To eradicate illitracy totally recently o courses of literacy have been opened in the national security Directorate branches.
                                               30
 EDITORIAL:  "The Provision of Social
 Services":  The 14 year war has
 destroyed almost every thing in our country side as well as. in towns and cities. Productive resources have been destroyed totally."
     The editorial while discussing the Kabul city transport problem, appreciates the Council of Ministers' attention in this regard and hopes that public transport will be restored soon and along with it the cargo transport will also ply on roads, so that our dislocated and worried people could leave a sigrh of relief.
 DECLARATION: The  Defense Ministry of
 the Islamic state of Afghanistan has put forward the following conditions for recruitment in armed service in regard to the youth of the country:
 1- Every candidate for active service will get 15,000. Afghanis as monthly salary along with 8 kilograms of wheat.
 2- His age should, hot be more than 35 and less than 20 years.
 year and more service will be voluntary.
 5.' Prior to. the stipulated period if the candidate leaves his service his weapon will be confiscated to the candidate will have to observe religious and official orders.
 7. The candidate will shun all political and organizational activities and will confine himself only to the cause of promotion of Islam, defense of the country's territorial integrity and national sactivity and honor • He will work in strengthening of Islamic state.
                                  OCTOBER
                 1
 EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "the
 recent extensive and dynamic endeavors of the Islamic . government of Afghanistan and the Leadership Council for ensuring durable peace throughout the country, is praise-worthy. The general public support .these measures strongly, and sincerely demand from the hostile parties to observe the ceasefire. The people of Afghanistan will hold thosevin esteem who, instead of firing rockets and using fire-arms, extend humanitarian help to them. They would condemn those who seek to add insult to their injuries."
         '       4
EDITORIAL: "On the Fringe of Successful Visits". In this editorial. Prof. Rabbani1s visits to the Islamic Republics of Pakistan and Iran have been discussed arid as a result, the following conclusion has been drawn: .
0CT0BER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 3* He ought to be physically fit and           Prof.  Burhanuddin Rabbani, Presi-
 healthy.                                    dent of the Islamic State of Afghanis-
                                         Itan visited foreign lands and his successful tour enhances and
                                                  109
  OCTOBER-DEGEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 strengthens this hope of the Afghan people that our war-torn country has been blessed with durable peace and the road to national reconstruction with the moral and material help and support of the friends of Afghan jehad has opened with a bright future. Time will show that this successful visit will have positive effects in the reconstruction and progress of the country and the establishment of peace and tranquility in our homeland.
                     5
 EDITORIAL:  "The friends are  supporting
 peace - efforts in Afghanistan"; Professor Rabbani, the President of Islamic state of Afghanistan, in relation to his visit to Iran and Pakistan, in a press conference in Kabul observed. "Our muslim friendly countries of Pakistan and Iran which had supported our just cause of jehad and had also provided facilities for our refugees today also they support our jehad and making all out efforts in bringing peace and stability to this war-torn country." He said:   "Pakistan
 will increase its cooperation and assistance in our economic, technical and commercial fields and will not Spare any efforts in strengthening the Islamic state of Afghanistan and providing the Afghans with necessities and emergency aid. Similarly the Iranian side agreed to help Afghanistan in trade, cultural, economic and other fields and the assistance has started already." The editorial considers exchanges and contacts with neighbouring countries and durable understanding as invaluable steps in the reconstruction and strenthening of peace in Afghanistan.
                    6
 EDITORIAL': The editorial says, "the
 honest and God-fearing people of “ our country expected that after the victory of the Islamic Revolution, their all-
   time and heartfelt desire to establish peace and to start re-development of the war-torn country would start soon, but alas, that like any other revolution, in our country too, in the first days and months, the Islamic system was faced with a series of difficulties and mis-understandings which created hurdles in the path of this noble human desire, adding further to our miseries and trevails. Thank God that in these moments, as a result of sagacious and sympathetic efforts of a number of our jehadic commanders and respectable    religious     scholars,
   valuable and effective steps have been taken to remove these difficulties and to ensure national and Islamic unity and brotherhood." The editorial concludes, "to-day not only the sensible and intelligent people of our homeland but all the people of the world look forward to the day when the freedom loving and religious-minded Afghans, after their victory over the communist power and its puppet regime, would strive to ensure Islamic brotherhood and national unity for the glory of their country.
                                                7
   EDITORIAL:  "...our country, after 14
   years of war and sufferings and also during the establishment of an Islamic system, faced a series of problems which-, are the offshoot of every revolution and social upheaval. There is no solution for this problem, except with the unity of thought and action among the mujaheddin and other Muslims. Therefore, all the Afghans have now pinned their hopes on this solution. For establishing an Islamic system in the country, we need more than anything else/ a durable peace and complete security so that we could be able to remove and repair the damages caused by war and move on the road to
(reconstruction. Restoration of peace and redevelopment of the country is the
110
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL.
r—ttm
6 NO, 1
old desire of every Muslim countryman, after the establishment of Islamic system. The government of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, keeping in view this nobie desire of the Muslim Afghan natipn, has devoted its entire attention to this goal. Hence we are more hopeful to achieve greater success in this field.
 INTERVIEW:   Mohammad Siddiq Chakari,
 Minister of Information and Culture, during an interview regarding the rehabilitation of the country's press said, "during the recent clashes,
 , besides damages inflicted on all the public and private institutions, section's of radio, television, government .printing presses, and other relevant departments too suffered extensive damage. But fortunately owing to the efforts of the authorities concerned, these institutions again became functional. The large financial losses caused to these departments cannot be recompensated, under the present circumstances, due to the precarious financial position of the government. Therefore we had to contact some of the friendly countries or the United Nations in this connection and hope to find a solution for this problem in the near future."
                    8
EDITORIAL:  "The  necessity of  measures
to be taken for the winter": The winter is drawing near and the people have started worrying that the winter "has in store for them and how their day and night will pass. The Islamic state of Afghanistan, the ministries and institutes have assured the people, time and again, and the honorable President, during his meetings and speeches, have also referred to this topic; he has also sounded the friendly countries and international organizations in .regard to emergency assistance for the people of Afghanistan. But the
 time is running out and winter is just round the corner therefore the people are justified to, worry on this head. Our people pray that words should be followed by deeds and Islamic tenets ought to be practised and highway robberies and thefts should be checked and arrested.
                                               It
 EDITORIAL:   "The  World  Supports  the
 Efforts of the Islamic Government". The Islamic government of Afghanistan established as a result of the victory of the Islamic Revolution and fourteen years of Islamic jehad by the courageous mujaheddin and the Muslim natipn of Afghanistan, is now marching ahead by gaining international prestige and credibility.
      Referring to the visit of the Head of State to Jakarta, his participation in the NAM Summit as well as his visits to Pakistan and Iran and pointing to the cooperation of certain countries and the United Nations to Afghanistan and also welcoming the US decision to ease sanctions on trade tariffs to Afghanistan, the editorial addss, "the USA lately issued an official statement, welcoming the serious efforts of the Islamic government of Afghanistan for ensuring peace and stability in the country and supported it. The Afghan government appreciating these measures, expects other countries to have a realistic approach to the Afghan problems. The people and the .Islamic government of Afghanistan hail the steps taken by the United States government and the # speeches by President George Bush for establishing economic and poilitical relations with Afghanistan and reinforcing diplomatic relations with this country . because such measures by the USA and other countries ensured paramount diplomatic success for the Islamic government of Afghanistan at the international and
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 universal level and enhanced the credit and prestige of our country and the Islamic government at international level.
                    12
 EDITORIAL: "The restoration of peace
 and the flow of assistance from friendly countries":  The international
 and other institutions along with friendly countries will increase their assistance to this war-battered country when peace returns to this land and donors can safely transport their material under a congenial atmosphere of security and peace.
      In the city of Kabul the sitaution of comparative security and the state measures in this regard could pave the way for dislocated people of the city to return to their homes.
      Any step taken by Islamic state should be saturated with sense of security and peace since security and peace add up to the utility of the assistance made by our own people and •friendly countries making their cooperation and help more appreciable, so that under very trying and severe conditipns friends and sincere servants are never forgotten. The editorial then recalls the .promises of aid made by Pakistan, Iran and US and says; "We believe that peace and security will soon be strengthened in Afghanistan and it will be worthwhile for the friendly countries to care and shower their assistance of all kinds."
      Subsequent to the.establishment of peaces and stability-' after the enforcement of permanent ceasefire in the city of Kabul, life has returned to normal and effective Steps have been taken in the present/ peaceful atmosphere for doing away with the hardships of the citizens pf Kabul.
ARTICLES:   "Planning for Social and
  Economic-Development" by Habib-ur-Rahman Habib. Planning is a desired process for pin-pointing the requirements of a social order, determining and specifying the priorities and highlighting the resources of the country. Hence it has been accepted, at present times, as the best means for social and economic development in most of the societies having different economic systems, and is considered as one of the basic aspects of national economic institutions. In Afghanistan prior to World War II planning was done on the basic of a series pf internal and external factors. But actually it was in 1956 that practical steps were taken to prepare five-year plans. During the first and second five-year plans priority was given to building an economic infrastructure, whereas during the third plan preference was given to small and medium projects as well as investment by private sector. The fourth development plan was prepared after the severe draughts of 1960/61 but the unfavorable financial conditions hampered its implementation. Daud's highly ambitions Seven-year Plan, having multi-dimensional strategy also could not be put into effect due to financial stringency. After the April 1978 coup, during the past 14 years, attempts to copy Russian models repugnant to the economic and social conditions of the Afghan society and preparation of five-year and long term plans for the country, could not bear fruit owing to economic and political isolation of Afghanistan. On the contrary the economic and social crisis assumed serious proportions and the society stood on the verge of a precipice. Now that the Islamic government has devoted its attention to planning for economic development, it is necessary to review the planning^ methods by keeping in view the lessons llearnt during the past 35 years. It is essential to specify the defects and to
112
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 preserve the useful methods and to discord all those methods, devoid of practical aspects and repugnant to the realities of the Afghan society.
                    13
 EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "the hot summer days are over and now the cold winds of autumn herald the coming of winter and snowfall. It is expected that in order to checkmate further hardships to our people in the coming winter, appropriate measures . should be taken .right now alongwith ensuring safety and smooth-running of traffic and logistics. Food prices should be seriously controlled. Private businessmen and entrepreneurs should be encouraged to import essential commodities for the common man and facilities should be provided to them. Right now steps should be taken to discourage blackmarketing and hoarding and the violators should be reminded of the religious injunctions in this regard and the guilty should be' punished accordingly.
 DECLARATION: The declaration of Bakhtar informative agency is entitled "The current    developments    and    the
 obligations of the people and jehad organizations". It emphasizes the need to constitute "the elders' council" and calls upon the people to get ready for the setting up of this council.
                  14
 NEWS/REPORTS:  Peter Thomsen, the US
 special envoy for Afghanistan, has said that if the ceasefire continued, the US Embassy would soon start functioning in Kabul. During an interview with the BBC 12 October, Tomsen said, . "it will be better if the Western diplomatic missions, including that of the United States, start refunctioning i*n Kabul in order to help in the reconstruction of Afghanistan."
       In order to look after the maintenance of the Holy Sites, the Parvan Province authorities have recently provided two million Afghanis to the Islamic guidance and endowment Directorate of the province.
                                               15
 EDITORIAL:  "Towards strengthening of
 peace' and stability in the country": Discussing the constitution ; of the "elders' council" it writes:   "In the
 light of Leadership Council and the observations of the Islamic state President - and in accordance with the Leadership Council's approved action plan, in addition to the election of one each from every district of the entire country to the council and for the sake, of the representation of the entire country's residents in the council from amongst the administrative units one representative each qv»t of every 30 thousand will be introduced to the council. The jehad:leaders and the Leadership Council members will Select 15 out of 100 candidates and selection of 5 out of 100 will be the prerogative of the Leadership Council President. This procedure will enable persons of profession, experience and initiative to participate in the "elders' Council". The Afghan people on the whole including the intelligencia, mujaheddin and the entire embattles nation are in favor of those people to be in the council who uphold national soliderity,support the Islamic * state stability, aspire to peace, national sovereignty, territorial integrity and be endowed with Islamic and scholarly spirit and be courageous so that they are capable to choose the Leadership and could serve the downtrodden Islamic Afghanistan to the best of their ability and sincerely.
 NEWS/REPORTS: The Minister of State for Food and Light Industries, who has lately returned to Kabul after visiting
   the northern provinces of the country, 113
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
  says that more than 14 thousand tons of wheat was ready for despatch to Kabul at the Hairatan river port.
  REPORT:  The exihibition  for paintings
  of    Waheed-ur-Rahman       Koochi was
  inaugurated 10 October in the hall of the Cultural 'Center of the Jombesh-e-Milli Islami Afghanistan (National Islamic Movement) in the presence of some of the ministers/ generals/    commanders,     diplomatic
  missions at Kabul, members of the peace committees of the Jehadic Ulema Council and some art lovers in the country. While opening the exhibition, Brigadier Mohammad Homayoun Faizi appreciated the . admirable step of the Cultural Center for the promotion of art in the counry.
      Then mohammad Ashraf Shahkar, Director of the Cultural Center in Kabul invited the audience to view the exhibition. Engineer Yaqoob Lali, Minister of Mines and Industries, and Mawlawi Ahmad Nazar Balkhi, Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, inaugurated the: exhibition.
VOL. 6 NO. 1
      The paintings by Waheed-ur-Rahman are mostly devoted to the revival of ancient glories arid historic events and places as well as the reflection of various aspects of the people's lives. The painting depicting three mournful generations visualising the realities of the history of . Afghan War was the focus of attraction for the viewers.
 REPORTAGE:   Sayyed Sul man Gailani,
 Deputy Premier and Foreign Minister, Islamic Government of Afghanistan, and also Head Of the .Islamic Afghan Delegation to the UN Genera 1 Assembly, in a detailed speech at New York 30 September said, "the         14 years of
 relentless struggle by the heroic and mujahed nation of Afghanistan on the one hand and the freedom loving and
 reformist struggles of the nations suppressed by the former Soviet Union and the East European block on the other. Coupled with the unjust and unrealistic nature of communism and the autocratic     regimes,     played     a
 significant role in the downfall of this decadent ideology and the decline of polarisation of the world powers. These factors weakened the general perception of military pacts and, to some extent, brought about changes in the political geography of the world. Consequently apprehensions concerning continuation of the cold war have reduced and expectations for the establishment of a new, better and more just system have been strengthened."
      "Fob the Islamic government of Afghanistan, the 47th session of the United nations has two special features. Firstly the coriibatant Afghan nation has once again occupied its seat in the UNO after 14 years of the Holy War. Secondly the delegation of the newly established Islamic government in Afghanistan is participating in this, gathering with this expectation from the international society that the people of the world, favoring justice, economic progress and social uplift of the nations who supported our nation righteously and realistically during, the past 14 years of the imposed war, would not leave us alone in the second phase of our struggle i.e. national endeavors for economic reconstruction and social rehabilitation of a country devastated by war." Gailani added, "villages, towns and cities have been extensively destroyed, forests covering approximately 200,000 hectares, have been razed to the ground, about 8,000 canals and Subterranean water.conduits; have been destroyed, six million heads of cattle have been exterminated, '.'114 health centers and 700 km. of highways have been completely ruined i Still a precise estimate of destruction and
114
 OOTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1
 losses has yet to be prepared. Another regrettable fadt worth mentioning is, that even today more than ten million field mines have been laid by the former Soviet forces in our land. Hence for at least a couple of decades, our pegple would not be able to travel safely in their own territory."
      Gailani went on, "the number of orphans and the disabled is so large that the Islamic government, with its limited .resources, is not in' a position to fulfil its obligations towards needful help and assistance to them. If we presume that every victim of the Afghan War has left behind only one child, then there are one-and-a-half million orphans in our country. Our delegation suggests that.a special fund within the framework of the UNICEF be established for the rehabilitation of the war orphans. Such a fund would help initiate educational programs and rehabilitate the war orphans socially. Perhaps it would be advisable to announce the year 1994 as the international year for the orphans."
                   18
 COMMUNIQUE: On the conclusion of Prof. Rabbani's visit to Uzbekistan, 15 October, the followingcommunique was issued:
      "Both the countries stressed on the need for peaceful solution of problems concerning the security of the common frontiers, keeping in view their mutual interests. During discussions between the leaders of Afghanistan and Uzbekistan,. problems related to relations between the two countries were considered comprehensively. Both the sides agreed that as a result of the high level negotiations between the Islamic Government of Afghanistan and the Republic of Uzbekistan, diplomatic relations between the .two states be strengthened at the embassy level and
 an airline be established between Kabul and Tashkent.
      Leaders of both the countries expressed interest expansion of useful cooperation with mutual consent and stated that new ways and means be sought to develop it further. Similarly expansion of economic and commercial relations as<*»well other ties that may be completely consonant with the interests of both countries, were given due consideration."
19
 EDITOkxaL: "Humanitarian aid ^o Afghanistan starts again":        The entire
 residents of Afghanistan, particularly the Kabul city residents, though' electronic media and newspapers, have heard the candid remarks of Sayyed Sulaiman Yari, the Minister for Light Industries and Public utilities, saying that out of 44 thousand tons of wheat at the part of Hairatan only 14 thousand, from which /9 thousand were distributed in the Northern provinces, are ready .to be transported to Kabul. So far the finance ministry has not earmarked the funds to be given to the Ministry of Light Industries so that the quota of ghee, cooking oil, flour, sugar and other, necessities be distributed to coupon holders, thru the registered utility stores. Likewise no signs of coal are visible any where so far which has added to the worries of the people.
 - It is felt now that the problems and hardships of the people of Afghanistan have attracted world wide attention and since comparatively an atmosphere of peace and security • has been created therefore international organizations along with US, Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia have started taking practical steps to despatch humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. This gesture has been widely acclaimed by the leaders of
115
 Islamic state of Afghanistan and the people who are reassured in this regard.
                   20
 STATEMENT: Government  statement about
 the transfer of power to the new leadership:
      "Now: that on the basis of Jehadic Leaders' decisions the specified period of state leadership is nearing completion, the Islamic Government of Afghanistan,. having successfully per-
 formed its political, military and social duties and obligations, is ready to transfer power to the new leadership elected by' the Shoora-e-Hal-wa-Aqd."
                   21
 EDITORIAL:  Under the title "Mutual
 understanding for the sake of peace" the editorial says, "if we delve deeply into the current situation in our country, we shall be able to find that the recent unpleasant incidents in the city have been the offshoot of a series of misunderstanding® and suspicions which have temporarily come to an end with the mediation of well-wishing and peace-loving personalities in the shape of Peace Commissions, established »in the various provinces, resulting in ceasefire. Thank God that the ceasefire has prevailed until today and the Muslim citizens of Kabul have heaved a sigh of relief and are leading a peaceful and secure life. The delicate period of imminent dangers to life and property is over and now it is up to us to move jointly towards reconstruction and compensation of losses throughout our country when the atmosphere is favorable. Our jehad will achieve full success at a time when our Muslim people get rid of the evils of war, disunity, poverty and misfortune and march on the road to progress, national unity and education."
 COMMENTARY: "The Afghan refugees are
 returning to their homeland": by Jalal Khail: Around 5 million Afghan refugees residing in Pakistan a^id Iran were provided with the facilities of temporary stay, rehabilitation and subsistence youth of rations and with the coming of power of mujaheddin government 27 April, 1992 it was expected that the exodus of Afghan refugees from Pakistan and Iran will start. Such were the sentiments and feelings of the entire bulk of the Afghan refugees.                  “
      UNHCR in its latest report writes: "During the first week of October, 1992,  2t>98 families including 18007
 persons from NWFP and 1204 families including 4744 persons comprizing 22751 people have returned to their homeland; likewise 21000 refugees have returned individually to Afghanistan in the month of September, 1992." UNHCR report concludes:   "Nowadays daily 2000
 refugees return to their homeland".
                24
 REPORT: In response to the decision of the Leadership Council and instructions issued by the Defense Ministry a group of its armed forces have returned to the northern provinces of the country. It clearly indicates that the army has fulfilled its obligations pertaining to proper security arrangements. The return of armed personnel, belonging to the Islamic- Army, from Kabul to the northern provinces is a good sign leading to ■ the solution of all the problems through understanding and negotiations and provides.. practical help to the successful funtionirtg of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council.
                25
EDITORIAL:  The editorial which is on
116
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 the anniversary of UN foundation says, 'JAfahanistan, as a loyal member from its very inception, has always honored its charter, carried out its decisions and observed its principles without fail,, is presently fulfilling a new role of removing tensions and strains. The visit of UN Secretary General's special envoy and his meeting with Professor Rabbani, President of the Afghanistan Islamic State, and other responsible quarters of our country is a fresh step forward in the promotion of humanitarian assistance of the organization towards the welfare of the people. We are hopeful that the assistance will be started as soon as possible. The presence of the UN representatives, as observers and guests, in the Hal-wa-Aqd council which is to convene shortly, is yet another effective measure by the- world organization towards maintenance of peace and political stability -in our country."
                   28
 ORDINANCE: The first ordinance, dealing with the protection of public and state properties, is issued by Professor Rabbani, President of the Islamic state of Afghanistan.
     Security guards are stationed in state civil departments in order to protect government property from pilferage and possible damage in a satisfactory manner. The ordinance calls upon the commanders of such security posts to carry out their duties scrupulously and protect the property, funds and other material of the government departments, institutes and organizations conscientiously.
     In case proper care is not taken in regard to the protection of state property, the top Officials of the related departments are duty bound to report against ' the defaulters to the
  ^investigator who will refer them to the court of law for further action.
       Security guards of civilian departments will have nothing to do with departmental and administrative affairs, other than their own, assigned duties as security guards, except in cases where their services are asked for by responsible authorities.
       The second ordinance issued by Professor Rabbani is about the absence of government employees. Owing to latest events in the city of Kabul a number of state employees were obliged to leave the city, due to difficult war situation. The Islamic state of Afghanistan, realizing its /obligations towards government employees and the constructive .administration of the ministries and humanitarian assistance to dislocated government employees, whose period of absence from duty exceeds 20 days, and according to
  office rules their services have been
       *
  terminated, hereby declares that the ministries concerned may re-employ those employees. However such employees will not be entitled to their coupon rations and other privileges during the period of their absence. The employees who fall in this category are duty bound to return to their\ respective departments within 20 days from the date of issuance of this ordinance.
                  29
 DECLARATION:  The Foreign Ministry of
 the Islamic state Of Afghanistan, in a declaratipn regarding the current events in Tadjikistan, states, "the Islamic state of Afghanistan, as an independent; sovereign and non-aligned country, while adhering to the peaceful foreign policy, respecting the people's right to self-determination, following the policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of each other, honoring the territorial integrity and
117
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992             Mill
 UN charter and observing the recognized inter-nations* rights and norms of behavior, desires good and friendly relations with all the countries of the world including the Tadjekistan Republic. The people and Islamic government of Afghanistan, having had the bitter experience of foreign intervention in the past with -untold sufferings, desire . no foreign' interference in the internal affairs of Tadjekistan and are confident that the people and political forces of Tadjekistan are themselves, capable to manage the affairs of their independent country without foreign intervention."
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial says, "the
 Muslim people of Afghanistan are currently passing through the second stage aimed at strengthening the pillars of the Islamic revolution. As far as the duration of time is concerned the passage of six months cannot be termed as a long period but witnessed in the light of multifarious developments and events, coupled with their complexity and magnitude, it was a period ful of hopes, aspirations, expectations, toils and tribulations."
     "The Islamic state of Afghanistan, through 1 a declaration^ appealed to its patriotic'and mujahed nation expressing its full ^esp'.ct of the "Peshawar* Accord" and stating that it is sincerely ready to hand over power to      the people's Council  convened,
 through the resolution of the Leadership Council, as scheduled. Presently the stage is set and conditions are favorable and the entire Afghan nation alongwith its friends opine that the time is ripe and should be utilized fruitfully. It was for the sake of this very opportunity that the Afghan nation suffered enormously for six long months. During this time the people lost dear ones, their houses were razed to the ground and hundreds became refugees. Their patience is exhausted
VOL* 6 NO. 1
 and stamina consumed. At present there is nothing more valuable and precious to the Afghans than peace, Islam arid Afghanism. Therefore, the request and wish of the oppressed Afghans must be fulfilled. First and foremost, the Afghan nation wants that fighting be stopped, differences be put aside and power be transferred smoothly. The process of selection of new Leadership ought to be carried out in accordance with the resolution of the Hal-wa-Aqd council throughunderstanding, Islamic brotherhood and the Afghan identity, considering it an article of faith and an Islamic obligation.
                                              30
 EDITORIAL:    While recounting the
 problems and requirements of the people the editorial says, "the entire jehad organizations should play active role in their respective settled areas. Communication routes must be well maintained and their security looked after carefully so that the public and private property is utilized advantageously. The point is that primary and essential commodities like fuel, wheat, etc. lying in the North and south of the country and those already on the supply routes be safely transported to the center."
      It is incumbent on Hazaras, organizations, commanders and the guardians of peace and security in the country to realize their obligations and responsibilities. Needless to say that winter is on its way and it will be extremely cold in Kabul, therefore the essential supplies should be easily available to the people during the severe cold winter. If there is any outstanding issue, which at times may cause irritation or annoyance, these ought to be resolved through peaceful negotiations. The nation calls upon the entire cross-sections of people to realize their obligations in the face
118
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 of the issues, small or big, confronting the country.
                                   NOVEMBER
                                               T
    / .
 REPORT: The Leadership Council of the
 Islamic state of Afghanistan, in an
 extraordinary meeting at the Gulkhanah
 Palace, decided that, in order to
 convene the Hal-wa-Aqd council, the
 office tenure of Prof. Rabbani be
 extended by another 45 days. Wfhile
 appreciating fully the magnitude of
 the enormous workload and onerous
 duties entrusted to'the government,' the
 state "Leadership Council" pays
 tributes to the wise guidance of the
 President in strengthening the
 foundation and pillars of the Islamic
 state of Afghanistan and in
 appreciation of his political acumen
 and wise Leadership extends his office
 tenure. The people of Afghanistan,
 while leaving behind the difficult and
 monumental stages of their history,
 jnder the prevailing circumstances, are
 deeply indebted to the "Leadership
 Council" for its timely and wise step
 taken in the right direction.
                   2
 ARTICLES: The article ; by M. Ibrahim
 Peraishan on narcotics says, "addiction to narcotics is a curse that drags- its victim to the depth of poverty, helplessness, sickness and leads him to the abyss of depravity. Conscious of the damaging consequences wroght with the usage of narcotics our Islamic government has taken effective steps to control the spread of this horrible plague in the society. Just a tew days back over 120 barrels of Tfqor were discovered in Kabul which were destroyed by the government law enforcing agencies. This shows that our Islamic government is keen to enforce Islamic laws effectively•.
VOL. 6 NO. 1
                  4
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with the
 correspondent of the Bakhtar News Agency, central corps commander and the commander of Kabul garrison Lt. General Abdul Rauf Safi disclosed that so far ten security zones have been cleared of irresponsible armed personnel and for the sake of satisfactory maintenance of security of Kabul residents, effective steps have been taken. He said the Defence Ministry of the Islamic state of Afghanistan has adopted special measures for security of Kabul city which are already implemented. As an example, 12 national security zones, the Kabul city security command and their police zones have been activated.
                  5
 ORDINANCE: An ordinance has been issued by «the President of Islamic state of Afghanistan regarding the title of the Police Department which reads, "sincS the terms 'Gendarme and Police* were commonly used in Afghanistan from long ago and are being popular in most parts of the world, therefore, in accordance with the proposal, dated 21 October, 1992 of. the Ministry for Home Affairs the use of 'gendarme and police' instead of 'scouts' has been approved. The Afghanistan Ministry of Justice is. assigned the duty to implement the amendment in all the rules enforced.
                 7
 INTERVIEW:   Abdul Salam Saeedi,
 President of Agricultural Development Bank, in an interview said, "whereas a number of land - and property owners» farmers and peasants are returning to their homeland after 14 years of refuge in Iran and Pakistan, their lands in Afghanistan have burned barren and unfit for cultivation and the owners are financially incapable to revive them, therefore, the Agriculture
119
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 Development Bank should credit for this purpose."
provide
them
     He said, the agricultural development of Afghanistan, in its >,plan for the year 1993, has considered a total of 292 million afghanis credit for individual farmers. The credit will cover the distribution of tractors and their accessories, machinery and tools, animal husbandry, chemical fertilizers and seeds.
                                             10
COMMUNIQUE: The joint communique issued at the end of Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Vilayati's visit to Kabul-, undertaken, at the official invitation of his Afghan counterpart, states: Both sides agreed to set up a joint commission between -the two countries, headed by the foreign ministers. It was decided that the commission be Set up at the earliest.
      Keeping in view the importance of ECO, as an effective means of strengthening regional cooperation, •both sides- supported Afghanistan's membership of this organization.
                  14
 NEWS ITEMS: As decided in the supreme
 meeting* of the ministers the distribution of supplies to coupon holders has begun. The Ministry of Foods and light industries distributes daily 300 tons of flour through its general stores. Alhaj Sulaiman Yari the related Minister said, "the process of supply distribution to the respectable coupon holders, which had stopped for some time due to transportation problems, has been resumed with, effect from November 11."
                  15
 MESSAGE^The Kabul city Hindus and Sikhs, in a message addressed to
 uiHHli        v           yoL. 6 no. 1
 Professor Rabbani, President of Islamic state of Afghanistan state: The success of the Islamic revolution, being the outcome of 14 years of jehad and the struggle of our brotherly Afghan nation, is a source of pride for the people of Afghanistan including the Sikh and Hindu community. While feeling, proud of this success, we appreciate the extension of your Excellency's office tenure and pray for further achievements under Your Excellency's wise leadership."
                  16
 iINTERVIEW: In regard to his detention
 by HIA forces, November 10, Maulawi Nasrullah Mansoor, in an interview disclosed, "after three hours of talks and discussions, which were also attended by Abdullah Zakiri, Mawlawi Saheb Jalaluddin Haqqani and later on joined by Qazi Mohammed Amin Waqad, they pressurized Hekmatyar* but he said he could ndt satisfy the commanders and Mawlawi Saheb Mansoor shall have to stay here for a while until legal procedure gets underwayThis meant that I had to be put on trial • The members of the delegation asked me to accompany them whereupon I told them that I could not abandon my companions; but    they impressed upon me        in
 confidence that a plot was hatched against me and it was better if I made my escape good without caring for others.
 NEWS ITEMS:   The .Islamic Republic of
 Iran has donated lOfc volumes of scientific, books to Kabul University. The books were handed over by Mr. Sherzad, the representative of the Embassy of Islamic Republic of Iran in Kabul, to Professor Sayyed Amir Shah Hasanyar the chancellor of Kabul University, who thanked the Islamic Republic of Iran for its good-will gesture.
 17
120
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
warn
          18
 NOTICE:  From the Commission monitoring
 the illegal possession of property:  It
 is to notify all . the Kabul citizens that in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ministers of the Islamic state of Afghanistan a Commission, comprizing the responsible representatives of Kabul Municipality, the department of town-building and house construction of the Ministry of Justice, Chief Investigator, Supreme Court, Defense Ministry, directorate general of national security of the home Ministry, has been set up in Kabul security command Headquarters in order to stop the violations in regard to illegal possession or occupation of apartments, residential quarters and other public and private property.
      TJie respectable citizens of Kabul city are hereby informed that in case their property is being seized or occupied forcibly they may refer their applications in this regard to the designated commission in the security command Headquarters of Kabul.
          19
 NEWS ITEMS: A peace mission ui ^wi.tral areas headed by Sayyed Jawwad Dilairi visited the cultural center of "Shaheed Pahlawan Abdul Razzaque Hidayat". During the visit the mission was briefed on the working and activities of the center whereupon the deputy chief of the mission paid tributes to the efforts and achievements of the Cultural Center and prayed for its further success.
        28
 EDITORIAL:     "The Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd
 Council and our mission" Under this title the editorial says, " there is a popular proverb sayirig 'love for the homeland is part of our faith'. As
such and to prove the authenticity of this saying it is incumbent that linguistic, ethnic, regional, tribal, parochial and party considerations be completely abandoned."
   "The Afghan Muslim nation, after 14 years of jehad and innumerable sacrifices, is justifiedto express its will and opinion in regard to the future of their homeland. The expression of will and opihion calls for a conducive atmosphere filled with love,; fraternity, sympathy and kindness and such a smooth and satisfactory environment can be created only when the .genuine representatives of the people, rising beyond " their
differences, participate in the Hal-wa-Aqd council and determine their own part in the construction of their homeland and hand over this great task to such a personality whose integrity, love and loyalty for the country and the people cannot be questioned and who has already proved his mettle as far as his services to the country and the people are concerned. This guidance is the legacy of our Prophet who 0 has stated in his sayings, "a good man is the one who benefits the people". It will be in the fitness of things that, in deference to the people's expectations and aspirations, we all rise up above our petty differences and start the setting-up of the Hal-wa-Aqd council and through this foil the enemies' evil designs against our people and the country."
     Mahaz
                           OCTOBER
                                  12
EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "NIFA,
while believing in the Islamic gospel of Consult each other has set forth in
 121
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 the political field under the shadow of Islamic victorious order emphasizing the sanctity of the popular will of the people. As such, NIFA decided to bring forth its publication with the assistance of scholars and writers so as to fulfill its cherishe.v desire and objectives."
      "While taking stock of the current situation NIFA would be publishing the opinions of the entire political, cultural and social figures vis-a-vis the destiny of the people and the homeland. As a matter of fact NIFA will not confine its press and media activities only to party affairs."
 INTERVIEW:   Pir Sayyed Ahmed Gailani,
 NIFA leader, in an interview with the Mahaz said, that he was completely opposed to a dictatorial party system. In regard to the appointment of a representative pojpulation-wise, he said, "the inclusioiji of representatives in the Council oif the assembly in proportion to the population is a good thing but at present due to administrative and security problems, the task is rather difficult and time consuming. Under the circumstances, when current issues of Afghanistan should be tackled forthwith and without delay and the Council should be convened on schedule, it will be in the fitness of things if two or three representatives from each district .attend the assembly."
                    22
 EDITORIAL:   "The Muslim Nation to
 Determine its Destiny" is the title of the editorial which says, "NIFA opines that in these sensitive moments when the destiny of the nation has to be decided, it is incumbent on our jehad forces and their leaders to maintain the status quo i.e. peace should not be disturbed. In accordance with previous decisions, keeping in view our Islamic sacred values and the
 Afghan historical and cultural traditions, a council is to be set up to determine the future Afghan leadership. Under the circumstances, all possible measures will have been completed, during this transitional period in accordance with the sacred Islamic principles. To go against the previous decision,, i.e. the convening of the proposed council and to create any burdles in its way, is not appropriate./our stand is clear i.e. no one can impose his will forcefully or craftily on the valiant Afghan nation and for that matter no one will be allowed to do so."
 REPORT: Over 1,300,000 Afghan refugees
 have so far returned home from Pakistan. Rustam Shah Momand, UNHC for Afghan refugees in Pakistan, in a general meeting on refugees' affairs, reported that wheat and edible oil assistance to the existing refugees would continue according to the ration-card and no refugee would be repatriated against his will. The main difficulty in the way of refugees' repatriation at present was the existence of 30 million mines in villages and on the roads. Another problem, he said, was ansence of shelters since 19 thousand villages have been razed to the ground during the war years.
                            NOVEMBER
            1
 EDITORIAL: The editorial begins, "every
 individual nowadays asks the same
 questions i.e. what is going to happen?
                                                             Who will come? What is the modus / > operandi of convening the elections and
 the assembly? Will all the forces
 participate in this national duty? What
 about the danger of war? Would anyone
 care for bread and water? And tens of
 other similar queries."
122
•OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
VOL. 6 NO. 1
      "The fact is that the Muslim mujahed nation of Afghanistan, after 14 years of jehad and resistance coupled with sufferings, toils and tribulations and great sacrifices pray sincerely for the restoration of peace and security to this war-torn country."
   • "Political life of today in our country is being expressed by a great achievement i.e. unity of the national federation which is the will of God Almighty and thereby the territorial integrity of the country can be maintained. Now the time for evoking hostility is over. Presently there is no room left for. admiring art, execellence or beauty. Presently the . motherland is calling us to holster, up and work diligently to promote the word of God, strengthen national sovereignty -and Islamic solidarity in our beloved motherland and start reconstructing it with all our resources."
 INTERVIEW: ,General Abdul Rahim Wardak, Chx£f of the' general staff of the Afghan army, in an interview pointed out, "the armed forces of the Islamic state ought to restore peace and security in the coun’try and maintain the regional power balance." He said, "these points are being emphasized that armed forces were devoid of political and theorit'ical preferences and shall* not be related to any organization."
                                                   ■: 11
 EDITORIAL:     The ditorial writes,
 "irrespective of seniors and juniors, we; are all of complete consensus that our devastated motherland is in dire peed of reconstruction. Our disorderly a'nd confused life requires discipline and . regularity and/ our wounds and injuries need to be healed up. It is exactly due to these facts that voices are raised from every nook and corner of the world in our favor. Hands are stretched to help us and proposals are
 offered to resolve’ our problems. We respect and honor the opinion of each one of our Muslim natidn. Their sincere efforts and continuous struggle over 14 years of jehad resulted in the victory of jehad. In the same way their opinion and verdict in regard to the selection of future leadership will also prove invaluable. No one can deprive the Muslim people of their legitimate rights. We should not fall out among ourselves on account of simple names but try to^1 ■ remove the hurdles in the way of solidarity and national unity, and reconstruct our devastated      country.       Therefore
 participants of the Council ought to be studied and identified instead of thinking over the proposed council and its nomenclature. Our main objective is the determination of future leadership and we are hopeful that our, Muslim nation will send their . genuine representatives to the proposed council who will come up to their expectations.
 ARTICLES:  "The tragic destiny of the
 experts and the alumno" by a professor of Kabul University. The 15 year old rifle holders, who think themselves pioneers of 14 years of jehad, are treating the scholars and culturists with . prejudice and discuss with them religious items. In our cultural and scientific society the tragedy does not pnly remain but has expanded. After their cultural and political domination, in the wake of bloody and ignomi.nous coup detet of April, the Russians advised their mercenary Khalqis and Perchamis to eliminate, all those national cadres who were not communist members. The main objective behind this advice was to stifle the popular voice of the alumni and gag the alarm of the scholars thus making way for the communists to .fill sensitive governmental posts in the name of adviseris, who were devoid of common sense and illiterate. The task of, the
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
   so-called advisers was espionage, sowing the Seeds of, dissension among
   the .masses and destroying national economy and culture.
        The latest developments in April ,of the year under review which brought about the fall of the regime and. the victory of mujaheddin was a new phase in the life of the Afghans, which from various points of.view, corresponded to their will and desires, however, the tragedy did not end there but its dimensions extended to new heights,. In order to heal up the injuries and wounds of the wounded, the doctors were humilated and beaten black and blue, Professors were interrogated by the armed upstarts, scholars and researchers- were questioned as to why they did not join the jehad and take refuge, A number of people were belittled   because   they were     the
   bureaucrats; in short a psychological atmosphere charged with animosity and hatred between two Afghan brothers viz the*' resident and the refugee unfolded itself in Kabul; the majority of the alumni' were stamped freely with the seals of    Parchami and Khalqi .and
   consequently a ‘ fresh wave of brain
   drain started which^-continuues until today,
             OCTOBER
  EDITORIAL:  Thei ’ed0oriLa 1 ; ■ says , .''after
  the success 6f-the Islamic revolution all sorts”- "of toils, .iribulatiqhs.
 .and - authorships engulfed the 'Afghan
  nation like a horrible storm and to keep the storm at bay it was only JIA which had. to ride it through thick and thin to ward it off . Under the.current
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 circumstances Afghanistan is in dire need of the following":
 1.  To; restore peace . and security
      throughout the country.
 2.  . To Ward off anarchism.
 3.  To keep in cheek the exposition of
      personal style and likes in official and state affairs. In a country where various parties in the framework of armed groups and having had the experience of wartime action, it is very difficult for the state to appease and satisfy each group. It goes without saying that in a country, where external and internal enemies are fast working to create differences among the people of Afghanistan using all sorts of tricks at their command, no space and corner would be left secure, safe and peaceful for the people to heave a sigh of relief therein. At the same time dangerous and lethal weapons, which nowadays are being freely used by vagabonds, can in no time devastate the entire village and town.'.
     "True to its human characteristic, JIA is trying as usual that the aspirations of the people of the Country be fulfilled     so that they
 can lead a peaceful life in. their own : country joyfully in a congenial environment and happy surroundings. Based on these considerations JIA has always been in the fore-front as far as ^n'lne sweeping in Kabul city, defense, of £he oppressed       city against enemy
 attacks     and     the promotion of
 understanding 'with the. neighboring countries Wet© concerned."
 REPORT:. Thlis is a, recording; of a telephone , conversation between Engineer Ahmad-      shah Masbo4, and Engineer
 Hekmatyar. which took place 23 April,,
 1992:                                • ."!
Hekmatyar:   "I have%.^ been informed
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 through several channels# closely in contact with you# that they had a 4-item plan with them. (1) The setting up of a coalition government.     (2) . No
 aggression on Kabul security belt. (3) In case the mujaheddin of other parties attack the Kabul security belt# your , forces should settle down in security posts along the belt. (4) If an interim government, according to Benon Sevan's Plan, is to be established the security of Kabul-Hairatan Highway shall be maintained by the. forces of a tripartite coalition namely:         the
 Shoora-e-Nezar, Rashid Dostum and the state:".
 Masood:  "The  four points mentioned by
 you are actually the same, almost similar to a coalition, which were presented by the Foreign Minister (Wakil) on his first visit - which I rejected saying that under no circumstances I would be a party to the coalition. He left, but on his second visit he agreed with the mujaheddin government. On the other hand we ourselves have declared that we would not be attacking Kabul henceforth and would not enter the security belt. Do you still feel the necessity of launching a military assault on Kabul?"
 Hekmatyar:  " I figure 'yes'. We are
 obliged to do so, it is irreversible and there are many reasons for this: (i) So far no mujaheddin government is set up there, (ii) they want their own conditions and their opinion to have the upperhand as far as the creation of the government is concerned ahd (iii) right now there are men of General Momen in this sector poised against us and a number of your men went away against your wish".
 Masood:  "You  are right. The• forces
 that you have mentioned in case they have settled, I would not deny it; and presently there are our forces at Khwaja Rawash and in case things turned
                                                                                                 . 125
 to . be that way then we have other options also. We have not asked for any previleges and distinctions for JIA or the Shoora-e-Nezar. The other side has also approached us and has assured us that they were ready to surrender and to accept the mujaheddin government."
 Hekmatyar: "I must tell brother Masood
 that One day, in Pakistan, in a meeting where unfortunately I was not present, ; Professor Rabbani, referring to the latest developments in, Kabul,5 had said, "the problem is solved and .. theV regime is no more there. The Islamic Council is set up in Kabul. We are , simply wasting our time and the need;!3" for setting up.of an interim government / or discussion on this issue is. no >
. longer felt. The entire problem is solved." After a couple of hours the issue came to light i.e. Nabi Azimi and his companions had taken over the power there whereas the Professor had taken for granted that JIA was ruling Kabul. Presently from what you have said it is gathered as if you are solely responsible . for operations in some ; parts . of Kabul whereas our decision ought to have been a joint decision, instead of agreeing with Nabi Ajpimi or his likes. We ought to have confided in each other because independent decisions are often wrought with serious consequences. What do you think of Rabbani's unilateral announcement?"
 Masood; "I was not present in the session when#Prof. Rabbani was making a statement and I mean what I have told you."-
                                  NOVEMBER
 EDITORIAL:  "The  Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd
 Council": ' Under this-' title the
 editorial writes, "praise be to God
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 Almighty that Afghanistan is freed and ready for reconstruction, but the enormous work involved calls for all round security throughout the country and the nation's solidarity with the Islamic state. The Hal-wa-Aqd council can solve many of these problems, but not the 'Loya Jirgah' or 'general ..elections'.    The    Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd
 council, whose members are Muslims, scholars, righteous and patriotic and     assemble     in      proportion,
 pupulation-wise will decide on the Afghanistan future leader for 18 months.
 Why so? Because the Hal-wa-Aqd council is the only council favored by all the jehad parties, and due to unfavorable conditions general elections are .also not considered to be proper and have to be postponed, -Because of nation-wide participation in this council it is also going to be supported by the outside world.
VOL. 6 NO. 1
        30
 EDITORIAL:    "A suggestion to the
 Hal-wa-Aqd Council":     The editorial
 suggests:  (i) The council should select
 the best from the better, (ii) In order to be able to carryout his obligations and responsibilities excellently and efficiently maintain peace and security in the country the first condition is that the future leader should have full support of the military behind him and be popular among all the sections of the people. (iii) The world community, particularly our neighboring countries, are keenly watching how the people of Afghanistan are, going to choose their future leader. Therefore, it is of utmost significance that the future leader of Afghanistan should posses all the characteristics of a true Muslim leader namely knowledge, piety and political acumen and prudence. (iv) Fortunately the jehad leaders of Afghanistan have had the
occasion to test their mettle in jehad scenario over 14 years in combat. Therefore, the task of selection is more or- less easy for the members of, the council. Each jehad leader has played his role over the years, (v) Needless to say that unity and harmony among jehad groups of Afghanistan shall always play a very important role and its impact is undisputed. Therefore the future leader of Afghanistan should be popular among the majority of jehad groups and have best relations with all the jehad wings, (iv) Independence and full freedom of Afghanistan is the core of all the rest of the matters, therefore, the future leader of Afghanistan should be free from all kinds of suspicions in regard to his leanings to any side."
                           DECEMBER
                                     16
REPORT: Kabul once again became the
scene of sporadic clafehes December 5, 1992 which slowly spread and engulfed most of Kabul's suburbs. All the sources, including HWI, have emphasized that Abdul Ali Mazari was behind all | the fighting and killing. He already ihad the long experience of killings in Hazarajat and can never represent the people of that area and HWIA. The fighting,. which continued for four days left behind hundreds of dead and injured and the central city areas of Cjiandawol and the Silo were badly hit and suffered heavy losses. Actually the enemies of Islam and the Islamic state were hopeful that the fighting would prove to be a long drawn' devastating battle but fortunately due to the efforts of both sides *. the enemies remained disappointed.
    It was only a few hours after the ceasefire between the warring groups misunderstanding developed up amorig the Division 53 forces, stationed in Kabul city, whereupon they angrily assaulted the supply posts in the suburbs of
126
    •OCTOBER-PECEMB'ER, 1992                                                                                                                                                       AfGIIANJIHAfl                                                                                                                                  ' VOL. 6 NO.      1
 Kabul arid Microrayan and occupied the areas. The Defense Ministry, in order to curb bloodshed, avoided any reprisal and through negotiations straightened out the matter.
       However, all have interpreted this incident as an attempt to disturb the smooth convening of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council and its postponement which we have initiated.
       On the other hand this point is to be pondered upon that the neighboring countries, particularly Iran have shown greater interest in this matter with its media propagating the Afghan Islamic state has been dissolved and its leaders arrested.
 NEWS ITEMS:     Earlier  General Abdul
 Rashid Dostum visited Saudi Arabia at the invitation of Saudi government. He was accompanied by a 20-member delegation and on his way he stopped over in Pakistan. His visit to Saudi Arabia has been made at the invitation of* Turki Al-Faisal, Intelligence chief of Saudi Arabia. According to inter-national news agencies the object of this invitation is to create a sort of harmony and coordination between Dostum and Hekmatyar. Over the past seven months these two sides had been at daggers drawn. Earlier Dostum visited Pakistan confidentially, and prior to that he had met Naser Javed, chief^of Pakistan ISI, in Tashkent. The analysts opine that .if the visit is aimed at reproachment and. coalition between Dostum and Hekmatyar, it will prove inconclusive because the recent tug of war over the past few months had made big cracks in the two sides at all ^levels. . However, Dostum can utilize 'such visits to his advantage.
                                                21
 EDITORIAL:  "The past  a witness to the
 future" is the title, of the editorial
 which says, "the past 5$-month period of JIA Leadership in Afghanistan gives us hope as to its ability in managing the affairs of the country. The first problem , was that of restoration of peace and security in Kabul city which JIA efficiently tackled by ousting the irresponsible forces from the interior of the city. The mujaheddin designated to the job worked selflessly and with devotion as an active task-force. They kept the trouble-makers at bay and defended the Kabul citizens. This should be clearly pointed out that it was only the JIA which took upon itself the defense of the citizens and did not care for their losses and damages. As far as the other organizations are concerned, despite having their own ministries, played their role as mere spectators. To discipline the militias in the west of Afghanistan restoring all out freedom of Herat and that of Shindand airport and relieving them from the scourge of the Kabul communist remnants is another appreciable achievement of the Islamic state during this period."
     "One of the basic issues for the people of Afghanistan is the procedure and method undertaken for their participation in determining the future leader of their country. There were claims of majority and minority and also there were opinions against dictatorship. In or|er ito solve this issue JIA supported 'the convening of the Hal-wa-Aqd council . in accordance with the population size for identifying the future leader of Afghanistan. In the course of these measures and . in the wake of disturbances and troubles created by weak persons and groups, JIA steadfastly moved forward so that the future government be selected by the elected representatives of the people and thus an example be set for others to anceliorate. During this, period
127
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 JIA has served the people selflessly and has been the guardian of national interests and in the forefront of defending the people and safeguarding private and public property. The departments and; ministries controlled by JIA men have been serving the people deligently and their services have been highlighted by electronic media from time to . time so that it can be appreciated by the people. Needless to say, had there been other parties instead of JIA, the situation would not have been the same as it is now. All this may serve as a beacon of light, demonstrating the capability and competence of" JIA leader, to the members of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council,"
                                      OCTOBER - NOVEMBER
 EDITORIAL: The editorial, which reviews the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council writes, "the Kabul Islamic government has decided to set up a so-called council of "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" similar to the ' "Rawalpindi-Haji-Camp" council with a view to imposing their government on the people of Afghanistan for another 18 months or even two years. The Chairman of the ornmission Of this name, Noorullah Emad said, "we have decided that one person should represent 30,000 of the population - in the Hal-wa-Aqd council. The nomination of 5% members in this Council will be the prerogative of President Rabbani and 15% members will be nominated by the Leadership Council. "
     "The incumbent ruling government of Kabul opines that the nation, God forbid, is blind and deaf therefore such a nation could be ruled very easily. According to the saying, "give the dog a name and hang him", they think that under, the canopy of the so-called Islamic government, they
 could play hell with the nation and could make them accept any terms sheepishly, they are committing an historical blunder. Our nation knows very well- that on the one hand there are still 5 million refugees living outside their motherland and- on the other the Kabul Government, without foreign exchange backing, will keep on issuing bank-notes according to their sweet will and through the Ministry for Home Affairs will issue innumerable identity cards, thus befooling the nation and prolonging their ' rule. Yes, in. the not-very-distant past it were the leftist extremists who played with the nation's destiny and now the aliens are cheating the nation again under the umbrella of Islam. However, to the honorable rulers of Islamic government it is respectfully stated that had the Afghan communists succeeded in their tricks for survival and had not met their Waterloo at the hands of these very Afghans then you will also be able ,to extend your lease of political life through the blessing of their crafty tactics."
 INTERVIEW: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, in an interview with the Mujahed Ulus said, "it is my Islamic and national obligation to run as a candidate for the future interim state presidency". Drawing a line between the 'Rawalpindi' council and that of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd he said, "there is a difference between the Hal-wa-Aqd council and the 'Rawalpindi' consultative council in as much as the former is being convened in Afghanistan through the Islamic state and our compatriots will have the right to choose their representatives from amongst their districts and to serid them to the Loya Jirgah or the Hal-wa-Aqd council, whereas the 'Rawalpindi' council was set up outside Afghanistan at a time when it was ruled by the communists. Furthermore, the' members     of     the     'Rawalpindi'
128
OCTOBER-DE C EMB E R.
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 consultative council were nominated by the mujaheddin organizations."
      In regard to Rabbani's proposal for appointment of Pakistani General Hameed Gul in Afghanistan, he sai.d, "the Islamic state of Afghanistan has not officially offered any post to General Hameed Gul, but I have no idea whether there has been any private arrangements made." Regarding the holding of the Loya Jirgah or the Hal-wa-Aqd council he . said, "under the circumstances to convene one or the other will he appropriate and such an assembly will, as far as possible, represent the Afghan people. There will be no restrictions on the participation of political figures, scholars, professors, intellectuals or even the former King in this assembly. In case the Hal-wa-Aqd Council or the Loya Jirgah elects the ex-King on majority vote as the leader of future interim government of Afghanistan, such a decision will be considered as credible and' binding• If the ex-King decides to contest the Presidency, I shall withdraw in his favor,"        /';.:/■/ ,
      DECEMBER 92 - JANUARY, 93         /
 EDITORIAL:  Commenting, on Gen. Rashid
 Dostum's   dramatic and - extraordinary
 visit to Saudi Arabia the editorial writes, "even prior to the ouster .of the .Soviets from Afghanistan informed circles uged ' to predict a political vacuurn in, Afghanistan1 after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops. As a result it so happened that Rashid Dostum, dominated 'the situation and attracted at national and international' levels; Despite the fact that Dostum was the Russian" agent,' however, the Afghanistan flabbergasted leaders, tried to woo , him only for their selfish aims and ulterior motives. Being a non-Pashtun and, at the same time, illeterate , Rashid Dostum ' was given preference to Pashtuns by Pakistani
 rulers. Although most of the leaders in Pakistan are the product coups, nonetheless,       they  opine that a
 Pashtun leader in Afghanistan will
 revive the Durand line issue; therefore they find Rashid Dostum to their' advantage. The USA also maintained its contacts with him. through the CIA to promote its regional interest, and in this context the American extraordinary envoy, Ambassador Thomsen '•s. secret „ overtures are also significant. ' Considering the afore-said, explanation, presently Dostum' is seen by one and all as the most powerful figure in the political arena of Afghanistan./;/■ His ignorance, illiteracy and crimes • are considered to be insignificant." •
     The editorial goes on to compare Rashid Dostum with the' late Habibullah Kalakani (Bacha Saqa) and writes, "the latter despite being, illiterate.wag a steadfast Muslim and a man of character honoring every, one's prestige . , and, self-respect whereas Rashid Dostum is an atheist."       /;•;  •
     "Another glaring difference between the two eras/ the. past and the present, • can be seen in: Nadia .'khan and brothers ' preference for. their/ motherland and abandoning the European coin          for
 toils and tribulations of the homeland. They came to. Afghanis.tan and relieved their "motherland' from the grasp pf/an ,■ i 1.1 iterate. But today .their children are/helplessly, sitting and-' dp not like to' 'fqlldw jvthe foot-steps of .their// 'ancestors, despite the fact that the' .going was smooth and with little effort they‘ could have / liberated their motherland,. ■ Therefore, the history of Afghanistan and the future generation: shall not, forgive them. Likewise there are a number of other prominent, Afghan personalities who / are considered, at; national and international level, worthy of,, leadership but unfortunately none, of them fulfilled his historical
 ••
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 obligation of liberating his homeland and compatriots. They also stand accountable to the future history. It i's in ,tbe back-drop of such misfortune, helplessness and deprivation that Ha.ji Rashid Dostum, despite his antecedents, found the coast clear. for his feats of bargaining the destiny of Afghanistan."
 INTERVIEW:  Pir Sayyed. Ahmad Gailani,
 in an interview at Peshawar with the Mujahed Ul.us in regard to the failure of the Hal’-wa-Aqd council said, "one of the reasons is shortage of time, the spade work was not properly done at the very outset. The other reason is that fresh issues cropped up which are opposed not only by the organizations but by the Leadership^Counci 1 as well. Prof. Rabbani's prerogative to appoint 5% members of the council is opposed by all,. There was the problem of nomads also but that has' been resolved.. Another point is the terminology of the 'Hal-wa-Aqd' in itself which i^ some thing new and unfamiliar to the nation. As a matter of fact "Loya Jirgah" is liked by the people since the persons selected through the Loya Jirgah1 are always popular and have their roots among the people."
      In regard to the step to be taken after the failure of the council he said, "the Leadership Council will decide and may bring someone else, for the time being, since the winter is Very severe this year and the matter may well be put off until the next
                      SEPTEMBER
           27
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is discussing
                                     the ■ important achievements of the meeting and understanding between
 brother Hekmatyar and Professor Rabbani in Paghman, agreement in regard to the setting-up of the Hal-wa-Aqd council with a view to determining the government's assignment on the expiry of the four-month office term of Prof.. Rabbani, disarmament and expulsion of militias and the cpmmunists from Kabul. Another significant outcome of this meeting was the agreement in regard to setting-up of the Hal-wa-Aqd council. Of course agreeing to the formation of this is HIA's compromise and concession made towards the resolution of the current crisis, provided that the office tenure of the future government should not. exceed the limit of o to 12 months .with its most important assignment of holding general elections, setting-up of the Council and an elected government. It is known to one and sundry, that as HIA has, throughout the duration of jehad, adopted the way of concession and forgiveness, it has once again proved that nothing is more, dear and valuable to HIA than the glory of Islam and well-being of the Muslims along with prosperity of the'homeland. Furthermore HIA is committed to fulfil its promises end to cooperate sincerely with other groups to carry them out.
 NEWS ITEMS: The UN is going to send Dr. Najib and his companions from Kabul to India. Informed sources indicate that Ahmad Shah Masood and General Dostum, the militias' leader, have agreed to expel Na jibullah ’.and his companions from Kabul. >
 - A responsible source of. HI/A reports that Rabbani, the' President of Kabul coalition administration, has asked Hekmatyar to lift the siege of Kabul. Hekmatyar has agreed to .this on the condition that the wild and savage militias, leave Kabul, the communists relinquish government posts and the Afghan nation is. provided the opportunity to establish an Islamic
130
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 MCHAN JiHUO
 government according to their will.
                                                 28
 EDITORIAL:    The editorial syas,  "these
 days Prof. Rabbani is visiting Pakistan at the head of a delegation which will be followed by !■*! visit to Iran. Rabbani's object, of visiting Pakistan may be any body^ v guess but the Pakistan gover^iftejl^ ^ttac*%9S great importance to it, th^ V^a^on'being that the opposition groups &re blaming it for its unsuccessful and inconclusive policy on Afghanistan. Another baffling element for the Pakistan policy makers is, that despite- the whole-hearted support'of Pakistan government, on his visit to Jakarta, Professor Rabbani made a long stop-over in India without taking notice of Pakistan.
      *                         t
      The mujahed nation is well qualified to drive away the communists from the government not through political charm but throhugh sacrifices Of the valiant mujaheddin and their heroic jehacl. According to another reliable source, Masood has assured Karmal in regard to the Paghman pact that, "the pact has np value and we, as in the past, are faithful to the treaty made with you." According to an Iranian embassy official. Prof.Rabbani will, after his stay in Pakistan, proceed to Iran. In the fihal analysis we come to the conclusion that, God willing, by virtue of the Afghan nation's collective efforts an Islamic government will be established since further indifference is tantamount to sacrilege.
NEWS, ITEMS:  During a ^meeting with the
 peace mission of Nangarhar province jehad Council, Heikmatyar said, "I am asking as to when will you announce the peace mission's decision?" Responding commander Shamali , said, "Professor Rabbani has promised us some
                                                                                                     131
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 significant developments on September the 29th and in case the state goes against its pledge, we will fire the first shot towards them".1
 - HWIA- and Rashid Dostums's militias' movement introduced their ministers to the state cabinet•
                  29
 EDITORIAL:  "The Powerless Militia" i$
 the title of the editorial which says, "the first article of the ceasefire agreement, brokered by the Nangarhar Peace Mission and signed between HIA and the coalition government, states that the government ought to.expelvthe entire militia units from Kabul and dismiss the communist elements from the government posts within one week. On the night that this agreement was signed the spokesmen of coalition administration, in a separate interview, denied the presence of militia forces in Kabul and said that the militias were part of the Islamic army and as a matter of fact no militia could be traced'out in Kabul. But this claim of the coalition administration was, first of all, * refuted by the leaders of the coalition government party members. Maulawi Mohammadi, the Vice President, unequivocally stated that the fact of the matter is that the forces of militias did exist in Kabul.
 ,Prof• Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales likewise deplored the presence of militias in Kabul and boycotted the Leadership Council sessions until the expulsion was executed. On his arrival in Peshawar, Prof. Rabbani told newsmen that the militias had no say in the country's affairs and were power-less. In other words it implies that the militias did exist in Kabul' but had no authority. As a matter of fact the militi&s are very much present in Raoul and are powerful too and they did carry the front of the latest battle. The authority of the militias could be
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 AIGHAINHIAO                      VOU. 6 NO. 1
 gauged from the .fact that soon after assumption of^ power Sebghatullah mujaddedi and Rabbant both raced to Ma^ar-^-Sharif to pay homage to Rashid Dostum."
 NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with ANA
 Hekmatyar said, "the circles close to the U.S. are busy in planning intrigues against HIA. To support the remnants of t?he defunct regime the , US is insisting 6n the continuity of the coalition administration in Kabul. We support the call of Kashmir's freedom and its annexation to Pakistan. There are some elements who, prpmpted by US, are on the lookout to strain the relations between Pakistan and HIA. The occidentalist circles want to strengthen Rashid Dostum against the mujaheddin government."
 - Earlier Qazi Husain Ahmed in a press conference said, "we have neither supplied weapons td Hekmatyar nor have interfered in. the internal affairs of Afghanistan.".
 - In a lori^ declaration of the Defense Ministry, Radio Kabul announced September 29 that the service period in the army has been fixed for at least qne year, at Afs. 15,000 per month plus 5t> Kgs. of wheat. According to the declaration every soldier will have to abstain from political, linguistic,; racial and other prejudices.
                                  OCTOBER
                                          4
 EDITORIAL: Discussing the ion-fulfil-
 ment of its promises by the government the editorial. writes, "the nation should know as to who are responsible for devastations and bloodshed in the country after the resignation of Najib. The true perpetrators of these inhuman
 acts are those power-mungers who are sharing the same boat with the murderers of the martyrs. We are hopeful that all the Islamic groups, the organizations responsible for protection Of human rights, the upright scholars, the outspoken commanders and the entire Muslims and peace-loving elements will, heneceforth, not be led astray by the cheatings and tricks of the coalition administration which is 'only waiting time and confusing the public mentality."
 NEWS ITEMS: As reprisal against biased and false publicity about him,Hekmatyar has ordered his mujaheddin not to allow any BBC correspondent inside Afghanistan.        '
 - The Nangerhar Peace Mission has extended the ceasefire period by one more week as per a request of Rabbani and Masood.
 - In an interview with the BBC Maulawi Tarakhail said, ,fRabbani is powerless and the entire authority is with 12 communists."
 - Zaher Taneen an Afghan editor, in an interview with BBC, said, "with meagre power in the hands of Hekmatyars' forces the present crisis has sprung up."
 - Rahim Wardak, who has recently taken over as Chief of the General Ataff of the coalition administration from Asef Delawar, says he is hopeful of establishing an Islamic army through assembling the mujaheddin belpncring to the various organizations.
                                                   6
 EDITORIAL: "The obvious American enmity with HIA" Recounting the American animosity with the Muslims, particularly the Muslims of Afghanistan, the editorial writes, "the U.S State
132
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 Department", in- an official' declaration, has strongly criticized the HIA attacks on the communist remnants. As a matter of fact the U.S. knows very well that the HIA has the backing of the entire Afghan nation. The U.S. ought to know that HIA is an organ expressing the aspirations of the Afghan mujahed nation while the coalition government is simply groping in the dark and is challenging the mujahed nation.
 NEWS ITEMS:    ANA reports that the
 coalition ^forces have attacked the HIA postions -in Herat, Baghlan and Kapisa provinces and fierce fighting is raging since .4 days between HIA mujaheddin and the JIA coalition forces along with communist remnants.
    Qazi . Mohammed Amin Waqad, in a press interview, has pointed out that the "Peshawar Accord" was a conspiracy against the mujaheddin.
                     8
 EDITORIAL:   "The Hal-wa-Aqd council
 victim of self-seekers":     Under  this
 title the editorial says, "during the Paghman talks it was agreed between HIA and JIA leaders that, for the time being the Hal-wa-Aqd council be set up an order to determine the country's future leadership and the number of the members and the process of their election was also agreed there and then. In the past HIA always insisted on holding of general elections and previously used to reject the ’setting up of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Agd Council, particularly in its limited and half-elected perspective.
      This problem was still hanging when the Leadership Council came up with another' decision i^e. the allocation of the right for the selection of 5% of the representatives bythe President and another 15% by the Leadership Council..The remaining 80%, j considering the proportion of the 1
                                                                                    VOL. 6 NO. I
| population in each area, will be, elected from amongst the people. Why should the President have the 5% quota for himself whereas the nine other leaders together will have a quota for only 15 % ?        If the criterion for
 superiority be 'valour and jehad influence of the parties' then the HIA should top the list. If it is on the ,basis of 'share in jehad and sacrifice' the HIA will again be outstanding bj winning the race from the rest."
                  15
 EDITORIAL: "Rabbani and Masood's flight from Kabul another proof of no-cOnfidence."   The     editorial says,
 "instead of responding to the Peace Mission, Rabbani and Masood started on the way to 'Uzbekistan apd Mazar-e-Sharif respectively. The militias too, instead of preparing to move, out are digging ' in   more     vigorously and
 strengthening themselves as they were. Despite the fact that our mujahed nation knows very well that Rabbani is staying only as a symbol and the real power is with the communists . and besides his non-fulfilment of his own pledges, has even more diminished his credibility, if any. But the question is if this flight of Rabbani and Masood be due to the fear of the Peace Mission then how could they answer to the nation? *
 NEWS ITEMS:   In a statement from his
 jehad base in Char Asyab, Hekmatyar warned the Uzbekistan and Tajekistan Republics that they should stop meddling in the internal affairs of Afghanistan     or     else    serious
 consequences shall follow..
 -  Radio * Tehran reported that at a function in Herat, Hezbullah joined the HWIA October 14.
 -  Radio Tehran reported that Rashid Dostum has opposed the expulsion of his
 133
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
n
 militias from Kabul.
     Qa.zi Mohammad Amin Waqad said, "calling a single representative for 30 thousand population is not the right idea."
 - Mujaddedi said, "in case Rabbani does not change the composition of the Hal-wa-Aqd ~ council his organization will have no part in it."
 EDITORIAL:  "Facts come to the open ai^d
 positions are exposed" is the title.Of
 the editorial which says, "the
 successive sacrifices of HIA and
 contrary to that the non-fulfilment of
 its pledges by the coalition
 administration have been the factory
 that today the majority of commanders,
 mujaheddin, scholars and intelligentsia
 affiliated to various jehad groups are
 keeping away from the coalition
 administration and are reluctant to
                             *
 join it. Furthermore, it seems that after the expiry of the deadline for the ouster of militias and the indifference of coalition supportees in respect of their pledges, the majority of jehad leaders are repenting to have joined the present government and are seriously thinking of an upheaval to oust the remnants of Najib regime thoroughly and cut off the hands of those who are bargaining the nation's destiny. In this context, it is being said, .that Professor Mujaddedi, despite having the honor of being the first President in the post-Najib period, has come to the conclusion presently to henceforth reject all the plans of Rabbani aimed at giving fresh lease of life to his (Rabbani*s) office tenure. Mawlawi Mohammadi, HEIA leader, in the Hal*-wa-Aqd council and Vice President, Professor Sayyaf IIA leader, Mawlawi Mohammad/'Xplinus Khales, HIA leaders who are ai       \same time members of the
 Leadership' council and according' to:
VOL
6 NO. 1
 "Peshawar Accord" have the membership of coalition also, being a.nnoyed with the coalition administration, are lately busy negotiating with HIA leader and the Peace Mission in order to wash out and erase the blot of ignojminy, the outcome of coalition with Communists and militias, from the face of jehad.
 NEWS ITEMS: .Four senior jehad leaders viz Engineer Hekmatyar, Professor Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mohammadi and Mawlawi Khales held a ’meeting, at the request of the Peace Mission. October 17 in order to discuss the current problems of the country and take necessary steps.
    Professor Mujaddedi, in a press interview, said, "my aeroplane was fired upon by the men of Supervisory Council or the JIA • and as far as Hekmatyar is concerned, we are on good terms." . He said, "the Hal-wa-Aqd council should not comprise less than 1,500 people".
    Mohammadi said, "as far as the ouster of Gelam Jam militias and keeping the communists out of power is concerned we have all one voice."
 - ; Sayyed Noorullah Emad has been appointed Chairman of the Hal-wa-Aqd council by the Kabul coalition, administration without consulting the Leadership Council.
                20
 EDITORIAL: "HiA's political victory".
 The victory of HIA is well known to one and all since this party fought the Red Army with unwavering determination and high morale which gave it the singular distinction of being "unbeatable" among all the jehad groups. The unstinted efforts • and struggle of HIA in liberating the masses proved a mile stone to all the freedom-loving people
134
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL- 6 NO. 1
 of the world. Meanwhile the indirect American interference through the activities of some wayward jehad elements, coupled with the cooperation of some neighboring countries, tried to diminish the HIA role branding it as 'inexperienced in political front' but all the same the Afghan nation and jehad      groups      are      favoring
 .whole-heartedly the HIA selfless efforts in bringing the nation's sinking ship to the coast of safety and glory.            ,
 NEWS ITEMS: Radio Payam-e-Azadi reports that ' the meeting of four jehad-group leaders, starting 19 October and lasting three days, has finally ended. The leaders emphasized and reiterated the importance of previous resolutions. They also adopted resolutions emphasizing the following:
    The militias should pack up as quickly as possible and should be disarmed.
 - The communists should be expelled from government departments and an Islamic army should be created.
 -    The Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council should be elected to choose another leader after Rabbani vacates the post at the end of his office term.
      Those attending the meeting included Engineer Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Mohammadi, Professor Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales.
    Abdul Haq Shafaq, spokesman of WHIA, in an interview with the BBC, said, "the heads of the former communist regime are living in Mazar-e-Sharif and that the Islamic National Movement was appointing the responsible officers in the Northern provinces without consulting the Central Government.
 - Mawlawi Jalaluddin.Haqqani said, "in case the Hal-wa-Aqd council is not set up in time, the power vacuum will be filled up by the Leadership Council. The elders' Meeting at Pul-e-Charkhi was not meant for the unity of Pashtuns but for the resolution of the Afghanistan problem".
    The Afghan mujaheddin publicity office in Canada started its radio program 14 October, 1992* At the inaugural ceremony Asadullah Farahmand, in-charge of publicity department said, "side by side with practical and constructive works it was necessary that publicity be carried out in a comprehensive way and on a large scale. We are grateful to God Almighty that we succeeded in overcoming our problems and difficulties. May God Almighty give the brethren the courage to expand and flourish the radio and publicity programs and the media campaign."
                 22
 EDITORIAL: The  world news media the
 other day reported that the first group of militias had left Kabul. The process of militias' expulsion from Kabul has started idue to the persistence of HIA. However, it has not been clarified yet whether the coalition quarters have started this process temporarily to appease the > people and keep their indignation and anger against the militias and communists in check or this work started as a result of the ultimatum of all the jehad leaders and that the entire forces affiliated with the defdnct regime will quit Kabul. Had the coalition administration abeen really sincere in its pledges with HIA and other jehad organisations it would have been far, better if they had declared, openly that, in keeping with the past pledges of the JIA leaders with HIA, the exodus of the militias is being carried out. But unfortunately, two days earlier, Sayyed Noorullah
  1
135
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 , Alfitfil/KJfHflO               VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Emad., the JIA Secretary, during a conversation with the BBC, said that the exodus of a group of 150 militias has been carried out in accordance with the Leadership Councils decision. On the other hand Rahim Wardak, Chief of the army General Staff, said that the ouster of militias was carried out due to political and military factors and security reasons. Meanwhile a general of militias said that the expulsion of militias has been ordered by Defense Ministry.
 NEWS ITEMS: In an address to Nangarhar
 Commanders, Engineer Hekmatyar, said, "the Kabul coalition administration has cheated the Peace Mission too. The coalition administration is breaking its promises even now; see that the expulsion of 150 militias is just a drama." He said, "in the past five months a neighboring country had provided the coalition with 70,000 pieces of weapons".
 - A proposal for the setting up of a Supreme Council has been made in Kabul to the Leadership Council for final approval. The proposed council will decide about the future of Afghanistan. The committee designated to set up the Hal-wa-Aqd council has decided that only staunch Muslims, who had participated in the 14-year Afghan jehad, will be eligible to join this council,
     Zaher Khan Jabbar Khail, the representative of the nomads, in an interview with the BBC said, "nomads are numbering-more than 3 i millions in Afghanistan and we want 20% share in the Council".
                                               25
 INTERVIEW: While talking to Shahadat's
 correspondent brother Hekmatyar said, "this time, it could be, that due to the mischief of the militant elements
 and adventurers, the entire jehad groups are dragged into war. Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad alongwith his followers joining HIA is another victory for the entire islam Committed people. The militias* presence in Kabul is the outcome of complicity of the j unholy Northern Sectoral Coalition.
 'REPORT: Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, Chief of Ittehad-e-Islami mission, in a grand meeting while declaring emerging with the HIA said, "under the prevalent situation and circumstances it is incumbent on all the Muslims to join together and face the evil and corruption unitedly. We have spent many days and nights together in the .wake of political struggle and Islamic jehad with only a temporary lull. We wanted' to bring together all the leaders and the current developments necessitated that we declare once again our solidarity and common stand based on three1' points via that the Muslims are brethren to each other, Hekmatyar and I are also brothers, the Muslims will do anything through mutual consultation and we shall follow suit. We shall try to stop conflicts and we shall reconciliate through the text of the Holy Book, the Quran. We shall promote obedience and submission and no conflict shall come in-between our solidarity i.e. nothing will affect our unity." He said, "we stand by our ward; ;HIA belongs to all of*US and it is pur party; Afghanistan is the home of the entire nation and we will defeat and frustrate the intrigues of the .enemies of Islam".
                                               27
 EDITORIAL: The editorial writes, "each
 and everyone in Afghanistan is a witness to the fact that initially HIA's opposition to the coalition Kabul government was questioned by many of the optimistic friends and the crafty foes. The publicity and propaganda of
136
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 the jealbus rivals and pro-aliens was so effective and attractive that even most of HIA lovers, inside and outside, started getting suspicious in regard to HIA actions and dealings. They started thinking that HI^, despite being the back-bone of the revolution and the initiator of , jehad, has committed political suicide# through its latest measures,, and that HIA has lost' the game as far as politics and diplomacy are concerned. However, with God-speed, initiative, prudence and sagacious party leadership, sincerity, like-mindedness of Vits members and its latest position, HIA endeared itself to one and all so much so that it became a sanctuary to the entire groups, sincere to Islam and sympathetic to the Islamic government. The people and organizations, who came to know the reality and nature of the Kabul ruling coalition Regime, started joining HIA in groups and multitudes and HIA turned into a source of hopes and long-cherished aspirations of the mujaheddin and genuine warriors. At present the majority of scholars. Commanders, intelligentsia and most of the people acknowledge the credibility," righteousness ^ and truth of HIA positions and stance."
     "HIA which started fighting the sectorial coalition initially all by itself, today, by the grace of God Almighty, is supported by the majority of Islamic groups and mujaheddin of various organizations. The Afghan nation is praying for the success of HIA mujaheddin so that their sacrifices bear fruit and they are freed from the mischief of militias and the Najib communist regime remnants."
 ARTICLES:    "The Northern unholy
 coalition in a state of dissolution and disarray" is the title of an article by Rahmani which partly reads, "when in the beginning of the year under review an unholy coalition of the defunct
communist regime, corrupt and criminal militias and some of the so-called jehad commanders came into being in thg northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif essentially to protect linguistic, ethnic and religious relations and rights, 'from that very moment such a step threatened the future of Afghanistan and political observers predicted it as short-lived. Presently the Northern unholy coalition is in the process of dissolution and its explosion will be beyond expectations. According to reports received from various provinces presently Masood, on the one hand and Rashid bostum on the other and the HWIA along with some other commanders, pushed into coalition in a way, each is trying to attract people and bring them under its sway from other sides so as to topple down its rivals and thus pave the way for its Wn Survival."
       29
 REPORT:    In an address to jehad
 commanders of itfangarhar, Laghman and -Kunar provinces. Engineer Hekmatyar said, "after the latest coalition defeat, differences have surfaced
therein. As  a result of  an agreement  
between  the KGB and  the CIA,   Babrak 
Karmal   was brought  to  Kabul    from 
Moscow.  Now it is clear  to everyone   
that the genuine and real President 'pf Kabul coalition government happens to be sitting in Mazar-e-Sharif". He went on to say, "We have no intention to rule Kabul by force. Our terms and conditions could be supported not only by the Peace Mission but by the entire nation and mujaheddin". .
                          NOVEMBER
                                  1
EDITORIAL: " The beginning of the third stage of the Peshawar Accord and the problem of the second stage of the
137
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 MGHANJfHflfl                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Jabul  Saraj Pact"        Under    this
 title the editorial Writes, "the two phases of the Peshawar Accords i.e. the setting-up of a coalition administra-. tion, headed by Prof, Mu j.added! and Prof, Rabbani, passed      in the   wake
 of struggle with HIA mujaheddin and during     these conflicts many    facts
 surfaced and many faces were unmasked with their real features exposed. The deep-rooted and cleverly laid-out communist plot to assimilate the .mujaheddin and erase their war initiatives, by the grace of God Almighty, failed. Today the same groups who openly supported the Peshawar Accords and termed the Kabul coalition administration as an Islamic government are retracing their steps regretfully and, in unison with HIA, want to erase the blot of the coalition.ignominy from the face of jehad and through expulsion of militia and the disbandment of the; communists from government institutes, reconstruct a fresh genuine Islamig government. The latest earnest effort^ of jehad leaders point out the fact that the communist generals and . militias are relinquishing their power in favor of Muslim commanders and an Islamic army. Let us see whether such developments would change the course of events as far as the "Peshawar Accords" and "Jabul Saraj Pact" are concerned. However, the prospects of certain developments during the third phase of the "Peshawar Accords" cannot be ruled out. As a matter of fact only the complete dissolution of the ,"Jabul Saraj Pact" and total detachment of all the mujaheddin groups from communist, regime remnants could resolve the current Afghanistan crisis."
 NEWS ITEMS:     Heavy fighting erupted
 between the HIA mujaheddin and the HWIA supporters in western sector of Kabul. The fighting was most severe in Dasht-e-Barchi area and its suburbs lasting nearly four hours. Abdul Ali Mazari,
 HWIA spokesman# in an interview with 'Altahiyya said the fighting had started by those who were against peaceful conditions in Kabul. He said they had dragged the men of the two sides to fight each other, thus creating trouble and making scenes in order to prolong the interim government's tenure, headed by Prof. Rabbani. He said, "the Supervisory Council fortes, loyal to Ahmad Shah Masood and the well-known Gelam Jam militias were responsible for creating the trouble. After a lull in the fighting another clas(h, very severe in nature erupted between two Shia groups of HWIA and HIA (Mohseni), October 30, in which heavy weapons were used by both ides."
                                                  5
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial argues that
 in the Peshawar Accords it was laid down that upon conclusion of the 4-raonth office term of Prof. Rabbani an "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" council, representing the entire cross-section of the nation, will be convened to elect the transitional government for a period of 18 months. Needless to say that the terminology "Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-w'a-Aqd" has been invariably followed earnestly by the term "Loya Jirgah" (grand assembly). There are elements and factors working for the entitlement of these two topics affecting the determination of the country's future political fate. Those favoring the establishment of an Islamic government in the country, based on Islamid jurisprudence, support the setting up of the former while others who want a national government in Afghanistan are insisting on qonvening of "Loya Jirga" (grand assembly). However, as far as Prof. Rabbani's government is concerned and the past record of his 4-month office tenure confirms it, Rabbani does not .favor either. He neither wants an "Islamic" nor a "national" government
 but%only wishes that his composition of
        • ,.     .y V
138
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 coalition government, comprising the so-called Muslims, communists and nationalists, may last for ever. As such, while the "Peshawar Accords" clearly lay down that under no circumstances Rabbani's office tenure shall be estended, , but we witnessed that Rabbani took rjio steps to convene the Hal-wa-Aqd council, nor did " he care for the Peshawar Accords nor did he pay any attention to the existence of other jehad organizations. It was due to these indifferences. that consequently the "Peshawar Accords" were ignored and the office tenure of Prof. Rabbani was, somehow, extended by the Leadership Council October 31 and in the absence of the majority of its members.
bring together on a single platform the Khalqis and Parchamis, escapees from the trial by mujahed nation. In this way Wali Khan wan£s to build up a front in the eastern territories of Afghan-/ istan for Dostum. The NAP love for the infidels and enmity with Islam is an established fact which ought to provide the Afghans,      especially the jehad
leaders, with ample food for thought. The question is why they are incapable of solving their problems through their Islamic     initiative     and     jehad
creativeness. Had they been capable of doing so, then today the run away communists would not have the audacity of trying for power again or to flow air  into the  crumbled idol          of
communism.
NEWS ITEMS:    Engineer  Hekmatyar said,
"the extension of Rabbani’s .office tenure, contrary to the Peshawar Accords, is a step taken not according to our wish or agreement and we consider it as yet another coup. We believe that the main issues at stake are that of the dissolution of the communist remaining detachments and the transfer of power to mujaheddin. In case the joint mujaheddin forces replace those detachments; the communists 1 are turned out from government,1 especially the Defense and Security Ministries; the joint mujaheddin forces look after the Kabul security affairs; setting up of the tial-wa-Aqd council be earnestly taken up by the concerned commission and the mujaheddin government replaces the coalition then we shall be ready for cooperation in toto."
EDITORIAL: The editorial, says, "besides internal retrogressers and the unholy Northern Front, presently the Indo-Russian reared party in Pakistan, the NAP, led by Wali Khan wants to
 tiEWS ITEMS:    While   talking  to  the
 correspondent kofthe daily /Shahadat, Hekmatyar said, "we opine that the work of the Nangarhar peace Mission has come to an end. Still power has not 'been transferred to mujaheddin. We did not expect that a murderer like Dostum will be invited to Saudi Arabia. Our friends did not stick’ to their promises made during the meeting of the four organizations. The forty-five-day office extension of Prof, Rabbani's government,, as far as we are concerned, has no legal justification."
    Severe clashes took, place between the members of the Supervisory Council and HWIA around Hartel Bridge area 5 November. Two piembers of Supervisory Council were killed during the clashes and a good number of them Were arrested.
 ARTICLES: "The third stage of Professor Rabbani’s- test" by Mohammed Khalil which states:   "Professor Rabbani who
 has been talking a lot about justice and f airplay and has promised the people an Islamic order, ought to follow the footprints of the Holy
139
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1992 AfCIIAN JfBl                   ' VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Prophet's (PBUH) companions and instead” of playing tricks for prolonging his power should yield to the will and wishes of the piujahed and Muslim nation of Afghanistan."
                                                10
 EDITORIAL: "Half hearted effort cannot
                                  «
 bear fruit". The planners of Northern
 Coalition had figured that through
 intimidations and complicity with the
 remnants of Najib's regime they could • '
 isolate and^ cut off the influential jehad organisations from the political arena. Despite the fact that the coalition succeeded -in shutting the mouths of som6 of the Nangarhar Peace Mission's members but the fact remains that there are members of character and integrity also who refuse to be bribed. On the other han4 these very members of integrity will inform the public about the secret dealings of the Coalition. In the post-Najib period, the developments Which followed saw such people who were aspiring to climb* the ladder to power, trampling the others, thinking themselves to be the wise guys in out-witting' the entire1 jehad factions by assembling them around: themselves. These wise guys opined that by turning out the HIA mujaheddin from Kabul no aggressive force or opponent will be left to threaten their political existence. However, the circumstances proved that those were nothing but Satanic whims and wishful thinking and presently only the JIA leaders and the^coalition members are the ones who ^ire to be questioned in regard to the painful consequences of' the current developments in the country. Yes, it is' true that half-hearted effort cannot bear fruit."
 NEWS ITEMS:  According to the reports
 received from Kabul, ' a number of Russian advisers. Who were working and cooperating with Najib's regime, have been sent to Kabul presently too, as
 requested by the coalition administra^-tion. These "advisers", numbering 18 in all* are working in the sensitive sections of that administration and carrying out advisory and espionage activities against the mujaheddin.
 - Ustad v Sayeed, the chief of ANA, in cbn interview with BBC, said, "if a joint cd|amlssion is set up for the fair distribution of supplies, the blockade of the' supply routes will be lifted."
                                              12
 EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "after
 the disintegration of the Red imperialism, the communist remnants afld satellites took shelter in the shade of the western block proving the inherent theory of weakness i.e. retrogressively losing the power of self-reliance. Unfortunately, in Afghanistan too those unaware of the consequences of imperialistic designs took over the power falteringly, but as far as the entire nation is ’concerned they committed an unforgivable crime against them which consequently can influence the fate of the muslim community in totOp Those mujaheddin who participated in the unholy coaliition could not understand that this illegal alliance was the need of the hour for the communist remnants and certainly would not benefit the mujaheddin. The friendship of the communists is short-lived and temporary. As long as HIA remains as a jehad force to reckon with, then it can be a coalition and also a so-called slogan( for the Islamic government, but if, 6od forbid, HIA becomes weak from jehad point of view then the communists could not care less for any one's coalition or alliance. In fact whatever is being done, it is based on expediency and necessity only. In that case there will not be any chair,, post or alliance. If today the-militias dare attack the mujaheddin in Herat, Helmand, Farah, Baghlan and
 140
OCTOBER-BECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Pul-e-Khumri and are planning against Kandahar, then if they are Victorious^ tomorrow the JIA, HEIA and the rest will be of the same value for.them. It is not the case that one mujahed is enjoying the friendship of Oommunists and the other does got see eye to eye with them. The time is running out and it is high time tfrat the mujaheddin, especially the leadership, realiseethe-sensitivity of the situation and initiate sagaciously a plan to get rid of the satanic intrigues of -the infidels and establish a genuine Islamic government, thus setting a glorious example of yet; j another sacrifice , for the fresh-risen independent states of the Muslim world.
 NEWS ITEMS: Addressing_the scholars and commanders, Hekmatyar observed, "if someone guarantees that the aid supplies would reach the needy persons, in that case we would also guarantee that ,the routes remain .open.. The deserving people do not live in; Kabul alone, but are apread over Logar, Wardak, Ghazni., Pak.tia and all other
                  a*
 provinces. So, let us persevere and try together to establish an Islamic government.”
                     15
 EDITORIAL:   "Islamic government or
 Coalition?” Under this title the editorial says, "after the fall of Najib's communist regime and the establishment in Kabul. of local governments, led by Messers Mujaddadi and Rabbani, the cold war between the supporters and opponents of the existing Kabul government started. The persons and groups, who have been given the required share of pow4r are trying to give an Islamic color to the Kabul administration . and mix up whatever is happening presently in Kabul and its suburbs with the sacred name of Islam. There are others who, while acknowledging the sanctity of
 Islam, have the good of the people at heart and as such do not consider the present Kabul administration a** Islamic but take it for a kind of complicity and collaboration between some of jehad factions and the communists. The so-called government orulers have no authority.to impose their orders on the coalition members. The governors and --commanders, instead of obeying the president's instxu^qtions, issue orders of their own. Oh the contrary the helpless President has to knock the doors of governors and commanders of Na jib's period to have his work done and.problems solved but, unfortunately, he returns as a beaten and unsuccessful man because the ruling and governing machinery still moves ahead as per the orders Of the communists. As such the administration * should abstain from, calling ‘ the current s%t-up "Islamic" but ought to acknowledge the upperhand of the erstwhile communists and say that owing to certain difficulties Islamic order shall be imposed gradually. With reins of power still in the hands of Najib*s military units. it rwould have been wiser to carry out its plans in regard to Islamization, through cooperation pf other groups, and thus expediting them continuously. In this way they would have been able to. promote the prospects of solidarity among the mujahejddin various groups and minimize their; own problems and worries. Unfortunately, the coalition administration, instead of cooperating, with mujaheddin^ tried all kinds of coercive tricks to deprive the mujaheddin of power and authority completely."
 NEWS ITEMS: During a clash between the SupervisoryCouncil and Dostum's militias in the east of Kabul 3 people: Were wounded November 13. Those guarding.. the posts said that the clash was the outcome, of Dostum militias’ refusal to stop their vehicle when
 141
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
sighalled to do so.
 - The Gelam Jam militias occupied seven posts of the Supervisory Council in Kabul city and arrested 40 of their men 12 November•
    Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, in an interview, observed, "the Kabul government neither represents the people nor any one cares for its orders.”
      Capjtain Moosa Khan, Commander IIA said, "we do not consider any order of the Kabul coalition administration as legal nor do we^recognize Mansoor as the governor of Paktia." A resident of Yousuf village said, "Mawlawi Mansoor cannot      represent     the     entire
 organizations of Paktia province." Fazlur Rahman an official said, "the coalition administration of Kabul cannot be acceptable to any Muslim mujahed." Mawlawi Anwari said, "a person nominated by mujaheddin can become the governor of Paktia*." A representative of Mawlawi Mansoor said, "the entire jehad organizations hhve unanimously appointed Mawlawi Mansoor as the governor."
 - In an interview with BBC, Ayatullah Mohsini pointed out that he was against the Leadership Council's resolution which authorizes the President to appoint 5% representatives of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council.
         17
 EDITORIAL:  "The scholars' verdict, an
 appalling challenge to the coalition": Under this title the editorial writes, "while our country is struggling with multifarious problems, including an eponomic crisis, the break-up apprehension ' and the riots of minorities etc. the Kabul coalition government is bent upon prolonging its lease of life by hook or by crook. The critical situation that the coalition
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 itself is confronted with is an open secret that it is dragging the coalition to an obysmal failure which will be impossible to avoid.
      What' is more appalling and a dangerous challenge to the coalition is the verdict of mujahed scholars which completely nullifies. Prof. Rabbani's government. The council of Afghan scholars, while apprizing Rabbani of their resolution, has also presented him the document to that effect. Around 500 representative scholars have rejected such council which does not distinguish man from woman or male from female, pious and righteous from evil and criminals. They have also declared that as long as there exist the communist remnants in the government, it will be considered as un-Islamic.
                    22
 EDITORIAL: "Why all this long silence?" is the title of the editorial which writes, "the majority of the leaders say that the militias are ruling in Kabul and if they are not turned out no peace will return. The scholars used to say that the communist coalition government was unlawful and that elements of the former regime, must be put on trial. The commanders used to say that if upto such and such a date the coalition administration did not expel the militias from Kabul, they would attack them without the permission their respective factions Similarly many of other reformers loudly used to criticize the coalition administration. But today the same scholars, leaders, commanders and the intelligentsia, opposing the coalition, are wasting their time in futile exchange of visits. Most of the leaders who criticize the presertt government or do not participate in their councils are at heart contineously watching as to , which way will the wind blow in future. Therefore, they are nodding in
142
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGIIAN JIHAO
 m
 affirmative with the coalition lest it may be prolonged further. Therefore, they have chosen that their 2nd and 3rd grade personnel should cooperate with the sensitive departments of the coalition.
      It is high time that we realized the violations of pledges by the erstwhile communists, their ransackings and - plunders and now their collaborating with the so-called mujaheddin in order to reimpose their will on the Muslim nation , of Afghanistan. Therefore, it is time we saw the writing on the wall, analysed the situation minutely and did not hesitate not even for; a second to reject outright the sway of the infidels and their cronies and break our. humiliating silence so as to relieve ourselves from the curse presently.and hereafter."
 NEWS ITEMS: In  a  letter addressed to
 Maglana Zakeri and Hagqani, Hekmatyar has pointed out, VI am hopeful that in accordance with legal analysis you will take practical measures to restrain the adventurous overtures of the other side." He writes, "while opposing HIA, some persons want to woo the coalition big heads and communist generals in order to ensure some place for themselves in the coalition. If some members of HEIA, who had been cheated by others, had not come in the way, Mawlawi Mohammed Nabi Mohammadi would have been the . President of the interim government." He writes, "Commander Kochi has been martyred in Gardaiz by Mansoor's men. Earlier too Mawlawi Mansoor had declared wap against HIA and defended the-.militias. "
                  24
 EDITORIAL:  "Dostum's trip to Saudi
 Arabia, the Kabul . government's acknowledgement of helplessness"» The editorial says, "as time passes the
                                                                               VOL. 6 NO. 1
 coalition's real face is unmasked and stands exposed in front of the mujahed nation. Mr. Rabbani, the head of the coalition government may be asked to answer as to how come that the militias' commanders travel, with no hindrance, to Pakistan, Turkey and Saudi’ Arabia and without disclosing their itinerary or terms of reference to you while you had agreed to HIA's proposal for an Islamic government involving the dissolution of the militias and the establishment of an Islamic army. However, presently the mujahed nation considers this kind of ignorance on the part of Rabbani's government as a confession of his blunder and mistake. In other words he admits that they are actually part and parcel of the militias and their puppets leading a shameless life. Since it has.been proved beyond any shade of doubt that Rabbani and Masood are no more than paper lions in the coalition set-up. Therefore, it is up to the mujaheddin to bolster up once more their Islamic valour and extricate their oppressed nation from this swamp all in one piece."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Rashid Dostum applied for
 the membership of the National Islamic Movement in the Leadership Council and the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council prior to his departure for Saudi Arabia. In an interview with BBC,, he said, "all the tfibes and races of Afghanistan wanted a council comprising their representatives according to their population. In this way fighting will soon end and the council will be able to settle impending disputes. In this connection we constituted a commission, comprising the representatives of all tribes and nationalities, and authorized it - to talk to the leaders and discuss their proposals, if any, with the state." He added, "the movement has got proposals and in case they are accepted by the state, it will participate in the
143
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 'AFGHAN J[HA0
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 council and will decisively support the Islamic state of Afghanistan,"
                  30
 EDITORIAL: "Illegal extension of Prof.
 Rabbani's government, yet another violation of the Peshawar Accords". Under editorial says, " the Peshawar Accords had emphasized that on no account Mujaddedi and Rabbani's transitional period shall be extended and the power shall be transferred to the Leadership Council on schedule. Now that Rabbani's office tenure has been extended illegally, it is but natural that senior jehad leaders -will quit cooperating with such a government and the Afghan nation may change its stance vis-a-vis the government since there is-absolutely no hope that Rabbani's government could be capable to cope with the Gelam Jams and the Communists, iet alone their disarming or the setting up of the Hal-wa-Aqd council. On the other hand the mujaheddin's patience is exhausted and can no longer leave the country and the revolution to an unstable system and at the mercy of jehad enemies who are bent upon belittling and humiliating the jehad victory and succeesses so much so as to erase it from the list of honors in the world map."
 NEWS ITEMS:     The Kabul Passport
 Directorate area witnessed a bloody confrontation between JIA and the Supervisory Council's groups November
 8. The clash left three wounded and an atmosphere of terror and apprehension prevailed for two long hours around the Home Ministry.
 - Reports received from Kabul indicate that a group comprising 31 men of JIA, as a result of mujabed brother. Professor Mohammad YaqoOb's guidance,, joined the HIA valiant mujaheddin in Kalakan area of Mir Bacha Cote district, north of Kabul.
                                   DECEMBER
                                             8
 NEWS ITEMS:   In an interview with
 an Iranian Radio/TV correspondent, Hekmatyar_ruled out the possibility of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa- Aqd council to get together in time. Declaring his opposition to the election procedures of members to the council, he said, "the method used for this purpose is against that set by the Hal-wa-Aqd commission."
     HIA Jehad Commanders of Kabul suburbs, in an emergency meeting, condemned the ongoing fighting in Kabul and took some decisions in regard to the prevalent situation.
 REPORT: Kabul again came under rocket
 and artillery fife  which killed and
 injured hundreds of the residents. The worst exchange . of fire took place between HWIA and the "Shoora-e-lJezar " loyal to Ahmad Shah Masood 4 December, which gradually spread to other parts of Kabul. Both sides used heavy arms inflicting serious   damage on   city
.installations. The  fighting,  which
 originally started at Timani between the HWIA and the Shoora-e-Nezar soon spread to other parts of Kabul including Karte Seh, Dehmazang, Pamir Cinema and Chendawal.
                                                             HWIA sources said, their losses
 amounted to 15 dead and 124 injured and
 they have rounded up 115 men of the
 rival side.- Forces loyal to the
 Esmailia religious  sect of   Sayyed
 Mansoor Naderi and HIA Mohseni
 supported HWIA, whereas the communists
 and the restV of' militias sided with \ • the Shoora-e-Nezar and the JIA. The
 fighting was so severe that the
 citizens had to take cover in safer
 areas. It is reported that the first 2
144
     I
.OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1992 MM JfHilfl                        VOL. 6 NO.  T
 ammammmammmmmmmmrnmmmmmmmmm
 d^ys Of fighting left 50 dead and 400 wounded•
                                          10
 NEWS ITEMS: Sayyed Noorullah Emad, JIA
 Secretary and Rabbani's special, envoy# accompanied by some members from the National Islamic Movement arrived in Char Asyab to meet Gulbuddin Hekmatyar# the HIA leader. Emad and his companians had a mission to carry out i.e. to gain HIA's support for the Supervisory^ Council >' forces and the coalition regime# since the latter are presently fighting HWIA. However, during the meeting# which lasted two hours# Hekmatyar explained that the HIA wanted unity among the mujaheddin and was averse to political fortification of sectors and confrontation.
 - Mohammed Qasem, Attorney-General of the coalition administration and member of the Commission for the establishment of the Hal-wa-Aqd council# said that the President Rabbanis Secretariate had recently referred the case of the embezzlement of the 8(0 million afghanis •to the Attorney-General's office for investigation.   He' said,      the
 embezzlement took place at a time when the government was transferring Afs. 1,500 by air to .Kanadahar through two JIA members.
                 13
 EDITORIAL: The editorial ’says, "it is
 now almost seven months that the Communist regime in Kabul has been replaced by a coalition government. The entire jehad observers, opine that- the coalijtion sprang up as a result of imperialistic design and complicity, which was bent upon containment of Islamic movement and preventing its escallation to other cities. The coalition cpnsidered it the best means by which to get rid of the mujaheddin in Afghanistan. In otlier words they created conditions in the country so
 that the mujaheddin become helpless in restoration of law and order in the country."
      "During the seven-month rule of the coalition in the        country large
 amounts of. public property have been looted# installations and buildings domolished. It is unfortunate that damage and losses to public property continue unabated. The coalition administration is incapable to protect public property and social, trusts. Furthermore# it generously showers gifts and donations for pleasure of its supporters out of the ' national exchequer and public property thereby encouraging the terrorists and trouble makers in their unlawful activities. We are drawing the attention of jehad circles and mujaheddin to try to protect the public property by all possible means."
 NEWS ITEMS:     The entire men and
 personnel of military division 95 wdre killed by Supervisory Council forces. In the course of bloody clashes between the Shoora-e-Nezar forces and the HWIA in the past few days, the former attacked the military unit 95 stationed in. the Home Ministry killing all its personnel.                \
    Kashmir Khan# ,Commander of Sama Division# in an interview# pointed out that the creation of an Islamic army could restore peace in Afghanistan.
                                               15
 EDITORIAL: "Factors Responsible for the Postponement of the Hal-wa-Aqd Council" is the title of the editorial saying# "it was scheduled that according to the "Paghman Pact" and ceasefire agreement between the coalition forces and HIA mujaheddin# at th$ conclusion of Mr. Rabbani's 4-month office tenure, the members of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council passed resolutions on the basics of free
145
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 elections and with a view to determine the interim Leadership in Afghanistan for a period of 18 months and other important problems of the country. Unfortunately, due to inefficiency of the coalition- administration, the council could not be set up on time. At the end of Rabbani's office term, however, the Leadership Council granted extension of 45 days to Prof..Rabbani to complete this mission despite opposition by many organizations. However, the 45 days were also over but because of the incapability and helplessness of the coalition became all the more obvious. Today, December 15 and with the . extension period also over, there is still no sign whatever1 of the said council."; /
 NEWS ITEMS:   Commenting on Rabbani's
 observations in regard to the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" council Hekmatyar
 said, "from Rabbani's observations and
                              \
 actions it is obvious that ha wants to remain in power by hook or by crook, and by means of a false council he is really determined to prolong' his rule. Despite the fact that out of nine organizations, seven of them wanted the council to be postponed but fraudulently Rabbani is trying to convene it. Rabbani Deputy's remarks that he (Rabbani) will cling to his chair until the Hal-wa-Aqd council is eventually formed, is tantamount to declaration of war with the mujaheddin organizations."
      Sebghatullah Mujaddedi to the BBC that Rabbani's office tenure should not be extended even for Sn hour more ;han has been fixed already.
   Ayatullah Mohseni has pointed out that the Leadership Council Should elect a temporary leader to' replace
 Rabbani.           17
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial writes, "the
 so-called leader of the coalition administration, Rabbani is, unfortunately, so much in love with power that to him Islamic or national interests do not seem to bear any significance at all, It is the same Rabbani who swapped the identity and sanctitiy of Islamic revolution for coalition with communists and the minorities. The tactics by means of which he is, dreaming of prolonging his term of office are similar to those which were used by his communist predecessors who were shamelessly defeated in front of the nationa and lost both this world and the / hereafter. Now that the patience of, the Afghan nation has been
 f.ully exhausted they are anxiously waiting for the heroes of HIA to deal with these sold out element? and save them from the intrigues of these treacherous puppets. Another glaring proof of Rabbani and his supporters' incapability is the one that until yesterday he considered the coalitionists as part of the Islamic army but today shamelessly asks for HIA's support against them.
 NEWS ITEMS:  In regard to the recent
 developments the .HIA,          in a
 declaration has pointed out,’ "the main element behind all the bloodshed and fights is the JIA which, in the course of the past seven months, has proved its inability to set up an Islamic government. Depending on public opinion and popular polls is the only means to transfer power from one to the other and it must be acknowledged as such. In case problems cannot be resolved through negotiations then other measures will be unavoidable".
                                                20
 EDITORIAL: The editorial writes, "in
 case the coalition administration does not care for the decision of the seven organizations and still insists on i^ts own self-styled Hal-wa-Aqd
146
•OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 council then this insolence Of Rabbani
  Wafa
 will be taken as, declaration of ''war against all the, organizations and the entirS nation and most probably JIA will have to confront the mujaheddin and the Muslim nation with serious consequences* As far as experience shoys the rest of JIA personnel and sensible elements are getting tired of the flimsy decisions of their elders and have no heart to fight. Therefore, it is high time the course of coalition regime be altered and the Muslim nation relieved from the toils and tribulations.
 HEWS ITEMS i In an interview with the BBC, Hekmatyar observed, "the So-called coalition administration is devoid of any credibility and status. Presently we are facing a Very dangerous situation which bespeaks of perilous consequences. This council is fraudulently composed of only two organizations with which we are not prepared to cooperate."
      Rashid Dostum forces are continusouly     rounding     up    the
 Supervisory Council's men.
 - Djostum said, if his terms were not accepted he would hot allow the Hal-wa-Aqd council to convene.
 - HWIA News Agency has objected, in its latest issue, to a report published in "Frontier Post" daily of Peshawar wherein HWIA has been quoted as saying that Afghanistan be divided into 3 indpeendent parts and one of them be called "the Islamic Republic of Hazaristan". The paper had issued a map too depicting the administrative divisions of Afghanistan. The HWIA has asked the "Frontier Post" to desist from making such irresponsible and malicious statements.
                             SEPTEMBER
              30
 INTERVIEWS: Haji Uluswal Asadullah
 Wafa, in an interview with the correspondent of the Wafa magazine in' Quetta, pointed out, "the only way to/ relieve Afghanistan from the current/ impasse is to convene Loya Jirgan (grand assembly) and to determine' thf national leadership". As regards th4 Kandahar Jehad Council, of which he ife a member, Wafa said, "the council i/s cooperating with four provinces. Whilje/
 I was leaving Kandahar some elder commanders and mujaheddin had arrived in Kandahar and we(r4 talking abojut unity. A delegation had /come from Ghazni which, in a meeting April b, called for calling an assembly of all Afghanistan . scholars, mujaheddir^, commanders and tribal elder's."
 - Mirza Husain Khaksar, t!he chief ojf reconstruction work of • Ceptrajl Afghanistan, in an interview said, "ja power backed by military force without the support of Loya Jirgah cannot maintain security in the country. There are 13 thousand families living in Karahagh 0f Ghazni half of which 4re Pashtuns and the other half Hazards. Two years ago they lived like brothers. Our Karez (sub-terranian water channel) was the same, so was our graveyard, :our market was Common, our funeral and matrimonial rituals and ceremonies Were mutual. Unfortunately two years ago, due to foreign interference and aliens, some people were instigated who attacked the houses and ransacked most of them. Later on a mission came from Peshawar and condemnned the action and
 the attackers also confessed their
   /
147
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 19.92
                                                                               VOL. 6 NO. 1
 a
 crime saying they will compensate for the tresspass and theia? guilt. Presently the situation in Karabagh inhabited by Pashtuns and Hazaras, is satisfactory. However, foreign hands are working and do not want that peace should prevail.” Dwelling on foreign hands he said, "these dirty foreign hands are working both among Pashtuns and Hazaras but luckily it is ineffective since we were like brothers before and shall remain as brothers in future top."
 ARTICLES:  "The Afghans ai;e in urgent
 need of peace and security" by Professor Habibur Rahman Halah:
     "Under the prevalent conditions there is nothing more valuable and effective than restoration of peace and security for the people of Afghanistan, in their war ravaged country. Those who are looking for their personal or partisan interests would like the continuity of war and insecurity. The people of Afghanistan consider peace and security as a means to protect their life, honor, property and human dignity •from the onslaught of those who do not consider themselves bound to any Islamic, Afghan and human principles."
    "The Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council" by Professor Mohammad Asghar which says, "Presently the people of Kabul are disdussing this topic among themselves.' The most important question they have in this regard is: What kind of people will comprise the members of this council and what will be modus operandi for Selection or appointment of these members and who will select or appoint them? It is commonly believed that leaders of the mujaheddin organizations themselves are going to select these members and if this actually takes] place, then the majority of the population will have no share in their* jplection and the government established
ih such a\manner, by the council, will be * forced bion the nation, against its wish and will."
                     OCTOBER
                     10
 INTERVIEWS:  Mula Malang, a well-known
 commander in Kandahar, in an interview said, "a useful and beneficial order for the people of Afghanistan should be made. We prefer national interests to that of the organization. Every one is worried, each one is perturbed, there are meetings and functions held everywhere but to no avail so far. However, it is the opinion of the general public that a government be set up either by the national assembly, Loya Jirgah or the Hal-wa-Aqd council which may include representatives of all the nationalities in Afghanistan."
    Engineer Sayyed Abdul M&lik, an educated Hazara from Urozgan, in an interview with Wafa in regard to the situation in his province, said, "despite efforts by some foreign agents to sow the seeds of dissension and illwill on linguistic, religious, racial and - parochial considerations, among Pashtun, Hazara and Balodh brethren, we were luckily successful in foiling their evil designs through the wise guidance of some intellectuals, elders and commanders and to save our people from the scourge of racial and religious prejudices."
      In regard to the latest fights in Kabul he said, "we condemn these fightings since they are detrimental to national solidarity. That is why our people neither want to wipe out the Pashtuns nor the . Hazaras. The Hazaras ought to live like brothers with Pashtuns in complete harmony. The conflicts bettween the IIA and the HWIA were actually \ based on personal interests and aim^d at jeopardizing^*!®1
148
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 flfOIMN J[HAfl
 national    unity  and  solidarity - of
 Afghanistan."
 - .The Afghan Foreign Minister, Sayyed Sulaiman Gailani, in van interview said, "the Only way to uhe resolution of the Afghan present problems lies in. convening    the  Loya  Jirgah (grand
 assembly)." Regarding-his work.he said/ "we have not been able to open any embassy in any country so far. We should like to replace their staff and are trying to activate our embassies in the Islamic nations at first which will be followed by those in the' test of the. world."
 REPORTi Hakim Tanewal who had been in Khost recently, in regard to its' reconstruction said, "the latest developments in Afghanistan brought about manifold changes. Presently the people of Khost had agreed to the setting up of the council on national level, Tfhe previous security council, set up after the fall of Khost, was assimilated in this council. .Presently the council wanted that the people's problems be taken up ori emergency footing and in the first place security, justice, education and reconstruction, be activated. Problems pertaining to health affairs are, more or less, . beihg tackled by the hospitals, clinics and private doctors. Reconstruction work has also taken momentum. Many refugees have returned to Khost and its markets are humming with bursiness and every thing is available. Many houses, shops and. mosques have been built* hospitals and schools along with other buildings have cropped up. The roads not only in Khost city but also in the country side are being cobbled. Cement which is an important element of house building is compensating for the lack of timber and is produced locally.
                    19
 INTERVIEW:   The Mawlawi Saheb of
                                                                                       VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Ta^khail in an interview with Wafa in regard to the Hal-wa-Aqd council said, "this council which has been called by Prof. Rabbani can only be convened when Rabbani was an elected President representing the people. Mujaddedi and Rabbani are representatives of an alien country and are neither representing the people nor the nation. Whospever represents the nation can . call up the people since this is the right of the Afghan nation and Sebghatullah and Rabbani have no right. Another thing is that they are simply pronouncing the words *Ahl-e-Hal wa-Aqd' - a terminology which has only recently been devised by themselves. There is no mention of these words either in the Holy Quran or the Prophet's (PBUH) traditions.. These words have been coined by the latest 'historians'. Besides, persons eligible for membership tQ the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council can only qualify when they are endowed, with qualities such as: justice: thorough knowledge; prudence; sagacity and wisdom. In other words, the should have the ability to initiate
» and intrpduce new ideas and useful hints. On the other hand the Loya Jirgah (Grands Assembly) is an ancient and.traditional forum of Afghanistan in which national and tribal * elders, whether literate or illiterate, can participate provided he is a' notary public and his decisions are wise, indisputable and in the national interest."
»
       In *regard to a good riddance of Afghanistan from the existing impasse he said, "as far as •! am concerned I think that there is no other option except the Lpya Jirgah. In other words some god-fearing and sympathetic people of each province of Afghanistan should-get together and tell these six or. seven persons that, for God's sake, they ishoiild stop-playing any more with the destiny of the already devastated
149
• OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AFGHANJIHAO                    VOL.  6 NO. 1
 Afghanistan."
 -  Hayatullah Alako, member of Kandahar Jehad Council, in an interview with Wafa said, "the only way for the liberation of the1 Afghan‘people lies in convening of UN sponsored Loya Jirgah". Regarding the Kandahar Council he said, "the Kandahar Council is composed of
 .the representatives of all the nationalities in accordance with the proportion of their population. There are four commanders, two tribal elders and a scholar representing a large nationality. In this Council our Shia brethren are also given their share. The people of Kandahar are leading a peaceful life, shops are open, farmers are busy cultivating their lands and gardeners are looking after their orchards. Consumer products are available in the market in sufficient quantities and foreign organizations are busy with implimenting their j,re-
 construction programs."
           / ■ 1 1
 -  Senator Chaknowa'ri, in an interview with Wafa pointed out that actually
, the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Council" and the "Loya Jirgah" were synonyms having thesame meaning. He said, "if liberal-minded and self-less persons could participate in the Loya jirgah it can be expected that the current problems and- difficulties of Afghanistan will be solved. However, under the prevalent conditions the convening of £oya Jirgah could serve the purpose better.'
                                                31
 MESSAGE:  This   is the text of the
 message addressed to the nation by Ex-King zahir Shah of Afghanistan and sent formally to Wafa. The message runs, "I was hopeful- that during the past 14\years of jehad and after undergoing sacrifices, the Afghan Muslim and valiant nation would have left behind the difficult political phase of. their
 life and would be starting ite new political and national life in an atmosphere of peace and security under the canopy of pleasant environment and tranguility, and will be busy in re1” constructing its war-ravaged homeland. It is very unfortunate, however, that the events of the past three and-a-half years and the incidents of the last four months or so, not only caused disappointments, but added further to the grief and sorrow of the already oppressed and war-ravaged Muslims of the .country. Obviously our homeland has fallen a prey to:
 -  Overlooking of national realities^.
                                                                  raw, and hurried decisions for
      power attainment without caring
      for popular will of the people#,
 -  selfish and motivated alien inter-
      ference.
      "It is most unfortunate that the mojaheddin leaders, with a view to attaining power, have clean forgotten the sacred principles of homeland and its territorial objectives. On the one hand they have harmed the Afghan national identity through their warmongering and partisan behavior, and on the other have caused thousands of casualties among our innocent compatriots."
      "Over centuries the Afghan heroic nation has been acknowledged, the world over, as an outstanding brave people endowed with special characteristics of their unwavering love for solidarity, national and territorial integrity, freedom and independence.; Needless to say that alien interference and hypocrites have proved incapable in driving a wedge between them. Presently internal and external conspiracies laid out to sow the see^s of dissension and discord on religious, linguistic and ethnic grounds, among the brave Afghan nation have once agpin been sterilized
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 IffijlNJ[HA0                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
 by the sagacious and prudent Afghan nation and this is an hour of trial which the Afghan nation is confronted with. I sincerely hope that the patriotic Afghan nation will come out victorious from this test and shall prefer , the dignity and national territorial integrity of their sacred homeland to personal considerations and interests.''
     "As an old and veteran servant of the soil, I have always Supported the sacred cause of Islamic jehad and its objectives and I emphasize, once again, that the only way to resolve the present crisis of Afghanistan is to create a favorable and conducive atmosphere so that the Afghan nation could participate in national and political life. In order to attain this objective an Afghan Jirgah, sponsored by a neutral international mission, be conducted which will reflect the national realities and aspirations."
 REPORT:  A one-day seminar about the
 "Afghan problem .and its resolution" was convened. October 21 by WUFA in the Study Center for Central Asia of Peshawar University.
     The seminar was attended by some' 200 persons, including some Afghan elders of Kabul, Kandahar, Urozgan, Hilmand, wardak and some Pakistani and foreign scholars. The seminar, starting at 9.45 a.nu, continued till late in the evening. Inaugurating the seminar Prof, Rasool Amin said, "our seminar deals with the settlement of the Afghan issue and we expect to present our invaluable opinions on the subject."
     "The first paper is that of Azmat Hayat Khan's entitled, "bottlenecks in the way of the resolution of Afghanistan's problem". He has discussed the bright history of Afghanistan and has called them once again across the, negotiating table.
 Commenting on the article Sayyed Abdul Hussain Waiz said, "there will be very few countries of the world which have not meddled in the Afghan issue, some Muslim countries of the region have also interfered in our affairs and are continuing further. Owing to the interference of a handful of persons our, otherwise united and singular, country has presently turned into a center of meddlings for the aliens." An Afghan elderly commenting on the situation later said, there was no government in Afghanistan and that the Afghans wanted a government which would be kind to all. Nasrullah Khan Babar, a Pakistani retired general, started talking about some contemporary Afghan . leaders and commanders, who had undergone military and political training in Pakistan, and disclosed some inside stories. He said, "Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Habibur Rahman, Ahmad Shah Masood, Mohammadi and the root arrived' from Afghanistan 1974. As soon as they arrived we started their training. At that time situation in the entire world was fluid and on the verge of changes, as such they also wanted to bring a change in the situation- of their own country. Despite the fact that they represented nobody but.we wanted to be 4.x) possession of  an option. In    the
 post-martial   law period   Ziaul   Haq
 imparted the mujaheddin militari training only but without any political know-how, and divided them into seven groups. Had we given them political training in that case, on the conclusion of the jehad the present infighting would have been everted." This paper was followed by a' long and heated discussion.
      The third paper of the seminar was that of Professor Pazhwak which was read by Hakeem Aryubi and in which the 1 UN role in    the Afghan   crisis  was
 discussed.     The paper    said,  "the
151
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992   AfGIIANJ[HAfl                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
 UN could have played a decisive role in the peaceful solution of Afghanistan problem which it did not and undoubtedly it ban even now play an
 effective role in that respect." The paper went on, "the circumstances call for an urgent despatch of a UN security force to Afghanistan and the UN Security Council in particular, is obliged to decide-on this issue."
      Another article, written by Fazlur Rahman, also dealt with UN role in Afghanistan and opined that the Afghans should resolve their problems by themselves• Following that Mr• Aryubi's article too discussed the UN role and opined that UN plan oh Afghanistan was Ispoilt by the alien's cronies and puppets.
      The sixth article of the seminar was written by Profeissor Mohammad Asghar about the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Council" which, according to reasons sighted, had not favored the council. Concluding the seminar Rasool Amin, in his article, had considered "Loya Jirgah" to be an important mechanism in the resolution of Afghanistan problem.
      At the end of the seminar ' a resolution was read in which the Afghan Muslim nation epical 14 year jehad was praised«o Tthe neighboring and friendly countries were paid tribute for their assistance and along with that they were requested to stop interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. The government set up according to the "Peshawar Aaccors" was termed as a failure and non-national and the Hal-wa-Aqd council of their making was rejected. It asked for convening of the Loya Jirgah and warned all the Afghans against the machinations of the aliens.
                                                              NOVEMBER
                                        15
 .INTERVIEWt In an interview with Wafa Professor Mohammad Yousuf Aina said, "the Muslim nation of Afghanistan is familiar with "Loya Jirgah" since it is in their national dictionary. The boiled-oVer^v federal administration disrupt.^ the solidarity of our Muslim nation"..
 REPORT: UN envoy for Afghanistan
 affairs, in a meeting with Wafa November 9, was acquainted with a number of writers, tribal elders,
 political figures and social, personalities and answered their questions. In regad to participation gr non-participation of UN envoy in Kabul
 government's Hal-warAqd- council. Jie said, "even if the Kabul administration asks the UN Secretary General about this, i will propose to him to be
 cautious in regard to this invitation. In fact we do not know whether this assembly can represent all the cross-sections of the Afghan people
                        r
 and whether it is broad-based or not?" To another query he replied, "there is no apprehension in regard to the break-up of Afghanistan and the neighboring countries also do not want this to happen. However, presently Afghanistan is known to be the center of narcotics' production and its trafficking all over the world is a cause for concern because under the current conditions its control is an onerous task." Regarding the Afghan issue to' be discussed in a regional conference he said, "accordihg to Pakistani press Iran has proposed that such a conference be convened in some Central Asian countries" .
152
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 AfGHANJ[H/10                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
                                                        DECEMBER
                                    15
 INTERVIEWS: In an interview with
 "WAFA", general Abdul Hakim Katawazi observed, "the situation in Kabul is annoying and the residents have lost all hope for the future. The government institutions are bereft of any order, system and rule of law." To the whether the present order, enforced upon Kabul, could bring about peace apd stability he said, "the current conditions and the present system cannot only maintain peace and security but there is an apprehension that things' iriay go from bad to worse." He said, "there are thr^e main Elements which contribute to instability: (i)
 Foreign , interference which was felt in the past also, but at present it is above board. (ii) Self interest and party considerations and interests are preferred to those of the community, (iii) Credibility crisis i.e. whatever said is not implemented particularly that which is in the interest of peace and stability."
 - Commander Shamali, in an interview with Wafa pointed out, "as it can be seen the current circumstances have brought the national unity of the country to the brink of disaster. There is an urgent need for a person who can take care of the country's national unity. Presently many problems can be witnessed among the organizations. However, a certain understanding did occur among a few organizations lately in view of which if' power can be transferred to Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani temporarily, until either the Loya Jirgah or the Hal-wa-Aqd council is convened, I think the danger to the national unity of Afghanistan shall be
 averted." He said, "it is impossible that the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council 'will be convened on schedule, and if at all it does then it would not represent the elected representatives."
 - Commander Qazi Baba, in an interview with Wafa, in regard to the situation in Ghazni said, "prior to the entry of mujaheddin to Ghazni the entire districts and sub-districts of Ghazni province were occupied by mujaheddin. Then we decided to capture Ghazni City, notifying the government troops of our intention, whereupon they surrendered. In the first place regular security forces entered the city so that no chance for -looting was left. Gradually old and former employees were replaced by new ones and the entire administration is now managed by the mujaheddin satisfactorily".
      In regard to the administration of Ghazni he said, "we are having a very powerful jehad council over here, composed entirely of jehad commanders, which is capable of resolving all the local problems, and there are no political differences."
    In an interview with Wafa, Abdul Sattar Farahi disclosed, "there is a singular powerful council composed of various organizations and tribes including scholars, elders and commanders in Farah. The security situation in Farah province is satisfactory and people are leading their normal lives. At the outset there existed highway robbers between Farah and Kandahar who have now been totally eliminated. There are no linguistic, racial or religious differences among the people of Farah. They are a happy lot and are living in complete harmony and brotherhood."
153
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 flfEHflH JtHflD VOi
          AFGHANISTAN ^ REFLECTED IN WORLD
              MEDIA
              OCTOBER—DECEMBER 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 HlGItAN JtHAfl
        AFGHANISTAN REFLECTED IN WORLD
               MEDIA
       OCTOBER— DECEMBERl 9 92
                              OCTOBER
                                     1
 y Addressing a news conference in Jalalabad 30 September, a day after he had talks with the Saudi intelligence chief Prince Faisal, the Chief of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said that Arab and other circles were trying to terrorise him reports BBC. He said some circles in Pakistan had threatened to eliminate him if he did not agree with Islamabad's approach. As to persistent allegations that he was still being helped by some Pakistani elements including JI, Hekmatyar said he had not received a single bullet from Pakistan eversince he went to Afghanistan. (MLM)
 y Winding up his three-day official visit to Tehran 29 September, the Afghan interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani, said he had positive talks with Iranian officials on the situation in Afghanistan and bilateral ties. IRNA reported that Iran agreed to give Kabul upto 50 million dollars in credit for unspecified needs. Iran and Afghanistan also signed four letters of understanding covering economy, trade, transportation and education. (MLM)
               2
 y The Kabul administration through a dramatic move, inducted 33 commanders
 of various mujaheddin factions against senior army positions with Gen. Abdur Rahim Wardak as their COAS 1 October. General Wardak has replaced Gen. Asef Delawar who was working on that post since the unsuccessful coup of former Afghan Defense Minister Gen. Shahnawaz Tani against deposed President Najib 6 March, 1990. The Peshawar-based mujaheddin circles attribute the new developments to the efforts of the Nangarhar Peace Commission. (NTN)
                 3
 y The Nangarhar Commanders' Peace Mission has marked 4 October as the deadline for expulsion of militia forces and the armed units of the former communist regime from Kabul. In its meeting 1 October the Shoora observed that even after five weeks neither Dostum militia was expelled nor communists removed from the government. In the circumstances the Peace Mission is compelled to announce that force will be used for implementing decisions of the mission after the deadline. Meanwhile, the forces of Rashid Dostum, Siddiq Khan and Shoora-e-Nezar attacked Hekmatyar's targets in Baghlan 2 October and fierce fighting was continuing between HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin and the goverhment forces in the province. (JG)
                 4
 y The US State Department in a statement- 2 October has urged the Afghan
155
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 flfflHflHJllfl _______ VQL. 6 NO. 1
                                                5
 interim Government President, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, to make the greatest possible effort to revive a broad-based political process. The statement says, "we are also consulting with the UN and other countries interested in the future of Afghanistan. The US does hot favor any Afghan faction. We support' the interim government of Afghanistan. We note that preparations are being made to convene a gathering of\ Afghans in late October as a further step in the political process and urge*that all factions work with the interim government to make this meeting a success."
      "The establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan in June, was a; critical first' step towards these1 objectives. The heavy fighting that, occurred in Kabul in August, therefore, was of great concern to the US government. We welcome the implementation of a ceasefire and are pleased that it is holding." (NTN) •
 if Sources close to HIA said, the Kabul's coalition government contacted the HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, and the peace commission of Nangarhar commanders' shoora 3 October and demanded further extension in the deadline till 11 October. Sources close to Peace Commission also said that both Burhanuddin Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood established contacts with the members of the commission and requested that if the deadline was extended for another week it would be implemented. (PT)
    Fighting between the mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) and the Kabtil coalition government forces is continuing * in two provinces of Afghanistan where HIA has claimed success against the coalition troops, reports ANA 3 October. (PT)
 if deputy of the Nangarhar Peace Commission, Engineer Mahmood, has said that the peace commission has fixed October 11 as the new deadline for the withdrawal of       General Rashid  Dostum's
 forces from Kabul, In an interview . ' \ with the ANA 4 October he said the
 Peace Commission held separate meetings
 with Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood
 and HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, 1
 October. During the meeting Hekmatyar
 assured the commission that HIA would
 wait till 11 October. During the talks
 Ahmad Shah Masood told the commission
 that withdrawal of the militia forces
 would start by 11 October and this
 process will be completed in three or
 four days. Engineer Mahmood expressed
 satisfaction over his talks with the
 interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani
 and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood
 and hoped that they would abide by
 their promises and most probably
 fighting would not erupt again. (PT)
    M^ny rockets hit Herat airport 4 October. Fighting also again broke out in Kabul and many rpckets hit Kabul city the same day. (MLM)
                   6
              . I
 if Afghan interim Government has invited international organizations to attend a nation-wide assembly called next month to determine the country's future system of government. Kabul also said the Leadership Council has decided to invite the UN and the OIC to the assembly* The UN Special representative Sotirious Mousour(is, has said the world body was ready to respond to a request by the Afghan interim government for UN assistance in supervising a planned Afghan assembly. (NTN)
 if Around 500 mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) were killed or. received
156
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGHANJ[HA0                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
 serious injuries as fighting entered the fifth consecutive day, 5 October, between the mujaheddin of HIA and the militia 'coalition forces supported by JIA in Herat, reports ANA; Meanwhile IIA Chief, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, with a three-member delegation of the interim government called on Gulbuddin Hekmatyar near Kabul. (MLM)
 ^ Nine Afghan Generals in a hi-jacked C-130 plane, after having been refused permission to land at the Peshawar Airport midnight between 4 and 5 October, landed at the Shindand Airport in Afghanistan and surrendered themselves to HIA (Hekmatyar). (JG)
 •                    i
 y The Afghan interim government has said it has come to an understanding with the HIA on, what it termed, the beginning of the implementation of the ceasefire agreement. The HIA and the government in Kabul had reached the ceasefire agreement over a month ago but both sides have repeatedly accused each other of violating the provisions of the ceasefire. Meanwhile* Mawlawi Maneoor, the Governor of Paktia, said a peace commission, representing over 30 provinces, have urged on the two sides to do all in their power to, consider the start of the ceasefire within a week. He added that the government will begin evacuating the militia from Kabul beginning 11 October during which time the HIA would also pull out its forces from the surrounding areas in Kabul. (BBC)
                                                 7
    The militia 1 aircraft carried out sorties on Shindand airbase, 6 October, causing material damage and injuries to 10 mujaheddin amidst heavy fighting between the mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) and militia forces in western city of Herat. The missions were carried out from Bagram airport. HIA mujaheddin made advances from different sides on the city and smashed
 the fourth Tank Brigade. They captured Bazare Kohna, Char Su, Kandahari Bazar, Qeshla-e-Jadeed and strengthened their positions at the Herat airport. (PT)
    The Afghan Leadership council, at its meeting 6 October under, the chairmanship of President Burhanuddin Rabbani, decided to authorize the interim President to nominate 5% and the Leadership Council to nominate 15% members for the forthcoming Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora. The remaining 80% members will be nominated proportionate to the population of each area. (NWT)'
 >lf An appeal has been sent to the UN, the NAM and other international organizations on, behalf of a Loya Jirgah based at Kandahar that foreign interference in Afghanistan should cease from Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. A Parliamentarian (name not given) told The Nation the jirgah was held in Kandahar late last month in which leading military commanders, ulama and leading intellectuals participated. (NTN).
                                                 8
 tjf. An Afghan military aircraft mysteriously landed at' the Peshawar airport , 7 October on an Unknown mission. When PIA was contacted to enquire whether it had been hi-jacked the reply was an emphatic "no" but when asked to who Were aboard it they said "no comment whatsoever". (MLM)
    In a communique issued to ANA in Peshawar 7 October the HIA (Hekmatyar) denied having bombed the military bases of the coalition forces in Herat from Shindand 'airport. It said the Herat fihting has beein imposed upon them by the sectarianist coalition of the North..(PT)
 Iff Fierce fighting between mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) and militia forces
157
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992
 continued in Herat city 7 October with both sides using heavy artillery and rockets against each other. The HIA has captured Police Headquarters and Pul-e-Pashto and is having upper hand in the fighting. (NWT)
 \fl In an exclusive interview with the daily Jang the leader' of the HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said they had accepted the ceasefire offer on the condition that the militia would be expelled from Kabul and the communists would not be retained in the government and that the process would be completed in one week. But one week has passed now and the communists are still there and militia is also in Kabul doing whatever they pleased. He said Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf (IIA), Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi (HEIA), ar^d Younus Khales (HIA) are unanimous that real peace cannot be established in Kabul so long as militia is there.             Gulbuddin
                               I
 Hekmatyar said that there was no government in Kabul and Burhanuddin Rabbani was at the mercy of Rashid Dostum. He said general elections were the solution ,to the problems and immediate arrangements should be made for the same. (>JG)
 ^ HIA (Hekmatyar) has repulsed in Baghlan province a major attack on Kelagai areas by Gelam Jam militia killing 35 militiamen, injuring 43 and capturing nine. Gelam Jam militia also left behind six tanks and other vehicles, reports ANA. (NWT)             ,
                           ^             l
 ^ Another C-130 plane of the Iranian j Air Force, loaded with relief goods of ] Red Crescent Society of Iran, arrived in Mazar-e-Sharif 6 October. (MLM)
VOL. 6 NO. 1
          9
 y Eng. Qutbuddin Helal, Chairman of the Political Affairs Department of HIA (Hekmatyar), in a written statement in Peshawar 8 October said the real
 problem of Kabul was not about the chairmanship and presidency but because of the violation of the agreements made in Peshawar and the induction of the communists into the power, reports ANA. No such agreement, he said, has taken place for bringing these "killers" into power. All the jehadic organizations unanimously agreed to the removal of the communists from the helm of power. No agreement of the Leadership Council has been implemented so far, he said. "Although we did not sign the Peshawar agreement at the beginning for its faults, but on the insistence of these organizations I had to sign it three days afterwards and we are abiding by it. However, the other side violated it immediately after they signed it", Qutbuddin Helal said. He said in fact HIA agree to Burhanuddin Rabbani's chairmanship of the Leadership Council and to represent the Islamic state of Afghanistan in the interim period and the premiership of the country should have been given to the HIA representative with full authority, including the appointment of the ministers. Due to conspiratorial habits Of Ahmad Shah Masood, he said, HIA has never agreed upon his appointment as Defense Minister. (MLM)
   Addressing a press conference in the US Consulate in Peshawar 8 October the outgoing American envoy in Islamabad Nicholas Platt has said that the US supports the existing administration in Kabul and her policy on Afghanistan is very clear. He said on normalization of the situation in Kabul, the US will reactivate its diplomatic mission in Afghanistan. He said that all of the Afghan mujaheddin need to return sophisticated weapons to its custodians as there is no more war in that country. (NTN)
 \ff dulh Pakistani, and American agencies have joined hands to collect
158
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AIGIIANJlHAQ                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
 mmammmmnmmmmmagmmawmaonmaam
 sophisticated arms, including Stinger missiles, from the Afghan mujaheddin, it was reliably learnt in Peshawar, According to sources at present the price of a Stinger missile has been fixed at $64,000. Mujaheddin who are willing to hand over the Stingers to their American and Pakistani friends, insist to receive Pakistan currency equal to American dollars,1 Sources further said that only mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) are not willing to return them. (NTN)
                 10
 y Leaders and stalwarts of the mujaheddin parties as well as intellectuals, commanders and tribal chieftains have opposed the plan of Afghan interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, for the formation of a Shoora to decide the future President of Afghanistan. In the proposed Shoora five percent nominees will be named by the Afghan President and 15 percent by Leadership Council which is   also  headed by the Afghan
 President while 80 percent nominees will be chosen on population basis. Opposing    the    plan  Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi said   it is impossible for
 Afghans to accept decisions of a few selected persons. Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani rejected the formula and said that Rabbani would push Afghans to another civil war if that formula was implemented. He warned that he would withdraw    his support      if Kabul
 administration implemented the formula. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar also rejected the formula and said it was full of contradictions and demanded holding of general elections. (NTN)
 y In an interview with the BBC HIA (Hekmatyar) spokesman Qutbuddin Hilal has said that the Afghan interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, was making changes in the composition of the Jirga being held for the formation of a government in Afghanistan. , These
 changes, he said, were aimed at sabotaging the recently reached agreement between the government and his party at Paghman. (MLM) y The Afghan Interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, has requested the Nangarhar Peace Commission to extend the deadline for removal of militia forces from Kabul for another 24 hours, reports AIP. (NTN)
 y , Russian advisers ate pouring into Afghanistan to help the qoalition government especially in the field of communications and security and one of the advisers, Eleskovich, who worked during Najibullah regime has reached Kabul along with his team, reports ANA. (NTN)
 y HIA (Hekmatyar) in a letter to the UN Secretary General and the Russian Ambassador to Islamabad has asked the Russian Government to stop printing Afghan currency at their printing centers as this business would further destroy the economy of Afghanistan, says (ANA). (PT)
 y Mujaheddin leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has made a formal request to join the Afghan government, Radio Kabul reported 9 October. It said HIA leader Hekmatyar sent a letter asking that either he, or his representative be accepted into the government's ruling leadership council. Western diplomats confirmed Hekmatyar's request adding that the rebel leader attached some conditions to Hezb's return. (PT)
                                                 11
 y In a wireless message received by HIA Secretariat in Peshawar Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, has strongly denied as baseless and distorted a broadcast that he had requested to join the government. He said HIA is part of the government where Ustad Abdul Saboor Farid is appointed as Prime Minister,
159
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 flfGUAN llfHAfl
 reports ANA. He said in fact he/ had written a letter to the Secretary General of Leadership Council telling him that uptil now the coalition government had not honored its promises and informed him about its incapabilities. (NTN)
   Two Afghan jets flown by pilots of the former communist government bombed 10 October Mazer-e-Sharif arid , then landed in Jalalabad, a senior airforce General said. The two pilots who are now loyal to HIA said the General asked that his name not be used. (NTN)
 ^ The US special envoy on Afghanistan, Peter Tomsen, told two correspondents of a Saudi daily Al-Yaom that it was upto the .Afghans whether or not they wanted a fundamentalist government arid the US did not support or oppose any particular group or personality, reports VOA. He said the Afghan interim government has been asked to pave the way for the formation of a broad-based people's government, through "jirgah". (PT)
' ty Thousands of citizens of Kabul city offered their Juma prayers 9 October by praying for lasting peace in the country and strengthening of the Islamic government of Afghanistan,- a Kabul Radio broadcast said. (PT)
   The Afghan COAS General Rahim Wardak has said a 10-member committee comprising representatives of government and those from HI A groups, has been established to oversee the withdrawal from Kabul of militias who fought with ousted communist government against mujaheddin, reports BBC. (MLM)
 ty Referring to various causes of uncertainty in Kabul the dally Nation in its editorial li October says the ruling leadership is split on the right of the interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani to nominate five percent
                                                                                  VOL. 6 NO. 1
 members to a Shoora to elect a new President on October 28 or soon after that as per Peshawar Agreement. Fifteen percent members, according to the formula, are to be nominated by the Leadership Council which is the main prop behind the President and' 80 percent members are to be selected by the people. While some leaders dispute the right of the President to nominate members, others disagree wifcfcn the qualifications laid down for the membership. Neither of these contentions is too big a hurdle, but the fact that both are being projected as serious points of difference shows that the spirit of accommodation that made the Peshawar Agreement possible, has now been forgotten, In the longer run, the dispute about the representative character of a Shoora or a Loya Jirgah will have to be resolved if the country has to survive. (NTN)
                                              12
   Afghan mujaheddin have rejected the US proposal to return weapons delivered to them during war. The mujaheddin sources said that the' weapons which the American Ambassador asked them to return were used in Afghan jehad and the remaining will be used to restore peace. (NTN)
   Speaking at the g9th Frontier Corps Week and centenary celebrations of Kurram Militia in Parachinar 11 Octqber President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan said "we do .not want to interfere in the affairs of Afghans and instead of supporting a “particular* group -we are. rather with the entire Afghan nation"• He made an appeal to the Afghans t.o thrash out their differences and ihitiate the task of reconstruction with the same spirit! as they faught for their freedom. (PT)
 >11 Following the new trend of building up confidence on the powerful militia'
 160
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 (Mill lltllflO
 generals in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia has also changed its strategy and' is trying' to strengthen its relations with General Rashid Dostum, Chief of Gelam Jam militia, for destabilising close" relations between Iran and General Syed Mansoor Nadri who has been leading Shia militiamen during Najibullah regime. Reliable sources told The Nation 11 October that Saudi Arabia considers close relations between Iran and General Syed Mansoor Nadri as against
 its influence in Afghanistan. In this respect sources told The Nation correspondent that a Saudi delegation and its like-minded people who are running relief agencies 'for the welfare of Afghan refugees in Peshawar visited Mazar-e-Sharif some two months back.. During the visit the team assured General Dostum of Saudi Arabia's full support. (NTN)
                   13
 ^ Rockets fired by unidentified forces 12 October hit and destroyed a site equipped with a Soviet-made Scud missile system in southern part of Kabul, reports AIP. There was no official word on the attack nor any clue to the possible attackers, the agency said adding that the controversial Gelam jam militia which were to start withdrawing from Kabul 12: October might have carried out the attack to destroy the deadly Scud missiles which can hit targets as far as 300 kilometers away. (MLM)
   In their meeting at a military base of HIA near Kabul 11 October Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and the leader of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar termed the appointment of one representative for 30 thousand people for a proposed Shoora as impracticable and instead agreed that two persons from each district should be appointed to the Shoora which would have full power toi determine the future of Afghanistan.
 They further agreed that in case such a Shoora is not brought forward before the expiry of the tenure of Burhanuddin Rabbani, power should be transferred back to the Leadership Council and speedy action initiated for conducting general elections. During the discussion the HIA leader expressed his concern over Washington's interference in the internal( affairs of Afghanistan and said that some neighboring countries.were also toeing US policies. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar told Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi that in the recent past the government of Pakistan invited him to Islamabad \ for reconciliation with Burhanuddin Rabbani and Rashid Dostum but he (Hekmatyar) turned down the offer as he would not compromise with the communists. Another neighbouring country, he said, wanted the imposition of Jaffria rule in Afghanistan. (N.TN)
                 14
   President of the Leadership Council anr* the Afghan Interim Government Burhanuddin Rabbani has said that the government and Leadership Council were determined to form a Shoora to' shape the future Leadership of the country. According to Radio Kabul he said the Leadership Council has decided to elect the members of the Shoora on the basis vof population. Fifteen percent members would be nominated by the Leadership Council      and it will result     in
 introducing intellectuals. Five percent members of the shoora will be elected by the President of the Leadership Council. The government which will be formed      by this Shoora will     be
 reflective of the will and determination of the Afghan mujahed nation, he said. (PT)
   In a statement issued to ANA 13 October the leader of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has called upon the two Central Asian Republics of Uzbekistan and Tadjekistan to immediately stop
161
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6' NO. 1
 their involvement in different spheres of the internal affairs of Afghanistan. Hekmatyar s^id that he had ample proof that these : two states had extended military supplies to the unholy alliance of the north, so much so the two states had given their air force personnel under the command of the northern alliance in order to destroy the military machine of HIA, he said. He said that both Uzbekistan and Tadjekistan were devising plans with the notorious militia chief Rashid Dostum for the division of Afghanistan. (PT)
                  15
   The Nation through reliable sources came to know that the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani during his visit to Pakistan and Iran was accompanied by Dostum and succeeded in mustering support of both the countries in favor of his future planning. Those who rejected the formula have not yet clarified their future [Line of action but three of them,( Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, are supporting the demand of deciding the future of Afghanistan through traditional Eoya Jirgah. The proposal is being backed by followers of former King Mohammad Zaher Shah, independent mujaheddin commanders and ulama throughout Afghanistan. Meanwhile, Hekmatyar sources in Peshawar have said that the deadline for removal of Dostum militia from Kabul was over but Burhanuddin Rabbani failed to honor the agreement. (NTN)
   At his press briefing in Islamabad 14 October a foreign office spokesman admitted that Uzbek militia commander General Abdul Rashid Dostum did visit Pakistan at his own request recently and that during "his very short visit’ he met some Pakistani personalities" whose names the spokesman would not divulge. Asked why the Doistym visit was
 kept secret by the Pakistan Government and that it was only 14 October that the Foreign Office was making it public, the spokesman said the trip was kept secret at Dostum's request. (PT)
                16
 ^ A commission composed of two members' from each of the mujaheddin parties and deciding the next stage in Afghanistan's transition from communism to an Islamic government reached agreement on a dispute over Whether the delegates should be chosen on the basis of districts or on population. "It is a sensitive time and we do not want t;o discuss details but we have . reached broad agreement", the commission members said. (PT)
 ^ Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 15 October former Afghan President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has ruled out the possibility of removal of Rashid Dostum and said that even if all the mujaheddin got united against iDostum they would be unable to remove him as all the commanders of six northern provinces were behind him. He offered his services to pursuade Rashid Dostum for withdrawal of militia from Kabul if both Hekmatyar and Rabbani guaranteed to lay down their arms. He said that Dostum was not a communist, but was a Muslim and enjoyed the backing of commanders, and ulama of the northern provinces of Afghanistan. (ij’T)
    Afghan . Shia General, Nematullah Ibrahimi was gunned down in Kabul, sources said 15 October. A member £f HW's central military committee said unknown assailants shot Ibrahimi dead early 13 October, reportedly during a dispute over personal matters. (NTN)
                18
 ^Leaders of four Afghan factions including the head of Hlfy GUlbuddin
16 2
OCTOBER-DECEMBER/ 1992 MGIIDN JIHIlfl                   VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Hekmatyar? have begun a meeting at a military base east of Kabul to try to avert the threat of fresh fighting in Kabul., The Afghan Vice President Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi told the BBC that Hekmatyar complained at the meeting that his conditions for agreeing to a ceasefire in August^ which included the withdrawal of militias from Kabul,? had still not been met. However, Nabi Mohammadi said other leaders gave assurance that they would be met. Meanwhile, Tehran Radio said l6 October that the Nangarhar. Peace Commission had warned they would use force if militia was not pulled out of
 Kabul. (MLM) l                    i
 y The Afghan Islamic Press reports that Mawlawi Khales, leader of the HIA, has called together all important personalities of his faction to ask them whether they would prefer to support the present interim government or the HIA leader, Hekmatyar, or to take up a totally independent stand of their own. The report says that one of the main topics Mawlawi Khales is going to discuss with his colleagues will be the formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council. Reports add that Khales has also suspended his membership of the Leadership Council and would take up the matter with members of his party in this gathering. (VOA)
 y Four important mujaheddin leaders i.e. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Mawlawi Khales and Prof. Sayyaf have met somewhere outside Kabul. When asked about the outcome of this meeting Mawlawi Khales told reporters later, "we discussed some important issues and took the decision to pave the way for the continuation of the Leadership Council sessions but our regular meeting will be convened with Prof. Rabbani's participation. Regarding the withdrawal from Kabul of the militia forces, Mawlawi Mohammadi commented that they
                                                                        Ill Mil 11III «■«■■■■■■
 were all unanimous on this issue that they should be ousted, "but the main topic of discussion today was the resumption of the sessions of the Leadership Council", he said. (BBC)
                 19
 y The Afghan Interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, and Uzbek militia high ups in their detailed meeting in Mazar-e-Sharif have framed a joint strategy to counter any situation, reports AIP. Burhanuddin Rabbani, who held this meeting soon after his return from Uzbekistan, remained with the militia officials until 17 October.
 y After a major offensive by HIA mujaheddin the militia forces have retreated in Baghlan province, reports ANA. Sixty-five militiamen were killed in the operation and a T-fe2 tank, six armored vehicles, a machine-gun and a large quantity of arms and ammunition were also captured by HIA * (NWT)
 y The daily Saudi oil supplies for Kabul from Peshawar is understood to-have been disrupted on the fourth day when HIA (Hekmatyar) group captured, in Laghman, the oil tankers while on way to Kabul and consequently the remaining oil supplies from Peshawar have been stopped. Saudi Arabia had sent 32.4 million liters of petrol and diesel for supply to Kabul. (JG)
 y Gulbuddin Hekmatyar accused Afghanistan's government 17 October of reneging on its promise to purge the army of communists and militia forces. In a meeting in the outskirts of Kabul, Hekmatyar warned of a violent showdown with government troops if. the purge did not take place. (PT)
 y The Speaker of the HWIA and member of the Leadership Council, Abdul Haq Shafaq, regarding the National Islamic Movement and the situation in the Notth
163
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992      lUN J[HAfl
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 said, the situation was good and that all those concerned were in thorough control. He said, the National Islamic Movement, operating from the historical Balkh, was in control of 9 provinces in the north of the country» kShafaq added that the NIM had formed two Councils, one each for administration and military affairs, with full support of the representatives. "Both the councils are headed by Rashid Dostum", he said. Regarding the appointment of governors Shafaq said, .in view of this fact that there existed no stable central government in the country most of the executive personnel were appointed by the NIM. (VOA)
 w Nooristani residents of Peshawar held a meeting at the Green Hotel in Peshawar under Mawlawi Mohammad Afzal. The meeting was also attended by representatives of some NGOs and commanders. . Among other topics they also demanded the establishment of a separate "Nooristan" province* (BBC)
 y The former interim president, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, believes efforts for removing Rashid Dostum and his forces from the political scene will probably result in the disintegration of Afghanistan. Mujaddedi ;Said, Rashid Dostum had gained tremendous popularity with the support of Tadjikistan and Uzbekistan republics as well as the commanders and spirituals from six northern provinces. (VOlfcA)
                  20
 y After a meeting with the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani the leader of the -Nangarhar Peace Commission, Shamali Khan, told reporters in Kabul 18 October that communist militia would leave Kabul 19 October. (PT)
 y Withdrawal of militiamen from Kabul
 has started and an Afghan plane with 200 militiamen on board left Kabul for Mazar-e-Sharif 19 October. (PT)
 y The Election Commission decided in Kabul 19     October       to replace its
 chairman, Sayyed Noorullah Emad of JIA,. with the HIA (Khales) commander Haji Abdul Jabbar. (PT)
 y- The Deputy         J±A leader, Sayyed
 Noorullah Emad, regarding . the withdrawal of the militia forces from Kabul said, the decision was actually that of the President and the Minister of Defense as well as that of the Leadership Council and has not been taken up on account of pressure either from HIA or the peace commission. (BBC)
 y Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailahi in an interview in Peshawar Said that on the. basis of the present policy and the prevailing circumstances, the formation of the Hal-wa-Aqd Council will require quite some time. He did not think that within the short period left of President Rabbani's office tenure, 27 October, the council would be able to convene. In his opinion it woul,d be more practicable if three representatives from each provincial council were called to form a council for electing the new government, leader. (;VOA)
 y Four top-brass Afghan mujaheddin
 leaders CfUlbuddin Hekmatyar . (HIA), Mawlawi Mohammad Younus khalep (HIA), Abd Rab Rasbol Sayyaf (IIA) and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi (HEIA) in their three-day meeting epding 19 October in the outskirts of Kabul gave a four-day deadline to the Afghan ' interim government President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, for the completion of the withdrawal of Gelaip Jam Militia froiti the Afghan capital arid disbanding all. the communist elements from the key. government posts, reports ANA.. A joint
164
 ■OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 document issued at the .conclusion of the meeting also urged Burhanuddin Rabbani to relinquish -power to the Leadership Council bn the/ expiry of his tenure 28 October. The: meeting was also attended by prominent commanders of different mujaheddin parties from a number of Afghan provinces and the peace negotiators of 'the Nangarhar commanders'*Shoora. (PT)
 ^ Afghanistan's interim government said 19 October it would step down ini' fa!vor of new ruler chosen by a council expected to meet next month. "The government is ready to transfer power, to a new leadership which will be appointed by the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Agd Council", Kabul radio quoted a government statement as saying. (PT)
 ^ A commander of the Kabul government forces was killed and several others injured in fresh clashes in Kabul 19 October between the government forces, and the, forces of Gulbuddin He'kmatyar, Tehran Radio reported.- Both sides' Used heavy weapons the broadcast said. (PT)
 Vjf i jys‘. - efforts for the formation of the
                   council is in full swing, the nomads claiming to have a population of over three million, have demanded full:   representation in the
 government. The nomad leader, Tahir Khan Jabarkltiail, has said in this respect that it would be better if the right of the KOchis (nomads) were-also considered under the present circumstances. He claimed that the Kpchis were spread over 24 provinces of Afghanistan and it would be fair if at least two representatives from each province were allotted to them, otherwise they would not take part in any gathering nor would they sit idly by. (BBC)
 ijtf Reports say that a number of HIA mujaheddin, accompanied by tanks, have recently reached Sarobi. Ya'qub
 Sharafat, editor of the Afghan Islamic Press, said, according to reports an HIA contengent, about 2,500 strong, have «moved to Sarobi, near Kabul, and are Planning to join Prime Minister Ustad Fareed's ;> forces in Kapisa. Some commanders are of the opinion they wish to remain in Sarobi and replenish HIA forces stationed in the district. : He said, in view of the HIA direct conflict with the Kabul government this is a likelier probability. Sharafat. said, this is Hekmatyar's legal right in view of the recent government plot in which the HIA lost its airbase at Shindand to.the government. (BBC)
                                        22
 ^ Kabul was jerked again when explosions started at the rocket brigade, controlled by Ahmad Shah Masood, 21 October. The explosions continued for hours and there are reports of heavy losses.- The cause of the explosions at the,rocket base could
 :not be ascertained. However, sources close 1 to IIA claimed that the
 ^xplosibgs were trigerred by the Gelam jam militiamen. Skirmishes also broke out between the Gelam Jam militiamen, and Supervisory Council mujaheddin at‘ Khair Khana * and Karte Nao at night 2:0 October but details of losses could not be ascertained. Meanwhile, during his recent visit to Mazar-e-Sharif, the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani was told by Rashid Dostum that Ahmad Shah Masood should not compete his forces with that of HWIA otherwise he would be defeated. (PT)
   Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, was in Kabul for the last' one week an& held detailed talks with his counterparts, including Mawlawi Younus, Khales, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and returned to Jalalabad 20 October, The Nation learnt from its reliable sources. (NTN)
165
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 y Prof. Abdul Rasool Amin, Chairman of the WUFA, regarding the arrival in Peshawar of fresh Afghan refugees said, a large number of University Professors and ranking government officials have migrated to Pakistan because of the infighting which broke out in • Kabul last April. Among the latest arrivals in Peshawar are included 120 academic staff of Kabul University alone. He said, "the majority of the residents of Kabul are well educated and the brain drain is really regretable". (VOA)
 y Heavy damage has been inflicted upon installations in Kabul because of rocket raids, which included also a telecommunication establishment. An official said, overseas services have, however,, been restored. Regarding the various channels to foreign countries he said, they mantained four channels to Paris, four to Moscow and one to Tehran, expressing the hope that another two Channels would soon be opened to London and one channel to Delhi. He said when work is completed on the installation of the equipment offered -sby Pakistan, 120 telephone channels would ' be made available for communication purposes to various Pakistani cities with transit facilities to other countries in the region* The official made it clear that about four million dollars would be needed to restore the services to its previous level. (BBC)
 y nawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales in an interview in Peshawar has said that the Afghan government and- Gulbuddin Hetkmatyar, the HIA leader, both have adopted policies contrary to the teachings of Islam.. He said, during talks held among the various mujaheddin leaders, each side only considered the interest of his own faction. He added, ••Prof. Rabbani has”' become partner to
 those who are hated by the nation at large, while Hekmatyar is behaving in a manner that will result in nothing but total destruction. (VOA)
    I
 y Gen Safi, the military commander of Kabul, told the reporter of the Iranian Radio/TV that by deploying_      20,000
 mujmaheddin in the metropolitan area 85% of the city has been freed from irresponsible armed elements. He said, coinciding with the withdrawal of Gen. Dostum militia from Kabul, forces from the Defense Ministry will replace them. (RT)
                                               24
 y The bill for convening the session of the Shoora-e-Ahl-e- Hal-wa-Aqd was presented to the Leadership Council, Tehran Radio quoting reports from Afghanistan said. Afghans living abroaft will also have their representation in the Shoora, the Radio said. (NTN)
 y Afghan leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has brought fresh troops, artillery and tank units to Sarobi, a strategically important township some 50 Kms away east of Kabul, reports VOA. (MLM)
 y AFP reports that a military commander has claimed an attack on the Bagram airport was imminent from the HIA group. Besmillah, the airport commander, said the HIA mujaheddin loyal to the former Premier, Ustad Saboor Fareed, were planning a serious offensive upon the airbase. Another officer . said the fighting against Fareed was inevitable. (Radio Free Afghanistan)
 y The HIA leader, Mohammad Yunus khales, has said regarding the Hal-wa-Aqd council that in his opinion
 the plan was neither that of the Hal-wa-Aqd nor of the Loya Jirgah. "This is a totally different concept by means of which they hope to get the
166
 OGTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 problem solved. In my/' bjplnion it will not be possible to get the members of the council together within the short period at hand. (BBC)
                   25
 ^ The coalition government in Kabul again promises pull out of militia as from October 25, reports .ANA. A delegation of. the Peace Mission called on Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in the south of Kabul 24 October and informed him about, the latest promise. Meanwhile, the process of the withdrawal was ceased* without any obvious reason after some 150 militiamen had left Kabul 19 October. (NTN)
 .iff The Jalalabad Jehadic Council has detained 50 tankers carrying the much-needed oil to Kabul until security is being maintained on the Kabul-Nangarhar highway. The oil was part of Saudi Arabian assistance to Afghanistan. Sayyed Noorullah Emad, the JIA Secretary General said, he has heard the rumors about some oil being intercepted by HIA (Hekmatyar) and has contacted Haji Qadeer in this respect who promised to release the tankers and to forward them to Kabul without' delay. Haji Qadeer said, the entire nation have joined hands to keep the supply routes to Kabul open. (VOA) .
 ^ While only few days are left for President Rabbani's government to end, the atmosphere in Kabul seems to be tense and there are no. signs yet that the council, to elect a new president, will be convened. Gul Mohammad Gulzai, Deputy Political Commissioner of the HIA, in an interview with the VOA while criticizing the Rabbani government said that ‘during its four mgnths tenure in office it did not achieve to forni a Hal-wa-Aqd coundil acceptable to a large majority of the people. He said, during the four days that remain of his
 Therefore,, as demanded by a number of leaders. Prof. Rabbani should hand over power to the Leadership Council which would then form the Hal-wa-Aqd -council for electing the new interim government. (VOA)
 \fj Talking informally to newsmen at a reception given by Turkish Ambassador in Islamabad 25 October the visiting Turkish Prime Minister Suleman Demiral, in reply to a question regarding the visit to Turkey by Rashid Dostam of Gelam Jam militia, told the reporter that Turkey was a free country and anybody could go there. We can talk to every-body for the unity of Afghanistan, he said; (JG)
                     i                  •
 >rf HIA Speaker, Nawab Saleem, says HIA troops' movement in Bagram and Saro^i areas, reported in a section of the press, has not been connected with any military preparations. He said, the forces at Sarobi were those which wejrei previously engaged in fighting arouh.d-Kabul. Regarding HIA troops movement at Bagram Saleem explained that this was> going on for quite some time now for-coordination purposes and had nothing' to do with the fighting. Meanwhile, HlA representative in Peshawar, Bahaudd-iti
 Zia, told the VOA that differences had developed among some HIA commanders at Bagram and a few had defected to the government, and it may be in this connection that the movements have taken place, he said. (VOA)
 y Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, is reported to have said regarding the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council „ that until such time when the council is farmed we should see that no fighting breaks out,
(so that* the process is not interrupted. On the other hand the commanders must get together and take necessary measures to maintain the routes open so that smooth transportation hetweeh the
 office term he would not be in a position^ to convene the council.
167
OCTOBER-DECEMBER.
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 provinces is not hindered. When asked about the outcome of the mujaheddin leaders* meeting at Pul-e-Charkhi Haqqani said, there were two main topics for discussion?
 (1)  The violation of decisions taken by the Peace Mission regarding ,the withdrawal of forces from Kabul and dismissal of the communists from the government, which had also coincided with the deadline for ceasefire with the HIA. Haqqani said, Hekmatyar was recommended in the meeting to refrain from renewing the hostilities.
 (2)  The second issue was that of the Hal-wa-Aqd ,council and the tenure of Rabbani's office. It was decided in the meeting that he should relinquish power in the same manner by which he had originally come to power i.e. he should hand over power to the Leadership Council as soon as his term expires. (BBC)
 y Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the Jamiat-e-Islami leader of Pakistan* considered Hekmatyar as a "man of Peace" and called upon all mujaheddin leaders to give him their ful.l support. In his press statemen Qazi Hussain Ahmed declared that the continuation of hostilities in Afghanistan would end in the total destruction of the country. (VOIRA)
 Y Passangers returning to Kabul from Jalalabad say, 35 former communist forces have •recently been executed by Hekmatyar men. Afghan Islamic Press report says that the Deputy Governor of Nangarhar, who also retained this post even after the success of the Islamic revolution, was among those executed. Hekmatyar had earlier stated that he could not tolerate elements of the former security and military forces in the present government and would deal with them accordingly. (VOIRA)
                 27
 Y  Another batch of 300 "Gelam Jam militia", boarded in two military aircraft, left Kabul at 1800 hours 2b October. (PT)
                 28
 Y  Afghanistan's Leadership Council appealed 2b October for aid from the UN and Islamic states to organize a nationwide meeting that will choose a permanent Islamic government, reports Reuter. The appeal has been made to send financial assistance for the complicated "procedure of selecting representatives to the conference, a government spokesman said. (MLM)
 Y  The BBC local corresppndent has interviewd some Afghan personalities in connection with the future government of Afghanistan which will be elected by a council of elders,, sometimes known as "Loya Jirgah" and sometimes by the "Ahl-re-Hal-wa-Aqd" shoora. Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani in this respect
 -said, "the method adopted by the central government for the election qf members of the ' -council is totally wrqng. This is also possible that a conspiracy is at work to select members of their choide frdm; the various provinces and by this, mearfs forte a fake representative council. The g'6ye'fnmen.t established by this mean? will , not be any different from the present government and will not enjoy the support of the nation as it will not be a truely representative government. The former Deputy Speaker qf the Parliament, Abdul Ahad Karzai*who plays a big role in the Kandahar Provincial Council, favors the^ "Loya Jirgah". He is also of the opinion that the members to the council be elected by the people themselves and not "selected" by the government. He said, if members for the . council were selected by Prof. Rabbani. or the Leadership Council it would have
168
 OCTODER-DECEHBER, 1992       (MUiH                      VOL. 6 NO. 1
 no real value and the Afghans would not participate in it wholeheartedly. (BBC)
 y Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales, HIA leader, rejected President Rabbani1s proposal 27 October regarding handing over of power to the Leadership Council. German press, quoting the Afghan Islamic Press, reported that Khales was critical of Accommodating this HWIA and HIA (Mohseni) in the 7-man Leadership Council. The reports add that president Rabbani's four-month office term will end by 29 October. Khales, blaming Mujaddedi and Rabbani for the current crisis in the country said, "the problem will only be resolved when all the seven mujaheddin organizations are consulted*." (VOIftA)
                  29
 ^ A commission has been formed to organize the activities vJith regard to the convening of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council, says a decree of the Afghan interim Government issued in Kabul 28 October. In another decree the security forces stationed in the civil state' administration are duty-bouhd to protect state properties and fulfil their responsibilities in this connection. Yet a third decree says that those state employees who, as a result of the recent war and insecurity in Kabul, have abandoned their duties are urged to return to their offices at the earliest, failing which they will be sacked. (PT)
   Although negotiations among the top Afghan Leadership to decide about the third phase of. their government, are in progress in Kabul, the tenure of sitting President Burhanuddin Rabbani was reportedly extended for two months. Confidential sources informed that in the first sitting of the Leadership Council all of mujaheddin component parties agreed on the extension with reservations that Burhanuddin Rabbani
 will finalize composition of the proposed Shoora which will elect a constitutional and permanent President for Afghanistan. The meeting was reportedly attended by Burhanuddin Rabbani, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and representatives of Shia Afghan groups (NTN)
 ^Fighting still continued 28 October in ,Parwan Province which had erupted between the mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) group and government forces a week earlier. Radio Payam-e-Azadi said that the HIA had foiled a government offensive near Bagram Airport 27 October capturing their bases. The report adds that there had also been an. exchange of fire between the two forces in Bagram district 2fc October. (VOA)
 Iff The majprity decision in the Leadership Council is that the office tenure of President Burhanuddin Rabbani be extended for another twb months. The NIFA leader, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said, members to the Ahl-e-Hal~wa-Aqd council should have been elected by the middle of this month but it was put off because of recent fighting around Kabul. Expressing pleasure over the drafting of regulations in this respect, Gailani hbped that by sending supervisory teams to the various constituencies in the country members to the proposed council would be elected within a month. Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Gailani are the two candidates for the presidency who would not be Contesting the post after all. Gailani said, Rabbani should continue for another month i.e. until the council deciding the permanent leader is formed. (RT)
 ♦ff The French daily Le Monde writes, taking in view the political geographic situation of Afghanistan the regional powers cannot remain indifferent and would not want its disintegration because it would affect them all
169
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 inadvertantly. The paper adds Pakistan by utilizing its warm relations with these nations is interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. On the one   hand it    supports the Kabul
 government and on the other it backs the HIA (Hekmatyar)'. Some Afghan circles are endeavoring to lead their supporters towards fundamentalism. Hekmatyar is making all out efforts to gain support of Islamabad and Riyadh both for his idea of establishing a separate state in the South and East awaiting on oppertunity to extend his power to the rest of the country. Le. Monde says that the Uzbek leader. General Dostum is not sitting idly by and though supporting the Kabul government, but in fact favors a federal government. (VOA)
                   30
 ^ Following      serious differences
 amongst the Afghan mujaheddin leaders over the venue for holding the Leader-( ship douncil     meeting,      tenure  of
 Burhanudjdin Rabbani's government has been expended    until 31    October. The
 sources said that Afghan President, Burhanuddin      Rabbani,       alongwith
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and representatives of other mujaheddin parties, after a brief meeting, announced the extension. The sources informed that Hekmatyar and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf were not willing to attend the Leadership Council meeting in Kabul while Burhanuddin Rabbani and his partners were not prepared to visit Paghman. (NTN)
 \j( Quoting political observers ANA in its report 29 October states that during his four-month tenure Burhanuddin Rabbani miserably failed to call a single meeting of the Leadership Council in which all its members could participate. He also badly failed to fulfil his responsibility of bringing
 forth the semi-elected council of "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd", as envisaged in the Peshawar Accord, to hand over the reign of power on the expiry of his tenure. (NTN)
 y Rahmatullah Wahedyar, the Minister for Repatriation 'of Afghan refugees said 30 October that eversince the establishment of the Islamic government in the country some one million refugees have returned from Iran and Pakistan. He said, .some 800 thousand refugees have so far returned to their homes from Pakistan and another 300 thousand from Iran. He said some five million Afghan refugees were still residing outside the country and if plans in t’his respected are implemented, repatriation of the entire refugee population would be completed within three years. (RT)
 Vjf Hujjatul Islam Abdul Ali Mazari, Secretary General of the HWIA, in a press conference said, his party would send nominees to the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council envisaged to elect the future political leader of Afghanistan. He said the office term of Prof. Rabbani would, probably, be extended until the council was convened. (Radio Meshad)
                 31
 ^ After remaining calm for about two months, Kabul witnessed heavy fighting 30 October between the mujaheddin of HIA and Shia HWIA. ANA reports that fighting broke out in western part of Kabul and mostly continued in Dasht-e-Barchi and its surrounding areas for about four hours. The agency quoting a press report said, the fighting was a pre-planned conspiracy against mujaheddin parties to prolong the tenure of Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani. (NTN)
 ^ HIA (Kh^les) has decided not to participate in the Leadership Council
170
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 meeting scheduled for 31 October. Naib Amir of HIA (Khales) said that he had been informed by his phrty. chief Mawlawi Mohammad Yonus. Khales on wireless 30 October not t^ participate in the council Vs meeting. He . ss.id the: council did not take the members' into confidence while talking any decision. The council recently granted membership to two members of * “HiA (Mohseni) and HWIA §hia groups without taking other members of the council- into confidence.
because there were many projects under implementation in the past but work on which had been abandoned, since some time. (BBC)
                    NOVEMBER
                                  1
 He said according to the principles of the Leadership Council every decision has to be taken, with consensus. He said the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd. council should have been formed within the four-month tenure of Burhanuddin Rabbani's government but the V government had failed to form the vShoora within its stipulated period. (NTN)              1
   The HIA (Hekmatyar) will participate in the meeting of the Leadership Council scheduled for 31 October, said Abdul Hadi Arghandiwal, spokesman of HIA. He said if the meeting was held outside the Afghan capital, then Gulbuddin Hekmatyar would personally attend it, but in case it was decided to be held in Kabul his representative would attend instead. (NTN)
 y Sheberghan, a northern province of Afghanistan, is the center of large reserves of gas and oil and the^ present government has taken steps to exploit its natural resources. On a trip to the area in this connection Sayyed Mohammad Ali Jawaid, tne Minister of Planning discussed the possibilities with Gen. Rashid Dostum, the militia leader.
      Jawaid said, "the main ’natural reserves of the north of the country are those of oil and gas which are abundant in the area." In answer to a question Jawaid said, it was not only the north but the entire country which was important to the government. He said, he gave priority to the north
 Iff The Leadership Council meeting, chaired by Prof. Rabbani, in/Kabul 31 October extended the tenure of the present government of Bhrhanuddin Rabbani for another 45 days, starting from, 1. November, to7 avoid any vacuum in the present set — up. Briefing the newsmen at Prime Minister's Palace, a spokesman of the council, Shahjehan Ahmadi of HIA (Mohseni) said, during these 45 days, the government will have . to elect the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council. If it failed to form the counpil during the specified period, the Leadership Council will hold another meeting to choose the new leader for the country. Those who attended the meeting included Burhanuddin Rabbani, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf. The other parties were represented by their nominees. The spokesman said that all the parties' except HIA (Khales) participated in the meeting. (PT)
 Yjf Fierce clashes are continuing between the forces of HIA and Rashid Dostum in Kapisa province of Afghanistan, Radio Tehran reported 30 October. In the clashes, continuing for the last three days, the HIA forces suffered heavy casualties and hand - .to - hand fighting was also reported. The radio said that fighting has also broken out between the forces of HIA and General Momin east of Kabul. (PT)
                                                              Addressing a seminar on Central Asia in Philadelphia, Pakistan's Secretary
171
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
 General for Foreign Affairs# Akram Zaki# said .that restoration of peace in •Afghanistan was of vital importance for the ultimate stability in Central Asia. He said Pakistan's sincere efforts for a peace process in . Afghanistan had resulted1 in considerable progress, (PT)
     According to Afghan mujaheddin sources . Sebghatullah ’ Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad _ Gailani# Shia HWIA# General Rashid Dostum# Ahmad Shah Masood and the Afghan Interim Government President Burhanuddin Rabbani have agreed on isolating GulbUddin Hekmatyar arid efforts in this regard have been started. Certain foreign powers# particularly Western powers# are trying to keep Gulbuddin Hekmatyar out of power at every cost .and HWIA attack on Dashte Barchi in the west of Kabul against HIA (Hekmatyar)
 is linked to it. (JG)
 • ' ■) ' ’ 1
 vjy The Leadership Council in Kabul decided that President Rabbani ought to have stepped down two days in advance of the end of his office term but now he will have to continue for another .six weeks. Only representatives of Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales had not Pjarticipatedi in the councils* meeting. When asked why the HIA (Khales \ had boycotted the meeting# Haji Deen Mohammad, Deputy to the HIA,told the BBC reporter that the Leadership Council decisions had-never been adhered to and in our opinion the Council has lost its face a^. well.. as its prestige completely. Regarding the extension of President Rabbani*s term of office H^ji Deen Mohammad said# "we wish him every success for convening the Ahl-e-Hal-'-wa-Aqd Council." (BBC)
 y BBC correspondent, Mir Wais Jalil, in an interview regarding the situation in Badakhshan said# the general economic situation was bad because of widespread floods in the , &rea during the spring and sumirier months.
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1

 Furthermore# the supply route between Takhar and Faizabad# the center of Badakhshan was closed and the province as a whole did not. receive any aub-stantial assistance from the central government. Regarding the end of the government tenure Jalil said# in Faizabad there existed two strong mujaheddin forces namely the JIA and the HIA. Though the two commanders, Abdul Basir# Khaled and Mawlawi Kheradmand were on amicable terms with each other but the ordinary man in the street was very much perturbed and worried Over the renewed fighting in Kabul which would deminish the possibility of any food supplies reaching Badakhshan. (BBC)
        2
 ^ Reliable sources say that all the provisions of Peshawar Accord have been violated by extending for 45 days the tenure of Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani who has failed to control the situation with the result that the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council could not be convened within the stipulated period. Uzbek militia leader. General Abdul Rashid Dostum# is understood to have exerted strong pressure on members of the Leadership Council to extend the tenure! of Burhanuddin Rabbani and IIA Chief# Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, played an important role in this regard. (JG) .
   Commander Qamar of HIA (Hekmatyar) has defected to Kabul forces alongwith his 2#000 armed mujaheddin after which the Kabul - Mazar highway has come under complete contfol of government forces# says a. statement issued from the office of JIA of Burhanuddin Rabbani in Peshawar. (JG)
 y As many as 25 missiles and rockets fell ^t Arando in Chi^ral from inside Afghanistan 1 November* The missiles ahd rackets started falling at 10 a.m. and continued till 'll .a.m. Some
172
QCT.OBER-DECEHBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 missiles also hit Dokalam area of Afghanistan which resulted in some casualties. (PT) *
 y Former interim President# Sebghat-ullah Mujaddedi# expressed. strong opposition to' the recent Leadership Council decision regarding the extension of Prof. Rabbani*s office tenure for another six weeks. The Leadership Council# comprising leaders or representatives of the various mujaheddin organizations decided, on majority vote 1 November to extend President Rabbani•s term of office for another 45 days. (BBC)
 y In a gathering of the Ulama and elders in Kabul the problems to the formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council and other issues are currently under discussion. Chairman of the Council, Abdullah Zaheri# said that office terms of-one month# two months or five months are not in compliance with the Hgly Quran or the Prophet’s traditions. Zaheri said, "we do not Object as to who is elected at all or for how long but we are of the opinion that this would not solve the problem." (BBC)
                    3
 y The Nation in its editorial 3 November says that the extension of the tenure of the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani by another 45 days is obviously a compromise between the contending mujaheddin factions unable to agree on an immediate successor. However# it was obvious then# and has been subsequently confirmed by the blood-letting between the mujaheddin rival factions, that the Accord was prepared over profound structural faults in the post-Najib dispensation. This produced the first conflict between Hekmatyar, bitterly opposed to the presence of the forces previously allied with the communists, and Ahmad Shah Masood and company. To that
 cauldron was added all the other factional conflicts between mujaheddin groups based on ethnicity arid the Sunni-Shia divide. What has been missing from the fratricidal struggle, and which is really needed by Afghanistan as well as the other neighboring states of the Region, is that all concerned rise above narrow, parochial, ethnic or sectarian considerations and ambitions. They must show the statesmanlike awareness and restraint required by the urgency of establishing peace and democracy to save^ Afghanistan from fragmenting on ethnic and religious lines. (NTN)
 y Acgording to reliable sources Saudi Arabia has invited Gelam Jam militia leader,; Abdul Rashid Dosturn, to visit Saudi Arabia alongwith a 50-member delegation to end differences between rival Afghan groups and perform Umra. During meetings in Peshawar by Saudi Ambassador to Pakistan the Afghan leaders have rejected the Saudi proposal to join in any delegation with Rashid Dostum and also opposed^ Saudi invitation -to Rashid Dostum for a visit to Saudi Arabia. (NWT)
 y UN# Iran and Afghanistan have reached a tripartite agreement for repatriation of three million Afghan refugees in Iran, reports Tehran Radio. Under the agreement UN will provide transport and financial assistance whereas all the basic facilities for repatriation are to be provided by the Afghan government. A 12-member committee of the three parties will supervise, the repatriation. (JG)' -
 y Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in a meeting with a delegation Of Jehadi ulama in Kabul 2 November discussed politico-military situation of the country. (PT)
 y Russian Federation has turned down a plea by HIA leader Gulbgddin Hekmatyar
173
OCTOBER-DECEMBER I. 1992 MM J[HflO                     VOL. "6 NO. 1
  to stop • printing Afghan currency 'afghani' and said it Would continue to do so under an inter-governmental agreement with Afghanistan. (PT)
  M Sayyed Qasem Reshtia, a former diplomat, regarding the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council and        the   5% and  15%
  nominees allotted to the President and the Leadership Council respectively," this is completely new to me. I’t is neither in harmony with procedures of the Loya Jirgah nor the Hal-wa-Aqd council. But one thing is quite clear - that our leaders are all set to get their own supporters to the gathering in order to influence the other members. I oppose this arrangement which is a total infringement of the rights of the people. (BBC)
  y Reliable    sources            in' Peshawar say
  that Saudi    Arabia          . hasV  invited the
  leader of       the National Islamic
  Movement, Rashid Dostum to perform the Omra pilgrimage. Confirming his meeting with the Saudis Arabian Ambassador, Mawlawi Yunus Khales, leader of HIA • said that according to the Ambassador General Dostum had requested, the Saudi government in this respect and while there# he would also meet King Fahd• But he: (Khales) had made it clear to the Ambassador if the Saudi authorities met with Dcrstum they/ would definitely datnage the friendship that was developed during th« last 1.4 years with the mujaheddin organizations. (VOA)
  yj A delegation from the Afghan Defense Ministry’has returned to Kabul after a ,fortnight visit to Saudi Arabia. v A* spokesman, of the Ministry, Mohammad Yunus Qanooni who had accompanied the delegation:; said, "during the visit we -had the.'opportunity .to meet King Fahd,. the Minister of Defense, the Minister of Air Defense and the Chief. of Saudi Intelligence, Prince Turki Al-Faisal". He said, the delegation had some
 proposals- to make and the Saudi side promised -every moral and material assistance and cooperation with the government • and people of Afghanistan. Regarding . the reopening of the Saudi Embassy in Kabul Qanooni said that the Ambassador has already- been designated.
 (BBC)
                    4
 ^ Talking to newsmen 2 November HIA (Hekmatyar) representative, Abdul Hadi Arghandiwal, said that the Afghan Interim Government President, Burhanuddir Rabbani, was supposed to surrender power to the Leadership.Council meeting but he declined to do so.* "At t^eVv^ry' but set of the meeting he was- ih^i'^ting on extension in his tenure'', '•;be-,"S§;id. Arghandiwal, who represented his party in the Leadership Council meeting said, the HIA was against the extension . in the tenure of the present government because, according to the Peshawar Accord, Burhanuddin Rabbani should have quit the government on the expiry of his tenure on 27 October, 1992. There was no mention of any extension in the present regime in Peshawar Declaration of 24 April this year, he said. (PT)
 M The war planes of Kabul militia bombed heavily several positions of HIA in Parwan province 3 November and severe, fighting is going on in this province causing .heavy damages. .(NTN) ]
 ^ General Khan Moharffinad, Deputy Minister for National Security (WAD), formerly known as KHAD, was killed in- a car-bomb explosion in Kabul 3 Novem^pr, reports ANA. (PT)
 y It was recently reported that the natural gas sites in the north of Afghanistan have all been destroyed after, an extensive use by the Soviet occupation forces during the war years. But Mohammad Rajab Haidari. President of the Northern Gas and Oil Co, while-
174
. OCTOBER-DECEMDER, 1992 flfGlllINJIHAfl                 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 refuting the reports said, he hoped that through the pipe-line already extended to Tashkent the transfer of Gas to the newly established Central Asian republics would begin soon. (BBC)
                    5
 Vli The HIA leader, Gujlbuddin Hekmatyar has said, his partjjJ was nbt taken into confidence about!; extension in the tenure of the Afghan Interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, and the announcement of extension was a serious violation of the Peshawar Accord of 24 April 1992* reports ANA. (JG)
    AFP quoting ANA reports that Khan Mohammad, Deputy Minister of State Security was killed in bomb explosion ..^a'ffted in his car. Gen* Khan Mohammed wais thb chief of the KHAD First ' Division during the Najib regime. The report adds, no group has yet claimed responsibility of the blast. (Radio Free Afghanistan).
    Prof. Rasool Amin, Chairman of the WUFA, in an interview regarding the election of Bill Clinton as the President of the US said, as far as Afghanistan was concerned, its problem should be solved by the Afghans themselves so that to attract the US aid the same as in the past* Amin said, "world conditions have changed substantially and the US will have to itibve in harmony with it and we Afghans ought tp accept these changes too. In •ther words we should know that the nation demands democracy and their right - to self-determination." (VOA)
                    6    :
   A meeting of the Leadership Council, chaired by the interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani, 5 November in Kabul discussed the current development in the country, including the convening of the Ahl-e-Hal-was-Aqd council, which will e^ect new head of state. The
              ft
 meeting also approved the venue for the convening of the council with majdrity votes. However, the venue is being kept secret for security reasons, said a government official. The council directed the commission formed for the purpose to continue its work round the clock. (PT)                     ■
 ty Afghan Shia fighters and Sunni government forces took dozens of hostages, in tit-for-tat kidnappings in Kabul after fighting erupted at a checkpoint 5 November. (PT)
 y-i „ Mula Hussain Hussaini, the counsillor of the Afghan Embassy in Bonn, regarding - the extention of Prof. Rabbani^ term of~office for another 45 days and the objections of the HIA (Hekmatyar) said, reports in this respect are 100% correct because the HIA was represented in the meeting of the Leadership Council which took the decision. Hussaini said, Mawlawi Khales has also said that he would respect the majority vote in this respect. There may be minor differences between Eng. Hekmatyar and the government which should not be considered serious to the Rabbani government. "We expect these differences will soon be rectified", he said* (VOG)
                   7           ,
    A meeting between former Afghan President SebghatuHah Mujaddedi and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has.taken place in the base of the latter. The meeting continued for more than three hours and focusse'd on current Afghan situation as well as on plans of Burhanuddin Rabbani and his Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood* Both the HIA and NLFA (Mujaddedi) sources, when contacted, refused to comment on the meeting.
 (NTN)
 tjf Burhanuddin Rabbani, President of the Afghan interim government has sent a message to Washington congratulating Bill Clinton for his designation as the
175
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 next President of the United States* The message expresses the hope that under President . mutual relations between the two governments would be developed further* (VOA)
   Susi Price reports from Kabul that the National Museum came under rocket-fire in October and during infighting between the HIA (Hekmatyar) and government forces eight rockets hit the central structure directly causing only minor damage. The National Museum, established in 1919 is housing a large variety of historical relics. The collection all recovered inside Afghanistan constitutes articles covers the Pre-historic era right up to the inception of Islam in the country* (BBC)
                                                 8
 y Central Commission for preparing the procedure and holding of the Ahl-e-Hai-wa-Aqd-council has almost completed its 75 percent work and efforts are being made to convene the meeting of the council within its stipulated period. Chairman of the commission, Sayyed Noorullah Emad, told APP in Kabul 7 November that the commission had been given 45 days, starting fr<Sm 1 November, for convening the Shoora to elect the new head of state for the next 18 months in accordance with the
                                      i
 Peshawar accord. Most likely the Shoora will be convened during December 10 to 15. (PT)
   The HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has warned that war could erupt all around Kabul if the interim government failed to implement the Peshawar Accord. A party spokesman sai.d 7 November that the forces of Rashid Dostum were conspiring »to crush Hekmatyar units. Meanwhile, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has ordered the blockade of all routes to Kabul. (JG)
VOL. 6 NO, 1
      A severe winter is rapidly approaching in Kabul* causing the residents to fear not only shortage of food supplies as well as fuels* Apart from that it does not seem that there v^ill be an end to the infighting eithejr. Fighting continued between the government forces' and the HWIA 7 November while the HIA and the government were engaged in a fierce battle the previous night. Sayyed Suleiman Shah, a resident from the Chehil Satoon district told a reporter that the HIA attacked with rockets last night which prompted the opposite side to retaliate. ^Exchange of fire continued till in the early hours >of the morning. "With all these fightings and no food or fuel, I do not know how we are going to see the winter through", he said. (BBC)
 ^ -The HIA (Hekmatyar) group has announced the formation of a joint commission for the distribution of foreign aid provided the supply routes to Kabul were opened. The AIA claims to have all the roads ending to Kabul in its control. The HIA spokesman said it will open all the routes if it is decided to distribute foreign aids through a" joint commission comprising representatives of all mujaheddin organizations. (RT)
                   9
 y HIA leader, Guibuddin Hekmatyar, has given his conditional consent to open the supply routes to Kabul city provided a joint commission is set up for the distribution of relief goods in Kabul. Hekmatyar has also agreed to continue to honor the ceasefire brought about by the Nangarhar Peace Council on the ‘condition* that the interim government ‘will fully- implement the ceasefire agreement. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar have also agreed that the security of Kabul 1 city should be given under the control
176
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1992 flfGIIAN JEHAO
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 of the commanders of Kabul under the supervision of the Home Ministry. Similarly they have agreed that the government     should     not      issue
 extraordinary decrees for appointing Governors and other high ranking officials; They have alSo demanded that the meetings of the Leadership Council should be convened at shch places where all the mujaheddin leaders find it convenient to attend. (PT)
 ty Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 8 November on his arrival from Kabul Mohammad Yousuf Quraishi, President of Mutahida Shariat Front NWFP, said that "after Hekmatyar's attack on Kabul, it was difficult to hold elections*. Hekmatyar forces had sprayed bullets and rockets on Kabul for 18 days which converted Kabul into r'llins and the anti-Islam forces rejoiced. over clashes among the mujaheddin groups". He said, Afghan
 Corps Commander, General Abdur. Rahman Khan, told them that the attacks caused damage estimated at five million dollars to the Kabul airport alone. (PT)
 y A delegation representing religious leaders of the North have demanded a place in the ruling Leadership Council. Seeral Taluqani,. leader of the delegation, said in an interview that Burhanuddin Rabbani has expressed verbal agreement to the request but speaker of the Presidential Secretariat said no official request to this end has yet been, received.. It was said in the past that those blamed for cooperation with the communist regime would not be submitted in the Leadership Council. When asked whether this would not ban membership of the Leadership Council to representatives from the North? Taluqani said, "we only had a limited number of officers in the former army who had contacts with the mujaheddin for eight years wf They had planned a conspiracy through which they
 managed to obtain substantial quantities of arms and ammunition from Najib for later use in the interest of the mujaheddin. They finally joined the mujaheddin ranks at an opportune moment and formed the "National Islamic Movement" which managed to overthrow the regime and to occupy Kabul. We hope the brothers would realise that the "Movement" is the conquorers of Kabul and the pres/eiit guardians of : the government in Kabul". (BBC)
 ^ The Foreign Minister of Iran, Dr. Ali Akber Velayati, in an interview in Tehran, throwing light on Iran's stand vis-a-vis the Afghan situation and the intervention in Afghanistan by some (foreign powers said, "Iran has no \ intention whatever to interfere in the 'internal affairs of Afghanistan but is favoring the establishment of a stable government representing the majority of the nation." He said, Iran had always intertained the mujaheddin and true representatives of Afghanistan and ha£ served as a. base for them. Velayati said that as regards religion, history and culture Iran was closer with Afghanistan than any other country in the world. (VOIRA)
                  10
 H The former Afghan interim President,
 1         b
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, met the HIA leader, Hekmatyar 9 November. The meeting was also attended by the outstanding      Paktia     commander,
 Jalaluddin Haqqani. Haqqani said later the meeting focussed on three important issues. (1) To open the supply routes to Kabul because it affected the entire Muslim community of the country. (2) Despite the fact that the government had not kept its promise to oust the Gelam Jam militias from Kabuli Hekmatyar should be good enough to send his delegation again to Kabul to request their withdrawal for the last time. (3) This point was related to the
177
•OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1
 fighting and the ceasefire agreement which was< violated by the government repeatedly. Hekmatyarf was of the opinion that the deadline for the ceasefire had long been' expired and if he wished to renew the fighting the Peace Commission would have no reason tp stop him. (BBC)
           11
 y Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani in a decree issued in Kabul has stressed upon the members of the commission established for convening the Shoora Ahle Hal-O-Aqd to take necessary measures for convening the Shoora*s meeting well in time besides completing other matters, relating to the event. (PT)
 y HIA mujaheddin have detained Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor of HEIA, who was nominated governbr of Paktia province, and shot dead four of his partymen nfear Char Asyab 10 November. Confidential sources told The Nation that Mansoor was on his way to Gardaiz from Kabul alongwith some party men when they were attacked. Soon after the incident Sebghatullah |Mujaddedi held a meeting with Gulbuddiln Hekmatyar and reportedly made him agjree to release Nasrullah Mansoor. (NTN)
 y The Afghan government has decided to invite the UN as an observer during the election    of a new President in    the
 meeting    of          the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd
 council to be convened 10 December. It wants the UN to play its role at this stage. (NTN)
 y An Afghan delegation belonging to a foreign humanitarian organization alongwith    a German delegation     has
                                                             recently visited Afghanistan to study possibilities of forwarding German aid ,to the war-torn country. The humanitarian organization, established in Hamburg recently, aims at forwarding emergency assistance to the people as
 well as reconstruction, of Afghanistan.
 y Zubair Siddiqian, the leader of the delegation said, "we are trying to open a branch office in Kabul * for 'this purpose. Any assistance from the German government will take plaice after proposals submitted by the .office in Kabul. We h«ve       far  considered 18
 projects in ail*- each with social arid reconstruction Aspects. We are trying our best to get the assistance under way before the fall of the winter months." (BBC)
 y The 'blockade of supply routes, to Kabul by the HIA has been of great concerp to Afghan government circles as well 'as aid-giving organizations. However,      mujaheddin      commanders
 stationed in Sarobi area have decided not to permit anybody to intercept aid caravans and will see to it that the flow of electric power to Kabul is maintained at all costs. (BBC)
         12
y The former Afghan President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, after hectic efforts, succeeded in the release of Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Governor of Paktia province, late at night, 10 November. After his release Mawlawi Mansoor, who is also deputy leader of HEIA, led by Mdwlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, alongwith Sebghatullah Mujaddedi left for Kabul. (NTN)
y Mawlawi Nasrullah Mapsoor, Deputy HEIA Leader, regarding his arrest by the HIA faction said that the incident was repugnant to Islamic teachings. Just upon arrival at Hekmatyar's headquarters our vehicles were attacked by rocket and mortar from all directions which killed two of my entourage and injured 15 while another 15 are still missing. (BBC)            ■
 178
 y A ^meeting of the Afghan Leadership Council was held in Kabul 13 November at the Gulkhana Palace with Burhanuddin Rabbani in the chair. The Secretary of the Leadership Council, Hujjatul Islam Sayyed Mohammad Ali Jawaid, told reporters that the situation in the country and other problems were discussed. The meeting also discussed the problems presented by the Governor of Paktia and the Chief of the Peace Council of Southern Areas, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor. Later members of the Leadership Council met with a number of ulama and exchanged views about the formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council. Meanwhile, Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, on his return from a visit to Kajbul and Mew Delhi 12 November said, this Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council would be constituted in the near future and would be acceptable to all segments of the Afghan society. He said, the formation of the Shoora was an important step for the restoration of peace in Afghanistan and that on the invitation of the UN Secretary General, a special session of the UN would be held shortly to resolve the Afghan problem. (PT)
 y Gen. Momin is reported to have narrowly escaped an attempt on his life by militiamen of General Mansoor Naderi on Salang Highway.: However, his two guards were killed on the spot. General Momin had an assignment from Ahmad Shah Masood to open the highway. (JG)
 y Tension existed eversine Mawlawi Mansoor was appointed as the Governor of Paktia. Opposition to the appointment has now spread to many circles, including the HIA. The HI A representative in Gardaiz, Fazlur Rahman, in relation to this said, "Mansoor has been appointed to this post by a government which in itself is
 area. In our opinion the governor of Paktia should be appointed by the people of the area themselves."
      Supporters of Mawlawi Mansoor say, the commanders who favored him also included Mawlawi Haqqani. However, Haqqani himself says he was not consulted in this matter. "Furthermore, the central government in itself is not a representative government and is not obeyed by the general public." (BB.C)
 y General Mohammad Khalil, Acting Minister of Transport, regarding the reopening of the Kabul-Jalalabad highway said, the road has been opened as a result of understanding reached between him, Haji Qadeer the Governor of Nangarhar as* well as the Laghman and Nangarhar Provincial Councils. Though difficulties do arise occasionally which are cleared after cbntacting the local commanders. Regarding metropolitan transport in Kabul he said, "the government buses are not operating because of fuel shortage, the private sector is riontheless operative." (BBC)
                 14
 y A member of the World Food Organization said regarding UN food assistance to Afghanistan said, the UN Secretary-General had called on the world nations to collect 180 million dollars for the reconstruction of Afghanistan but only a third of this sum bad so far been prepared* He said, preparations were also underway to, supply food, fuel and shelter for the winter months. He went on to say that during the next year 120,000 tons pf wheat would be made available as aid for Afghanistan. He said, there were-already tons of wheat stored in Pakistan ready to be shipped pending transport costs. (VOA)
            1 - - % . ... • .. ..... y Hostilities between government forces and Uzbek allies caused traffic
179
OCTOBER-DECEMBER.‘1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 problems in Kabul 1? November. A driver related to Rashid Dostum group later said, the Shoora-e-Nezar loyalists of Ahmad Shah Masood opened v fire on a passing vehicle in which Dostum's men were driving causing injuries to one of them. Soon afterwords 150 Dostum militiamen, stationed on ‘Wraftjan Hill arrived at the Shoora-e-Nezar post and occupied it after a brief gun-battle. (Afp)
                  15
 yfl Shelling was done in the eastern and southern parts of Kabul, BBC reported •14 November. Thd target of shelling seemed to be Balahisar where government forces are deployed. Besides this the places of General Rashid Dostum’s forces in the east of the city were also under target. Afghan Defense Ministry alleged that the attacks were conducted by the HIA group. Secretary tlo the Minister told APP that the two-to-three missiles fired daily from Bini Hisar area hit the areas where Dostum militias have -their bases and these missiles were fired by the HIA. (PT)
    UN Secretary General's personal envoy in a statement 14 November said that Afghan Foreign Ministry has sent two letters, 11 November, to UN Secretary '’General's offices in Kabul and Islamabad requesting the world body to give financial assistance for holding the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council and asking it to send its representatives to see the Shoora in session. (JG)
 y Ayatullah Mohseni, expressed his opposition to the allocation of 20% nominees for the Hal-wa-Aqd Council to be selected by the Leadership Council and the interim President. He told reporters in a press conference that all members to the Council should be elected by the people themselves. (BBC)
 w A well-known commander from IIA
 r
 (Sayyaf) group, Mirwais, has been assassinated by the HIA (Hekmatyar) faction. Mawlawi Siddiq, a member of the HEIA Central Committee, while breaking this news, i^aid the commander was killed in an ambush by HIA men at the Bagram cross-section 10 November. (RT)
 y-l The activists of the Islamic Association of Afghan Women stressed upon the early return tb Afghanistan of all refugees prior to their repatriation to the country. Fatima Balkhi, Chief of the'Association in an interview regarding to the 14 year destructions in Afghanistan said, experts and other refugees are morally bound • to take part in the reconstruction of the country. She said Afghanistan was in; need of all the committed men and women of the country. (VOIRA)
 tjt Hekmatyar and Khales, two prominent mujaheddin leaders did not partake in Friday's session of the Leadership Council. HIA sources said, Hekmatyar would have attended the meeting had, it convened somewhere outside the capital. However, Khales* absence from the Council session was attributed to membership in the council of the Shia groups. Government sources said, despite their opposition the council had held its session three times eversince Prof. Rabbani came to power. (VOIRA)
     Dr. Hussaini, the First Vice President of Iran, in a meeting with the Acting Health Minister of Afghanistan, Mohammad Amin Fatimi, pledged Iran's readiness       for assisting,
 Afghanistan. Dr.       Hussaini also
 expressed the hope Afghanistan would soon overcome its present difficulties and; start its reconstruction work without further delay. While expressing
 180
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 appreciation on behalf of the Afghan government for Irans goodwill gesture Fatimi hoped Afghanistan would be able to avail itself of Iran's experiences particularly in health affairs. (Radio Meshed) .      •  \
         16
 y HIA (Hekmatyar) forces fired as many as 60 rockets and artillery shells on government troops in the south of the capital 13 November in their fiercest attack since a ceasefire was signed nearly three months ago. Iranian state television, quoted by the BBC said the rebels also fired on three presidential areas and that "many residents were killed and injured". The report did not elaborate. Also on 13vNovember, Defense Ministry sources said at least 24 government troops disappeared from their post at southeast of the city and were believed to have defected to Hekmatyar. Meanwhile, former interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has called foi UN supervision of the elections for the proposed council, saying that such a supervision will enhance the international credibility of the shoora. A UN official in Kabul has informed that the organization has agreed to supervise the elections for and meeting of the council. (PT)
         17
   Leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said he does, not agree with the UN plan of monitoring elections for future President of Afghanistan. HIA adviser for political affairs, Gul Mohammad, said that election of the Afghan President is their domestic issue and
 there is no need for any interference from the UN or any other particular group* (MLM)
 y Sayyed Noorullah Emad has been sacked from his post as the Chairman of the Central Committee for the
 181
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Hal-wa-Aqd Council. He has been replaced by the Head of the Supreme Court, Mohammad Shah Fazli. The reason for Emad'S dismissal from the post is said to be his aversion to the Shoora-e-Nezar. (VOIRA)
   The Afghan government has appointed Azimi as the • Governor Of Parwan Province. This has been done at a time when a ShoQra-e-Nazar commander/ Shereen has been claiming he was the Governor of the Said province. The controversy over this post is likely to cause hostilities between \ two mujaheddin groups. Azimi is, however, the second person appointed to this post who will have difficulties in the normal discharge of his duties. (Radio Meshad)
 vy The Middle East study Association had recently convened a conference in one of the US states in which two prominent University Professors, Nazif Shahrani and Mohammad Alam also participated. Prof; Shahrani does not believe the present situation in Kabul to be the outcome of the militia presence there .' “He says if Dostum and his militia are done away with, the communists will take over and there will be more problems added to the existing ones. Prof. Alem says Dostum revolted against Na jib in favor and thV interest of Karmal and .his Parcham faction. He then formed " an alliance with some mujaheddin groups .in the north. After a military coup against the Najib regime he came in possession of tremendous amounts of arms and ammunition and has since become the
   ■                  ■      X           -
 strong man of the country. He says, however, that the Parchamis and Khalqis were also very strong' but lacked the support of the nation. ’’Any power not supported by its people is eventually doomed to failure",' he said. (VOA)
 )fl The eastern part of
 came
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992, flfGUANi
 under severe artillery fire followed by heavy firing starting at 4 p.m.\ and continuing unabated till 5- p*m. N it November. The Defense Ministry official said that it was just serial firing. <PT)
            9
 ty Sources say Sayyed Noort^Llah Emad, Chief of the Central Commission of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council, was replaced by the Chief of the supreme ' Court, Mohammad Shah Fazil, 11 November. It is said, Emad has been removed due to his differences with Shoora-e-Nezar. (MLM)
 y Michael Dobs in his disclosure' in
 the International Herald Tribune 1&
 November says ;that the first request for Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan was made by President Noor Mohammad Taraki in March 1979. Michael Dobs, who has searched proofs from the secret files in Kremlin says: On March 18, 1979 President Taraki telephoned to the then Soviet Premier; AlexijL Kosygen, and told him that the situation was worsening and that they needed arms and manpower to save the Afghan "Revolution". Kosygen asked him if the Afghan communists could not recruit soldiers from the working class in Afghanistan. Mr. Taraki replied that the number of working glass was very small in Afghanistan. On rfarch 20, 1979 the Afghan President himself visited Moscow. On this occasion the then Soviet President Breznev absolutely rejected the possibility of sending Soviet troops to Afghanistan arid told Taraki that it was tantamount to playing in the hands of the enemies. Alexie Kosygen also said that it was useless to send Soviet troops to Afghanistan. But President Taraki anyhow persuaded the Soviet leadership to supply arms and limited manpower. As a result limited number of Soviet military eidvisers arid arms were sent to Afghanistan. But during 'the regime of President Hafeezullah Amin, the KGB
 lliAD                     VOL.  6 NO. 1
 worked the Soviet leadership against him and advised the Soviet leadership to remove him. And ultimately Soviet troops were dropped in ldrge numbers in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 ^ The severe .bomb explosions in the Ministry of Defense building in Kabul hast badly affected the' building. A Defense .Ministry spokesman told the Iranian Radio that three persons were seriously injured in the explosions. According to Iranian Radio Hekmatyar's guerrillas have al?o continued their shelling of the eastern part of Kabul. (NWT)
 fjf Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gaflani. of NIFA has announced that he Will also be a candidate for the office of the President in Afghanistan. (NWT)
 ijf According to reports from Kabul Sayyed NoOrullah Emad, a members of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council, said the council should hold its session three days before President Rabbani’s term of office expires. Emad had said earlier that the council should be held 10 December but according to' his press statement the date has been put off another two days. (VOA)
 tjf Gen. Noofullah Khan, commander of Dbstum militia units in Kabul, was wounded when his vehicle on its way to Tapa Maranjan was attacked by unidentified gunmen. Two of his bodyguards had received injuries in the attack. A report from the Maranjan command said, forces loyal to HI A (Hekmatya) and NLFA (Mujaddedi) had lately infiltrated the city. (AFP)
y Elders of the Barakzai tribe held a meeting lb November at Speen Boldak, near the Pakistani border, regarding the future Leadership in Afghanistan. Haji Lala, one of the participants later said that the meeting was attended by thousands of Ulama, Commanders, dignitaries and elders who’
182
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 MANlU                            VOL. 6 NO. 1
 unanimously agreed that the only way out of the present mess is the holding of the trad/itional Loya Jirgah under the auspices of the UN. (BBC)
 y Mohammad Ibrahim Warasji, President of International relations in the Presidential Secretariate, a speaker of the UNESCO congress for scientific and cultural cooperation in Central Asia said at the conclusion of his mission ‘in Tehran* under the present conditions the Russions were trying to let the Central Asian republics know that the present Islamic government in Afghanistan was in the hands of the fundamentalists who wished to escalate revolutionary Islamic ideology to Central Asia. The idea had caused concern in the area which we cleared in the UNESCO Congress in Tehran. "I explained that Afghanistan will never interfere in internal affairs of other nations, particularly those of the Central Asia, and was endeavoring to establish diplomatic relations' with them," he said. (BBC)
                   20
 y A meeting of the Leadership Counncil under the chairmanship of Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani in Kabul 19 November expressed satisfaction over the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. It also discussed different aspects of the proposed Shoora meeting to be held on 10 December in Kabul to elect a new leader for the country. (PT)
 y The fate of the former President of Afghanistan, Najibullah, will be decided by the future government of Afghanistan, says a Radio Moscow report. According to the Radio, the interim president of the country had confirmed, the amhesty declared for former rulers. (PT)
                        )
 y The daily Washington Post reports
 that as a result of an important, decision in a special meeting of political office of Soviet Unipn 12 December 1979 the special forces of KGB ' stormed Presidential Palace in Kabul 27 December and the then President, HSfizullah Amin, was killed alongwith a number of his guards. Following this attack another contingent of 50,000 Soviet troops was .sent to Afghanistan and with this the number of Soviet forces there reached’ upto 115,000. At the end of 1979 the Soviet leaders took some other important decisions as a result of which the Afghan war prolonged for another ten years and at last the Soviet Union was defeated.
 (MLM)
 - Heavy fighting broke out between HIA Abdus Saboor Fareed and Ahmad Shah Masood supporters in Kapisa province some days ago. A delegation led by Haji Deen Mohammed visited the place to mediate between the rival groups. Regarding the outcome of the talks Deen Mohammad later said, "the delegation impressed upon the fighting groups to stop futile confrontation and to resort to peaceful negotiations in order to solve their conflicts. They were satisfied and so far perfect peace and tranquility prevail in the area.. However, the delegation is carrying pn talks with both the rival groups to find the root cause of confrontation and eliminate it for good." (BBC)
 - Mr. Abdul Karim Khalili, a senior member of HWIA, expressing his opinion in regard l^o the Hal-wa-Agd council" said, "we want the council to bring forth a„ strong state and are confident that £n the presence of a strong and central state, endowed with popular backing, conflicts and .differences among the people can be resolved amicably". Regarding the condition of Afghan refugees in Iran he said, "the Afghan refugees living in Iran are in;
183
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
 good shape and looking forward to the time when they will leave .for their home and hearth, but due to insecurity on the routes as well as unsafe conditions in Afghanistan they dare not embark on their homeward journey". (VOA)
 -  Engineer Ahmad Shah, the Afghan Home Minister, is reported to have said
/recently, the future Afghan state will decide the fate of Najib , the chief of the defunct regime, now living in Kabul
 UNDP office. While announcing this news Radio Moscow added that according to a previous announcement the entire former members of the ruling clique, including Najib, have been pardoned, (VOIRA)
                   21
 -  TheAfghanistan interim government opines to convene the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" council to appoint the Afghan new Leadership 15 December, few days before Rabbani's office tenure
•actually expires. In regard to this the editor of the journal, Mujahed Ulus, Mohammed Hasan Wolusmal says,, "the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" , council . is a non-Afghan terminology unfamiliar %ef
.the Afghan people. Since the leaders of the existing organizations have been imposed upon the Afghan nation by our neighbors,      especially Pakistan,
 therefore they have replaced the "Loya Jirga" which is being used in Afghanistan from times immemorial. Out of the 1,500 members of the so-called council of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd         the
 selection of 300 members is the prerogative of the Leadership (Jouncil and 20 out of that will be chosen by Professor Rabbani. (BBC)
      UNHCR has agreed with the governments of Iran and Afghanistan that, as of December 1, the repatria-
 V0L. 6 NO. 1
 tion of the Afghan refugees will begin. Each adult Afghan refugee will get 50 Kgs. of wheat and an equivalent of 25 dollars in cash. A UNHCH spokesman said in Geneva that owing to a severe winter in Afghanistan the "repatriation will not /be precipitated UNHCR has always emphasized that' the repatriation of Afghan refugees should be purely voluntary. (BBC)
       22
  V|i General Rashid Dostum, Chief of JMIA has gone to Saudi Arabia to perform Umra at the invitation of King Fahd. This was disclosed by his Cultural Secretary,, Mohammad Ashraf Shahkar, while talking to newsmen in Kabul 21 November. Rashid Dostum will also hold talks with high officials of Saudi Arabia besides meeting with King Fahd, he said. (PT)
  Yf/ Iran is trying to repatriate Afghan refugees because they are becoming an economic burden. "It is no longer possible. We no longer have the means to look after an estimated two million to three million refugees", said Hiraj Kazemi, an official with Afghan refugees in ZaChedan. "Now that there is a legal Islamic government in Afghanistan the justification for having the refugees has disappeared",;said Shahpur Barekani, an official at the Interior Ministry in 'charge of refugees. (PT)
     UNHCR officials in Geneva say that voluntary repatriation of the Afghan refugees from Iran will begin on 1st December. The refugees will gather in the border village, on the highway leading from Meshed to Herat. Each of them will be given 25 dollars in cash and a bag of 50 Kg. of wheat. This agreement was concluded when the Afghan Minister for Refugees, ^Rahmahullah; Wahidyar, visited Tehran this month.' (MLM)
184
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 y Addressing a meeting at Madinatul Elm Madrasa in Kc^la-e-Shahada 20 November the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani said that the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan is a blessing and gift of Allah Almighty. (MLM)
 I          "   ■    •        ...
    HIA office in Peshawar announced that the HIA high command fyas decided to open up all the routes leading to Kabul. HIA has classified in its announcement that traders and private entrepreneurs can bring their commodities and goods to the markets specially set up 6 Kms. from Kabul in Bagrami, Binihisar and Maidan Shar where they will be purchased at retail price and transported to the city.
. Furthermore' the declaration says that the HIA mujaheddin are committed ito guarantee the safety of the caravans on the -highways Torkham-Kabul and Khost-Kabul. The mujaheddin will see to the safe transportation of the caravans carrying fuel and food supplies and nobody will be allowed to levy road duty or to extort money under any name. .(BBC)
                   23
 ^ APA quoted Defense Ministry officials in Kabul as saying 22
 November that muj*aheddin cut electricity to the capital. "It was definitely sabotage", said a Defense Ministry spokesman who spoke on condition of anonymity. "HIA members loyal to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar barricaded - the power station near Sarobi. They would not let any workers get anywhere near the station to inspect the damage", said Electrical Works Department Chief. The electricity went out 21 November. The Defense Ministry refused to blame Hekmatyar. (PT)
 y The Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani in a decree 22 November directed ail the concerned quarters to convene the meeting of the Shoora Ahl-
 Hal-wa-Aqd in due course of time. All the provincial as well as the district councils have been instructed to ele-ct their representatives for the Shoora at the earliest. (PT)
 y A meeting of the Leadership Council presided over by President Burhanuddin Rabbani in Kabul 22 November decided to open all the roads and highways, blocked by different groups in the country. Talking to newsmen in Kabul a spokesman of the Leadership Council, Ayatullah Asef Mohseni^- said that the Council has decided to take stern action against *violaters and directed the Ministries of Defense and Interior to remove all obstacles from the highways and roads. (NTN)
    In an interview with BBC correspondent in Mazar-e-Sharif before his departure for Saudi Arabia 19 November General Rashid Dostum said he wanted adequate representation of the northern provinces in the Leadership Council and he would send a 32-member delegation to Kabul for talks with government on this proposal. If he received a negative response he' would first convene a meeting of the leaders of Northern Afghanistan to decide whether* to ’attend the grand meeting. He said he would not be a candidate for the nekt President of the. country. . (MLM)
    The clashes between Afghanistan state forces and some of mujaheddin groups which started three days earlier in Farah province have so far left more than 100 dead and wounded. In these clashes the forces of Younus Khales, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammadi are on one side, and the state forces along with HIA on the other side. ANA reports that state forces bombed for three successive days the Headquarters of their opponents in Zarkoh in the vicinity of Shindand airport. (RT)
185
    General Rashid -Dostum, the leader of the Afghanistan National Islamic Movement, in an interview about the convening of the Hal-wa-Aqd council and the stance of the "Movement" said, "our movement has always asked for peace in Afghanistan and a council representatives for which can be elected proportionate to their population so that fighting ends in Afghanistan as soon as possible. We set up a commission comprising 32 representatives of tribes and nationalities to talk to the leaders and meet the President of the Islamic state of Afghanistan. For participation in the Hal-wa-Aqd council we have the same proposals." He said, "one of our conditions is that the National Islamic Movement be officially recognized.
 ( BBC)
                   24
 Yjl Two rival mujaheddin groups of IIA and NIFA clashed with each other in Jalalabad 22 November due to previous feud causing property losses and injuries tb many persons, reports ANA.
' (PT)      | ■
 - Mirwais Jalil, a BBC correspondent
 in an interview about the ^situation in
                            !
 Kabul, said, "shortage of food supplies in Kabul is badly felt eversince the closure of the routes to Kabul a few ^ days ago. For this reason the prices have shot up and the residents are really confused as to what they should do." (BBC)
    General Rahmatullah Safi, Deputy Defense Minister, in an interview in regard to the constitution of the army, said, "presently mujdhed generals have their say in the Defense Ministry and from linguistic, religious and regional 'point of view there is no stability. In regard toj restoration of peace, negotiations were held successfully and the situation: in the city is getting better." (BBC)                  !
 y/i The Afghan Deputy Minister for Power Mohammad Zaher, said in Kabul 24 November the NIFA mujaheddin cut the last remaining power transmission lines to Kabul 20 November and one million residents have been deprived of power in freezing temperatures since then. The NIFA fighters complained they had not received their salaries for a long time and would restore power only after their demand was met. (PT)
     i
     ! -
   General Abdur Rahim Wardak, Chief of Sta^f of the Armed Forces of Afghanistan, arrived in Islamabad 24 November.
 A nine-member high level military', delegation is also accompanying him. , (PT)                     *
 ty Mujaheddin commanders, ulama and tribal elders staged a mammoth rally at Sarkano area ih Kunar 23 November and demanded the holding of general elections in Kunar province for the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council, reports ANA. (PT)
 ty The Afghan Government has run out of food and fuel and will have problems feeding people throughout the long, harsh winter, the Minister for Food Supply, Sulaiman Yari, said 23 November. The Government in Kabul has used up all supplies and has received insufficient shipments of flour and diesel from outside, he said. Prices have soared, with a 98\ Kg. bag of flour costing 35,000 Afghanis (dollars 35) compared to 12,000 Afghanis (dollars 12) five months ago. Diesel costs 3,500 Afghanis (dollars 3,50) a gallon. Mujaheddin commander Jalaluddin Haqqani accused the government of diverting supplies to the military. (PT)
   Talking to reporters in Rawalpindi 24 November the former Afghan Interim
186
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 AfGliANJ[HAfl                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
 mammmmmmmmmmmmmgmmmmmmmmm
 President* Sebghatullah Mujadded! said, "Peshawar Accord is not being followed and many clauses of the accord are being violated. This state of affairs has disappointed the people of Afghanistan as most of the leaders are ' running for power". Opposing the current tenure of Burhanuddin Rabbani as President he sard tense situation in Afghanistan canno^ end till the. formation of a tirue representative Shoora. About General Rashid Dostum's militias, Mujaddedi said they are sincere people as they had also made efforts to oust former president Najibullah from power. (PT)
   fbna Andronov, member of the Russian Federation, held meeting with the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani in Kabul 24 November and both sides agreed on the resumption of relations between Afghanistan and the Russian Federation under the existing new political climate. (PT)
                26
 y General Abdur Rahim Wardak, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Afghanistan, who is heading a nine-member delegation, spent a busy day in Rawalpindi 25 November visiting Joint Staff Headquarters, General Headquarters/ Air Headquarters and met the senior defense officials. (PT)
 y According to Tehran Radio the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani, in a decree has asked the officials of the concerned commission to speed up their work for the election of the members of the council*of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd. (JG)
   Haji Shamali Khan's representative says that after the explosion in the commader's office, the Nangarhar Provincial Council set up a delegation to investigate the explosion. According to the report, the bomb was planted by
 Khial Noor, an IIA commander presently detained     by Haji   Shamali«s  men.
 However, IIA spokesman in Peshawar says that commander Khial Noor has been falsely   implicated      in the  bomb
 explosion. (VOA)
 - Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, who has recently arrived in Peshawar from Kabul says, efforts are under way to convene the Hal-wa-Aqd council but he apprehends that the meeting may not take place on schedule. Discussing the election, process in detail Gailani said that outstanding among? the issues was that of the Afghan Kochis (nomads) who also demand full representation in the counci as well as the government.' (VOA)
                 27
    Andronov, a Russian Parliament member, currently on a visit to.Afghan-stan, said Burhanuddin Rabbani had asked Moscow to reopen its embassy in. Kabul. Mr. Andronov's original mission in Kabul is to find out the clue and documents about the fate of 300 Soviet soldiers listed as missing during the Soviet-Afghan war. He expressed confidence regarding his meetings with the mujaheddin in this regard. He said that the topic of war reparations to Afghanistan did not come up for discussion with Rabbani although he personally has. asked the Russian Leadership to send food and fuel to Afghanistan. He added, "let us show the aid donor countries that we are not only for death and destruction in this country but we can also assist them." (BBC)
   An Afghan delegation, led by the Afghan Foreign Minister, arrived in Peshawar to participate in ECO Foreign Ministers' meeting scheduled in Islamabad 28 November. Jaleel Shams, Deputy Foreign Minister of Afghanistan, said in an interview that in the course of these meetings, which will continue
187
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 MGIIANJfUAO                     VOL.  6 NO. 1
 till 30 November, the issue of Afghanistan's membership will also be discussed. (VOA)
                  29
 y The Afghan Interim President Burha-1-nuddin Rabbani, after securing five percent nomination to the proposed Shoora, which will elect future interim president, has now issued another order empowering him to decide disputes between the candidates in each and every constituency of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 y The Muslim in its editorial 29 November says there is no end. in sight to the agony of the Afghan people. From the war of liberation against a super power the Afghans find' themselves plunged in what is all but a raging civil war. There is no doubt, a government.in Kabul, but nobody is very sure how effective it is in controlling the country's affairs. If a recent UN study is to be credited, the situation provides cause for the deepest concern. The only redeeming feature, if that is what it really is, is the return of about one million refugees. The worst part of the Afghan problem at the moment is that the Afghan people are not cooperating with the government in Kabul, seriously impairing its capacity to restore law and order. There is no doubt that the Kabul government is straining every ounce to whatever energy it has. But its endeavors to move towards political peace and effective governance is nowhere near being adequate. (MLM)
 ~ In regard to the setting up of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council a former Deputy Prime Minister, -Samad Hamed, said, "the present framework is originally designed to monopolize political power to the advantage of some limited circles and, at the same time, to get some sort of apparent and corporal legality. I opine that
 several stages have to be applied in order to resolve the prevalent crisis. In the first place such a transitional stage, without the warring factions, comprising the elements almost popular with the influential circles, be set up which will consider the process of future action and its application. At the same time the composition should not create any apprehension, considering it as a rival, among others. In other words this set-up should not contest the Leadership of the next stage by itself but instead pave the way for popular opinion polls of the entire cross-section of the society,    without any foreign
 interference, for the election of the Leadership." (BBC)
   Mohammed Siddiq Aishan, Chief of' the "VITA" philanthropic organization, in an interview said, VITA had so far started rural development programs in 18 provinces of Afghanistan. He said that the organization was set up in 1987 with US financial assistance in Peshawar and it has . a branch office also at Quetta. He said, 470 workers were employed by the organization which has also set up training courses in the NWFP for the benefit of the refugees. He said, "VITA has a six million dollar budget at its disposal for the next year and by the time the US embassy reopens in Kabul, the VITA office in Peshawar will have been transferred to Kabul." (VOA)
                 30
   A group of the Afghan mujaheddin warned, if the Russian Federation did not stop printing Afghan bank nptes for the government of Afghanistan, it will declare capital punishment to Soviet war prisoners and Russian diplomats. Mangal Hussain Dastyar, a ' commander from the HIA faction said, he was hopeful the Russian government' would respond to ' the commanders' call
188
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992 HffilMN JEHAD                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
otherwise Moscow would be responsible for the serious consequences.
       HI A opines that printing of bank notes in excess without the backing of enough gold reserves will aggravate economic instability of the war-torn Afghanistan.
 - The Russian embassy in Islamabad declared that Moscow does not want to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. The declaration has asked UN and other countries to stop the killing of war prisoners because such an act is against all norms of ^humanity. (AFP)
    Talking to the visiting Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Afghanistan, Gen. Abdur Rahim Wardak, who
 called on him at the Aiwan-i-Sadr in Islamabad 29 November, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan emphasized that the last phase of the Peshawar Accord should be
 implemented as soon as possible so as to strengthen national unity and undertake the gigantic task of rehabilitation and reconstruction in Afghanistan. (PT)
 y The BBC quoted the spokesman of the Leadership Council of Afghanistan, Ayatullah Mohseni, as saying that the
 meeting of the "Shoora", which will elect the new President, of the country for the next 18 months-, will be held within the next two weeks. The meeting
 will be delayed for several days if the deputies did not reach Kabul in time, in which case the power would be transferred to the Leadership Council, the spokesman added. Mohseni said that so far only President Rabbani and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani were the two candidates for the president's office. (PT)
                             DECEMBER
                                       1
 ^ Heavy artillery and rocket fire again rocked Kabul city early in the morning 30 November when fierce fighting erupted between the arch rival Ittehad-e-Islami and Hezb-e-Wahdat groups at Qala-e-Qazi, Dasht-e-Ba;rchi and company areas, south-western pjarts of Kabul city. Sources feared heavy casualties especially to the civilians. Some rockets, apparently fired by the Shia HWIA group slartimed into / the military bases of IIA in the adjoining areas. Ittehad sources say they have advised their mujaheddin to / show restraint and.do not indulge themselves in the latest round of battle. (PT)
 M The Afghan Minister for Water and Power, Dr. Shahrukh Gran, has said that compromise had been reached with those commanders who had disconnected the power supply to Kabul and were not allowing anyone to repair the broken transmission lines. Kabul city remained without electricity for twd weeks and now it is gradually being restored. The Minister said that power supply will be restored to hospitals, factories and other important institutes in the city within the. next few weeks. (MLM)
 y Talking to Iran News Agency (IRNA) correspondent the NIFA leader, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, has said that selection of five percent members of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council by the Interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, is injustice and majority leaders of Afghan groups are opposed to it. (MLM)
 ^ An official of the. Sistan-Balochistan province responsible for refugee affairs. Mi. Hashemi, told IRNA correspondent that 40,000 Afghan
189
 .OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
  refugees have returned to their country from the province, following the establishment of the mujaheddin government in Kabul. He said for the convenience of refugees two e?cit points have been set up in Zabul, Milac and Mir^ava on Pak-Iran border and the Afghan refugees are allowed to take with them ’ their luggage without any difficulty.' He said that some 30 .refugees alongwith their families were leaving from the area for Afghanistan I daily. (MLM)
  ^ HIA (Hekmatyar) armed units have captured the highway leading from Jalalabad to Kabul, HIA sources told the PPA Mansehra correspondent, Abdul Ghaffar Khan, on telephone. Sources said, certain elements were trying to oust HIA leadership from elections to the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council but their conspiracies were not going to succeed. According to the sources all armed units of HIA he^ve been, instructed to maintain peace during Shoora elections to ensure the completion of the first phase of the Shoora as early as possible. (NWT)
  - Sayyed Noorullah Emad,. the chief of the Commission for setting up of the Hal-wa-Aqd council says necessary measures have been taken for the election of members to the Hal-wa-Aqd council throughout Afghanistan, but transportation is the only problem yet to be tackled. Emad expressed the hope the council would be ready to meet on shedule.
      Seerat Taluqani, an important representative from the North, has said the person sent to the North to arrange the selection of representatives for the Council is still in the city of Mazar-e-Sharif. (BBC)
  - Dr. Abdul .Jaleel Shams, Afghanistan Deputy Foreign Minister, in regard to the "Afghan Foreign Minister’s
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1
 participation in the ECO Foreign Ministers’ meeting in Pakistan said, "our purpose of the visit was to sign the Afghanistan ’ ECO membership agreement which was completed in the first day’s meeting. It is true that if Afghanistan had not participated a big vacuum would have been created in the region Which would be detrimental not only to t Afghanistan but to the other countries of the region too. It is so because from logistic point of view the majority of communication routes pass through Afghanistan and we know that Afghanistan is a land-locked country facing economic problems. As such non-participation* of Afghanistan would have harmed both sides." (VOA)
                                                  2
 V Fifty persons were killed and more than 200 injured in fighting raging for the past three days in Farah province after Commander Mohammad Dawood (HIA) and his two colleagues were killed in the exchange of fire with HWIA un$.ts, Afghan sources said. (JG)         »
 y The Afghan Minister for Information and Culture, M. Siddiq Chakari, said regarding his governments' Policy that it was in- line with realistic stand of the Islamic government. He said he was sure the Hal-wa-Aqd Council would be held according to plan. When asked whether opposition. parties would be allowed to use the Islamic Prpss for election campaigns, Chakari said the government policy in this respect was clear and conclusive- no party would be permitted to use the media for their interest. (BBC)
 y The rebent unrest in Afghanistan has cr/eated serious huddles in the way of education, Nancy Dupree, a member of AGBAR in this respect said, the problem actually began when ^he population started to migrate from Afghanistan. They considered education one of the factors responsible for the communist
190
QCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 take-over in the country and for this reason developed a strong avertion to education at all. She says, with the passage of 14 years after the migration had started, the people even those living in the refugee encampments, have come to realise its importance. Though a large number of the refugees have repatriated to their villages but since there are no schools available in the country, most of them have sent their children back to Pakistan to attend their schools. She added, some of the refugee camps, particularly those for girls were closed after the establishment of the Islamic government in Afghanistan. On the other h^ind districts and sub-districts in Afghanistan are void of schools of any kind and in the center of the country the educational system is no more effective for want of funds. "If the schools are not established, there will be no reconstruction in the country", she said. (VOA)
                    3
 y Commenting on the reported threat of killing of POWs and diplomats by certain groups, a foreign office spokesman in his weekly press briefing in Islamabad 2 December urged all concerned in ther Afghan conflict to release all POWs as early as possible and treat them according to international      conventions      and
 principles. (PT)
 y The HWIA has shown strong opposition to the Hal-wa-Aqd council. There has been similar opposition to the Council already from Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Khales and Mawlawi Mohammadi and the NIFA had earlier expressed the opinion that formation of the Hal-wa-Aqd Council was just impossible. Abdul All Mazari regarding his opposition said, there were some difficulties for the delegations to go to Kandahar, Farah, Nimroz, Parwan and the northern
 provinces. He said, the people of Kandahar were actually opposed to the Hal-wa-Aqd Council but instead insisted upon the traditional Loya Jirgah. "There are also rumours about the government having sent representatives of its choice to the Council. (BBC)
 y The US government id assisting towards keeping the Kabur airport open through funds provided by the USAID. According to' reports the US government will supply buldozers and other equipment for keeping the runway and its vicinities clean of snow. The machinary were delivered by the AID office in Peshawar to the UN authorities 3 December. (VOA)
                 4
 y The CIA in the US paid vastly inflated prices to buy back hundreds of missiles it provided to Afghan mujaheddin between 1986 and 1990, officials said in Washington 2 December. The Wall Street Journal reported that the CIA has had to pay more than double the estimated) 20,000 dollar price for each of the shoulder-held Stinger missiles. (NTN)
                 5
 y HIA (Hekmatyar) is ready to cooperate with Afghan Interim ^President, Burhanuddin• Rabbani, for the establishment of a legal and Islamic government in Afghanistan, says Radio Tehran. (PT)
                 6
 y Boutros Ghali, UN Secretary. General, has appealed to the Kabul Government to provide protection for former president Najibullah, AIR reports. He expressed the hope that the Kabul Government will honor its commitment of not sending its security forces within the premises of the UN Headquarters. (MLM)
191
m
OCTOBER-DEGEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
   UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, in a statement has called for the release of all the POWs of the former Soviet union in Afghanistan and the peaceful settlement of the internal conflict of Afghanistan, says Radio Tehran. (NTN)
     The Kabul-bound Ariana Afghan Airlines plane from Peshawar was hit by anti-tank shell when it was landing at Kabul airport 5 December. However, the pilot skilfully managed to land the plane safely. The plane was carrying a number of passengers including Afghan Minister Mohammad Shah Fazil, Pakistan Ambassador to Kabul, Amir Usman Khan, and some journalists. The passengers were kept unaware of the incident so as to avoid panic. (NTN)
   Various Afghan mujaheddin factions engaged each other in fierce gun battles          from  dawn      until    dusk 5
 December. The main combatants were the Shia Hazarja faction of HWIA and Defense Minister        jAhmad Shah Masood's Tadjik
 forces. Neither side could say with certainty        I how the      clashes started,
 though each blamed the other side. However,         most  mujaheddin       said the
 fighting escalated out of the incident 4 December in the northern Taimani area where they claimed the Shoora-e-Nezar disarmed five Hazara guerillas belonging to the Shia Ismaeli sect's 80th Kayan Division. (NTN)
 y The Shoora-e-Nezar forces and those of Sayyed Mansoor Naderi of the Esmailia           religious sect           have
 resorted to take hostages from one another. This has been initiated eversince         5 December when         forces
 belonging to the two groups              became
 engaged in exchange of fire              in the
 Taimani area, in the northern parts of Kabul, and soon spread to other areas in the west of the city with involvement of the HWIA group. (RT)
 y Fighting between the Shoora-e-Nazar and HWIA continued for the second day 7 December. President is said to have demanded immediate ceasefire but HWIA sources said fighting continued in the central parts of the city. HWIA claimed to have captured the Bagh-e-Bala hill, the commando 66 regiment and the Russian Cultural Center. (VOA)
 ►j* Reports say hostilities between HWIA and forces loy*1 to Defense Minister are continuing unabated. Reports from hospitals say that at least 30 civilians have been killed and over 400 wounded. The real cause of the intensity of fighting is not known but it is. probable that it is to prevent the Hal-wa-Aqd Council which is to be convened for electing a new President for the country. (BBC)
 ygl Hundreds of people were reported killed or injured as heavy fighting between the Shoora-e-Nezar and the HWIA continued for the second consecutive day spreading over to the center of Kabul 6 December. Both sides turned down the ceasefire appeal of the President of the interim government, Burhanuddin Rabbani. As the fighting escalated, the scared citizens began to flee to different directions in search of safety. (MLM)
                  8
 ty The Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Commission has postponed the meeting of the proposed council until further notise. This was announced by Homayun Career, Director Publicity of the said commission, in a communique issued in Kabul 7 December. He said that serious problems existing in the electoral constituencies, severe cold weather and a number of other problems had rendered the members of the commission helpless to convene the proposed meeting. A number of
192
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
■
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 delegations, he said, were unable to proceed to their respective provinces and likewise on account of illegal manipulation of some constituencies by the ruling administration the supervisory teams failed to* implement the rules and regulations pertaining to the election of 'the council members. This decision, he said, was approved by seven out of nine mujaheddin parties. (PT)
 ^ As a result of fierce fighting still continuing between HWIA and Shoora-e-Nezar throughout Kabul, thousands of civilians are leaving their houses and hide-outs for safer areas. Eyewitnesses said a large number of government and private buildings had caught fire as a result of exchange of heavy weapons' fire amongst the rival mujaheddin groups. (NTN)
 vjy Despite a ceasefire agreement between the Shoora-e-Nezar and the HWIA which was enforced 7 December, fighting still goes on with each side claiming to have captured new positions from the rival side-
      A spokesman from the HWIA accused the government forceq of a breach in the ceasefire agreement. Meanwhile, the speaker of the presidential office, Mohammad Aziz Murad said 8 December that fighting had continued between the government      forces     and      some
 irresponsible characters. He added, the Islamic government insisted upon security throughout Afghanistan, particularly at a time when the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council was going to elect the new Leadership for the country. "Some irresponsible elements who are known to have been involved in looting in the past, have created a situation to make it appear as if we had a crisis and by this means to prevent hurdles for the council to be convened. (BBC)
 y Mohammad Fayaz, a responsible person of the HWIA, regarding the cause of the present clashes between HWIA and the Shoora-e-Nezar said, the HWIA was earnestly opposed to fighting but it has been imposed upon them by the Shoora-e-Nezar of Ahmad Shah Masood. "In my opinion",       he    said, vthe
 Shoora-e-Nezar favors monopoly of power and would like to establish its control over Kabul." (BBC)
                   9
 ^ A senior diplomat of the Iranian Mission in Kabul visited the office of HWIA in the Afghan capital 8 December and during his meeting there with Abdul Ali Mazari, conveyed to him the message of Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, asking HWIA leaders for an early ceasefire, Afghan mujaheddin sources said in Peshawar. The HWIA Secretary General, in response told the Iranian diplomat that the other side should be convinced in this regard. Meanwhile, a delegation cpmprising Gen. Musleh, a close associate of Afghan President Rabbani and Gen. Momin, also visited offices of the HWIA in Kabul and suggested their leaiders a ceasefire but the HW leaders presented some conditions. (NTN)
   A number of rockets fell on Iranian and Turkish Embassies in Kabul 8 December without causing any casualty, reports IRNA. (JG)
                     #
 ^ Following the incident of demolition of Babri Mosque in Ayodhya in India by the extremist Hindus, angry mobs have set ablaze three temples of Hindus in Jalalabad, Gardaiz and Khost, VOA reports. Meanwhile, the chiefs of HIA and . IIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Abd Rab RasOol Sayyaf, have expressed anguish in their separate messages over the demolition of Babri Mosque and strongly condemned this action of the Hindus. (MLM)
193
OCTOBER-DECEMBER#
y The HWIA Secretary General, Abdul: All Mazari, said in Kabul 9 December, "despite heavy fighting between our party and Shoora-e^-Nezar we are prepared to' respect the ceasefire, agreement reached between the two sides 7 December. The provisions of the ceasefire were to be known to the citizens by radio fe December but instead they broadcast a very insulting statement against us and this was the reason that prompted the renewal of clashes". (RT)
y Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the leader of the NIFA who wishes to be a candidate in the forthcoming presidential elections, claimed that Rashid Dostum, leader -of the Islamic National Movement bas backed, his candidature for this post. Gailani added he has promised Dostum that' when elected to the chair he will allot a number of government positions to his movement. (VOIRA)
                  10
^ The Afghan fighter jets bombed the presidential palace and the Defense Ministry in Kabul 9 December, the fifth day of fierce fighting between rival rebel groups. It was not clear who was responsible for the bombing, but Afghan sources claimed the plane-s were being flown by forces loyal to Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum. More than 50 people have been killed, according to Kabul hospitals, but the exact death toll will never be known because most Afghans immediately bury their dead. More than 300 people have been wounded, doctors said. (PT)
Iff In an interview with The Pakistan Times as permanent representative of the UN Secretary General in Afghanistan, Sotirious Mousouris, said the situation in Kabul is not very promising and continued fighting between the rival Afghan groups could
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 delay the Shoora meeting scheduled for 10 December. He said, in the wake of fighting erupted 4 December, it was becoming difficult that UN delegation could observe the proceedings of the grand council. The UN, he said, was interested in a' broad-based Shoora, representing people of all shades of life and opinion. (PT)
 ^ Tanks and armored vehicles roared into Kabul city 9 December as fighting intensified between the forces of Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood and the HWIA faction backed by Iran, Afghan and diplomatic sources said in Kabul• One source said Wahdat mujaheddin have seized parts of Defense Ministry office of Masood after taking over the television station overnight. Wahdat: claimed more than 300 people were made captive during the seizure, including some high ranking officers. (NTN)
    Hamed Elmi, BBC correspondent in Kabul, regarding the fall of many impprtant military posts to the forces of Rashid Dostum said, "some militia belonging to the National Islamic Movement had left the Kabul Airport to visit one of their military establishments in the city. Due to some misunderstanding they were intercepted along the route and this prompted a clash between the two groups, but this incident caused the citizens to spread the rumor of a coup against the government. When government got to know that the forces belonging to Division 53 were upset, they automatically evacuated some posts in their favor. (BBC)
 y . In a joint communique the IIA, HIA (Khales) and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi while condemning., the HWIA and Dostum militia alliance for grabbing power vowed to fight against them. It is also said in Kabul that the NIFA under Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani has also stood alongside the northern militias
194
   for the same purpose but the latter has denied the allegation. (BBC)
   kjf Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA, regarding the rumors of a coup and the general situation in Kabul said, "any action contrary to the law or Islamic principles will not be supported by us and whatever imposed upon the nation through tricks and intrigues will be condemned by us -though it may be perpetrated through a coup." Meanwhile, Mawlawi Khales said in Peshawar, "though we have stated time and again that the Hal-wa-Aqd was not an Islamic formula, but by this we did not mean that it should lead to bloodshed and destruction. Whoever takes power by force, will eventuallt have the same fate as those'of Taraki, Karmal and Najibullah." (BBC)
                     11
   y The situation in Kabul has returned to normal after defeat of HWIA and Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood are safe, a JIA spokesman said immediately after his wireless contact with Kabul officials. He claimed that military division No. 395 of HWIA and Kayani division NO. 80 have been . completely defeated. "There was no fighting in Kabul 10 December and we are in control of the situation", he said. Meanwhile, ANA quotes the official organ of HIA Shahadat having disclosed in its issue 10 December that Secretary General of JIA, Sayyed Noorullah Emad alongwith a delegation of senior party members , called on HIA Chief Gulbuddin Hekmatyar? at his Char Asyab Headquarters 9 December and demanded military support of HIA for the Shoora-e-Nezar of Ahmad Shah Masood in its fighting against HWIA' Shia Party. In response the HIA leader told Emad that his party wanted unity of action of all jehad forces but it would never support the present coalition set-up whose major components were the remnants of the communist
 regime. (PT)
 ty The daily Nawa-i-Waqt in- its editorial 11 December says that with the disintegration of the Soviet Union, though communist organizations and militia have been weakened, they have not been totally eliminated. And, if the Afghan mujaheddin continued to fight against each other and failed to reach a consensus formula this will only benefit the very communists and power will fall in their lap like a ripe fruit. They are organized, united and trained and also have ruling' experience. Against this mujaheddin are disunited with their warring capability suitable only to guerilla warfare and unable to face a regular army. The Afghan mujaheddin should not forget the fact that whatever they have achieved it was the result of their united f.orce and in their individual capacity it is not going to be an easy task to deal with the united strength of the communists. (NWT)
                     I                   I
 Vjf Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood
 is reported to have said regarding the
 current situation in Kabul, "some
 elements who fear the nations' verdict
 and who believe that by unilateral
 power transfer would be able to
 establish a government in Kabul, wanted
 to create unrest in the city. There is!
 also the hands of foreigners at work!
 who wish to keep the country, in.
 turmoil. They wanted to bring:about a
 situation so that to prevent the
..Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council to be
 convened. But as experienced in the
 past, this time also their plots failed
 and we are sure the council shall be
 held in time." (BBC)
   The UNHCR is reported to have said that over 35 thousand Tadjek refugees have now been seeking settlement in the northern hilly areas of Afghanistan and that another 5,000 refugees are added to this number each day. It is said
october-december, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
195
•OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 that a majority of these are barefooted and lack warm clothings. They use canoes and empty barrels for crossing the Oxus river. A plan for emergency aid for at least 100,000 refugees is being prepared by the UN. (VOA)                                -
   Commander Esmael Khan, the Governor of Herat, in an interview expressed preparedness of the South-Western Region for sending representatives to the Hal-wa-Aqd Council. He said, some elements were trying to prevent the Council to be held by creating fear and apprehension among the people. (BBC)
                   12
 y More than 35,000 Tadjek refugee have crossed the Amu river on rafts to seek sanctuary in a hilly, remote region of northern Afghanistan. New arrivals are struggling across the border at a rate of 5,000 per day. According to a press release \ issued by the UNHCR in Islamabad 11 December a convoy of truks loaded with quilts, tents, food, emergency medical kits, medical personnel and other emergency supplies headed towards the isolated border area where the new refugees are scattered. UNHCR# together with other UN agencies and NGOs, is mobilizing emergency supplies to assist the continuing influx into Afghanistan. Efforts are also underway to take urgently needed assistance to the more than 100,000 internally displaced Tadjeks stranded along the border in southern Tadjekistan. (NTN)
 y The Muslim in its editorial 12 December says that in Afghanistan the allies of yesterday are the foes of today. This time it is the forces of General Rashid Dostum's Geelam Jam Militia and the Shia HWIA which are arrayed against whatever little armed might Commander Ahmad Shah Masood may
 have at his command after the destruction of his Shoora-e-Nezar. That Ahmad Shah Masood should have his war machine destroyed till he now has only 15% or so, of the power he once enjoyed, is not a good omen for the shape of things to come into Afghanistan. Now with Hekmatyar staying aloof from the capital, it seems General Dostum will be enjoying the upper hand in Kabul in collusion with the HWIA, for the time being at least. It is for the leaders of all mujaheddin factions to unitedly strive for an end to the fighting as also the reconstruction of their country. There will be planty of time thereafter for them to decide who wields power. (MLM)
 y Prof. Mujaddedi, the former Interim President of Afghanistan, said it was impossible to convene the Hal-wa-Aqd Council during the short period left of President Rabbani's term of office. He said, it would be better if instead a joint meeting of the leaders, and ulama were called to decide upon the future head of state. (VOA)
 Kf Twenty-two pilots from the Bagram airport have recently migrated to Pakistan. A jet pilot, Abdul Hakeem regarding his desertion said, "when the Islamic Revolution succeeded in Afghanistan we were hopeful that peace and security will be maintained in the country, the refugees will return and we will lead a comfortable and prosperous life. The problem is that the leaders all have a power of their own and they are trying to use us as they wish. We did not favor this idea and so fled to Pakistan. (BBC)
   Ayatullah Fazel, HWIA representative) in the Leadership Council, regarding1 the postponement of the Hal-wa-Aqc^ Council and the recent outbreak of fighting in Kabul said, the Shoora-e-Nezar operating as regular forces of1 the Defense Ministry attacked the HWIA
196
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 AfGIIANJIUAII                    VOL. 6 NO. 1
 in an effort to capturing the Hazaras. Fighting spread to many parts of the city. Regarding the fall of the venue Of the Hal-wa-Aqd Council to the HWIA said that the place also was in their possession previpusly. "But there will be no restrictions if representatives of the nation would like to hold their sessions in this place. They will be the guest of us all and will be received warmly." (BBC)
                   13
 ^ Talking informally to newsmen in Kabul 12 December Abdul Aziz Murad, chief of the press department and spokesman of the Afghan President said. President Rabbani would hand over power to the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council which would be held latest by 16 December in Kabul or it may be outside Kabul. Delegates from Parwan, Paghman, Urozgan* Laghman, Paktika and Faryab have already arrived in Kabul while those from other provinces were making preparations for their/participation in the Shoora. People from 29 provinces will be taking part in the meeting, he said. (NTN)
 Iff The Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Mohammad AkramZaki, told The Pakistan Times 12 December that influential Afghan leaders have been advised' to hold a joint meeting of the Afghan leadership without delay and hammer out an effective formula to restore peace in Kabul. He said that Pakistan could not take upon itself every time the task of using its good offices vsince such an act4 would be misconstrued as an intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (PT)                              ' .
 ty There will be four candidates for presidential elections to be held in Afghanistan 15 December. They are: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani (NIFA), Mawlawi Younus Khales (HlA), Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi (NLFA) and Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani (JIA). Though Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has not formally announced his candidature but his party sources say he will be a presidential candidate. The three other leaders have already formally announced to participate in elections for the office of the President. (JG)
     Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales, the HIA leader, said Rabbani*s tenure will not be extended any further. He said, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani was also a candidate for the Presidency but on account of some Islamic and national reservations, Gailani was , not acceptable to him. ' He said he has himself become a candidate because he observes that the sacrifice of 1.5 million people is on the verge of being Wasted. He called on all the mujaheddin, ulama,’ elders arid organizations to promise their loyalty to him according to Islamic principles. (VOA)
 yy Ayatullah Mohammad Asef Mohseni, speaker of the Leadership Council said it would be difficult for the Hal-wa-Aqd Council to elect a new president in time as it has not yet been formed. He suggested that the Leadership Council be held immediately for discussing the matter. On the other hand the Presidential speaker, Aziz Murad, has said Rabbani would remain in office until the council was held. He said, the council would be held before the President's second office term in order to decide upon the1 future leadership. He said, some representatives have reached Kabul already and that the others would also arrive as soon as facilities are made available for their transportation. (BBC)
                14
    Amidst great doubt., regarding the timely convening ofN the Hal-wa-Aqd council Sayyed Noorullah Emad, Chairman
197
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 of the Central Commission for the council, announced that the election of the representatives in the provinces had been completed and the Defense Ministry   has  been    instructed  to
 expedite there transfer to Kabul. He said, "none of the organizations have yet officially boycotted the Hal-wa-Aqd council and there members have all been present in the related commission".
      One of the much trumpeted problems was participation of the National Islamic Movement under Rashid Dostum. Emad in this regard said, the arrangements had been such that every cross-section of the nation would be represented. (BBC)
                   15
    Strongly reacting to the announcement at night 13 December by the spokesman of the Afghan Interim President that the President will continue in office until the formation of the proposed Shoora, the Chief of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said in a . statement issued from his Char Asyab Headquarters that it was a violation of the agreement through which Burhanuddin Rabbani was given further extension of 45 days. He said it reflected that Burhanuddin Rabbani wanted to retain the post of presidentship at any cost in a bid to get his unethnical rule further extended and he is not hesitating from launching a mockery "Shoora" to muster support for his regime. Seven out of nine mujaheddin parties have already sealed the fate of such a Shoora by denouncing the same due to possible rigging of the interim administration, he said. The announcement of further extension, he said, is in fact the proclamation of war against all the mujaheddin parties and the people of the country at large. Its repercussions would be very serious and future responsibility would
 sequarely lay on the shoulders of Rabbani, he said. (PT)
 ^ Seven main Afghan mujaheddin parties including HIA (Hekmatyar), NIFA (Gailani) and Mohammad Nabi Mohammad's group, in a letter signed by their representatives, demanded 13 December the postponement of a Council to elect a new President, saying the government had tampered with the selection of representatives. The letter presented to the Preparatory Commission by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani accused the government of Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani of interfering in the process of electing representatives and of using funds,designated for the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council for his own purposes. (PT)
 ^ Addressing a press conference . in Peshawar 14 December 20 elected representatives of people from Paktia province of Afghanistan, led by Malik Adam Khan Sulaimankhel, have rejected the proposed Shoora of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd saying that the majority of the Afghans were unaware of this new term. They said that the majority of the Shoora members were not elected but were selected by Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani. The Shoora had no right to impose its decisions on Afghans, they said. They demanded the formation of an interim government led by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani for , deciding the future of Afghanistan through the traditional Loya Girgha. (NTN)
Vjf Rabbani, whose second office tenure is to end December 15, was to have stepped down. It was largely speculated that he would be able to convene the much trumpeted Hal-wa-Aqd Council prior to the 45-days extension he had demanded for his office term and decide upon the future Leadership in the country. But because of inter-mujaheddin difference on the matter. Prof. Rasool Amin, Chairman of the WUFA, in this respect
198
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 said, the organizations were only considering the interests of their own parties and not of the entire nation. He said, if the organizations were not capable of resolving their own differences, they would never be able to solve the problem of Afghanistan. He added, the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd” is a totally alien term unfamiliar to the Afghan people but the traditional Loya Jirgah could have solved the problem. "Those who come to the Hal-wa-Aqd Council will only think of their respective parties interest," he concluded. (VOA)
    The former Interim President of Afghanistan, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, in an interview said regarding the Hal-wa-Aqd Council, "I have always been in favor of this council and insisted upon convening it, and was pleased when the leaders all agreed upon it. But when Prof. Rabbani came to power, he tried his best to create a fraudulent council. Rabbani has to transfer power tomorrow under all probabilities and the Leadership Council will have to select another leader.** When asked, what would happen if Prof. Rabbani did not attend the council Session? Mujaddedi said, "Prof. Rabbani, as a member of the Council Will have to abide by its rulings." (BBC)
                  16
 ^ Fighting broke out on the outskirts of Kabul 15 December when Afghanistan's Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani refused to step down at the end of his term. Forces of HIA advanced to within five kilometers of Kabul's centre. (PT)
 ty After his failure in convening a meeting of the proposed Shoora the Afghan Interim President^ Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani,, has postponed the session of the Leadership Council till 23 December. According to reports Rabbani is reluctant to leave the chair
 while other mujaheddin leaders are building up pressure on him to quit power. Meanwhile, both Gelam Jam militia and mujaheddin of HWIA have joined hands against their former ally Shoora-e-Nezar led by Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood. The mujaheddin loyal to Burhanuddin Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Maisood were deprived of many important positions inside Kabul city, including the diplomatic enclave. (NTN)
 tjf The election for the office of the new president of Afghanistan has been postponed for a day and the same will be held now on 16 or 17 December, said a Defense Ministry spokesman in Kabul. (JG)
    Gen. Rashid Dostum, Leader of the National Islamic movement of Northern Afghanistan, officially expressed his opposition to the Hal-wa-Aqd council. A statement in this regard said that "NIM" conceded with the principle of the council but considers the procedures adopted for election of representatives is not as it should be. The statement said, it favored cooperation and unity among all mujaheddin organizations towards a lasting peace in the country. (RT)
     Shahzada Saud, member of the National United Front of Afghanistan, regarding the reaction shown by the people of Paktia in respect to the Hal-wa-Aqd council said, when the election delegation first came to Paktia the people were happy that the representatives would actually be elected by the residents themselves but when they noticed that the delegation was actually distributing money among the representatives, this caused mo«£e rift among them. He said, very fgw representatives were secured by this means of which some did not go to Kabul at all. "Even if the council does convene in Kabul, the majority of the nation has already rejected it", he ended. (BBC)
 199
     Elections to find a new Afghan President were delayed 15 December after the rumble of heavy artillery shook the capital overnight. Defense Ministry spokesman told AFP, "we are, not too concerned about fixed dates", after admitting that most of the delegates from Afghanistan's 29 provinces had failed to turn up for the Shoora meeting due to bad weather and security concerns. The severe fighting between the forces loyal to Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masoodj, and HWIA party of Shia faction for four consecutive days, was stated to be a planned conspiracy for making hinderance for the holding of the Shoora meeting. These forces, the government said, did not want . that the.Shoora meeting be held. (PT)
 ty The Government of Pakistan has appealed to all the factions of Afghan mujaheddin to desist from violence and settle their differences with mutual understanding. The sentiments of Pakistan Government were conveyed to Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani by the Pakistan Ambassador to Afghanistan, Amir Usman Khan, when he called on him at the presidential palace in Kabul 16 December. (PT)
 y In its editorial 17 December The Nation says that Afghanistan's .presidential election for an interim two-year term could not be held as scheduled for 15 December. The unspecified delay has driven the country into yet another period of uncertainty and instability. Whatever the individual factions' objections to the current political process, the only reasonable way the country can get out of the present impasses and have some semblance of the badly-needed peace is to let the Shoora meet and elect a new
 president. Those who are objecting tp the "existing conditions" and fighting on, adding thereby to the sufferings of the general public, must figure out a peaceful course of action to create conditions that are acceptable to all. (NTN)
    The Afghan ulama and commanders of different mujaheddin parties at Pul-e-Charkhi 16 December, through a number of resolutions at the conclusion of the three-day joint meeting, have asked the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani to relinquish the post of President to the sitting Vice President Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, reports ANA. They proposed that Mawlawi Mohammadi should complete the elections of the proposed Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council and convene its meeting within one month which will in turn elect the future President of the country. They also proposed the establishment of the supervisory committees including . ulama and commanders to receive complaints of manipulations in the Shoora elections and assist the Hal-wa-Aqd commission in accomplishing the task of holding the said Shoora. (NTN)
 ^•Fierce fighting has started in Kabul between Gelam Jam militia of General Rashid Dostum and the forces of HIA of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar after refusal by the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani to step down from power after expiry of his extended tenure in office. Reports received from Kabul say that people are fleeing from their homes for safer places outside the capital. (NWT)
 yjf A .meeting for discussing the present situation in the country was held in Pul-e-Charkhi 16 December in which a large number of ulama, tribal elders and commanders had participated. Leader of the ulama group, Zakeri, told reporters afterwards the meeting after thorough, deliberations, has decided that
200
 \
QCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO, 1
 Prof. Rabbani should hand over power to his Deputy Mawlawi Mohammadi, who was appointed by Rabbani himself, so that the remaining procedure of the Hal-wa-Aqd council can be handled by him. (BBC)
 y< Prof. Rabbani, whose office term expires today, 17 December, regarding the ■. juncil said, "it is the first time in the history of the country that members of a 'Loya Jirgah' are appointed by the people themselves and the majority of them have arrived in Kabul. We are sure the peoples representatives will take their decision. "Regarding the boycot of the council by some mujmaheddin leaders Rabbani hoped they would not be so,
 critical of their decisions. (BBC)
 tjf Ghulam Mohammad Yelaqi, the governor of the Afghanistan Bank said., the government was facing a budget deficit of 400 million dollars. He said the deficit was caused by lack of export commodities and foreign currency earning^ by Afghans abroad. "Another source with an annual income of 100 million dollars i.e. the tourist industry has also come to a complete standstill. Apart from these the closure of the supply routes has also damaged our external trade", he said.
 (VOA)
                   18
    The representatives of Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani's JIA in Peshawar have released the list of 45 Afghan intellectuals, politicians, military officers and former bureaucrats residing abroad who were invited for attending a meeting of proposed Shoora. However, these circles are still unclear about date and time of this meeting which will elect a new president. The invitees are former Afghan Prime Minister Dr. Mohammad
 Yousuf besides a large number of former ministers. Majority of these invitees are taking no interest in current Afghan politics. (NTN)
                                                                  As many as 22 pilots of fighter
 planes at Bagram airport - are reported to have migrated to Pakistan recently due to some problems, BBC reported. When asked about the reason of their migration one of the pilots, Abdul Hakim, said they were optimistic that peace and security would return to Afghanistan when the Islamic Revolution succeeded. But the situation was totally different. Every group and organization in Afghanistan wanted to have its own force. We did not favor it. We felt it better for ourselves to migrate to Pakistan so that they could not use us for more bloodshed end killing. We would return to our country when a legitimate government is formed in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 ^ Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, considers the Peshawar Accords as a factor of the present bloodshed in the country. He says, there is no provision for 'peace' in ' this agreement. The Peshawar agreement was signed between some mujaheddin leaders 2.4 April but Hekmatyar had rejected it> (Radio Meshed)
   The interim government of Afghanistan has invited 45 former Afghan bureaurocrats, ulama and intellectuals residing abroad to participate in the Hal-wa-Aqd council. Ghulam Ali Ayeen, a former Minister of Education is included in the group. He said, under the present circumstances when there is no security in the country the Hal-wa-Aqd council can be a good substitute for the political cadre of Afghanistan. Regarding the council he said, if it is going to be similar to the advisory council which was held in Rawalpindi a few years ago, it will be just useless. (VOA)
201
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992 fifGUAtiJtliAQ              VOL. 6 NO. 1
               19
 y At least three dozen Afghans residing in Peshawar and other parts of the province and in the adjacent tribal areas left Peshawar "for Kabul 18 ^December. These Afghans, mostly affiliated with JIA of Burhanuddin Rabbani will represent Afghan refugees in the proposed Hal-wa-Aqd council which will elect a new president in place of Burhanuddin Rabbani whose tenure expired 15 December. (NTN)
 Iff The Pakistan Times in its editorial 19 December says that it is time all the Afghan factions united and succeeded in electing a new Afghan President acceptable to all. That would be in keeping with the peace process they have agreed upon under the Peshawar Accord. Petty factional squabbles can only bring further devastation to their war-ravaged homeland. There is ■no alternative to conciliation, mutual accommodation and consensus for establishing a broad-based government encompassing all Afghan groups regardless of their ethnic origin or Sectarian and. linguistic affiliations. It falls upon all factions of the Afghan leadership .to promote peace, harmony and reconciliation to preserve the independence and territorial integrity of their country. That would also facilitate the return of the Afghans languishing in refugee camps outside their country. (PT)
 Vj< The- last group, of provincial representatives. for the Hal-wa-Aqd council arrived in Kabul 18 December. Gen. Mir Anjamuddin, commander of the Afghan Air Force, said that 17 December was the last day for airlifting the Hal-wa-Aqd representatives to Kabul. He said, the military planes were working a 24-hour schedule for this purpose. Mir Anjamuddin said, it was hoped 1,450 representatives will reSch Kabul in
 time for the council session. (AFP).
 Mohammad Hasan Ja' atari, an HWIA representative of the Council said, out of the 60% Shia population of Herat, only three persons were elected for the council representation. He said, true Shias have not been elected, but whoever has come to the council has been purchased for this purpose. "As.a matter of fact they have all been 'selected' instead of being elected," he said. Public expectations were, he said, to see that the council represented the entire Afghan nation irrespective Of their ethnic, religious,, or linguistic backgrounds.
 (BBC)
 ►jf Nabi Mesdaq, the Pashtu branch correspondent of the BBC regarding election or selection of representatives outside the country said, the Rabbani government published a list in Kabul the names of 45 Afghan dignitaries residing in Europe, America, Australia, Pakistan and Iran were also included but all these Were those who were either members of the JIA or Were somehow afiliated with the JIA. Another thing that drew my attention was that only two of the 45 persons were Pashtuns, one Uzbek and one Turkman while the remaining 41 were all Tadjeks. Regarding participation of
 UN observers Mesdaq said, * many observers believe that the Council is not a true representative of the nation. Therefore, the (UN does not intend to face a recurrence of its failure of the April plan for the Afghan government. (BBC)
 ^ In a press conference Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA said, the Rabbani government is transferring its supporters from near and far to Kabul by military helicopters and planes in order to form a totally 'faked' Hal-wa-Aqd council to serve his own purpose* Hekmatyar accused the Rabbani
202
OCT.OBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. T
 government of perjury, cheating and forgery in holding the Hal-wa-Aqd Council. He said, according to previous decisions local councils should be established first which would in turn introduce their representatives to the Hal-wa-Aqd council, but the coalition administration, through its governors,, collected representatives of its own choice so that\ to extend the life of the coalition administration. (BBC)
                                             20
     The preliminary meeting of the Shoora-e-Hal-wa-Aqd, held in Kabul 19 December under the Chairmanship of the Chairman Election Commission Noorullah Emad and attended by about 1000 members of the Shoora, was concluded when some unpleasant situation was about to arise. Addressing the meeting Emad said since it ‘ was the preliminary and introductory meeting, the candidates and leaders had not been invited but they would be to the formal meeting of the Shoora. Speaking on the occasion the Afghan Interior Minister, Engineer Ahmad Shah of IIA, cautioned the , members of tHe Shoora-e Hal-wa-Aqd that if they failed to choose a commonly accepted leader for Afghanistan they would again face the same situation as they were facing in the near past. He said the anti-Islam forces were still out to hatch conspiracies against .Muslims throughout the world and gave the example of Tadjekistan where the Muslims were forced to vacate their country and take refuge in Afghanistan. He suggested that three members from each province should be nominated to hold negotiations with the leaders who, according to him, were not willing to participate in the Shoora meeting and compel them to take part in it. About the situation in Kabul, the Interior Minister expressed dissatisfaction over the law and order saying, "there are a number of governments inside Kabul city". (PT)
     Afghanistan's two most powerful military rivals threatened 18 December to unleash more fighting in Kabul unless the coalition government meets their demands and names a new interim president. "The next time fighting takes place we will not be indifferent and the leaders of the coalition government will be held responsible", Gulbuddin Hekmatyar of HIA told Reuters at his base at Char Asyab. Gen. Abdul Majid, second in command of the formerly communist militia said he received orders 18 December from militia leader. General Abdul Rashid Dostum, to put his forces in Kabul bn battle alert. (PT)
 . In an interview with the BBC the Chief, of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said that Afghanistan has now no president and its responsibility rests with those who have created this situation* Had the Shoora been formed under the plan of the Commission, we would not have faced the power vacuum. If it was not possible, the power should have been transferred to the Leadership Council and they would have elected a person from among themselves, or at least the Vice President, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, should have supervised the affairs. (MLM)
                 21
                                                             According to sources Shoora of three' province, Nangarhar, Laghman and Kunar
                                    v'
 have refused to participate in "the Shoora meeting in Kabul. The sources said that Rabbani government had sent special military planes to Jalalabad to take elders to Kabul which they unanimously rejected. (NTN)
 y According to reports received from Kabul seven of the Afghan organizations have clearly told the Afghan Interim President that they will not accept his Shoora and demanded that he should
203
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NQ. 1
 immediately step down and convene the meeting of the Leadership Council to save the country from a civil war. The seven organizations . have said that convening his Shoora by Burhanuddin Rabbani is an attempt to legalize his staying in power so as to extend his tenure for another 18 months. (JG)
 ^ The Nangarhar Provincial Council has rejected' interim government invitation for participation in the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council. Afghan Islamic Press says that a 40-men delegation under Sayyed Noorullah Ema# arrived in Jalalabad 19 December so that the provincial Council introduced its representatives to the Hal-wa-Aqd Council, but the delegation had to return to Kabul 20 December empty handed. The AIP reported the Laghman and Kunar provinces have also boycotted the Hal-wa-Aqd Councils.
 (VOA)
 »•< Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the HIA leader told reporters from his headquarters in the south of Kabul that the Hal-wa-Aqd Council being formed by the interim government was faked. He said, "this is the first time in the history that Afghanistan lacks a president and its responsibility rests with those who have created the situation." He said, when two persons are killed elswhere in the world its president or Prime Minister resigns but in Afghanistan thousands of persons have lost their lives during the past seven months with nobody accepting any responsibility for it. (VOA)
 y The Hal-wa-Aqd ,council was finally convened in Kabul to determine the new government in the country. Theff preliminary session was opened at the Inter-Continental Hotel which was attended by some 700 representatives, but sources said the number of participants in the following sessions will be double that of today. Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai, the Afghan Minister for
 home affairs, in his address called upon the nation to set aside their ethnic and linguistic differences, but observers say that the chances that the council would be in a position to settle these difference are very dim, because the majority of the coalition parties have rejected the council. (VOA)
      Sayyed Makhdoom Raheen, a participant of the Council, who has come from abroad, regarding its role said, "the establishment of the council for. deciding national issues is of great importance.' I sincerely hope that the result wil|L be effective and according to public expectations". Regarding its boycot by other groups he said, if issues of national significance are going to be decided by representatives of the nation the results would definitely be more advantageous than a decision taken by a few only. He said, "I am obtimistic that the present gathering of over 1,000 national representatives would certainly prove of importance in the settlement of the problem we are facing." (VOA)
                                               22
 V(< The Presidential spokesman in Kabul, Abdul Aziz Murad, told the BBC correspondent  that recently the "elders'.
 Council" preliminary sessions were convened and the question of future Leadership was discussed. Around ten delegates expressed their opinions on the subject and at the end a resolution was passed. To this question that besides  Professor Rabbani,    Mawlawi
 Khales and Pir Sayyed Ahmad. Gailani were also presidential candidates but presently they have opposed the setting up of this council, because according to them the Council should have been convened on time, as such would they still remain as candidates? Aziz Murad-
204
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1992
VOL. 6 NO. 1
 said that their very candidature meant that they were not against this Council. (BBC)
   The scholars, Commanders and elders of Afghanistan assembled in Pul-e-Charkhi December 16, 1992, representing the assembly Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani said:  "much has been said  in regard to
 the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd Council"and finally it was said that at present the only way to resolve the Afghanistans' ' problem was to set up a strong central1 government and to attach the provinces' along with it and peace be restored. Presently Mr. Rabbani's office tenure had expired and in order to ward off any tension and conflict, the outcome of constitutional vacuum, the power should be handed over to Mohammed Nabi, the State deputy, right away and he ought to set up the afore-said "A.H. A. Council" and convene it, so that a new state president be nominated.. Most of. the leaders including Mawlawi Khales, Professor Mujaddedi, Pir "Sayyed Ahmed Gailani and Hekmatyar supported the resolution". (VOA)
   Addressing a seminar organized by WUFA in Lahore the former vCOAS of Pakistan, Gen. (Rtd) Aslam Beg, l^as said that previously it was in the interest of big powers to prolong the Afghan jehad but now they have changed their strategy and are keeping Afghanistan permanently deprived of durable peace. Establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan is by no means acceptable to the U.S., Russia, Tadjekistan, India and some other Central Asian states. All tactics are being used by them to bow down Islamic-minded organizations in Afghanistan. (JG)
   A four-member delegation led by the Governor of Paktia, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, failed to persuade the Vice President of Afghanistan, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi of HEIA
 in Pakistan 21 December to assume the responsibility of the President's office. Mohammadi is stated to have told the delegation to concentrate, instead, on uniting the Afghan Organizations. (NWT)        \
      Three shells slammed into' a crowded bazaar in Kabul 21 December killing at least 10 people and wounding 16 while delegates to an assembly to elect a new President were meeting nearby. It was not known who fired the shells but army officers reported the clashes around the city were between government forces and fighters of the formerly communist militia. (PT)
                 23
                                                I
      Addressing a joint press confer-%nce iij Peshawar 22 December the central ’leaders of JIA, Qari Momen and Mawlawi Ghulam Saddiq said, the people of their country were not against^ the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council but suggested its members should have been selected with the consent of the Leadership Council. They said the members of the Hal-wa-Aqd council were appointed On the basis of their loyalty to . the government and not their character, and that is why "corrupt" elements were included in it. Opposing the inclusion of Gen. Rashid Dostum in any future set-up of Afghanistan they said he was a criminal and should be prosecuted. They also opposed the convening of the traditional Loya Jirgah for solving the Afghan crisis and said it was the demand of those who did not like "pure Islamic system" in the country. (MLM)
 Iff Fighting flared in Kabul late 22 December ajid units of HIA (Hekmatyar) pressed befense Minister Masood's Shoora-e-Nezar forces dug in with tank support on the Jalalabad-Kabul highway, just two Kms. from the city limits.
205
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1992
                                                                                 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 Rocket, artillery and machine gun fire echoed across the capital from late afternoon. (MLM)
 Vjy Activities are in progress in Kabul so that the A.H.A.C" be set up but it is yet' to be made Abdul Aziz Qadri, NIFA Commander of Zabul province, who had been to Kabul to participate in that Council, has returned to Peshawar and he said:  "I was selected for the
 mem(bership of the afore-mentioned Council i.e. "AHA Council" but I avoided the participation in that Council since we saw that it was not a national Council but a council whose members were bought by the government. The government agents were searching the hotels to buy people. People were spld out for 5,000,000       2,000,000
 1,000,000 and even for 200,000. "He said: "I think this Council will not be constituted since they are the people who have sold out their freedom and themselves. In fact we Jajis, Khost and the people of other provinces have boycotted the Council and this kind of Council will complicate the Afghanistan problem all the more. It will work only when, bargaining selling and buying of people are stopped and real peoples' representatives      start     working
 voluntarily". (BBC)
                  24
 yjf Negotiations for reaching a consensus on the future of Afghan Government are in progress and an official spokesman for the Presidential Palace in Kabul told APP that talks had not yet been discontinued. When asked whether HIA leader, Hekmatyar, was also taken into confidence for the settlement of the issue, the spokesman replied in the affirmative. Meanwhile, a delegation of the Afghan ulama, accompanied by Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, called on the HIA leader at his .party headquarters at Char Asyab 23 December and supported the stand of the HIA by terming the coalition regime of
 Rabbani as illegal and un-Islamic and held his administration responsible for the bloody incidents in the country. The ulama said, with the expiry of the tenure of Burhanuddin Rabbani 15 December, he had no legal or moral right to continue in office and would have to step down immediately. (PT)
     Two Afghan volunteers. Engineer Modasser from Logar and his driver Homayoon from Paktia, were stopped and shot dead by unknown armed Afghans at Surkhdewar 23 December during their return trip from Jalalabad. (NTN)
                25
     The political group "Jumbish", headed by Gen. Rashid Dostum, has been formally recognized by the Kabul government, a spokesman for the group said 24 December. Dostum had signed an accord with the interim President Prof. Rabbani 22 December, he said. Thi^e spokesman added, Rabbani had agreed to officially recognize the group as a political organization and allocate the position of Deputy Defense Minister to a "Jumbish" nominee. The group would also be given an unspecified share of cabinet seats and would be involved in a commission drawing up a new constitution for Afghanistan, the official said. (PT)
 lit The Afghan interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, has agreed on the representation in the Leadership Council of Rashid Dostum and also authorized him to nominate for the Ahl-epHal-wa-Aqd council his representatives from eight northern provinces of Afghanistan. The agreem^pt was reached in negotiations during, exchange of high level delegations in consequence of the efforts by the former Afghan' President, Babrak Karmal, for a compromise between the interim President Rabbani and Gen. Rashid Dostum, says ANA quoting an
206
 VOL. 6 NO. 1
 interview given by Nasim. Mehdi, the Deputy of the latter. (NWT)
                                              27
          \
 y The Afghan Government has announced the formation of a commission, headed by the Chief Justice, to hear complaints regarding the nomination of members to the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd shoora. The commission has started its work with immediate effect. The step has been taken in view of the strong resentment demonstrated by the majority, of the Afghan political forces. Mean-!' while, Aziz Murad, spokesman of the. Presidential Palace addressing a press conference in Kabul, while expressing the government's resolve to hold the council's meeting said, it was the only solution to the problems facing the Afghan nation. (PT)
 yjf In a wireless interview with ANA from his party headquarters 26 December the HI A leader, Gulbuddin Kekmatyar, put forward three separate proposals for taking the country out of the present political stalemate. He said. Prof. Rabbarii should be replaced by another Afghan leader on whom a unanimous consensus is evolved. The leadership Council should hold negotiations in this regard and choose his successor amongst the mujaheddin leaders. In case this proposal is not acceptable, a care-taker government comprising "undisputed figures" should be formed that should prepare the ground for holding general elections, and their sole obligation would be the holding of elections in the country in the shortest possible interval..(PT)
     The regular meeting of the shoora Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd would be convened within a couple of days to choose the future leader of Afghanistan. This was disclosed by the chairman of the Central Commission , for preparing and
 conducting the meeting of the shoora, said Sayyed Noorullah Emad . while addressing a hurriedly called press conference in Kabul 26 December. (NTN)
 ^ A fresh attempt has been made to bring to an end the crisis in Afghanistan, BBC reported quoting PTV. It said, the Saudi and the Pakistani Ambassadors in Kabul have held a meeting with senior representatives of three important tival groups. They included Pir Gailani of NIFA, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and Nasim Mehdi of Rashid Dostum's "National Islamic Movement". (MLM)
      The Iranian television and AFP say that the Kabul Government and General Rashid Dostum have reached a compromise on the composition of the Hal-wa-Aqd council and the government has recognized his political "National Islamic Movement". (MLM)
                28
 ^ Sotirious Mousouris, personal representative of UN Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan gave a strong warning to the Afghan leadership to stop the ongoing infightings and improve the security situation in Kabul. Addressing a press conference at his office in Islamabad 27 December he said, if the leaders did not reach an early political consensus and advance the democratic process, the international community would not be able to maintain its current level of humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people. If instability continued, the aid donors would not be interested to come to the help of the Afghan people in 1993. He also told newsmen that 55 thousand Tadjek refugees had taken refuge in Afghanistan and they are being looked after by the UNHCR. (PT)
 ^ The Afghan mujaheddin and refugees throughout their camps observed "black
207
0CT0BER-DECEM6ER, 1992
                                                                                VOL. 6 NO. 1
day" 27 December to condemn the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, reports ANA. Rallies were staged and seminars held at different refugee camps in the NWFP to mark the day. (PT)
 months. The "Shoora" will also elect 20% of its members to a parliamentary council which will later vote on the new president's nominated cabinet. (PT)
     Personal representative of the UN Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Sotirious Mousouris, told a press conference in Islamabad 27 December that a four-member joint mission of the UN and the OIC had left for Kabul 26 December to assess current developments surrounding the convening of the "Shoora". It is on the basis of the mission's findings that the UN Secretary-General will decide whether his personal representative should go to Kabul to observe the meeting of the "Shoora". (NTN)
ty Addressing as chief guest in a reception in Peshawar 27 December the Chief of ANP, Khan Abdul Wall Khan, disagreed with the impression that the former Soviejt Union was disintegrated through the Afghan Jehad. He said that nationalistic! ideologies caused this and the fall of the Berlin Wall. Referring to recent changes at regional level, Wali Khan termed them very fruitful for the Pashtuns. He said, Peshawar would soon emerge as center of East and West. However, the uncertain situation of Afghanistan was a hurdle in the way, he said. (NTN)
                  29
     The process of selecting a new Afghan President is expected to begin 29 December with the convening of a grand assembly in Kabul, an official spokesman said. Sayyed Noorullah Emad, Chairman of the. Shoora Organizing Committee, told a press conference in Kabul that 1/315 official delegates, representing Afghanistan's 29 provinces as well as intellectuals living abroad, would attend the meeting to choose the country's new leader for the next 18
 ^ During discussions at Char Asyab
 28 December on the cureent situation in the country with OIC representatives, the HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, expressed dissatisfaction over the formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council by the Rabbani administration and sai.d that the latter is convening a shoora of his hand-picked persons in utter contravention of the recommendations of the Hal-wa-Aqd Commission. The Rabbani administration itself manipulated the process of the "Shoora" and delayed its session for partisan gains with the result that seven out of nine mujaheddin parties were compelled to refuse the recognition of the shoora due to its unrepresentative character. Hekmatyar said, it would be advisable that either Rabbani handed over power to his Vice President, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi.Mohammadi, or that the Leadership Council nominated his successor through mutual consensus under whose supervision a meeting of the true representatives was called. (NTN)
                 30
      The regular meeting of the Hal-wa-Aqd council to choose th^ future Afghan President for 18 months, ‘began in Kabul
 29 Dcember with the intetim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, in the chair. The rest of the two candidates for the post of the Presidency, Piri Gailani and Mawlawi Khales, were not present in the meeting. Representatives of HIA (Kekmatyar) and HWIA did not participate. The IIA leader, Rasool Sayyaf, and HEIA representative were sitting on the dias. Diplomats from Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, China, India, Turkey, Egypt, Libya and Italy were present upon invitation.
208
OCTQBER-DECEMBER. 1992 RfGUANJ[HAfl                     VOL. 6 NO. 1
       Opening the session Rabbani dw.elt at length on his government's policies and achievements during the last five-and-a-half months in the fields of internal and external affairs. Referring to the authenticity and honesty of the members nominated for the council Rabbani said, "I have full confidence in the honesty and competence of everyone of them." (PT)
i ^ Five leading mujaheddin political groups have reaffirmed their opposition to the the proposed Hal-wa-Aqd shoora,
. which started its proceedings in '•Kabul
. 29 December, and made it clear that they will not accept its outcome. The two Afghan political forces, JIA (Rabbani) and IIA (Sayyaf), are supporting the shoora while the positions of HIA (Mohseni) and HEIA v (Nabi Mohammadi) are not yet clear.
 (NTN)
                    31
 \fl Interim Afghan ,President, Burhan-uddin Rabbani, was elected as head of state for the next two years in a ballot 30 December in which he was the sole candidate. Delegates to the contoversial and long-delayed shoora of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd cast 916 votes for Rabbani with 59 against and 316 abstentions, Chief Justice Mawlawi Mohammad Fazeli told reporters. The only factions present at the shoora were JIA
 (ruling party), IIA (Sayyaf), HIA (Mohseni) and HEIA.Five of the nine mujaheddin parties in the Leadership Council boycotted the shoora and accused Rabbani of bribing the delegates. A total of 1,335 were selected to attend the shoora but many have decided to boycott the assembly, including five of the nine important mujaheddin faction leaders, who have declared the elections illegitimate. The ethnic Tadjek was the only official candidate for the presidency. Delegates who voted for Rabbani cast their voting slips into a single ballot box bearing his portrait. (PT)
                  *
 ty In an interview to The Nation in Peshawar 30 December the former Afghan President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said, he could see signs of a civil war erupting in Afghanistan if Burhanuddin Rabbani and his Defense Minister remained in power. He said Rabbani was struggling to nominate himself again for presidentship through the so-called shoora of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd which was earlier rejected by the majority of the Afghan groups, including leading mujaheddin forces. (NTN)
 ^ Bakhtar News Agancy reports that according to the latest information supplied by Russian military sources, the death toll caused to former Soviet troops during the Afghan jehad was 14,453, Radio Kabul reported. (MLM)
209
 I
  li
  II
  ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        i
 ,<J        1
&
9
 y