 JEHAD ANNUAL______         PRESS      JUNE-DECEMBER 1985.
                            29
 322. A reader T.M. Butt from Lahore in.his letter to editor says presence of lakhs of Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Iran and other countries testify to the fact that Soviets have forcibly occupied Afghanistan. The current state of affairs indicate that Soviet Union cannot win the battle. Concludingly, he says if the Soviet Union sincerely wishes to resolve the stalemate, it should first withdraw its forces from Afghanistan. (PT ).
                                        November
                            13
 323. President Zia, referring to multiple murders in Dhok Khabba in Rawalpindi, Hyderabad and other areas of the country, has said Afghan refugees were engaged in the war of liberation and elements engaged in destructive activities were paid agents of some other masters. He said it has nothing to do with Afghan refugees. (EN ).
                            16
 32/,. Western diplomats have reported heavy fighting in the Panjshir valley.
 They say mujaheddin over-ran an Afghan army post in Kabul killing several soldiers. Meanwhile a Soviet tank was exploded, due to a mine explosion near Karez Aulia. All personnel aboard the tank were killed (PT ).
                            17
325.  A Soviet spokesman told newsmen in Geneva that due to the accessibility of mujaheddin to land mines and rockets, there has been a sharp increase in the number of Soviet casualties in Afghanistan (NWT ).
                            18
326,  Twenty five Soviet Karmal soldiers were killed and 10 injured in fierce fighting last week between Soviet Karmal troops and mujaheddin in tttmroze province. (KLH ),
                  a
  JEHAD ANNUAL                     PRESS___________JUNE-DECEMBER     1935»'
                                   20
  327.  Pakistan Minister Syed Qasira Shah has said with the passage of time Afghan refugees problem in Pakistan is increasing because pace of refugees' arrival has increased due to intensity of war inside Afghanistan. Contrary to it, foreign aid for refugees is gradually decreasing. The Minister reiterated that as long
  as Afghan issue is not solved, Pakistan will continue to look after Afghan refugees.
  328.  Mujaheddin destroyed 5 Soviet armoured vehicles and killed all personnel
  . aboard, in their attack on a military convoy of Soviet-Karmal troops heading towards Wazekha from Ghazni a few days ago. Mujaheddin also killed 19 Soviet-Karmal troops in Wazekha by attacking a military post there. (PT).
                                   21
  329.  Besides attacking the Soviet airbase at Shindand in Herat province, mujaheddin have also successfully attacked Bagram airbase in the north of Kabul on 8th November, where they destroyed two helicopters,three tanks and two armoured vehicles. (NWT ).
  330.  A Soviet air force General disappeared in Afghanistan last week while flying from Bagram airbase to Kandahar. A Kabul based diplomat said the unnamed General ejected from his-MIG 21 aircraft on November 12, but only his parachute was found.
  331.  Voice of Germany has reported that Soviet Karmal troops are trying to get control of the Panjshir valley north of Kabul. The Radio quoting western diplomats in New Delhi said 370 Soviet-Karmal troops were killed during clashes in the valley. On the other hand Radio Teheran has said mujaheddin destroyed a Soviet military base near Mazar Sharif, as a result of which a huge ammunition depot was blown up. The Radio said Muslim troops among Soviet forces had a hand in this explosion. Soviet Muslim soldiers joined the Mujaheddin after destruction of the military base. (PT).'
  332.    Mujaheddin belonging to Hezb-e-Islami killed 67 Soviet officers and troops in an attack on Soviet military camp of Qala-e-Surkh. They also demolished 23 tanks and military vehicles. (NWT ).
65
  JEHAD ANNUAL                     PRESS        JUNE-DECEMBER         1985»
                                   22
  333.  Hundreds of writers, politicians and journalists in an open letter to Mr. Gorbachev on the eve of I’S-Soviet summit have demanded withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan. The letter says there has been much disappointment in Afghanistan with the Soviet military intervention. Therefore, Afghans' right of self-determination be restored, and Afghanistan's independence and sovereignty be recognised. (JG ).
  334.  liS Republic Senator Orrin Hatch has paid glowing tributes to Pakistan's generosity and magnanimity in looking after millions of Afghan refugees.
  335» A reader Mir Abdul Aziz from Rawalpindi in his letter to editor writes the problem of Afghanistan was created by entry of Soviet forces in that countrj Therefore basic question is of Soviet troops withdrawal and there can be no compromise on it. Even the return of Afghan refugees depends on troops withdrawal. (MIM ).
  336.  The Canadian representative at the UN speaking in the General Assembly debate has said Soviet armed intervention in Afghanistan was not prompted by any momentary geo-political imperative but by the long standing Soviet lust for territorial expansion. He said after nearly 6 dreadful years, it is now clear that Soviet tnion cannot impose a military solution. (PT).
                                   23
 337.  A BSC report on Afghanistan says, latest changes in Kabul should be seen in the context of speech by Karmal ten days ago. BBC expert said these changes are meant to have a broad-based govt and to get rid of elements unacceptable to Afghan refugees. (PT ).
 338.  President Reagan has indicated the United States:and Soviet Union have agreed to step up efforts for political solution of Afghan issue. President told a joint session of Congress, the US would continue to support the heroic efforts of those who fight for freedom. (MIM)
 .339• According to VOA, mujaheddin ambushed a large Soviet convoy at the mouth of Khanjan side valley along Salang Highway bn 16th November, setting 27 fuel tankers ablaze. Ten Soviet soldiers were killed in the explosion of blazing tankers. (PT).
                                                                  66
JEHAD ANNUAL                 PRESS        JDNE-DECEMBER    1985.'
 340.   There has been a fierce, fighting between mujaheddin and the Soviet troops in Ningarhar province and Soviet forces were forced to retreat towards Jalalabad.
                                       2g                                  (not)
 341.   White House officials have said Soviet Union appears to be moving towards a more flexible stance on the Afghan question. (MIM).
 34"-. President Zia has said due to Afghanistan question, burden on Pakistan has increased. But he said, key to solve this issue is with the Soviet Inion.
 343.   A Chinese journalist Mr. Sea Ping who has recently visited Afghanistan and witnessed the resistance war scene says mujaheddin will continue war as long as Soviet forces are there on their soil. He says the Paktia province, once a very beautiful area, is now a devastated territory. He says 6000 mujaheddin repulsed the attack of 15000 Soviet-Karmal troops in Jaji district. (JG).
 344.   The failure of regular divisions in Afghanistan to deal with the mujaheddin, has forced the Russians to introduce specialist soldiers and Spetsnaz units, which are special, forces trained in ambush, assassination and infiltration.(EN)
 345.   Speaking to a group of columnists, President Reagan has said Mr. Gorbachev had indicated that the Soviets want a solution to fighting in Afghanistan. (MIM).
 346.    500 Soviet Karmal troops were killed in a prolonged clash with the
 Mujaheddin in the Balkh province. An aircraft and a helicopter were also shot down while 30 tanks and armoured vehicles'were destroyed. (PT).
 347.   Pakistan Red Crescent Society is providing an average assistance of Rs. 10 million every year to Afghan refugees in addition to medical facilities provided to them by the society through its various medical establishments.(MIM).
 34S. President Reagan in his address to the nation last night said we shall keep watch on any change in Soviet activity in the Third World. He said Soviet Union has understood that it should decide time-table for its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. President said the U3 will continue to support Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT).
                                                          26
 349.  Afghan 3tudents. in International Islamic University Islamabad in their letter to editor said, it is most unfortunate that the dally MJSLIM referred to mujaheddin of Afghanistan as 'rebels' in its coverage of Hekmatyar's press con-
                                      67
JEHAD ANNUAL
                                 PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.'
 ference of November 22. They said it is difficult to believe that paper's correspondent is unable to differentiate between a Mujahed and a rebel. (MIM ).
 350.  According to 1)5 officials, Soviet bnion seems willing to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan and it is possible it may present a time frame for its phased troops withdrawal (NWT).
                                                     28
 351.  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said so far 11 lakh persons have been martyred in the Afghanistan war and over 45 lakh have taken refugee in other countries. He said Soviet Union is using toxic gas and chemical weapons against Afghan mujaheddin. He said India is Supporting Babrak Karmal regime and Indian advisers are assisting Afghan forces in this war. Besides this, Indian weapons are also being used against mujaheddin. (NWT).
                                                     30
 35-. Police has seized a dangerous and powerful bomb from an Afghan national Mohammad Arif, who was staying in Doaba-Tal Afghan refugee camp. Interrogations are being made.
 353.  Recently, a fierce clash took place in Panjshir valley between mujaheddin and Soviet Karmal troops in which mujaheddin inflicted heavy loss of life and material on the Joint forces. (JG).
                                              December
                                                       1
 354.  Two Afghan shells are reported to have fallen at Mohmand agency 60 kilometer inside the border. However no loss of life or property was reported. (NWT )»
                                                      2
 355.  In its editorial comments, the paper says the fact is that Pakistan has diplomatic relations with the Karmal regime and it officially deals with its representative, formal recognition notwithstanding. In his recent statement,
 Mr. Zain Noorani at no time, questioned the credentials of Karmal regime. In fact his statement very clearly leaves open the possibility and indeed probability of direct talks between Islamabad and Kabul at a time when an agreement is ready to be concluded.(MIX ).
                                   68