 (
 i
IN THE NAME OF. ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
L
        THE LOYA JIRGAH ELECTIONS
   The unexpected announcement of the AIG leadership that elections are to be held after all for a Loya. Jirgah to in turn elect a leader and .pave the way for the formation of a hew government has come as a surprise to many observers of Afghan events:

      It may be recalled that; according to official and repeated announcements of the AIG, the elections should have been completed last August.
   i
      Many top leaders of mujaheddin organizations such as Pof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales opposed the AIG planned elections, though each one from his,, own particular point of view. And
                            • Ml
      only recently a commander - such as Ahmad Shah Masood, although indicating that elections could be held in well administered areas such as the provinces under his own command, clearly opposed holding of elections in other parts of the cguntry with poor security conditions.
Although two prominent Shia leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin - Nader Ali Mehdawi .and Taqaddusi - who have shifted to Peshawar from Iran and after forming what they call the Coalition Council of the Afghan Shia Mujaheddin have supported the AIG elections scheme, the bulk of the leadership of Afghan Shia mujaheddin who are still members of the Unity Party in Ir&h are apparently still opposed to AIG held elections. ___>   . ■ ■ '____
www.s
iahmbookco.com
 US$ 20.00
0000000000179
0000000000179
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990    .MMIJ[HAD                      VOL.4 NO.1
   - Evien as late as the end of November, the AIG President, after a visit to Iran, said a commission will be set up to study a solution to the Afghan’ problem including the feasibility of holding elections.
      The climatic conditions inside Afghanistan also should surely have been considered as a hinderance for travelling of the "supervisory commission" and other activities relating to polling and related gatherings.
                 a.                   •             *              •
      Furthermore, the fact that the AIG has decided to hold elections, despite its inability to do so during a prior date,, has surely not altered the general opposition of a wide spectrum of Afghans both at immediate - jehad circles and in far away areas about the wisdom and usefulness of elctions at a time when the country was at war. To quote from leaders such as Prof. Rabbani himself, during emergency times, even in societies not entangled in war, constitutional provisions for holding elections are being revoked.
      The biggest question will be whether the Loya Jirgah, to be convened on- the basis of these elections,, be able to form a leadership capable of upholding the declared objective of jehad? If   these  elections are not supported       by the majority of our
 people and the delegates to the Loya Jigah do not represent a good and satisfactory cross-section of our population both at home and abroad, surely it will be a failing excercise reminescent of the Rawalpindi Shoora oft: 1989.
      One    wonders what  has induced         the AIG to revive the
 elections option at this eleventh hour? Is it a defensive move or genuinely motivated as the only alternative for seeking a solution to the Afghan problem? If it is a move to forestall a super power agreement vis a vis the Afghanistan issue , it may serve only as a delaying tactic against an outside imposed solution.
      But if the elections result in the convening of a Loya Jirgah supported by the credible elements of the Afghan society, it   may very well serve  as an effective solution to the Afghan
 problem. So far the problem which we Afghans have not been able to   solve   has been the establishment     of a credible leadership
                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               c
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 AtCliflN JtUftll   VOL.4 NO. I
first and most of all supported by the credible elements of our own society. • There had been easier ways for creating such a leadership without resorting to elections option, which has been opposed all along by a wide spectrum of the Afghans e.g., carrying out of the decisions of the Rawalpindi Shoora which called for a broadly-based government, the transfer of the seat of AIG to the interior of the country and then elections which could have been very well held by the AIG after the overthrow of the Kabul puppet regime and the establishment of a peaceful atmosphere.            *
    We hope our analysis of the latest AIG move to resort to elections is not interpreted cynical and pessimistic. For we earnestly pray Almighty God* that the move will, afterall, result in the creation of a leadership genuinely capable of upholding the lofty principles of jehad and of bringing forth a group of Afghans who do not fight each other and do not remain content at having their seat of power in foreign land and in extremely humiliating circumstances. We also pray that the elections will not be another futile excercise and will not play the old record. We further hope that no outside forces are involved in any way in the conduct of these elections and the bitter experiences of the Rawalpindi Shoora are not repeated once again.
  THE MISSING AFGHAN
                         OPTION
    Now that almost two years are going to pass from the withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan, one can clearly depict the evolvement , of changing policies of major players of the Afghan issue in regard to Afghanistan. Had we Afghans been swift and had toppled the Kabul regime immediately after thC Soviet troops withdrawal, and had established a united government supported by a broad spectrum of our population, others would have had little .chance to face us with the danger of imposing their own options on us. We resemble nowadays an extremely sick person with no or little medication for our recovery. Surely, as such, we are susceptible to many other diseases attacking us.
    From what one may observe, the evolving international
                              "5
 OCTQBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHflHJtHflU                   VOL.4 N0.1
 pattern vis a vis the Afghanistan issue is as follow:
      The Americans, due to their frustration with the AIG for not being able to achieve its own declared objectives, are no longer
 keenly interested to support this body.
      Washington's changing posture towards the Afghanistan issue has not only been prompted due' to the lack of a speedy and swift AIG move to establish its seat in Kabul, but its interest in' helping the Gorbachev regime to uphold power in the Soviet Union. For, somehow, Washington has’ been thinking that the emergence of what some quarters call an Islamic radical- leadership in Kabul may be a destabilizing factor in the region and detrimental not only to Soviet interests but those of the west as well.
      Had we established ourselves swiftly at the seat of power in ) ' . . •
 Kabul . immediately after the Russian troops withdrawal, the
 Americans were some how committed to support the AIG, for they
 had helped in its establishment along with Islamabad. Only later
 events might have proved that they were not interested to support
 that government because of its Special Islamic complexions. But
 that would have been when the Afghans had established a! new
 government in Kabul.
      The American position right now seems to be the creation of a government, in which Najib may also take part although not in the care-taking stage, a position opposed by all genuine forces of the Afghan jehad.
      So one can in short say that there has been a great level a convergence of US and USSR views and -interests             on the
 Afghaniastan issue.
      But what about Pakistan? Pakistan was and still is the foremost frontline state in regard to Afghanistan war. It has both suffered and benefitted enormously from this war. Until recently Pakistani and American positions converged on the Afghan issue. But now Pakistan seems no longer feel to comply with the American position in regard to the future of Afghanistan. For a number of reasons, Pakistan feel's supporting a government in Kabul which is closely allied withVit. After all the Pakistanis feel that, other than Islamic obligations of support for a
                                  6
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 fllGHUHMUD                       VOL-4 N0.1
 brotherly      nation  and   in addition to helping             the
 withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan which threatened Pakistan immediately and directly, it should enjoy furher dividents from this issue to compensate the sacrifices it has rendered for the Afghan cause.
       Thus, the Pakistanis f have been working towards the establishement of a closely allied government in Kabul. This Pakistani desire has been at times so much exaggerated that it has been considered tantamount to the esblishment of a government subservient to only Pakistani interests with very few options for genuine Afghan interests.
       The nature of the reliance of the bulk of the Peshawar based organizations of the Afghan mujaheddin on Pakistan has given the impression, that this leadership is unable to evlove a genuinely independent Afghan policy. For instance, many Afghans are convinced that major moves by this leadership to ■ work out solutions for the Afghanistan issue has been so closely recbnaissanced by the Pakistani authorities that it has had hardly had any Afghan touch. The President of the AIG Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi himself several times has publicly complained about such a state of affairs. The Rawalpinidi Shoora in February, 1989, has been given as an indication of such reality.
       Another major player on the Afghan scene has been Iran. Despite public- pronouncement of the present leaders of Afghan mujaheddin both in Peshawar and Tehran, the reality has been that Iran has  had a very nominal role   in  the affairs  of the Afghan
' jehad, other than rehetorics.' But of late even that role has altered    substantially and there   is  a feeling    that Tehran's
 position   is now closer to that of  its arch enemy  Washington and
 thus to that of Moscow,the arch enmey of their Aghan brethren. For instance  the latest Iranian move   to  allow the  plane carrying
 Najib to land in Iran could only convince the naive that it was for refeulling purpose, etc.
       Other than its desire to help the Soviet Union overcome its problems in Afghanistan, it seems Tehran is also not interested in the establishment of a government in Afghanistan with close Arab connections.' And thus it too ironically supports a
                                   7
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 199Q                _______________
 poistion detrimental to the genuine interests of their Islamic brethren.
      In the midst of all this intricate' game of interests, a genuine effort to represent or safeguard and advance the genuine Afghan interests is tragically missing. First of all let us spell out these "genuine Afghan interests." In offering a
 presentation of these interests we have attempted to rely on the
                     \
 views of a wide cross section of Afghans'and not on a particular group or ideology:
       Bringing .about an understanding and paving the way for joint cooperation among-all acceptable elements of the Afghan society for the transfer of power to an acceptable government,               ^
      Chartering of an all-embracing program, as a result of which the people of Afghanistan are assured that the objectives of Jehad—the preservation of the independence, territorial integrity of Afghanistan and establishment of a state based on Islamic principles - are achieved.
      Affording the people of Afghanisatan to participate freely and without any discrimination in the political, social, cultural and economic life of the country.
      Within the context of these principles of course we know that the people of Afghanistan would like to pursue a non-aligned policy, good relations With their neighbours and especially with its Islamic neighbours %among whom Pakistan will have a special place. These relations will not be due to any compulsion but rather based on the choice of the people of Afghanistan. For the people of Afghanistan are extremely averse to any government which, in one or another ways, has been imposed on them by the outsiders.                                              ■ •
      But may be very few Afghans would argue against these objectives and the main issue at present is how to create a body to represent the Afghan poistion? The AIG was supposed to be that body but, as we know, it has failed to serve that purpose. But the AIG has now pulled the elctions card for a Loya Jigah and, once again, jwe have to wait and see the result of this move on which we have, expressed our view in another editorial in this very issue.
                                                 8
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 HIUIIHHJ1IIHI1 __  vql.4 N0.1
              NOBEL PRIZE TO GORBACHEV
     Negative writing about Michael Gobachev nowadays in the west is not popular and assailing of this winner of the 1990 Nobel Prize will add to the outrage of his apologists.
     Gorbachev in history will go down as a man who allowed the wave of democratic movements in his country and East Europe to surge and resigned from most- Soviet military intrerests in various parts of the world. But his apologists ought' to admit that he will also go down in the history as the most inexperienced pragmatist who, by resorting to entirely impraticle measures for solving the problems of his country, brought unwarranted miseries to millions of his compatriots and perhaps caused the total collapse of the Soviet State.
     Furthermore, in his desire to rebuild the Soviet society according to his own image, Gorbachev had to give many concessions to the west, and that is why "Gorby" is being loved so much in the west? for his policies actually resulted in the dismantling of the Soviet military might which had scared the west all along.
     Such will be an appreciation of Gobachev in a western context. But let us also appreciate him from the mentality of an Afghan:
     Gorbachev came into power in> the Soviet Unionxearly in 1985’ and for five long years during his leadership, the Russians conducted the most brutal phases of their military operations in Afghanistan. Only after becoming convinced that it was not possible to win the Afghan war, Gorbachev pulled out the card of troops withdrawal in the guise of Geneva Accords. Historians are free to talk about Nazi atrocities during the Second World War.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HIMIHHJIIWII                      VOL.4 NO.1
But the fact is the Afghans suffered more causualties and untold atrocities during the Russian invasion of their country. For instance, according to a survey published in the summer of 1987, (see AFGHAN JEHAD September-December, 1987) nine per cent, or one in every family member of the Afghans, were killed in the decade-long struggle against Soviet invaders and the communist puppet regime in Kabul. Another 3.1 per cent of those fleeing thei^r country were invalidated or seriously injured. The survey said, these figures were higher than the casualty rates suffered, by Soyie.t Union and Germany during the Second World War.
      And yet the Nobel Prize Committee felt to grant to the man who was responsible for a major part of this cruel war the 1990 Peace Prize.
      Has not misery and curse befallen upon Russia, the prototype of a modern Godless State which brough untold miseries to the world? In context of Divine Law,* a curse is not a matter, of words. It is a terrible state, opposite to the state of Grace. Can man Curse? Not of course in the Same context in which wei speak of the curse of God. A mere verbal curse is of no effect. Hence the English saying:   "A  causeless curse will not come." But
if men are oppressed or unjustly treated, their cries can ascend to God in payer and then it becomes God's wrath or curse, the deprivation of God's Grace as regards the wrong doer.
      Only we Afghans and our God know well to what extent w.e were oppressed, devastated and tortured in the .hands of a brutal power. As far as we are concenred, the torutre we have undergone have been unparellel      in the history.   And         what about the
atrocities that the Godless Soviet machinery committed to many other nations and, indeed, to its own poeple?
      Also what about the millions of . Russians who have
to bear the hardships mainly emanating from the policies of a ruthless leadership. We   pray for their comfort     and hope that God
Almighty in his Wisdom    may find for them  ways to survive. What
has been happening in Russia and in countries which once comprised its "empire"    is an eye opener  for       the west and the
east; for most of us      have deserted the  ways of justice       and
fairness which are the prevailing features of Divine Law.
                                          10
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGHflNJtHflfl       VOL.4 N0.1
              THE “SALAM” OPERATIONS
     After the withdrawal of the Red army from Afghanistan, which was a logical consequence of Afghan jehad and valor, the world became aware of the tragedy that had befallen this country and, with a humanitarian gesture# agreed to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan which had been converted into a massive ruin. The most important incentive for the countries of the world to help the Afghans was their realization of the fact that' a small ,and weak nation but equipped with the weapon of faith was able to bring down a super-power into its knees.
               I       ■        ■                  .
     After the withdrawal of Soviet troops, the United Nations too decided to* establish an office for the reconstruction and rehabilitation tasks in Afghanistan headed by Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan. While having his headquarters in Geneva, the Prince decided to open regional offices in Islamabad, Peshawar, Quetta and Kabul. But the UN launched the work of this special office at a time when the war was still waging in Afghanistan and the Russians, with massive economic and military aid, still continued
 to uphold their puppet regime in Kabul and bar the establishment
                                              \
 of an Islamic state as desired by the people of Afghanistan.
     It is natural that under such circumstances, the establishment of elaborate UN offices is mostly a show and at most a subtle effort for the recognition and continuation of the Kabul regime.
     Furthermore, Aga Khan, being an .Ismelia, in his efforts towards so-called reconstruction of Afghanistan has been helping a group of his sect inside Afghanistan who from the very early days of the jtehad have sided with the Kabul regime., The Prince has been accused of allocating large amounts of the UN aid to these people.
                           11
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MGIMN JIHMI                       VOL.4 NO. 1
      In the annual report on Afghanistan by the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar to the UN General Assembly it has been mentioned that "experience gained during the year by the United Nations agencies clearly demonstrates that reconstruction Work can be undertaken in earnest in the most parts of the country", (paragraph 13).
      This is a mere exaggeration. Because many UN officials and, indeed, facts have been revealing that the continuation of war and a state of insecurity as well as the lack of an authoritative Afghan partner, have in fact hindered concrete and basic efforts for the reconstruction of Afghanistan and many aid giving countries have received such exaggerated statesments with skeptisism.
      The (1990) introductory notes of the UNOCA Consolidated Report actually admit, that a number of "donors are increasingly reluctant to consider additional allocations in the absence of large-scale refugee repatriation." It says, "the UN is limited in its capacity to undertake rehabilitation activities that are likely to influence the process of refugee return ... On purely humanitarian grounds, it is impossible to justify that genuine needs of large sections' of deprived population (internal refugees) should not be met until others have made their minds to return home."
               '         i                               <
      It may be noted that the Report in the course of admitting UN failures and thus contradicting the claims made by the Secretary General and' Aga Khan himself, has made a contemptuous remark about the refugees by indicating that they are remaing abroad only because they cannot make up their minds to return home. The Report also admits that most of the UNOCA activities in Afghanistan have been confined to humanitarian gestures while it should be pointed that for doing this kind of job the UN has already a powerful and elborate office, the UNHCR.' In regard to its claim about the internal refugees, it may be noted that most of. them have gone to urban areas and they too will not return to their homes until condtions are fit.
      But why refer to more than five million Afghans now living as refugees in Pakistan and Iran1 in such contemptuous term? Is it befitting of the UNO to refer to Afghans who have stood for
                                  12
 OCTOBER-PECEMBER, 1990 'wGiMBlttMB-            ______ VOL.4 NQ.1
 the very^ principles advocated by the world body in such, terms: that we- are remaining refugees merely because we cannot make up our minds? The Afghans refuse to go home until they settle their account with an imposed atheist regime. The UN should not interfere in such a sensitive matter.
     \ While seeking the reasons for/the establishment of elaborate offices for the so-called Operation SALAM, one has to treat the rumours and1 accusations with certain plausibility that Aga Khan ' has been actually using this office to campaign for the seat of the UN Secretary General and throughout his activities in the framework of this office he has been especially trying to earn the blessings and favors of Moscow. A glimpse of this could be seen in the introduction of the annual report of the Operation SALAM in which it has been claimed that the Soviet share in the Afghan reconstruction has been the largest. But goiiig_ through the
 details of the so-called Soviet aid to Afghanistan,(pages 16-20 of the 1990 Consolidate Report) they are only the customary assistance offered to the Kabul regime for its survival,.
      In our view the Secretary General should have appointed only a few competent officials to solicite international assistance for Afghanistan and should have avoided the establishment of elaborate and expensive offices and if despite the on going war and lack of secuirty, it was felt that some reconstruction should have \been carried, the already established UN agencies could also carry the work.
      Also in our view the United Nations should have made use of top-notch Afghan experts by associating them With the already established UN agencies to have first of all paved the way for the reconstruction of Afghanistan taking- into consideration Afghan cultural and social conditions and, as at present, since due to the ongoing war, conditions are not fit for actual reconstruction, they should have mostly engaged themselves >on gathering facts and figures and prepared projects.          \
1
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flfCHflN JtHflfl ,       V0L.4N0.1
 Political Dimension:
AIG EMBARKS ON LOYA JIRGAH ELECTIONS; MOVES TOWARSDS NEW MUJAHEDDIN UNITY
  PLANS TO ATTACK KABUL CITY
     Although, one could observe many activities in mujaheddin ’quarters during the past three months aimed at breaking the so called Afghan deadlock, all their efforts remained futile and the miseries of millions of Afghans continued.
     It seemed as though that the main direction of efforts during the past three months was geared towards finding a solution through the Afghan themselves. Trips undertaken by the head of. AIG, another meeting oft prominent Afghan mujaheddin commanders, reconciliation among estranged leaders of mujaheddin, meetings between the Afghan mujaheddin leaders and Pakistani and Irani leaders and even the activities undertaken by head of the Kabul regime by going abroad to establish contacts with the so called Oppostion all indicated that the Afghans themselves were trying to find a solution to Afghan problems either at their own initiative or at the prompting of the outside world.
                     MUJADDEDI MEETS MASOOD, ISMAEL KHAN
   7 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, who had started his program of visits to the influential domestic commanders and had gone to the northern provinces of the country last summer to negotiate with the renowned commander Ahmad Shah Masood, completed the first phase of the program and after twenty days returned to Peshawar 2 October, 199.0. On his return, he expressed his gratitude for the warm a.nd unprecedented welcome extended-to him by Masood and lauded the law and order situation in the areas under his control as well as the continuance of reconstruction programs in the sectors of health and education.
  He said that Masood supported the AIG. As regards these new contacts, American magazine "INSIGHT", as broadcast by Radio Tehran, wrote: "Mujaddedi. wants to
  create a new coalition led by Ahmad Shah Masood in order to stabilize his government".
     Mujaddedi also visited another renowned Commander Ismael Khan when he was on an official visit to Iran.
     The third meeting of the jehad commanders on the front, was held in the Topkhana Badakhshan, close to Pakistan borders, in which Ahmad Shah Masood also participated. This meeting gave a new and dramatic dimension to the political *'
                                              14
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
     situation in Afghanistan and brought about unimaginable contacts. At the conclusiQn of this meeting, Pakistan. President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and General Mirza Aslam Beg, Chief of Staff of ,the Armed Forces of Pakis'tan, invited Masood to visit Pakistan. Acceptance of this invitation prepared the ground for meeting between strong men of two rival factions of the Afghan* jehad -Hezb-e-Islami of Hekmatyar and Jamiat-e-lslami to which Ahmad Shah Masood belongs - inspite of the fact that, one year back, bloody clashes had taken place between their followers inside Afghanistan. Thus they were able to exchange views about jehad problems and to evolve a joint military and,political strategy. Meanwhile the two main rivals of the political scenario of jehad- Prof. Mujaddedi and Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar- also held meetings to exchange views for developing a new political situation.
         Although international political circles have called these visits a consequence of the pressure tactics of the , Pakistani authorities, the mujaheddin, as well as the Pakistani officials, have rejected such connotations as unrealistic. Pakistan has emphatically declared that it has no intention to interfere in the affairs relating to the Afghans and the mujaheddin too have declared that they will not permit any foreign power to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan., and they consider these new developments a fruit of their jehad and innovations.
         However the result of these visits and meetings have not been much visible, in practice. For one1 thing,- there has been no agreement on any strategy. Mujaddedi, in a meeting of the party leaders at the residence of Hekmatyar, told newsmen that it was not correct to say that mandate .of the interim government had expired. There is no such thing as an interim government in the Islamic Law and when someone is appointed as an Amir or Khalifa (Head of State) by the men of wisdom, his mandate is not considered temporary, he added.
                         MUJADDEDI VISITS IRAN, MEETS ISMAEL KHAN
           Mujaddedi met Ismael Khan during a trip to Iran 2-11 November, 1990. In this trip in addition to aiming-at ensuring the support of one of the great jehad commanders in the west of the country to strengthen his government■, he also tried to come to: an understanding with a friendly neighbouring country involved in Afghan politics. He also made it a point to receive support for his government from the Afghan jehad groups based in Iran.
           He promoted Ismael Khan to the rank of: General and, after talks with him, declared that both of them were unanimous on political and military issues end will continue the resistance till the downfall of the quisling Kabul regime.
          The AIG President, while signing an agreement with the Wahdat Party and independent Iran-based Afghan jehad organizations, persuaded them to take part in the forthcoming Elections and a joint political committee. Prof. BUrhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jami'at-e-Islami Afghanistan and Minister for Reconstruction in the AIG, also accompanied Prof. Mujaddedi during this visit. But Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan and Interior Minister, while commenting on this journey, said, "I ■personally have no
                                               15
 OCTOpER-DECEMBER. 1990 MGH/IWJfHAO                              VOL.4 N0.1
 objection to . Mr. Mujaddedi's visit to Iran but,, as Mr. Mujaddedi travelled to Iran in the capacity of a President, he should h^ve consulted Professor Sayyaf the Prime Minister and other members of the cabinet in this regard. As rto such consultation has taken place, therefore other parties would reserve the right to accept or rejebt any accord which might have been concluded in the course of this visit."                                                     v
      Prof. Mujaddedi returned from Iran on the same day when the plane carrying Najibullah, head of the Kabul regime, on return from Geneva landed at Mashad and, after a short stop-over, flew on towards Kabul.,This development gave birth to certain rumours that Mujaddedi met with Najib and these rumours gained strength when Najib cleverly spoke about having met the mujaheddin leaders in Meshad without naming anybody. But Mujaddedi strongly rejected these rumours and said, "our . stand vis-a-vis the communist regime is very clear. Neither myself nor our representative /met with Najib or any of his representatives, at any place and did not have any talks with hinw They are the murderers of an entire nation and spread such rumours only to discredit me in; the eyes of the people . .. If Najib reaTLly desires an end to the troubles of the people of Afghanistan, he should abandon power and to resign, because this is the only solution to the Afghan problem."                                    ,
     ’ Inspite of the fact that all the efforts of Prof. Mujaddedi did not cut any ‘'ice and proved of no avail for his government, after his visit to Iran, he revealed in an interview, that he would call on the new Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif and urge him as a friend of the mujaheddin to officially recognize the Interim government.
                                  REVIVAL OF ELECTIONS PLAN
       Political observers indeed really surprised when the Interim Government despite its incapability, differences of opinion regarding elections and disagreement of the mujahed forces .outside the government, announced its election plan and deputed missions to supervise the holding of elections.
                         ' ' ' '                   •      .      I •
      The AIG had ensured its survival since last winter by promising to hold elections. Last summer it had announced that elections will be carried,                              by August
 but it failed                                     to carry its plan and nobody could imagine that the topic of
 elections would                                     be aired once more. On 2 December, 199Q, the AIG President
 alongwith the Prime Minister and some of the cabinet ministers, but in the absence of Pir                                     Sayyed Ahmad Gailani Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and
           Chief Commissioner of Elections, announced another plan for holding elections.
      Although none has opposed the holding of elections as such except Khales, who does not consider it in accordance with Shari’at and who has boycotted'it in such a manner that he would support the result of,the elections, as regards the election procedure not only everyone has a different viewpoint, but there is no consensus on it timming and method.
      Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar seems to be for the creation of an institution to supeirvize the elections but after the downfall of Najib,
      Rabbani is for elections but when peace and secuirty is maintained in the country. •
                                            16  *
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGHflN JtHAD                              VOL.  4 NO.V
       Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of the Harakah-e-Inqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, who belongs to the coalition of the independent jehad groups of Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad and Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzen, opines that general elections should be held to solve the Afghan problem. He' considers the present situation favorable for holding- elections and is of the opinion that in the liberated areas, the regional commanders should maintain law and order, and if they could not do so, then we can seek the help of the neighbouring Islamic countries because the people of Afghanistan trust them,
               s                                                         .
       Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Mujaheddin-e-Afghan in Iran also stress the need for elections provided it is universal- embracing men and women- and there is a re-appropriation of election districts so that, according to this party, Afghan minorities may be fairly represented.
       Another Shia leader, Ayatullah Mohseni, believes that these elections must be acceptable to all the mujaheddin and should be general.and universal and at a time when peace is at hand.                                 •-
       Seerat Taluqani, leader of the newly formed "Shoora-e-Nahzat-e-Islam" (Council of Islamic Unity, having Uzbek overtones) has rejected the AIG plan and has called for general elections with the participation of all the Muslim citizens of Afghanistan including Sunni, Shia, Tajik, Uzbek, Pashtoon and Hazara                         ,
       However all these .groups and invividuals vehemently oppose any role for Najib and his so called Watan part (formerly the PDPA).
       On the other hand, the ex-King of Afghanistan in a plan has sought that in the first place a 30-member jirgah of the influential Afghans be convened and then a list of the representatives of the jehad organizations, forums loyal to the jehad, religious, scholars, political personalities, elders of the society' .and all the eminent persons of the Afghan society prepared and then an emergency jirgah be held inside Afghanistan or in an Islamic country such as Egypt or Turkey or a neutral country such as Switzerland or Austria, He says the sending of. invitations and provision of the required facilities should be undertaken by the UN.
       Zaher says the emergency jirgah should pave the way for a loya jirgah to draft the Constitution, hold general elections and lay the foundation of a political system based on Islamic values,                     ^      .
       But in the backdrop of all these efforts for holding elections, when one discusses the matter in private with the party leaders, all of them admit that under the circumstances, holding elections inside the Afghan territory would create many difficulties without solving the basic problem.
                    NEW EFFORTS FOR ALLIANCE AND EFFORTS TO ATTACK KABUL
       Notwithstanding bitter experiences, failures, efforts to form new coalitions and alliances, the desire for the formation of a new alliance is still in force. This time, in the midst of efforts for creating a new alliance.
                                               17
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 WflIIJM                                     VOL.4 N0.1
  ,a military problem too assumed serious political proportions and that was the subject of a big attack on Kabul. Engineer Hekmatyar, by presenting this plan, paved the way for discussions with the five parties included in the AIG. As he stresses the military solution entials a big , and dramatic attack on Kabul, he tried to persuade all the other leaders., too, to join him.
       However, although all the jehad .leaders are, in principle, in favor of a big•attack on Kabul, they have different opinions in regard to its process and timing. Hekmayar deals with this subject in a manner which seems unique to some extent. He believes that Kabul should be attacked for its effectiveness; the Kabul regime forces be called upon to turn their guns towards the Kabul rulers and the residents of Kabul around the military installations be asked to vacate these areas for their own safety. In this connection he ' says a large number of officers of the; Kabul regime army are in contact with him. in the meantime he will encourage General Tani, the former Kabul regime Defense Minister who joined Hekmatyar after his abortive coup against Najib, to urge his followers in the Afghan army to join mujaheddin.
       Ahmad shah Masood believes that the effective way to invade Kabul, would be to initiate well concerted operations throughout the length and breadth of the country.
       Some of the Shia mujaheddin groups have also supported the.plan to attack Kabul. The spokesman of the coalition of Shia mujaheddin, Taqaddussi has said in Peshawar that the mujaheddin of Paghman under the command of the coalition are ready to start an attack' on Kabul. He says that, after the attack by the mujaheddin,, a military council and government would be organized.
       In the beginning, sharp differences of opinion existed between prof. Mujaddedi'' and Engineer Hekmatyar on the issue' of attack on Kabul. Mujaddedi did not agree to this plan, because he thought that a large number of the people of Kabul would be killed in the course of this operation. Hekmatyar’s poistion in this regard , without .making any'reference to Mujaddedi, was that "Those who are opposed to this sort of- action, perhaps think that the Russians and the Najib regime would hand over the power to them". Later Mujaddedi amended his stand and supported the idea of attacking the military installations but expressed opposition to casualties among the residents of Kabul. Therefore, he has partly endorsed the plan.
     . Another tactical difference of opinion was Gulbuddin Hekmatyar’s insistence on the speedy implementatin of this plan, but all the other mujaheddin leaders and their commanders opposed to start this operation in winter and preferred the spring season as the proper time.
       Political observers think that such an. operation could be effective on the condition that, on the one hand, -these operations should be carried out simultaneously throughout the country in a well concerted manner and, on the other hand, the armed forces of the Kabul regime should support it.
       Inspite of all these efforts and discussions, the question as to which efficient and generally agreeable leadership would hold the reins of power after
                                             18
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 HIUIIHHlUIIHU                               MOL.4  NO. 1
   the collapse of the Kabul regime persisted.
         *
        It was a result of mujaheddin new moves that the Kabul regime asked its rubber stamp assembly to appeal, through a communique, to all the Afghans, national figures, jehad commanders, opposition armed forces, leaders of the Tehran-based jhnd Peshawar-based parties, overseas Afghans, international organizations, heads of the Islamic countries and other states'to forestall the mujaheddin attack on Kabul.
        In the midst of these activities, mostly at Afghan lelvel aimed at solving the Afghan issue, jehad commanders too adopted new measures to participate in relevant Afghan affairs by convening another meeting jkof their council.
                                    COMMANDERS' COUNCIL MEET
           ( ■ . ' ■’
                                      ' ' \ . ‘
        The Commanders' Council, which had earlier held two sessions in Paktia, for its third session Changed its venue alongwith the change in its qualitative aspect. This time it was held at Topkhana, Badakshan, in the north-eastern part of the country. Approximately 1,000 commanders and leaders of the jehad took part in it. They decided that the commanders should conduct the military affairs and the jehad leaders the political affairs. Meanwhile an implicit was given, that if the jehad leaders could not perform their functions successfully, the commanders would undertake this responsibility too. Thus the importance of performing the assignments allocated to 'the parties concerned was brought home to the leaders. Masdood, spokesman of the meeting, said, "We have agreed to form a single and joint command for organizing the countryside offensive operation plan".
        The meeting and decisions of the commanders sent a cold shudder through the spines Of the Moscov-ites and the Kabul regime. Moscow in its radio cpmmentries considered this meeting as an endorsement of the military solution of the Afghan problem and called it a dangerous move.
        In pursuance of such a proximity among the jehad leaders and commanders, an agreement of peace and reconciliation was signed by the Hezb-e-Islami and the Jamiat-e-Islami who were at loggerheads in the past. Both the parties promised to observe the terms of the agreement, as far as possible, in the c\reas under their control. '
                                        NAJIB'S EFFORTS
        On 21 November the news of the unexpected journey of Najib to Switzerland was broadcast among a wave of commentaries and fanfare. He tried, during this journey, to meet with representatives of the mujaheddin and the Afghan personalities but it seemed that he returned to Kabul without achieving anything significant result and, for the sake of creating some mischief, had a brief stopover at Meshad, too. While explaining the results of his journey, he said that he had contacted the representatives of Zaher Shah and a nufuber of Shia and Sunni leaders (without giving names). These remarks, on the one hand; provided food for commentaries to the international news media and on the other, the names of some of the leaders like Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailhni, Professor
   OCTOBER-DECEMBEB, 1990 HIMIffllJtlMU                              VOL.4 NO.1
   Mujaddedi, some leaders of Wahdat Party and some other leaders of the Shia groups were specifically mentioned. It was alleged that these leaders met Najib personally or had sent their representatives to meet him. Thus he created suspicion and misunderstanding among the mujaheddin leaders.
             .     ' •        '                  .■ I
         Mujaddedi and some leaders of Shia groups loudly denied these reports. Howqever, some other mujaheddin leaders were still being suspeted of meeting Najib who meanwhile considered by all as traitor No. 1,
        Prof. Sayyaf in a speech, on the occasion of Friday congregation, 13 November declared:  "Lately some people connected with jehad efforts met with
   Najib, which is not only repugnant to the Islamic Code of Law but tantamount t© serious treason to the cause of the jehad, the mujaheddin, Islam, the homeland and the martyrs".
        When this conspiracy failed, Najib issued a communique Saying that two representatives of Hekmatyar- Abdul Qadeer Karyab and Baheer Ghairat- had met some important members of his govevernment- Sulaiman Laiq, Aslam Watanjar, Yaqubi and Kaviani- in Iraq.
        Leaving aside the domestic difficulties of the Afghan problem and looking at its international dimension, ,We find that this dimension has been complicated with the policies of the super-powers.
                     STEREO TYPED RESOLUTIONS AND THE FORMAL MEETINGS
        As regards Afghanistan, a weaker than the earlier resolutions was approved by the OIC. The disgraceful aspect- of this resolution was the drafting of its text, after consultation with the Russians, and in this text, side by side with the plan for the formation of a broad-based government, a‘ reference has been made to the "inter-Afgban negotiations", too. In fact this resolution is based, more than anything else, on the fundamentals of the so-called national reconciliation plan proposed by Najib.
        The undiscussed resolution of the UN General Assembly too was a stereotyped one, stressing the need for ceasefire in Afghanistan, commencement of inter-Afghan discussions for the establishment of a broad-based government, giving importance to the public will, preservation of territorial integrity, independence, Islamic character and non-alignment of Afghanistan and emphasizing a peaceful solution of the problem.
        During the meetings and discussions between the Foreign Minister of the USSR and the US Secretary of State# without issuing any formal communique, both countries were interested in their own approaches towards the Afghan issue. Similarly Pakistan and Iranian authorities pursued their own usual policies in this connection. (See editorial - "The Missing Afghan Option",)
  |OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 UFOHJIlt JtHflD V0L.4 N0.1 |
  Military Dimension:
  WAR INTENSIFIES IN MANY PROVINCES
  Mujaheddin Capture Another
                        Province
     The war in Afghanistan intensified during the last three months (October20-December 20) in comparison to the previous quarter (July 20-September 20). According to an Afghan Jehad tabulation based on press and radio reports, increases occured during this period in (1) shooting down of military aircraft, (2) explosion of the Kabul regime ammunition dumps, (3)- destruction of communist posts by the mujaheddin, (4) the number of injured troops and militiamen of the Kabul regime, (5) killing of distinguished communists, (6) arms captured by the mujaheddin, (7),wounded civilians, (8) SCUD rockets fired by the Kabul regime, (9) Kabul regime tanks and military Vehicles seized by the mujaheddin and (10) in the number of POWs.
     During these three months a total of 2,135 soldiers and militiamen were killed and another 700 wounded, according to these reports. It is worth nothing that while in terms of human casualties the number of injuries are greater than the number of those killed' in military action, in Afghanistan the situation is reversed. This may be due to the lack of provisions to save the lives of those injured.                      •
     During the same period 685 mujaheddin were killed 614 injured compared to 587 killed and 590 wounded during the previous three months. Three hundred fifty seven civilians were killed, an increase of 273 persons, than previous quarter. The number of the Kabul regime troops and militiamen killed fell by 258, while' the number of their injured increased by 235. The mujaheddin intensified their attacks oh military air fields causing the destruction of more aircraft. The number of aeroplanes shot down and destroyed on the ground reached 38 an increase of nine over previous figures. *
     Bamian, Paktia, Farah and Kapisa did not record any casualty report. The mujaheddin occupied the Uruzgan province, bringing to six the number of provinces under their control. The mujaheddin had previously occupied Takhar, Kapisa, Paktika, Kunar and Bamian, From four provinces under the^ mujaheddin control only in Kunar action has been recorded, the rest being quiet. But from the Takhar province, already liberated, there were reports of military engagements. Uruzgan,which has been recently captured,,; also had many report of
                           21
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
  military action. ■
         As expected, fighting increased in Zebul, where the mujaheddin are trying to occupy its Qalat, center of the province. The mujaheddin siege of the city continued.
        Reports of fierce fighting have also been reaching from Herat, Kandahar, Logar, Ghazni, Jauzjan and Samangan provinces'. A larger number of the mujaheddin were killed or wounded in Kabul province whereas, the number of the Kabul regime forces and militiamen killed and injured in Zdbul province is larger than anywhere else, Kandahar and Kabul provinces being next in the series. The reason for the higher mujaheddin casualties in Kabul may be the sustained air raids of mujaheddin positions, while the increase in the number of Kabul government casualties in Zabul may be attributed to an intensification of war efforts by the mujaheddin trying to capture the center of the province.
OCTOBER-OECEMBER. 1990    BtlilUH.ItMII                 VOL.4 NO. 1
■ ' • . '                                                  
MAJOR DOCUMENTS                                     i!     
4k REVISED TEXT OF THE AIG ELECTIONS LAW;            25-31 
0 TEXT OF JAMIAT AND HEZB AGREEMENT ON COOPERATION:  31-33 
• text OF COMMUNIQUE BY THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF            
COMMANDERS;                                         .34-35 
£ TEXT OF ZAHER SHAH PLAN FOR SOLVING THE AFGHAN           
ISSUE;                                               35-36 
• TEXT OF UN 1990 RESOLUTION ON AFGHANISTAN;         37-39 
£ TEXT OF ANNUAL REPORT BY THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL        
ON AFGHANISTAN;                                      39-46 
• ANNUAL REPORT OF "FREEDOM HOUSE" ON AFGHANISTAN    47-48 
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
NEW TEXT OF LAW FOR CONVENING LOYA JIRGAH

EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the revised text of the AIG law for convening a Loya Jirgah. The first text was published in April-June» 1990 issue of the Afghan Jehad.
!
l f ~ ^   ^
 IN THE NAME OF ALLAH MOST GRACIOUS MOST MERCIFUL
      In conformity 'with the Quranic verse of "and consult them in affair" (Sura Al-e-Imran-verse 159) and the implementation of the decision adopted (by the AIG) 29-11-1990. about the convening of an Islami Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd (men of wisdom) as well as the Islamic Shoora (Wolosi Jirgah), provincial and district shooras aimed at realizating of the rights of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and providing the necessary means and other facilities within the limits of possibilities and finally,_ taking into consideration the current situation inside and outside the country, and for exerting an effort for the realization and strengthening of the fundamentals of the unity of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan, this law is being issued under the name of the Law of the convening of the Elected Islamic Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd of Afghanistan*
                                  CHAPTER I DEFINITION
 Article I: The following terms bear the following meaning:
      (1) MUJAHED:  One who,  in accordance  with  the commandments of the true
 religion of Islam, wages material and bodily struggle and jehad for earning the pleasure of God, upholding the Word of Allah, and annihilation of infidelity and atheism and securing the complete- independence of his Islamic country.
      (2) MUHAjeR: One who has been forced to leave his homeland, in accordance with the excellent Shariat of Muhammad, peace be upon him, for the protection of
      religion, honor and freedom (exposed to danger) as a result of the
                                               25
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGllilHJIHAD                              VOL.4 N0.1
    oppression of infidelity and atheism and has , decided to partake in the Holy Jehad.
         (3)   COMMANDER: A person who has a minimum of 30 armed mujahed under his
    command    and has served for   two years    as commander      and possesses the
    qualifications of a person eligible to vote.
         (4) SCHOLAR: A well known teacher of religious subjects in the area.
         (5) ELDER; A benevolent elder of the people considered as a source for solving the problems of the people of the area.
         (6)        ISLAMIC ELECTED LOYA JIRGAH OF THE AHL-E-HAL WA AQD:A jirgah whose members have the qualification of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd (men of wisdom) elected in accordance with the provisions'of this law.
         (7)        THE AHL-E-HAL WA AQD: People of good manners and opinion considered by the community as sources for solving their problems.
         (8)   THE ISLAMIC SHOORA     (WOLOSI JIRGAH): A jirgah    whose members are
    introduced from, among the 10 members of/ the elected members of each (electoral) district.
         (9)   PROVINCIAL COUNCIL • (SHOORA):    A   body  comprising' one * elected
    representative of each district council of the province.
         (10) DISTRICT COUNCIL: A body comprising eight elected members of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd of the district.
         (11)       DISTRICT SUPERVISORY TEAMrA team, sent to electoral districts by the Central Commission (for convening) of the Loya Jirgah, for supervising the election of the members of the Loya Jirgah.
         (12)  THE  CENTRAL COMMISSION (FOR  THE  CONVENING) OF     THE LOYA JIRGAH: A
    competent  body responsible for  studying and investigating activities related to
    the election of delegates to the Loya Jirgah.
         (13)  MEMBERSHIP CREDENTIAL: A  printed document conferred upon the elected
    person by the Central Commission (for convening) of the Loya Jirgah.
         (14) SEAL: An emblem used by the Central Commission (for the convening) of the Loya Jirgah and by the supervisory commission for the attestation of documents,
         (15)  LIST OF THE AHL-E-HAL WA AQD:     A   list  containing  the names  of
    commanders, ulama, elders of the district possessing the qualification of, the ahl-e-hal wa aqd prepared before the elections.
                                           CHAPTER II ORGANIZATION
    DISTRICTS
    ARTICLE 1: Consists of Woloswalis, centers of Loy-Woloswalis, provincial centers
                                                 26
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGHilNJtHflD                               VOL-4 N0.1
 and five districts (allocated) for the Koochis (nomads).
      (NOTE: Districts allocated for the Koochis are:  (1) -      -  C2)        t
 (3) - - - - -(4) ----- (5) _____ (blanks from, the- original text).
 ARTICLE 2:  The center of Kabul province has five and the centers of Kandahar
 and Herat provinces have two districts each.
 ARTICLE 3:, The Elected Islamic Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd includes the following personalities:
      1. Ten elected members from each district.
      2. Fifteen appointed members in accordance with the 8-1-1990 decision of
          AIG Organization.
      3. A meeting of the organs of the state will appoint 20 members from the entire community of intellectuals, spirituals and tribal leaders possessing reliable Islamic character.
      4. Member of the Centeral Commission for the convening of Loya Jirgah.
 ARTICLE 4: The Islamic Shoora (Wolosi Jirgah) of Afghanistan will be comprised of:
      1. One elected delegate from among the 10 delegated (already elected for the Loya Jirgah) from each district.
      2..Ten appointed delegates in accordance with the decision No.3467 of 8-1-1990 of the organs of the State.                        •
      3. Members of the Central Commission for the convening of the Loya Jirgah.
 ARTICLE 5: PROVINCIAL SHOORA: Consists of one elected delegate from among the 10 delegates (already elected for the Loya Jirgah from each electoral district of the province).
 ARTICLE 6:  DISTRICT  SHOORA:  Consists of eight delegates already elected for
 the Loya Jirgah from an electoral district.
                                   CHAPTER III QUALIFICATION OF CANDIDATES
 ARTICLE 7:  A person with the following qualifications can be recognized as a
 delegate of thk district.
      1. Should be a Muslim and a citizen of Afghanistan.
      2. Should have participated in the holy jehad of Afghanistan.
      3. Should be 25 years old.
      4. During the course of holy jehad should not have been convicted of. crime or misdemeanour by the Islamic Courts.
      5. His close relatives (father, son or brother) have not served in
         high-ranking positions^ (head of a department or higher) or the KHAD of the Kabul regime.             ■
      6. Should have a reasonable religious knowledge and known for his honesty, piety, fairness, and not notorious for treason, debauchery, and
                                               27
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGHflM JIHAD                              VOL.4 N0.1
         have been a performer of Islamic rites and manners.
      7. Is not a member of pervert political groups.
      8. Has not taken stance against the sacred jehad of Afghanistan.
      9. Those who have defected from the atheist government(of Kabul) after the
         withdrawal of Soviet troops are not eligible for candidacy.   (
                                    CHAPTER IV VOTERS' QUALIFICATION
 ARTICLE 8:  Persons with following qualifications may cast their votes in the
 electoral districts
      1. A Muslim and a citizen of Afghanistan.
      2. Has not taken a stance against the sacred Islamic jehad.
      3. Should be sound in mind and has reached the age of maturity.
      4. Is not a member of pervert political groups.
                                             CHAPTER V
         PROCEDURES FOR ELECTING MEMBERS OF THE LOYA JIRGAH
 ARTICLE 9:   The   Centeral • Commission of the Loya Jirgah announces the
 qualifications of the delegates for the Loya Jirgah in an official letter to the ulama, commanders and elders of each electoral district.
 ARTICLE 10: In  case the residence of a district belong to a jehad organization,
 the shoora of that organization will elect 10 delegates to the Loya Jirgah.
 ARTICLE 11; In case the residence of the district belong to different jehad forces but the district has already a shoora acceptable to all jehad forces of the region, they can elect 10 persons on the basis of their (own) decision to the membership of Islamic Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd.
 ARTICLE 12; In case some of the jehad forces, ulama and elders are not members of the local shooras, the Supervisory Team will make an attempt to include them in the shoora and elect delegates for the Loya Jirgah on the basis of majority vote.
 ARTICLE 13: In Case there is more than one Shoora i-n the district, the Supervisory Team, will convene a joint shoora on the basis of a consensus reached among these Shooras and elect delegates to the Loya Jirgah on the basis of a majority vote.
 ARTICLE 14: In case a district lacks a local Shoora, the Supervisory Team will
 organize a Shoora of the ulama and elders of the district, on the basis of an understanding with the commanders and people of the region, and elect through this body delegates to the Loya Jirgah.
 ARTICLE 15:   In districts  under enemy  control, their  ulama,  commanders and
 elders who are within the ranks of jehad and the mujaheddin will elect 10 delegates from each district for the Loya Jirgah in accordance with the provisions of this chapter of this law.
                                              28
  OCTQBER-DECEMBER, 1990          HIUllHil UlflJUJ                   VOL.4 NQ.1
      In case the ulama, commanders and elders of such districts are not able to alect 10 delegates to the Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd, such' delegates will be elected from a. neighbouring district which does no;t face such difficulties.
      In case a neighbouring district, too, is. unable, due to the same reasons, to elect’ delegates to the Loya Jirgah of ahl-e-hal wa aqd, the refugees of the district living outside Afghanistan will elect them on the basis of the decision of the Central Commission for the convening of the Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd.
 ARTICLE 16:  Ten delegates of each electoral district will elect one delegate
 for the Wolosi Jirgah and one delegate for the Provincial Shoora.
 ARTICLE 17:  The remaining eight delegates will comprise the Local Shoora of the
 district.
 ARTICLE 18:  In case, the election of delegates to the Loya Jirgah cannot take
 place as stipulated (in this law), the commanders, elders and ulama of the district will select the delegates through any easy mechanism on which they may (agree).
 ARTICLE 19: For every 10% of refugees of a district one delegate of the refugees will be elected.
 ARTICLE 20:  If the population of an electoral district consists of 60% or more
  refugees, four of the mujaheddin and six of the refugee delegates will be elected from that district.                                   "
 ARTICLE 21:  In case 20% or less than 20% of the people of an electoral district
 are refugees, the district Shoora will elect two members from the refugees.
 ARTICLE 22:  If the commanders are frorti the refugees population, they ‘would be
 elected through the refugee quota.
 ARTICLE' 23: For assessing -the percentage of the refugees in the electoral district, a joint commission of the Heads of Refugee Departments of the' mujaheddin organization wfll make a statement.
 ARTICLE 24: In case the larger portion of the refugees of a district live in one single (refugee) camp, that camp will serve as the center for the election pf the delegates.
 ARTICLE 25: The procedures for electing refugee delegates will be identical with those followed inside the country.
                            CHAPTER VI PROCEDURES FOR HOLDING THE ELECTIONS
 ARTICLE 26:  The election of the members of the Loya Jirgah of the ahl-e-hal wa
 aqd will be announced by the Loya Jirgah Commission at a fixed time.
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHflfl JfHflD                            VOL-4n0.1
                  ARTICLE 27: Security measures in the centers of electoral, districts will be arranged by the responsible authorities of the mujaheddin bases and the 7 Supervisory Commission and outside Afghanistan by the Central Commission for the Convening of the Loya Jirgah arid responsible authorities of the (refugee) camps.
 ARTICLE 28: In the area where elections are taking place any provocative action .will be considered as an offense.
 ARTICLE 29: The 10 candidates in a district who have received the highest number of votes will be considered as delegates to the Loya Jirga.
                                          CHAPTER VII
              THE CENTRAL COMMISSION FOR THE CONVENING OF THE LOYA JIRGAH
 ARTICLE 30:  The Central Commission (for the convening) of the Loya Jirgah is
 dutybound to process complaints lodged in regard to the election process in the shortest period of time and announce its decision.
 ARTICLE- 31: The decision of the Central Commission (for the convening) of the
 Loya Jirgah is final and not subject to arbitration.
 ARTICLE 32: Membership credentials (for the Loya Jirgah and the Islamic Shoora (Wolosi Jirgah) will be conferred—to the elected member after the completion of legal procedures.
 ARTICLE 33:  The manual governing the internal procedures of the Central
 Commission for the convening of the Loya Jirgah which has brieri adopted by this Commission in 44 articles will be the practical guideline'of this body.
 ARTICLE 34:   If in any district a difficulty emerges in regard to the election
 of one delegate from among the 10 delegates to the Wolosi Jirgah dr Proviricial Shoora, in that case the elected delegates of other districts of the same province should collectively seek to solve the issue. If the Provincial Shoora failed to solve the issue, the Supervisory Team should refer it to‘the Central Commission (for the convening) of the Loya Jirgah.                        '
 ARTICLE 35: (The  qualifications of the) appointed members of the Loya Jirgah
 and Islam.! Shoora (Wolosi Jirgah) should be scrutinized £>y the:       Central
 Commission for the convening of the Loya Jirgah.
 ARTICLE 36:  The expenditure of the entire budget (allocated) for the election
 is within the power of' Central Commission (for the convening) . of the Ldya Jirgah.
 ARTICLE 37: .The decision of the .Supervisory Team will be credible to the Central Commission (for the convening) of the Loya Jirgah after the decision is signed by the 2/3 of the members of the team and bears the se^.1 of that team.
                                  CHAPTER VIII               '
                                DISTRICT SUPERVISORY COUNCIL
 'Article 38: The District Supervisory Council are authorized persons who are appointed and sent over by the Central Commission of the Loya Jirgah,
                                        30                ,
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 Article 39: The Supervisory Council determines centers of districts both inside and outside the country.
 Article 40:  The Supervisory  council is responsible to listen   to complaints and
 after scrutinizing it in the shortest possible time, informs the person involved of its decision in writing.
 Article 41:  Objections  cannot be heard after the  prescribed period.
CHAPTER IX
 MISCELLANEOUS:
 Article 42: If a member of the Supervisory Council decides to become a candidate for the Loya Jirgah, he s'ubmits his resignation as member of the District Council five days prior to elections and introduces' his substitute with the consent of the Supervisory Council.
 Article 43; Decisions of the Supervisory Council are passed by majority vote in all cases that are not contrary to the provisions of this law.
 Article 44: The qualifications of commanders, °ulama and elders are determined
 with the understanding of the people and those responsible for the execution of jehad through the delegation of Supervisory Council (stetK
 Text              ofJamiat-Hezb               Agreement
              on Joint Administration of Liberated Areas
                  IN THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS AND MOST MERCIFUL
     In order to establish a single administration in the liberated areas, to form a council representing the entire nation, to develop coordination among the ranks of the mujaheddin and to remove the tensions, we agree upon a plan
31
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,1990
VOL.4 NO-1
comprising the following proposals:
 1.  Formation of local councils at tlie ' level of every administrative unit in the country.
 2. The councils will be formed' through elections             on     the basis of
     proportionate representation..
                                                                          *
 3.  The residents of each division and district will vote in complete freedom to the party of their choice. Later each party will introduce its representatives to the local council in proportion to the votes obtained.
 4.  Each party obtaining the majority of votes in an administrative unit, will shoulder the responsibility of the administrative affairs of that particular area.
 5.  The, duties of this administration will include establishment of law and order and shari'at courts in the area and collection of Ushr and Zakat.
 6.  vThe revenue of the area will be divided in two parts:
     (a)  One part shall be allocated for running the administration of tfte area and payment of salaries to the officials and employees and security staff and for other miscellaneous matters.                   ■   ‘
     (b) The remaining sum will ; be allocated to the parties in proportion to the number of representatives of each party in the local .councils in order to meet the expenses in the sectors of health and education and jehad requirements.
 7. The minority parties will have the right of independent political . activities, inviting the people (to join or support their parties), rendering humanitarian help and services to the people of the region, organizing and arming the mujaheddin and despatching forces against the enemy.
 8.  For defense action, the mujaheddin of a region will defend the region concerned according to the decisions of the local council and under the. commander in charge of the region. But for offensive purposes they shall take action with the consent of their party!
 9.  Armed persons^ of one group' can pledge an .undertaking with another group provided they have cleared all their dues with the previous organization and returned all the equipments given to them by the party, concerned if the said equipment has not been damaged or destroyed during the war.
10.  Logistic routes will be opened for all the mujaheddin and nobody will have the right to obstruct the path of the mujaheddin convoy.
11.  Each party or front is obliged to provide logistic routes in the areas under its control. '
                                                        32
  f
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCIIHIIJH1J111                            VOL.4 NO-1
  12.  A National Council, representing all the nation                      on the basis, of the
      results of these elections and keeping in view the votes and the opinion of the refugees, will be formed. Representation of each party in'the Council will be proportionate to its overall votes.
 , 13. In order to implement this                        plan, a competent commission comprising
      representatives of the allied parties will be formed. The duties of this commission.are as follows:                              1
      (a) To form provincial bodies and to send them- to the areas concerned, at
      the earliest; to take proper action concerning enforcement of cease-fire, opening the logistic routes; to implement agreements regarding the procedure of absorbing the mujaheddin of one' party in another party or parties; to    rehabilitate the  refugees; to settle  internal disputes and
      return their properties and assets.
      (b) To open                     party offices in preparation for the elections and to take
                        ,necessary steps for ensuring safety and security of the minorities who had
      migrated but now intend to return.
      (c) To announce an appropriate time-limit for the parties in preparation for the elections.
 14. No one belonging to any party has the right to arrange cease-fire with the regime or to receive any financial help from or cooperate with the regime. Those accused of collaborating with the regime would be tried in a court of law by the local council and the parties concerned would not have the right to defend them.
 15.. In every province a competent, military council will be formed to look after joint military operations and create harmony among the. mujaheddin. This council,comprising efficient commanders of the province, will be formed by the delegations commissioned and deputed .for the job.
 16.   Simultaneously with the signing of this agreement, understanding among all the parties for conceding to this plan will take place but the Hezb and the Jamiat, in any case, will practically start implementing thi-s agreement one week after the signing of the agreement.
 17.   We undertake under an oath to God Almighty that we would sincerely abide by
      this agreement and would not hesitate to make serious efforts for its speedy application and implementation.                  ,
 Signed by                              Signed by
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani        Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar 
Leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami     Chief of the Hezb-e-Islami, 
Afghanistan.                     Afghanistan.                 
24-10-1990                       24-10-1990                   
V ■                           33                              
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 HIUllHIf Jill/HJ                  VOL.4 NO.1
                TEXT
         EDITOR'S-NOTE: The following is ttie text of a declaration issued after the historical session of the mujaheddin commander held in Topkhana, Badakhshan» 9 October, 1990 and published in the Jehad Hindara of 23 October* 1990.
                      IN THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS. MOST MERCIFUL
                                               '     ,     i
      On 9 October, 1990 the joint commission meeting of the Mujaheddin Council of Commanders Was convened In Topkhana, Badakhshan. The meeting was attended by Haji Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, Eng. Ahmad shah Masood, General Sayyed Mohammad Hasan (Sayyed Jagran), Qari Baba, Abdul Haq, Mula Malang, Khalifah Abdul Wahed, Mohammad Amin Wardak, Mohammad Anwar, Belal Niram, Turan Nazari and a number of other j.ehacl personalities.
      In the light of the decision's taken in previous gatherings of the commanders, matters related to the present position of the jehad was. fully discussed and complete understanding was reached on the application and implementation of Council's decisions.
      In their session, which lasted four days, the following decisions were ■adopted;
 1-   Working out a single strategy on military activities and the. launching of coordinated and organized operations in various parts of the country at one and the same time;
 2.   The division of the country into nine zones and the appointment of a responsible person to each zone by the ulama, commanders and elders.
 3.   The formation of an organized administrative system for the security of the
      regions under the mujaheddin control and the security of their supply routes.      ,
 4.   The establishment of a joint office responsible for' the 'progress and harmony of activities of the Council of Commanders.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 5. We declare to the Russian puppet regime to transfer the political power to the mujahed and Muslim Afghan nation after 12 years of war and bloodshed, the total destruction of the country and the atrocities they have committed. If the hireling regime does not heed this notice, our armed
  , . jehad will continue until the downfal of the regime and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
 6. The life and property of those related to the puppet regime who will join, the ranks of the mujaheddin, will be saved on the basis of the general .amnesty announced earlier.
 Text Of Zaher Shah’s Plan For Solving Afghan Issue
      The circumstances emanating from the regional and international dimension of the Afghanistan problem, lack of progress in the present political situation of jehad and premature struggle exerted for political leadership within the confines of parties and individual (activities) without heeding the free will of the Afghan nation, are all signs of danger which-God forbid-threaten the basic goals of the jehad, national interests and even the existence of Afghanistan unless the Afghans seek means to prevent this trend by avoiding purely their personal and party interests.
      To overcome this dangerous stage and achieve the basic objectives of the jehad, it is necessary to call for an inter-Afghan, understanding on national scale so equitable and acceptable means are provided for organizing the political life of Afghanistan.
      For the initiation of this inter-Afghan understanding, organized political circles, and cricles of mujaheddin commanders, politibal personalities faithful to jehad and effective forces of the Afghan society who have meanwhile supported the jehad will play prominent role.
      As a result of this understanding, an Afghan delegation (approximately 30 persons) consisting of personalities who have been supportive of the jehad
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGlIflN J(HAD                               VOL.4 NO. 1
 and are, at the same time acceptable to a large majority interested parties, should be established. In choosing members of this team, specific criteria such as national identify, experience and representation of the cultural and regional characteristic of Afghanistan should be borne in mind. This delegation should be deputed to prepare a list of the members for an emergency meeting after consultation with other jehadic and interested circles. The list, based on three aforemention standards, should consist of the following (groups):
 1.   Representatives of jehad organizations, including mujaheddin commanders.
 2.   Representatives of other organized Afghan circles faithful to jehad.
                         .                 .                    S             •
 ;3. Well-known Islamic scholars both inside and outside the country.
 4.   Political Afghan personalities frominside and outside of Afghanistan. •
 5.   Leaders and elders of tribes (local and the Koo'chis) from within and outside the country.
 6.   Other effective elements of the Afghan society in Afghanistan and outside.
      An emergency session of these members-the size of which will be determined by the delegation-can either be held inside  Afghanistan (taking in view security
 conditions) or in an Islamic country    such as Egypt or Turkey, or in  a neutral
 country such as Switzerland or Austria. Invitation to the members of the jirgah and : the provision of facilities for- convening the meeting will be carried through the UN. The jirgah will form a provisional political entity for organizing the interim period. This provisional political institution in addition to its executive function, will perform other duties specified by the jirgah .for the revival of stability     and security and the drafting   of a new
 Constitution, adopting of measures       for convening a Loya   Jirgah    for the
 ratification of the new Constitution, p'aving the way . for free elections, establishing a political system based . on Islamic principles and organizing a parliamentary life within the framework of that system.                \
                                                 36
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 fllllllllllJIHI111                                                                             VOL.4 NO.1
 Text of UN Resolution on
           EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text, of the resolution^ adopted by the 45 th session of the UN General Assembly onW Afghanistan.                                                   |
____________                                 oS
     THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
     Having considered the item entitled "The situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security".
     Recalling its resolutions 43/20 of 3 November 1988 and 44/15,of 1 November
1989.
     Reaffirming the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the obligation of all States' to refrain in their international relations from the threat or Use of force against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of any State.                        .    \
      Reaffirming also the inalienable right of all peoples to determine their own form of government and to choose their own economic, political and social system free from outside intervention, subversion^ coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.                          '
                                        • f
      Gravely concerned at the situation in Afghanistan, which resulted from the violation of principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of the recognized norms of inter-State conduct,
   j                         ‘          >                       ;
      Noting the conclusion at Geneva, on 14 April 1988, of the Agreements on'the
 Settlement of the Situation Relating to Afghanistan and the completion of the withdrawal of foreign troops in accordance with those Agreement?.
      Aware of the continuing concern of the international community at the sufferings of the Afghan people and the magnitude of the socia!l and economic problems posed to Pakistan and Iran by the.presence on their soil of millions of Afghan refugees.
      Deeply conscious of the urgent need for a comprehensive political solution of the situation in respect of Afghanistan.
      Conscious that a successful final political settlement of the Afghanistan
                                               37
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHllliJIHAD                               VOL.4 N0.1
 problem would have a favorable impact on the international situation and provide an impetus for the resolution of other acute regional conflicts.
      Expressing its appreciation to the Secretary-General and his Personal Representative for their efforts to bring about peace and security.
      Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General 2/ and the status of the process of political settlement.      v
      1.       Emphasizes the importance of the Agreements on the Settlement of the Situation Relating to Afghanistan, hereinafter referred to as the "Geneva Agreements", concluded at Geneva on 14 April 1988 under United Nations auspices, which constitute an importa-ht step towards a comprehensive political solution of the Afghanistan problem;
      2.       Expresses its deep appreciation to the Secretary-General and his Personal Representative for their constant efforts to achieve a political solution of the Afghanistan problem;
      3.       Calls for the scrupulous respect for and faithful implementation of the Geneva Agreements by all parties concerned who should fully abide by their lettet and. spirit;
      4.       Reiterates that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan is essential for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem;
      5.       Reaffirms the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and to choose their economic, political and social system free from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever;
      6.       Calls upon all parties concerned to work urgently for the achievement' of a comprehensive political solution, the cessation of hostilities and the creation of the necessary conditions of peace and normalcy that would enable the Afghan refugees to return voluntarily to their homeland in safety and honour;
      7. Emphasizes the heed for an early start of the intra-Afghan dialogue for
 the establishment, through democratic procedures acceptable to the Afghan people, including free and fair elections, of a broad-based government to ensure the broadest support and immediate participation of all segments of the Afghan , people;                                                           ..
   -  8. Calls upon all, parties concerned to exert every effort to promote a
 political settlement acceptable to the Afghah people in order to bring to an end the protracted conflict that has prevailed in Afghanistan for the past several years;
      9.       Requests the Secretary-General and his Personal Representative to continue to encourage and facilitate th^ early realization of a comprehensive political settlement, in Afghanistan in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva Agreements and of the present resolution;
      1/ S/19835, annex I:   see Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-
 third year. Supplement for April, May and June 1988, document S/19835.
      2/- (To be issued). ,
                                              38
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
      10.       Expresses its appreciation for the efforts of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees aimed at providing humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and facilitating their voluntary return, and appeal-s to the parties concerned to take all necessary measures to ease their lot;
      11.       Renews its appeal to all States and national and international organizations to continue to^ extend humanitarian relief assistance with a view to alleviating the hardship of the Afghan refugees, in co-ordination with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;
      12. Expresses its appreciation for the efforts of the £o-ordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Program Relating to Afghanistan and calls upon all States to provide to the Co-ordinator adequate financial and material resources for the purposes of achieving the speedy repatriation and rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees, as well as for the economic and social reconstruction of the country;
      13.       Requests the Secretary-General to keep Member States and the Security Council informed of progress towards the implementation of the present resolution and to submit to the General Assembly at its forty.-sixth session a
 V .             i                                                          ' # .
 report on the situation in Afghanistan and on progress achieved in the implementation of the Geneva Agreements and the political settlement relating to Afghanistan;
      14.       Decided to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session the item entitled "The situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security".
Text of UN Secretary General Annual Report on Afghanistan
V
 EDITOR'S NOTE:  The following is the text of the report
 on Afghanistan presented by the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar to the 45th session of the General Assembly.
 1. The present report is submitted *in pursuance of General Assembly resolution 44/15, which was adopted without a vt>te on 1 November 1989. In that resolution, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to keep Member States and the Security Council informed of progress towards the implementation of the resolution and to submit to the Assembly at its forty-fifth session a report on the situation in Afghanistan, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Agreements on the Settlement of the^ Situation Relating to- Afghanistan, 1/ concluded at Geneva on 14 April 1988 (hereafter referred to as the Geneva Accords), and the political settlement relating to Afghanistan.
                                              39
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 WflHtlM                                     VOL.4 NQ.1
 2. I have reported regularly to the General Assembly and the Security Council on the progress in the implementation of the Geneva Accords, as well as on the operation of the United Nations Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan (UNGOMAP) (A/43/720-S/20230, A/44/661-20911 and S/2-0465).
 3. After consulting the parties to the Geneva Accords - on whose behalf I had
 approached the Security Council in April 1988 (S/19834 and S/19835) in order to obtain its consent to deploy United Nations military personnel in the region -in a letter dated 9 January 1990 addressed to the President of the Security Council (S/21071), I sought the concurrence of the Council to extend the' temporary detachment of military officers to Afghanistan and Pakistan beyond the 20 months envisaged in the Accords, which was coming to an end on 15 January 1990. In its resolution 647 '(1990) of 11 January 1990, the Security Council, recalling its resolution 622  (1988) of 31 October 1988, confirmed its agreement
 to the measures envisaged inray letter and'extended the temporary deployment of the military officers concerned to assist in the mission of good offices for a further period of two months - up to 15 March 1990.          1
 4. In my letter dated 12 March 1990 (S/21188),  I informed, the President of the
 Security Council that my consultations with the signatories of the Geneva Accords had indicated that a further extension of the existing arrangements would not meet with the necessary consensus. Accordingly, the arrangements for UNGOMAP came to an end on 15 March 1990.                               ^
                                VIOLATIONS FROM GENEVA ACCORD
 5. Up to 15 March 1990, UNGOMAP continued to discharge its mandate pursuant to the Geneva Accords, monitoring the implementation of all aspects of the Geneva Accords, and providing good offices to the parties to the Accords. UNGOMAP continued to receive numerous complaints, from each party against the other, of alleged violations of .the- first instrument of the Geneva Accords, namely, the Bilateral Agreement between the Republic of Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the Principles of Mutual Relations, in particular on Non-Interference and Non-Intervention. By the end of its mandate, UNGOMAP had received 1,168 notes verbale from Afghanistan, containing a total of 7,545 'specific complaints alleging violations by Pakistan of the. Geneva Accords. On its part, Pakistan had submitted 211 notes verbale containing a total of 1,317 specific complaints of alleged violations by Afghanistan. Most of the complaints lodged by the two parties fell into the categories already indicated in my reports to the General Assembly at its forty-third and forty-fourth sessions (see A/43/720-S/20230, para. 22, and A/44/661-S/20911, para. 5).
 6. Despite the constraints and a number of difficulties encountered in the course of its operations from the outset, i UNGOMAP spared no effort to investigate the complaints lodged by the two parties. By 15 .March 1990, UNGOMAP had submitted^ to the two parties 102 reports On numerous inspections regarding the complaints, and the two parties had held 15 joint meetings under the auspices of UNGOMAP to consider the inspection' reports, as provided for in the fourth instrument of the Geneva Accords, namely, , Agreement on the Inter relationships for the Settlement of the Situation. Relating to Afghanistan. The venue of the joint meetings alternated between the two UNGOMAP headquarters
                                              40
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flfpHflNJtHilD                             VOL.4 N0.1
   units in Islamabad and Kabul. Since the end of the arrangements for UNGOMAP on ' 15 March 1990, Afghanistan has continued submitting to the Office of the Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan (OSGAP) notes yerbale containing complaints on alleged violations of the Geneva Accords by Pakistan, copies of' which have been submitted by OSGAP to the Government of the Islamic Republic of”. Pakistan. »
   7,  The number of military officers who served* with UNGOMAP was 40. They were detached from existing United Nations' operations, namely, the United Nations Truce Supervision /Organization (UNTSO), the United Nations Disengagement
   Observer Force (UNDOF) and the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). : The military officers, equally distributed between the two UNGOMAP headquarters units, in Islamabad and Kabul, comprised the- following number . from 10 nationalities: Austria, two; Ghana, six; Canada, three; Ireland, five; Denmark, four; Nepal, six; Finland, two; Poland, four; Fiji, five; and Sweden,*- three. There was virtually no change in the small civilian auxiliary staff deployed at the two headquarters units.
                                      RETURN OF REFUGEES
                                         A ' '                           .
   8.  With regard, to the implementation . of the third instrument of the Geneva Accords, namely, the Bilateral Agreement between the Republic of Afghanistan and the Islamib (Republic of Pakistan on the Voluntary Return of Refugees, UNGOMAP co-operated closely with the- Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The continued differences between the two ( parties to the. Accords regarding the interpretation of article IV of the- third instrument have prevented the establishment of the mixed commissions envisaged, therein. Efforts to bring an understanding on that question have continued.
   9., Despite the setback in establishing the formal mechanisms foreseen in the Geneva Accords, a number of measures have been taken during the current year to begin providing direct assistance to a-significant number of refugees already returning voluntarily to Afghanistan. Through the dedicated efforts of the High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Thorvald Stoltenberg, the voluntary repatriation assistance programs are being implemented in Pakistan and in Afghanistan by UNHCR, in close co-operation with the Office of the United Nations Co-ordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan (UNOCA) and'the World Food Program (WFP). '                               1  .
   10. The' Government of Pakistan, UNOCA, UNHCR and WFP agreed to launch a voluntary repatriation project on an experimental basis for a period_ of three months that started at the end of July 1990. This pilot project is being implemented in 10 different locations along Pakistan's border with Afghanistan and involves the provision of a repatriation grant in the form' of cash for ■transport and food in exchange.of the .refugee family's ration passbook. By the end of Sepember, close to 10,000 families, or about 50,000 refugees, had already benefited from the scheme. It has now been agreed to extend the project up to February/March 1991.
   11.  Throughout 1990, UNHCR has also been providing direct and individual
                                          41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990          HfGHflWJtHllD    _________ VOL.4 NO. 1
     support to an estimated number of 15,000 Afghan returnees passing through reception and transit centres established by the Government of Afghanistan in. the cities of Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif and Kabul. Transport and food assistance is being provided jointly by UNHCR and WFP following interviews.with the returnees. Progress is also being made by the United Nations agencies concerned in providing assistance to the internally displaced persons who are beginning to return to their villages of origin in increasing numbers. In a parallel effort to cteate conditions conducive to further voluntary repatriation, a temporary presence has been established by the United Nations in the provinces of.Herat, Kandahar, Kunar and Paktika. = ~               i                  ,     .
                                       HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
     12. With reJgard to the United Nations humanitarian and economic assistance programs relating to Afghanistan, I am pleased to report a significant expansion in the activities of the United Nations system during the year. Through the dedicated efforts of my Co-ordinator for United Nations Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan, aid commodities reached the needy Afghans in practically every province of the country in spite ^of logistic and other difficulties.
     13. Currently there are over 400 United Nations projects and subprojects inside Afghanistan, 121 of which have been completed, 246 are under implementation, while over 50 are in the pipeline. They cover aspects of economic and social .i life ranging from mine clearance activities to agriculture, health, education and restoration of physical infrastructure. While emergency assistance continues to be needed by vulnerable' sections of the population, experience gained during the year by the United Nations agencies clearly demonstrates that reconstruction work can be undertaken in, earnest in most parts of the country.
     14. The problem of acute food shortages in some areas, as noted last ye^r, is
     now in large measure under control. The efforts of the Co-ordinator to open new routes in order to reach, in a speedy and cost-effective manner, the ' needy people, particularly in the northern and western regions, have yielded encouraging results. With the collaboration of WFP, 55,000 MT of food have been delivered in this north, while sizeable stocks have been pre-positioned in the neighbouring southern areas. Simultaneously# increased activity by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) to provide seeds and fertilizer has led to bumper crops. Provinces such as Kunar, Paktika and Kandahar, where the United Nations has been active, are now self-sufficient in. food. The serious problem of locust and sun pest has also been addressed and it is expected that next year important, quantities of qrain can be rescued in the-ihfested northern provinces.'   .                                     ,
                                   UNDP's'ROLE
     15. Commendable efforts are also being made by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), as well as by the United Nations specialized agencies and programs,, notably the International Labour Organisation (ILO), FAO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and the World Health Organzation (WHO) in addition to the United Nations Children's
                 . ' ' ,
                                           42
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990            HIUIIHIIUlllHU                   VOL.4 N0.1
   ^Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control*
   16.  In addition to the United Nations offices in the Islamic Republic of.Iran, Pakistan and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United" Nations presence within Afghanistan has been considerably strengthened by . the Co-ordinator. Besides Kabul, United Nations staff members are stationed in various provinces to facilitate the delivery of aid, to monitor its distribution and to initiate rehabilitation projects. These include at present the provinces of Badakhshan, Balkh, Bamian, Herat, Kunar, Paktika, Kandahar and Takhar. Further expansion, in which the United Nations Volunteers Program is playing an increasingly useful role, is foreseen in the coming months. Even though the ongoing fighting and related security hazards for the United Nations staff continue to be a matter of serious concern, it is clear that the efforts in the humanitarian and economic fields can and must be sustained and strengthened.
   17. In financial terms, the response to the appeal I launched in October 1988 now Stands at $US 1,029 million. However, the imbalance between.contributions in cash and in kind, as well a.s the high proportion of contributions earmarked for specific     purposes,   as noted last        year; continued to affect operational
   flexibility.
                                       POLITICAL SETTLEMENT
   18.  In paragraph 10 of its resolution 44/15, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to encourage and facilitate the early realization of a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva Accords and of resolution 44/15.
                I   ,
   19.  In       my report to the General      Assembly at its forty-fourth session
   (A/44/661-S/20911; paras. 23-32), I provided an account of my efforts towards the realization of a comprehensive politicaLl settlement ip Afghanistan, pursuant to my mandate under General Assembly resolution 43/20 of 3 November 1988.
   20,. In a letter dated 12 March 1990 to the President of the Security Council . (S/21188)j I informed the,President of my intention to redeploy a limited number . of military officers as military advisers to my Personal Representative, in Afghanistan and Pakistan to assist in the further implementation of the responsibilities entrusted to me by General Assembly resolution 44/15 and, in particular, its operative paragraph 10. I also informed the President that the military officers would be detached temporarily from existing United Nations operations, with the concurrence of their respective countries. In a letter dated 28    March 1990 from the President of the* Security Council (S/21218), I was
   informed that my letter   was  brought    to the attention of the members of the
   Council, who had no objection to the action I had proposed.
   21.  On 15 March 1990, I established the Office of the Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan (OSGAP) in order to further intensify my efforts for a comprehensive political settlement. I did so, bearing in mind the mandate given, to me and the call for a large Uri'ited Nations role in the solution of this problem. OSGAP is headed by my \ Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Benon Sevan. It is organized into two small headquarters units
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 fllGHHNJ1H111I                             VOL.4 NO.1
    -one in Islamabad, with a sub-office in Peshawar, and one in- Kabul. The military Advisory Unit of OSGAP, comprised of 10 military advisers, one each from
                                                                         I
    Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Fiji, Ghana, Ireland, Nepal, Poland and Sweden, provides the Personal Representative of the Secretary-General with the military advice required to assist him in the further implementation of the responsibilities entrusted to the Secretary-General.The Military Advisory Unit is responsible for the provision of military expertize, as required;, the maintenance of a continued assessment of the security situation in Afghanistan; and elaboration and. updating of plans for military support to a possible increased future United Nations involvement in Afghanistan. The military advisers are organized in two small units in Islamabad and Kabul, with some of the military advisers in Islamabad rotating between Islamabad and Peshawar. The organizational arrangements of OSGAP are essential in order to remain in constant touch with all segments of the Afghan society and to obtain the minimum knowledge of that complex political and military reality which is needed if my mandate is to be carried out.             -
    22.  The expenses of OSGAP are met from the regular budget of the United Nations. At the time of the establishment of OSGAP, I requested the Governments of the Republic of Afghanistan and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to continue, similar to the undertaking they had made for UNGOMAP, to bear the local operating cost of OSGAP.
    23. I am pleased to report that the support and co-operation from all concerned, particularly from the two host Governments, namely, the Government of the Republic of' Afghanistan and the Government df the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as well as from the two guarantors of the Geneva Accords, namely, the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the .Government of the United States of America has continued after the lapse of the mandate of UNGOMAP. Each.of the host Governments has provided, the necessary assistance in ensuring the security and safety of OSGAP personnel. I should therefore like to express my appreciation to the Governments of the two host countries and all other Governments concerned whose support and co-operation are essential for OSGAP to perform its functions effectively. I also, take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to the Governments that have been providing military advisors of OSGAP for their outstanding performance under difficult conditions.
    24.  Pursuant to paragraph 10 of General Assembly resolution 44/15, I intensified my consultations with all segments of the Afghan people, the two parties ahd the two -guarantors of the Geneva Accords, the Governments of the neighbouring and other countries. I also initiated a series of consultations through my Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, who has travelled extensively during the past two years shuttling between the- capitals concerned.
    25.  Since the adoption of General Assembly resolution 44/15, I have had several discussions with the Foreign Minister of Afghanistan, Mr. Abdul Wakil, and as« recently as September 1990, With President Najibullah, in Paris. Mr. Sevan has maintained close contacts with the authorities in Kabul. Since November 1989,; his meetings with the Foreign Minister of Afghanistan have continued almost on a
                                                 44
      OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 fllRHAHJtHflfl                            VOL.4 NO. 1
     monthly basis, and he has had several lengthy and substantive discussions with President Najibullah during the current year. My representatives also maintained close contacts with the leaders of opposition groups based in Peshawar and Tehran, as well as with other prominent Afghans currently residing outside the region. They have also been in close contact with leaders of opposition and other groups inside Afghanistan, including Afghan commanders.
     26.  I also had the opportunity to meet in April and September 1990 with the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, Sahabzada Yaqub Khan, and I was in touch through Mr. Sevan, with the President and the Prime Minister.
     27.  My discussions with the two guarantors of the Geneva Accords have been particularly intensive since the adoption of General Assembly resolution 44/15.
     In January 1990, I met in Moscow with the President of the USSR, Mr. Mikhail S. Gorbachev, with whom I had a thorough discussion on the Afghan question; I also discussed the question on several occasions with Mr. Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the, Foreign Minister.
     28.  I also held discussions on .this problem with the President of the United
     States, Mr. George Bush, in June 1990, as well as with Secretary of State, Mr. James A. Baker III.                                                 '
     29.  In addition to my contacts with the guarantors and the. regular contacts
     between Mr. Sevan and the Ambassadors of the guarantors in the area, a series of expert-level meetings have been conducted by my representatives with officials of the United States, in New York and in Washington, D.C., on a regular basis since last November. Further, since last    December, six similar meetings have
     been-held with representatives of the USSR  in Moscow, New York and Geneva.
     30. I also had several opportunities to discuss the Afghan question with the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic    of Iran, Dr.  Ali Akbdr Velayati, as
     recently as September 1990. The Foreign     Minister had previously received  my
     representatives in Aprii, June and August 1990 at Tehran..
     31. The above account represents only the highlights of an intensive and continuous network of discussions that I and my representatives have been conducting with all concerned during the last 12 months fop the purpose of encouraging and facilitating the creation of conditions for the early realization of a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan.
     32.  A number of.specific proposals and suggestions have been put forward by the
     Government of the Republic'of Afghanistan, the opposition leaders, prominent Afghans currently residing outside the region and the guarantors. The basic aim of all the proposals i and suggestions has been to bring about the establishment of a government in Afghanistan, which would have the support of the majority of the Afghan people and thus bring an end to the fighting and suffering. Most of the proposals and suggestions recommend free and fair elections, bearing in mind the Afghan traditions as a means to achieve that objective. Most of them, however, have been put forward not as a result of a dialogue among the opposing parties, but rather as unilateral proposals.        •
                               URGING POLITICAL SETTLEMENT
     33.  I wish to reiterate what I stafed in 198$,. in my previous report on the
                                                 45
      OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 AfGHflNiKHMl                                 VQL-4    N0.1
      work of the Organization. 2/ The problem relating to Afghanistan cannot be solved except by political means. For that, a consensus is needed both at the international and the national levels. AS outlined in my current report on the work of, the Organization, 3/ there has been progress in the' direction of a consensus among the guarantors and the countries neighbouring Afghanistan. Such an international consensus is necessary, in my view, in order to encourage an Afghan national consensus and an Afghan political process, which in turn would enable the Afghan people to exercise, unhindered, their right to self-determination. In the , course of the contacts and discussions I have mentioned above, the responses I have received so far from the Governments concerned clearly indicated'a desire to achieve a settlement through political means.
      34. I  believe    that the time has  come to define the    emerging international
      consensus in a more concrete manner in order to give the necessary impetus to the
      political settlement of the Afghan conflict. This consensus should comprise first and foremost the recognition of the right of the Afghan people to determine their own future, free from outside interference, as well as the necessity for a credible and impartial transition mechanism with appropriate powers and authority, as may be      agreed, that would    allow the Afghans to
      participate in a free and fair election process, taking into account Afghan traditions. This consensus should further indicate the need for a cessation of hostilities and a halt to the arms supply to all sides, as well as the necessity for the implementation of all other transitional arrangements. The plight of the Afghans has always been of great concern to me and it is my belief that the emerging international consensus would recognize the need for international economic assistance to the Afghan population which has suffered, for far too long.
      35. I  should     like to emphasize  that an international consensus, far from
      encouraging a solution that would be imposed on the Afghan people, would in fact free the Afghan question from its external constraints and allow the Afghan people to exercise, unhindered, their right to self-determination. Even when such an international consensus is achieved, a long and • difficult road still lies ahead for the Afghan people. It will then be up to the Afghan people to reach agreement on the transition period and the transition mechanism.
      36. I appeal to all Afghan leaders and to the Afghan people as a whole, to place the interest of the Afghan nation above all others in order to achieve a •comprehensive political settlement. I. am confident that the Afghan people will rise to the challenge, as they have done throughout their history. I stand ready to assist them, in whatever way they deem appropriate.
                                               NOTES
           1/ See Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-third year. Supplement for April, May and June 1988, document S/19835. annex I.
           2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fortyfourth Session. Supplement No 1 (A/44/1).
           3/ Ibid., Fortyfifth Session, Supplement No. 1 (a/45/1).
46 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 AFGHANJEHAO                      VOL.4 NO.1
   Text of “Freedom House” Report On Afghanistan: 1990
       EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of annual report by the nFreedom House" in New• York oh human rights condition in Afghanistan in 1990. The report has been _ adopted from a book published by the "Freedom House" on human rights conditions throughout the world•

           The country's eleven-year-old civil war has been stalemated since uniformed Soviet troops, who- I invaded in 1979 to bolster a faltering Communist regime, pulled out in February 1989. Predictions of a military victory by the Afghan resistance, or mujaheddin, over the Soviet-backed Marxist regime, of President Najibullah, the former secret police chief, have . proved ill-founded. The/ mujaheddin are having difficulty in switching from guerrilla tactics to staged battles against the regime, whose troops are entrenched in the major cities. In addition, although the resistance is contemplating holding elections, it has failed, to popularize its interim government-in-exile. Many Afghan refugees, particularly mpderate intellectuals, have been killed or threatened by KHAD, the regime's secret police and by radical Islamicist factions. Most important, the mujaheddin have been hampered by party and personal rivalries.
            The seven parties    composing      the alliance     are split into  moderate
      traditionalists wanting to end a foreign occupation and a puppet regime and Islamic radicals wanting to create a state based on their beliefs. Thirty-two field commanders loyal to Ahmed Shah Masood were reported killed by followers of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a prominent radical leader who broke with the government-in-exile after it condemned the killings. Masood has captured the leader of the massacre     and sent him to Peshawar     for trial, (stet)  Fighting
      between factions is reportedly taking place over the heroin trade in Afghanistan. Eight small   Iran-based   Shiite parties    have refused to  join the
      interim resistance government, complaining of Sunni domination.
     \ • • -
            President Najibullah, who has tried to woo and coopt individual resistance I commanders, seeks an internationally negotiated settlement that would secure i power for his People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA). The Pakistani and I U.S. governments are also beginning to consider a negotiated solution (as 1 opposed to waiting for a resistance military victory) but one which would exclude the present regime. The Soviet Union, also urging a settlement, insists on a dominant role, for     the PDPA.    In August they  quietly consulted  with the
      former Afghan King, Zahir Shah, to explore his potential role in a political settlement.                                                             4
                                                    47
      PCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990         ■ flfCHflHJtHAfl -                 VOL.4 N0.1
           After the troopstpull-out Najibullah declared a state of emergency, launched a crackdown against suspected resistance supporters and quadrupled the wages of officers and soldiers. Soviet forces cqntinue to sustain the PDPA military with substantial Soviet equipment and ammunition each month. U.S. funding to the resistance has declined. Some U.S. officials estimate 200-30D Soviet military advisers remain in the country. Fear of execution by fundamentalist mujaheddin has stemmed the flow of defections from the Afghan army. Civilians in the capital city are extremely war-weary and are preparing for a winter of long bread lines and severe fuel shortages. As the' •war • continues, Najibullah's legitimacy declines; he remains associated in the public mind with previous atrocities and the 1978 coup which brought the PDPA to power.
                               POLITICAL RIGHTS AND CIVIL LIBERTIES
           The war has caused a third of the population to flee the country and killed another 1.3 million. Millions of landmines left behind by Soviet troops are a threat to the remaining rural population and refugees seeking to return. Bitter factional warfare within the PDPA is common. Torture by Afghan forces is widespread. Impressment of youth into the Afghan army and "voluntary labor" for military construction are still reported. Both mujaheddin and regime forces have, been accused of killing prisoners. Political prisoners held by vthe regime are estimated to number in the thousands. Those arrested, detained or tried.enjoy no legal protections, the legal system being controlled by the Party. Rights of privacy are not respected.
           The media ate government owned and operated and serve to indoctrinate! Private criticism of the regime can result in detention. The PDPA supervises all religious organizations. Soviet military personnel and civilian advisors played a prominent role in most ministries and decision-making; hundreds of Indian military experts have recently replaced some Soviet personnel. The Central Council of Trade Unions is a PDPA-controlled umbrella organization for labor. Thousands of Afghan children are sent to school in the USSR for years. The PDPA
      still runs the educational system, Kabul University in particular, and lecturers are still sent to Moscow for special training. The system of village schools no longer exists.
                                                      48
OCTOBER?-DECEMBER, 1990 AfCHANJtHAQ                        VOL.4 NO.1
                         AFGHAN                                   
                     RECONSTRUCTION,                              
                     REHABILITATION                               
• OFFICIAL REPORT ON CCAR SEMINAR ON AFGHAN ECONOMY     50-59     
  CCAR SEMINAR ON FUTURE OF AFGHAN EDUCATION            60-78     
•                       ' * ’ * i                                 
• OFFICIAL REPORT OF CCAR SEMINAR ON EDUCATION          79-90     
• MAWLAWI MANSOOR ON PHILOSOPHY OF EDUCATION IN ISLAM   91-107    
• TEXT OF CHARTER OF PROFESSORS OF AFGHAN. UNIVERSITIES 108-114   
•    ISLAMIC SCHOLAR. EXPERTS ON RE-BUILDING AFGHAN               
  VILLAGES                                              115-126   
• AHMAD SHAH MASOOD ON SOLVING THE AFGHAN ISSUE         127-130   
•    OPERATION SALAM ISSUES ANNUAL REPORT ON AFGHAN               
  RECONSTRUCTION                                        131-137   
•   LATEST INFORMATION ON AFGHAN PROVINCES (BADGHIS.              
  BAGHLAN. FARYAB. FARAH. GHOR. KABUL)                  138-152   
•    INSTITUTIONS SERVING THE AFGHANS FROM PESHAWAR:              
  PROFILES                                              153-155   
• NGO's. AIG ADDRESSES IN PESHAWAR                      156-163   
• DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN ISLAM                  164-172 , 
 49
1- ■■   - - ■ -    1 ■    " VUL.q NO. 1
  CCAR’s Report on Seminar
    About Future Afghan
          Economy
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the official report adopted by the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies of the CCAR on the future economy of Afghanistan held in Islamabad 29 November-2 December, 1990.
      The seminar on the Afghan future economy,, inaugurated 29 November and ended 2 December, 1990, was the fourth seminar held by the Institute of Afahan Policy Studies of the Cultural Council of the Afghanistan Reslata±a igg0
      The inaugural session of the seminar started yat 11 a.m with recitation of verses from the. Holy Quran by Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal. It was followed by a statement of DR. AZIZULLAH LODIN, the Chairman of the seminar, about the objectives of the seminar. .He said, "good economy in future is tantamount to welfare and ease for all. Muslim economists have never considered poverty and misery as part of good economy. Good food, good living and legitimate utilization of the good things of life are all good. All the worldly amenities are which provide comfort to the human being attained through good and sound economy. Economists are of the opinion that,for sound economy and development, proportionate productivity factors and their proper coordination and harmony are necessary. Side-by-side with productivity factors, the creation of a good administrative and legal offices as well as organizational systems are also important. These can only be attained through study, knowledge and practical experiment. He emphasized that the problems of the Afghans can be solved by Afghans themselves and no one else.
      SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI, founding member of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance, while explaining the salient points of the series of seminars by CCAR, in regard to this seminar said:     "Our scholars have two important tasks
 ahead of themselves in relation to the economic affairs of future Afghanistan:
 (1) how can we activate a plan to replace our destroyed economic infrastructure in agriculture industry, and' man power, etc. in order to solve our immediate problems, (2) how to organize our economic institutions and our ways and dealings in the light, of Islamic principles.
                                                                                                                       jower :or e
                                                                                                                       rid. a ople
 rtenc 1 on lealt he 1 ed b irs isens po!
  , Dd sen timi .omy as v were vie i
                                                   EHAl
                                                     t
 r wa the and . ibi.
                                                   f re
                                                   nseq
 it
 ire. ]
misl
 ided
 ees, 3urii 3f n have
 2f US'
  onl
50
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 WlllHlllHMl                                 VOL.4 NO. 1
 mines as bottlenecks in the way of safe return of the refugees to their homeland! but also as obstacles for economic activities. Afghans themselves ought to be trained for teaching other Afghans the demining process. Those who engage in clearing the mines without any technical knowledge should be stopped. They al^o urged attention towards 300,000   - 500,000 handicapped and mentally ill of the
 war.      -
      They proposed that, after clearance of the mines and rehabilitation of the people, the primary physical and material needs of the people must be fulfilled and private, government and international organizations help to provide, them with job opportunities and long term plans for the rural and regional development program to be launched primarily by Afghan personnel themselves.
       Studies of the scholars showed that from among seven million external and internal refugees 50% have completely lost their homes. This totals some 600,000 families for -whom' 600,000 houses are needed. They can be constructed traditionally with mud and bricks but hygienic conditions and modern amenities of a proper dwelling ought to be taken into consideration. The houses must be damp proof, inexpensive and comfortable. The Afghan experts opposed construction of pre-fabricated houses and identical plans for all. parts of the country for being costly and not based on. traditions of the people.
      It was proposed that, due to severe shortage of wood for fuel, solhr and wind eftergy should be utilized by adopting easy and cheap methods.
      It was estimated that, under prevalent conditions, only l/4th of the population constituted the productive force- and the remaining three pafts were children, women and old people. On the other hand, the participants of the: seminar insisted that Afghans should rely on themselves. Generally, it was expected that trained, and educated Afghans would return to their homeland and ^participate in .national rebuilding activities, similarly Afghan women should ‘also, in accordance with Islamic traditions, play their- part in .the revival of national economy.
      For reconstruction ana rehabilitation purposes various financial possibilities were studied. It was reiterated that in the first instance war damages must be claimed from Soviet Union. In this context physical damages will call for compensation of around $13 to. 15 billion. To avoid being trapped by the foreign assistance rendered.by big powers, all kinds of financial assistance -and aids ought to be arranged through a world consortium. Also Islamic nations, especially Arab countries,with rich oil resources, should provide sufficient amount of aid to us. Aid from European Community should be another source.
      The representative of the Operation SALAM explained UN activities regarding reconstruction work in Afghanistan. He said the UNOCA attracted aid on humanitarian grounds and not on political grounds and has endeavoured for speedy rehabilitation of the refugees. The measures needed for the aid ought to curb the long term foreign involvement or* dependence on them. Our first duty was to clear the mines in Afghanistan . and we have tried to utilize the talents and capabilities of Afghans in this respect with the help of foreign specialists. We have trained 12,000 Afghans upto December 1990. He said Operation SALAM was
                                                53
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 niUllJillu(IUill                            VOL.4 N0.1
 ready to rehabilitate the refugees and offer assistance to them in all required fields.
      The problems and difficulties which the reconstruction work was facing came under discussion in detail and it was •expected that; as a result of a common approach and study of the scholars, a way out for resolution of the problems will be forthcoming. Dr. Noorzoy presented six reasons for helping the refugees': (1) They have, lost their income; (2) Had they had their 10 years income with them, it would have multiplied by now; (3) Is it right to expect them to pay for the construction of their houses; (4) Expenses for the transportation of the refugees, losses which may occur in this respect and,rehabilitation; (5) As long as refugees are unable to stand on their own feet’ they deserve to be helped; (6) The refugee 1 must be paid for the sufferings they are undergoing and have undergone.                       ' - .
      Azizullah Lodin, who also served as the Chairman of the seminar, in hie article proposed to divide the future development of Afghanistan into the following stages:
   1.  Short term planning to repair war damages and rehabilitate the refugees.
   2. Long term planning based on economic norms taking in view Afghan possibilities and conditions and chartering a moderate economi£ program,
   3.  Planning small and urgent economic programs to develop rural areas with) special emphasis on agriculture and other rural requirements.
   4.  Fast yielding internal and external investments.      _ ' '
      To realize these objectives, a research and study committee of Afghan experts and scholars should be formed and financial resources should be sought for the organization to function. The committee should submit its proposals to the authorities from time to time.
      Seminar participants put many questions to the representatives of Operation) SALAM. They wondered why SAL AM have established close ties with the .Kabul regime. They asked the UNOCA why it took interest in refugees * return to-Afghanistan before conditions are conducive for their return? Why they have established close ties with the Kabul regime?..',, and other similar questions. He answered only a few questions; skillfully evading the others.
                        II - ROADS AND TRANSPORTATION                      v
      Two articles were submitted on roads and transportation, specially ,in-relation to resettlement. They were:
       On the role, of, highways and roads in national economy, by Engr. Mohammad Siddiq.
   - Transportation in future Islamic Afghanistan, by Shahjan Ahmadzai.
      According to Eng. Siddiq’s article, prior to the communist coup, there were 3,065 kms. first grade, 15735 kms. second grade and 4,200 kms. third grade roads in Afghanistan. At present,-most of the transportation’ lines and roads have been destroyed or are badly in need of repair. The prime function’ of our future
54
NO,
 snt i
 lomis-
                                                                                                                            ry wi Thri
mt i
 iginet
 on 11 :oduc 3, ni s, mo : far
suld Ld of
 jatio
 Othe
 nsefu
  due .or a rchar we mu r the Afgt : fru count
 td . tt
 ul'a'ti
 mpro\
  OCTOBERrDECEMBER. 1990 flfBHflHJtilllB                             VOL.4 NO. 1
 fields which in terms of .human labor could run into thousands and hundred of thousands. As our contribution . towards the allaviation of this problem in the past 12; years has been meagre, I s hope that this seminar will go down historically as part of the invaluable endeavors presently underway arid prove itself as an important milestone in the forward march.
 MAHLAWX MANSOOR:  In the great and sacred religion of Islam there is a special
 place of distinction and,honor for the learned and scholars. No other religion values.knowledge and.education more than Islam. No other religion emphasizes :the importance of education and knowledge more than Islam. Islam likens knowledge to the beacon of light whose bright flame is ever burning * and lightening its surroundigs. In our Holy Book the Quran God Almighty advises His Prophet Mohammad,, peace be upon him, to ask for an increase in his knowledge and thus says: "May1 God add to my knowledge." Our Holy prophet* peace be upon him, has
: said that in' the Hereafter, the writings and the Irik that the learned have used shall, be more valuable than the* blood of the martyrs. Our Prophet peace be upon him, has made it obligatory for every man and woman to attain knowledge. As far as knowledge and education are concerned, no one can ever claim that he or she has had enough of it and there is no n^ed for more. Knowledge is insurmountable and1 its tower is inaccessible.
      Then he. went on to explain different kinds of education and knowledge- in Islam of which some are for5" personal advantage and some for the benefit of others. In his comprehensive and scholarly speech (full text page ...) he also explained the difference between knowledge and culture, in Islam the methods of teaching, teaching as per Islamic culture. Islamic policy for educating man and woman. This •wasi all explained in the licjht of Islamic jurisprudence.
 DR. JUMA GOL BANDAWAL (Seminar Chairman): Like all seminars, this one too has
 educational aspect^ to it and during the deliberations of this four day seminar on education and training the following subjects will be discussed and decisions will be made:(1) The management of education and training; (2) The objectives of education and training; (3) Teachers' training; (4) Vocational and technical education! (5) Adults education and (6) Education and training of the handicapped,
      One of the most important objectives of this seminar will be the education of our Afghan students effectively and providing -them with qualitative and beneficial training so that every Child enters the stage of adoleseence with full vigor arid determination as a Muslim, acquainted with world affair and well equipped mentally ready'for. attainment.of mo^e knowledge. To begin any sort of work aimlessly, will be. sheer waste oi: time. In order to maintain our identity in the world, we have to provide suitable opportunities of education for our people, to enable them serve the cause of the reconstruction of their homeland. We ought 'to realize that, without, collective efforts of the government, teachers, administrators,; parents and the society as a whole the attainment of better and qualitative education and training will be impossible. We are obliged to render sacrifices for the reconstruction of the education and training system, for the benefits: of pur youth, old rich and poor the majority and r minority and all.
 4 NO
 ir cei r8.
iconon
                                                                                                          and i ' nd ma freedc iashic people on t inista >lars. jaling
  Larifi ed fr ypes Islam c ban
   >rums 1th t ing w
* | oppos
v oasis 1, usu ng Go sds wi ce to sed th tate. ie Sun unmerid
                                                      61
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flffiHJIMJIHAD                            V0L.4 N0.1
                                           ARTICLES
 DR. BANDEWAL:  Under  the heading of -"The Adminstration of Education", he
 discussed the aims and organization of education and teaching. It is upto the public and each individual, for that matter, to place teaching, and training on the priority list * so that conf idence for the final success is restored. We believe that pre-requisite to teaching and easy learning is the creation of an atmosphere free from fear and threat where exchange of viewsdialogues, and speaking both ways can be carried out with ease and comfort. .Such an atmosphere will be conducive to initiative and original thinking also. An organized institution for the administration of education is a must in any balanced and well organized society. An administrator will have an important role in planning, leadership, assessment, evaluations, decision making coordination, budget making and the employment of personnel. Administrative and teaching activities both are indispensable but their inter-activities must be balanced. There is a special trait or characteristic which separates an influential, effective „ and successful institution from a faltering and incompetent one and that is the existence of an active and effective leadership. A leader should have personal and individual as well as administrative capacity. Ifanadministrator or a leader is only after success/ he will only make. ■ use of his authority, coupled with near supervision but if he wants to be.effective and influential then his leadership or administration will depend on personal power or general supervision. Teaching and training aim at empowering the individual to adopt to his physical and human environment and to remould himself accordingly. In other words he ought to be able to maintain and strengthen his religious, cultural and social values. Teaching and training will be in progress in mosques, primary, middle, secondary, technical and commercial schools along with institutions for higher studies. Our motto of democracy is to provide each and everyone with equal opportunity for education and training in accordance to his natural aptitude and competence, national education and training may have two forms: central or non-centrali National Scheme of education and training
 for boys and girls, upto a certain age, ought to be compulsory and universal. As a result, we can say whether the: fate and destiny of the Afghan educational institutions and tha.t of the Afghan society and masses are ohe and the same and inseparable from one another. As such if the schools and centers of learning are successful, so will be the society and, on the other hand, the failure of one will mean the failure of the other. . Schools are supposed to be tokens or samples of the society.xA school is a mini society; their problems are alike. Investigations and research have revealed that schools play ah ef fective role in the resolution of society's problems. If such is the case,, then educational institutions must be organized and fulfill all the requirements of students. In the absence of schools where students may,develop their talents ai^d latent qualities ^according to their optitude, we cannot claim to have done anything worthwhile towards the solution of our society's main problems.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 AYEEN: The administration of education is unlike the administration of other
 departments. A book was written in 1984 about American middle schools. A survey
                                               62
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 .flffilMN JfH/IB                              VOL-4 NO-1
 we ought to set forth conditions and terms. For appointing them there ought to be yardsticks and standards.
 BANDAWAL: Yardsticks are indispensable.
 HASANGUL BANDAWAL: Centralization and decentralisation both have merits and demerits of their own. One .cannot substitute the other. If we apply both the systems in our society, centralization will be more to our advantage because decentralization calls for separate syllabus, separate administration and sound economy. Our teaching syllabus should be based on Islamic principles and should reflect the Afghan social values. As far as the method is concerned we can adopt any and apply it to our society under the prevalent conditions.
 BANDAWAL:   Even if we import the method, the'system must be central.
 DOST MOHAMMAD KHAN: I should say something about the future of Afghanistan. The old students are ruined and the existing students' time is being, wasted.; we ought to prepare for future and in this context we should take into considera-the conditions of students, teachers as well as the programs. The "Education Center" has done some work. There should be a unified program. All the schools should have a common program. They may opt for a single program or make a choice from various programs. All depends on the administrator and all this should conform to our religious and environmental requirements.
 GHALEB:   Teaching  and  training, should conform to our society's peculiar
 conditions. For the future Islamic society except Islam no other thing will be acceptable. Islamic order,       being a perfect way of life   and. constitution,
 therefore its very teaching system      is ,a system  of its own and we should
 coordinate our educational system with that of Islam. In the Islamic e.ducatinal order, we should not only take care of schools and madrasas, but that of the family life of children     as well, because educations, as we understand it,
 begins from the very birth       date of children and thus the  first educational
 environment is the family, and later the kindergarten and school and other social environments.
 DR. RAHMANZAI: For the administrators, we ought to have the outline or prelude of an educational program and they ought to be trained.
 AYEEM: What about the objectives of teaching arid training?
 BANDAWAL: it is true that the "objectives" must have been explained at the outset.
 (EDITOR'S NOTE:   After these  discussions the members of the. seminar arranged
 their proposals in four groups and submitted them to the meeting which were approved by the meeting, some resolutions were passed and the members of. the meeting Were called upon to express their opinions regarding the duration of compulsory education and also what will be their expectations from the students after the compulsory training. Opinions pertaining to these topics were examined and the summary was included in the conclusions of the seminar and then, in relation to this, general comments were made.)
                                                  65
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990. HIUllHIl lllllHU                           VOL.4 N0.1
 KARYAR:  Compulsory learning upto sixth class is sufficient and, after that,
 preparations for vocational and professional training period starts.
 WROR: Individual  training  is not  being discussed. Religious subjects should
 be taught by religious scholars and the remaining subjects should be scrutinized by religious scholars.
 STANAH: The students of 6th grade should know both Pashtu and Dari and they may be encouraged for this.
 PALWAL: This might be difficult in regard to local tongue.
 ASAD JAN: The Kabul regime has published text books for children in their local languages as well, what do you say about this'?
 STANAH: There should not be any education in. local languages.
 FAIZ-ZAD: Training, i.e. learning in local languages may be considered to some extent.
 BANDAWAL: This is a long-term target, not now.
 YUSUFI: Teaching syllabus may be centralized. Languages to be taught should be Pashtu and Dari.
 BANDAWAL: Good reading habit must be encouraged and inculcated. When the teacher stops teaching, in fact it is tantamount to the death of students. Our students of today will be coming out into'the 21st century,. Therefore, we should teach our students how to study and what to read.
                                             ARTICLES
                                    OBJECTIVES OF TEACHING
 RAHMANZAI: Under the heading of "the objectives of teaching and training" he had an essay based on Dr. Rahmanzai's own article and the papers written by Amozgar Yadgari,  Wror, Hasan                    Gul Bandawal and Rohani.    Education and training is the
 development gained in physical, aesthetic, spiritual , social, mental and moral spheres which enables one to attain proficiency and capabilities, to understand one's culture, shoulder family responsibilities, select a profession for oneself,  be                         able to use one's spare time in productive pursuits and prove
 oneself an active and useful member of society. Considering what has already been said, the syllabus and academic courses are arranged in such a way as to implement these objectives.. For instance in the primary and middle terms the subjects are planned in accordance with the given objectives. Physical education programs  are                        planned  in such a way as to cope with the physical growth of
 students in different stages. The' subjects   of                    art, drawing, health, hygiene
 and calligraphy are taught for the development of aesthetic sense and the ability to maintain the living environment in a befitting manner. The teaching of religious knowledge starts with acknowledgement of oneness (unity) of God Almighty and understanding of "Islamic beliefs and principles. The relationship
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHflH JtHflD                            VOL.4 NO-1
 of individual with the society and the duties of an individual in regard to society are understood. Moral and spiritual values are inculcated. The study and learning of historyt geography, civics along with other studies develop an awareness and . a sense of comprehension in students in regard to themselves, their envifbnment, society, homeland, continent and finally attachment /to the whole world and international community. The study of mathematics broadens the area of mental comprehension, strengthens the reasoning ability and facilitates the understanding of complex technical problems. Within the subjects worked out for different academic stages, many issues have been included which are meant to complement each other. It is hoped that graduates of secondary schools will      be able to grasp all the cultural issues of his society.,
 recognize his responsibilities and, by means of their educational attainments and capabilities, adopt themselves to the ever growing achievements of modern technological    environment and will have              the proficiency for harmonious
 coordination in such extraordinary surroundings.
 HASHED SALJUKI: In lhi.s complementary article, under the heading of "Religious ,
 Education", he said: With the introduction of Islamic spirit, Islamic education started in Afghanistan and Afghans even surpassed the Arabs in this regard. Islamic teaching continued at different times, the centers for which were mosques and homes. The primary period of Islamic education is divided into two sections: (1) The Islamic doctrines and manners which is called Islamic education and  training; (2) to acquaint oneself with the text of the       Holy Quran
 and traditions and sayings  of Holy Prophet        Mohammad, peace be upon him, which
 are called lessons from the Quran and Traditions. During the first course in the second term, the students will be able to read their required materials. They can thus start building sentences and reading them. During the primary period in the second part, boys and girls should be separated. At a later stage, there ought' to be separate schools for boys and girls. However, co-education in kindergarten and during the first year of primary education- is allowed. It1 may also ■ be noted that during the kindergarten and first years of primary education, it will be useful to prefer female instructors since they are better acquainted; with children's problems and can also deal with them tactfully. During middle and secondary stages male teachers for boys and females for girls will naturally be' employed. In the primary and secondary schools, in accordance to the set program, the objective of Islamic teaching and training is that the graduate of 12 grade should be trained to become a God fearing person. Besides being steadfast in the essentials of Islamic belief, he should be enlightened in other field alsC with the help of logical arguments .and rational reasoning. He should' knowingly observe religious orders -and instructions , to the1 letter, believe in them and acknowledge them heartly. He should be conscious of his obligations towards himself-, his creator, family, environment and surroundings and the whole humanity and universe at large. He should^ kiiow that religion is directly connected and inter-related with life. He should also know that religion supports the positive progress of science and technology and guarantees true human happiness and welfare.
                           SCIENCE AND HEALTH EDUCATION SYLLABUS
 YADGARI:  Under the heading of "new academic syllabus of science and the
         development of health education and practical works in Afghanistan, in his
                                             67
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 AfGHflHJfHflB                             VOL.4 N0.1
 complementary paper he explained in Afghanistan, the system of education changed its traditional complexion and non-official status to an official one in the reign of Ameer Sher Ali Khan. Beginning from this period till the reign of Ameer Habibullah Khan and afterwards, sundry incidents and accidents: have taken toll
 of the historical march towards the development of education and knowledge in our country. In 1967 the Ministry of Education finalized an academic syllabus for the. directorate of :primary education which changed the traditional complexion of the academic syllabus of primary schools. In the light of the objectives of teaching andt training, new syllabus of the schools, with division of departments, was planned. Based on that, a sketch of the contents for religious subjects, science, sociology, practicals, health, languages and mathematics was prepared. In 1974 with the change from monarchy to republican system some changes in the educational syllabus also cameabout; nevertheless some parts pertaining to languages and sociology remained intact. The education reforms could not be carried .as necessary due to lack of a proper educational environment. The projects of. academic syllabus in special fields were carried out e.g. text-books and guidelines for the teachers were ready to be distributed in the country's primary schools. Training of teachers also synchronized with the teaching syllabus. In 1978, after the communist coup, along with other drastic changes for worse, the objectives of the Afghan teaching and training in schools were standardized with those of communism and the academic syllabus was brought at par with communist standards schools text books were replaced by the regime's desireable syllabus. During this campaign a number of Afghan professors and intellectuals were also sacrificed at the altar of regime's ominous objectives. As such, the Afghan children residing in refugee camps and of her Afghan children residing in other countries have had different syllabi for their schooling which will have to be taken good care of and scrutinized. In order to set a uniform syllabus for the Afghan children and to arrest any duplication, in this context, three factors have to be considered:     (1) The syllabus ought
 to be based on Islamic ideology and values completely; (2) In the war-stricken. Afghanistan a uniform educational curriculum and re-construction are the need of the hour; (3) In practicals and health education, priority ought to be given to first aid, agriculture and home 'economics to make the children self-reliable in the society and at home.
                                 DISCUSSIONS--------———— -----------------
 r                 *      i                       ,
 KARYAR: Dr. Rahmanzai's papers had no general frame or objectives. So was the
 case of Saljuki's paper where the objectives' frame was missing. Yadgari's paper followed suit. In the academic syllabus housing like planning, employment, teacher training, equipment etc. are included.' The objectives must have a frame. The old academic syllabus had this very defect. The objective must be put forward in clear terms.
 RAHMANZAI: You have got two things mixed up. Academic syllabus is a collection of learning activities which is planned for an academic term. Management j.s a means. Lessons are theoritical as well as practical. Teaching brings about a desirable change' of attitude in a person. The manner of teaching changes from subject to subject.
 WROR:  Teaching  syllabus ought  to be practical. Functions should not. force
                                              68
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHAHJEHAD                                VOL-4 N0.1
 others to answer. We ought to give practical examples and demonstrate practically, e.g. a comma is like temporary stop for a car and a full stop resembles the destination or the bus stand.
 HASAN GUL BANDAWAL: All the activities of a teacher are included in the academic syllabus general and private objectives.
 PANJSHERI: Teaching is effective when it is practical.
 YADGARI: Changes in text .books are indispensable to make up for deficiencies.
 RAHIMI: We had inherited a seventy year old syllabus and that too has been thrown away.                                           ,
 MOHAMMAD NASIR: Will the future syllabi of Afghanistan be different from' the old ones?, What was wrong with the old syllabi and why they did not work?
 RAHMANZAI: It did not work because a syllabus cannot be confined to a single book. Syllabus is a program in which all the aspects are considered. It was not all wrong. It was not fruitless either. A syllabus should be effective and these four points should be discussed:   (1)  For .whom? children should be addressed;
 (2) the environment in which it is being p'racticed-the people; (3) We should bear in mind the prevailing social and cultural values; (4) A. curriculum should accomodate the changes that are taking place in our world.
 BANDAWAL: Academic syllabus is not a thing guarranteed for 100- years. It is
 alterable. Every syllabus was good in its own time. Every -syllabus is evolutionary.                                     -
 KARYAR: Our definitions are different only as far as words are concerned.
       *
 SEERAT: The training area is broader than teaching. In our writing we should
 avoid assuming the term "religious" and should use Islamic, since religion is universal but Islam is special. Our objectives for future education and training should be saturated and inspired by those invaluable values and characteristic which changed the universal culture and included the terms of jehad and mujahed in the Western media also.
                                           ARTICLES \
                                        TEACHER TRAINING
 AYEEN: \ offered his article on the third topic of the seminar (teacher training) in a 45 speech. He said when we talk of teacher training it will fc>e in the fitness of things to ask for whose training and what kind of training? In other words, a frame-work is needed so that teachers are trained within the framework of social requirement in a short cut. Needless to say that for long *
 * Abdul Sattar Seerat, a former Afghan Minister of Justice who now teaches in Saudi Arabia, had been invited to attend this session of the seminar.
                                        69
V
 OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1990              MMJIHAD                        V0L.4 NQ.1
 years to come, the situation and circumstances of Afghanistan from training point of view will require emergency measures to be enforced. As such our frame work will have to have special complexion and the following parts will be required for its frame to be moulded:        Cl)  Tight          budgetary possibilities
 to fullfil most of our requirements; (2) The shortage of text books and other teaching materials and their elimination in - few years; (3) The effects of war period on the health of school going children; (4) Moral and social influences of war period on educative values; (5) Educational philosophy in the light of social philosophy; (6.) The status ' of education in the light of national priorities; (7) The quality of administrative system- central or non-central, etc.
       He     then explained the importance of teacher training on          international
.level.
      In the third part of the paper he counted the developing stages of teacher training; explained the teacher training program in the 20th century; pointed , out the current problems of teacher training.
      In the fourth part of the paper, he proposed a policy for teacher training and explained it. He. said     ,a department entitled            "National  Institute of
 Education” should be established. This'offic will be directly responsible to the Education Minister sO that all the affairs of national education, including that of       teacher training, be looked after and methodically arranged,
 administered and guided. Terms of reference of this department will be: (1) In relations to the education policy of Afghanistan to advise the Ministers of Education and higher education in the light of- economic, social, scientific and technological possibilities and considerations; (2) Carry out of studies and research     in relation to new educational themes; (3)          Study the international
 complexion of education and to identify the feasibility of a special mode or school for Afghanistan particularly from amongst the countrie^ with cultural affinities; (4) Manners, management and dispensation of teacher training; (5) The provision of text-books and translation of suitable professional material for the teachers. Similar to this institution there can be a national education university which will carryout these tasks in another context.
                           I   '     •          '
      Ayeen said, College graduates should be committed to national service program under which they will make up for shortage of teachers wherever it may arise for a year or two. Thus he can utilize his professional learning and make up for the shortage of teachers as well. Afterwards he presented programs for professional teachers.
                              ANOTHER PAPER ON TEACHER TRAINING
PANJSHERI:  "Today and tomorrow 6f teacher training in Afghanistan". This was
the title of a supplementary paper by Mr. Panjsheri to the basic article of Ayeen in which he said: In Afghanistan with the conclusion of the 27 April coup' , the activities of teacher training institutes ^continued as before; • however, gradually the quality of training started weakening, a number of non-desirable elements being communist party members meddled in teaching process and tried to attract the students and win them over to their side and some of
                                              70
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 them even created hinderances for hardworking and sincere teachers, who earnestly wanted their students to be patriotic, capable, trained and useful citizens for the service Of their homeland. Those wayard elements endeavoured to propagate communism among the students and promised them all sorts of fruitful . red and green gardens. Some of the students fell victims to their ominous plans but those who reacted against them or resisted their activities were insulted and jailed. Now the graduates from high institutes of teacher training hardly number even 500, whereas prior to the Soviet coupd'etat their number reached 3,500
 yearly. In short whatever is left of the communists, they only try- to propagate their propaganda whereas virtually in the Afghan Communist system, if any,.the quality ahd quantity of teacher training is done away with.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
      STANAH:  If in  the Afghan society the undisciplined and free aspects    of
 western style of education is followed, then what will be the result? What about Islamic education and women education? Should they be aiso copied?
 FAIZ-ZAD:  To educate women does mean a resort undisciplined measures. As far as
 this is concerned,   we do not  allow our even boys to acquire this type      of
 education. We are committed to educate our girls strictly in accordance to the Islamic principles. There are ways and means for learning and education in .Islam and we should insist on educating our women folk.
 AYEEN: We ought to learn from every quarter and pick up the good points. We have much to learn from the west.                      #
 MAWLAWI DOST MOHAMMAD:   There is a Hadith of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon
 him, which makes learning obligatory on every Muslim and there is no mention of a woman Muslim separately because in Arabic language the- plural word for Muslim relates to both men and women. In fact, learning ought to be proportionate i.e. so much that is necessary for knowing of God Almighty and one could distinguish a  Muslim from an infidel. In other words summary knowledge and
 summary belief. We   should not misuse our knowledge and make optional sciences
 obligatory. Religious knowledge is also' obligatory as per. capacity we should not make all the sciences obligatory. How much learning is obligatory for women and what should be its quality?
 BANDAWAL: As far as the learning and education of women is concerned, there are no two opinions about it i.e. they should be taught. As far the quality that is our pre-requisite.
 GHALEB: It is true that there are different kinds of obligations for human being in acquiring: knowledge,  such as obligatory and optional knowledge but it is
 equally true that the acquiring of different kinds of knowledge is also prescribed for each sex. /
                     / - • ' '
 MAJEED KHAN: In middle ages the fight between learning and religion started. The Christian priests used to exploit religion for extorting big money from candidates for admission into paradise. Thus the people were disgusted with religion. The west had. studied Christianity and had no idea of Islam ae such.
                                    '    71
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER> 1990 AfGHflHJtHflD                                 VOL-4 NO-1
 BANDAWAL:  Mr. Ayeen said that there ought to be in-service courses, i.e. the
 teachers, while teaching, can attend qourses as well.
 KARYAR:  College  graduates  are like "soldiers of knowledge" but, if all the
 graduates are employed in this line, the Question of quality arises. I shall agree with Mr. Ayeen on this condition that first and second rank graduates may be employed in this work. Another proposal of Mr. Ayeen was regarding non-official education but if this kind of education is also controlled by certain quarter, it will be useful.
 BANDAWAL: We shall teach the graduates teaching methods in short term courses. Here common methods and texts are being used. Free education and training are not controlled.
 AYEEN:  If  non-official, education is controlled, then why call it non-official
 because it will lose its nomenclature and might as well be called "official education". We only provide them with incentive and should not deprive of thier free action1 or render them- helpless.
 BANDAWAL:   The government should try to provide good opportunities arid
 possibilities for non-official education and by means of mass media mobilize it.
 AMANZAI:  Free  education or open education should also be patronized by the
 state.
                            ' r ■                  -          . ' , •    . .  ••
 NAZARI: In  news items regarding jehad and mujaheddin feats of bravery and valor
 are invariably published. Such stories should be incorporated in the books as
 well. In the first instance the teachers ought to be acquainted with Islamic
 basic knowledge and afterwards professional knowledge may be absorbed.
             . . V             • -    \         •             .
 BANDAWAL: Ideas  given to somebody do not mean their reduction for those who arfe
 giving them, that is why knowledge has to be divided not stored.                -c
 MAWLAWI DOST MOHAMMAD:    It is better to rectify our shortcomings and defects
 rather than copying others. The same way- the Americens are ready to cope in their educational programs with changing condition, we, too, should see that our teaching staff are ready for changes and thus, like 30 years before, we should launch short term training courses 'fop them.
 SAFI: As far as the application and mechanism of these objectives are concerned they have to be discussed. Priorities are to be identified. Training should precede service or vise versa, the training of literacy soldiers should precede the training of primary and secondary teachers or the other way round. These points have to be considered.               *
 BANDAWAL: These  are our proposals and their mechanism of application is upto
 others.
 PANJSHERI: Regarding the problems of education and training, presently, a plan is being discussed since three months. There are proposals for a teacher
                                                        72
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 They separated politics from religion. Regarding the education and teacher training, not only after jehad but under the immigration conditions the strategy may be applied and aid solicited. National university is tantamount to teachers training college, therefore, it should be given another name.
 AYEEM: It will be also good if this is done during the immigration period and. a university is established. I should say that all the teachers training acti- > ties ought to be united in a single framework.
 BANDAWAL: There ought to be harmony between 'the Ministry of Education and University. We train the teachers to train the students. Therefore it will be good to name it institute, or university.
 NASER KHAN: If education is not compulsory it won't be productive. The proposal that university graduates ought to teach for two years is not applicable# as such, what will happen to other. fields'?
 AYEEN:  For  rendering one service we sacrifice another one, therefore it is
 necessary to be a teacher for two years as to get acquainted with our own folk.
 WROR:  We ought to have a preliminary plan.
 KARYAR:, Every system of education and training is introduced into the society, under some planning which is subservient to the state policy.
 ROOHANI: It  is not proper for education and training to be subservient to the
 state policy.
 MAWLAWX DOST MOHAMMAD:    Afghanistan  is not  a newly  sprung country. Th(e world
 cannot forget us. The education of women started during the reign of King Amanullah Khan; during the reign of Zaher Shah it was practical and mild, that is why it had the blessings of ulama but these blessings . were exploited and misused. This fact is known to all of us. They, knew it in the past and they know it now.
 AftANZAX: A teacher who teaches ought to be familiar with other subjects as well in addition to his own. What is the proposal of Ayeen regarding this? What is the difference between the "soldiers of knowledge" and the Iranian "army of knowledge"?. In the paper of Mr. Ayeen I could not' find professional education for the completion of teachers' specialization.
 AYEEN: This is what is in vogue in the world. As it'is said, if you know your own subject that is enough. This is what the French are doing. University Students of different fields may be trained for teaching in six months. There ia difference between "the soldiers of knowledge" and the army of knowledge which has been taken from else where. Actually the latter was meant only for promotion of literacy whereas the former i.e. "the soldiers of knowledge" has greater objectives. .           _
 MURABBI: Our youth used to be sent to far away places for learning. Now instead of two years military service let them work.as teachers in the countryside.
73
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCH/lNJfHlID                              VOL-4 NO-1
 training institute of 13-year level and short term courses. The tested model may be financed and put into use.
 ARIAN: In  Quetta one term of teachers training course is already carried out.
 From each province one teacher was brought. Forty six teachers were trained in a 16 week seminar.
 RAHMANZAI: In the absence of security and        peace and the persistent                   war
 conditions it is good to pave the way for better learning and education (in Pakistan) .
 MAWALAWI DOST MOHAMMAD:   Some                     of our school's are here and some are in the
 interior of the country. The security of schools in Pakistan is up                       to the
 Pakistanis. The security of                         the schools in the interior depends  on the
 commanders, since they are independent. And with the establishment of a new government, the question of security arises will once become relevant.
 AYEEN: With conducive and suitable conditions taken for granted we propose these programs.
 BANDAWAL: Being optimistic that all is well then a number of our problems would be solved. To defeat the Russians was beyond everybody but we did it. As such we can perform other similar feats.
 ABDUL MAJEED: During wartime.there were also schools and material was provided to them. Inside Afghanistan, rift and division among the mujahed organizations create obstacles for the propogation of education and knowledge.        /
                                             ARTICLES
                                      VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
 KARYAR: His paper, under the heading of "Vocational and Techincal Education"
 constituted the fourth topic of the seminar. He said:
  1. The process of activities of all teaching and training ought to begin with detailed objectives and clear targets. Each general purpose should have several special purposes which can be explained through identified vocabulary and the process of teaching should be based on minute planning and a set outline.                      v
 . 2. In promoting the process of teaching and training the principles, rules, regulations disciplines and general knowledge based on experiments and discussions of teaching and training experts must be considered and utilized beneficially.
  3. For a developing society and for the reconstruction process of a nation the
      creation and development of training and professional fields and trades is compulsory and should be foremost among the practical steps to be taken.
  4. The progress and development of technology is instrumental in the expansion
                                                 74
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER * 1990 flffiHflN JtHflQ                 ____
      of vocational and technical education.
 5.  There are two important factors for the execution of any sort of work: energy and time. We shall be , able to work more and constructively when, through sound technology, stored energy resources are utilized and tapped extensively.
 6.  The invaluable role of computerized technology towards effective teaching and training cannot be overemphasized.
 DR. HASANI:  Had written a paper in support of Karyar1s article whose critical
 part outweighed. He said:    Karyar's paper was simply a paper and he had not
 utilized his special ideas. Besides the Education Ministry and other ministries had also promoted professional education e.g. the Ministry of Communications had mechanical teaching sector and the Ministry of Agriculture had established schools of agriculture. Similarly Karyar's paper did not mention the current activities: tractors have been purchased, professional cadres have been trained, manpower training have been developed, the university of Dawat and Jehad and the University of Hezb-e-Islami have Engineering Colleges. Some welfare, institutes of Peshawar have also professional training. This should also be noted that:
  1. Agriculture is an important factor;
  2. The program for rehabilitation should contain new ideas;
  3. Harmony and coordination between academic ai^d professional programs is necessary;
  4. For the appreciation and assessment of academlPc progress, workshops and seminars must be organized;
  5. Measures should be adopted for the development of welding and other local trades;
  6. Cadres must be trained for the maintenance of computers;
  7. New ideas should be introduced in professional training and education, etc.
 AMANZAI: His supplementary essay had commented on Karyar1s paper. He said:
  1. There was no mention of medicine or medication in Karyar1s paper as a professional subject whereas, under current circumstances, we are very much^ in need of it;
  2. There was no mentin of some of the Afghanistan's old and former profes-
     sional schools and institutes like "The Public Administration Institute" which originally was called "The School of Secretariat" and "Teachers' Training College" or "Darul Muallemeen"of Kabul;
  3. Karyar's proposals are useful but he has asked for the establishment of three colleges in the universities of Afghanistan but he. has not men-their names and locations.
 4.  About the establishment of agriculture technology departments in Peshawar professional schools his proposal-should to be considered.
75
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flfCHflHJtHHU              ___________ V0L.4 N0.1
 5.  As far as professional and trades' training is concerned, Karyar1s discussions were comprehensive but regarding the development of this I could not see his viewpoint.                                       N
 SALJUKI: Saljuki  in  his paper mentioned that while discussing professional
 education, Karyar had made no mention bf Islamic teaching. He went on to say: "There used to be 'Nizamia Schools' in Balkh and Basrah and they had regular Islamic syllabus for teaching. In the 5th century, during the periods of Ghoris and then Temoris, . there ^ were big academic Islamic institutes. Imam Razi is a genius of Ghori period and Jami is the genuin of Temori period. Along with government schools, there were private schools in all Afghanistan where "Dastar Bandi" ceremonies used to be held. The capital of every province should have an Islamic center of learning equipped with necessary facilities. These Islamic Centers should be capable of attracting candidates and students from all the districts. Classic religious bboks should be simplified and conformed to modern methodology.                                               ,
                                        ADULT EDUCATION
 SAYYED IBRAHIM ABDALI:  His paper, being the fifth topic of the seminar, dealt
 with the education in the future Islamic Afghanistan. In his paper he recalled the communists' excesses in the education sector and emphasized that the onerous job for the future Islamic government of Afghanistan was that of reconstruction and in this context education should be cared for fully. The Russians and their puppets had specially undermined the very structure of Islamic education in Afghanistan' and as such a basic revolutionary Islamic change in the Afghan education system was needed. Its implications and importance cannot be overemphasized because there is not only a great number of illiterate adults in Afghanistan, but a big number of youngsters, who should have gone to school during the years of war are also deprived from the blessing of literacy and are groping in the darkness of ignorance. As an example a boy who had been eight year old during the shameful coup of 27 April and should have had schooling and turned a useful member of the society by now, with the passage of 12 long years, .has turned 20 and is struggling helplessly with the merciless onslaught of ignorance in the pitched darkness. There are countless number of such young people in our society and the damage caused in this context is irreparable. Therefore, in the future Islamic set-up of Afghanistan, in every nook and corner of the country, compulsory literacy courses mut be started. Keeping in view the Islamic rules and regulations, women may also attend such courses, which could be optional for them.          r  •
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 MAHLAWI DOST MOHAMMAD: I don't think it is correct to make literacy compulsory. Also the employment of foreigners for this task, is not proper and compatible with the Afghan spirit. This work should be exclusively entrusted to Afghans themselves.
 PAIZ-ZAD: For those who had been deprived of learning and have missed classes,
 learning must be made easy and they should be treated kindly. The naming of their school should also be done courtiously i.e. it should by no means smack of
                                             76
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 ffCBIUI'JIMB                                VOL-4 N0.1
 "segregation” or insult. They ought to be helped in finding jobs. They should have the opportunity to learn .both during the day time or at night.
 WROR: A book developed on literacy teaching is meant for 70 days of teaching
 SAFI: Earlier there also used to be a department for literacy teaching. BUt this should not be included in the frame df Ministry of Education and should be in the form of a commission in,the Prime Minister's office.
 KARYAR: Literacy teaching ought to be, developed side by side with technical or professional trades.
 STANAA: Work on literacy teaching should be in line with social conditions.
 RAHIMI: Literacy teachers are entirely different from other teachers since they
 are supposed to know all. In Iran the head of this institute used to be the King and also this was the case in Afghanistan. Its assistance way the Minister of Education, (stet)
 BANDAWAL: The illiteracy problem is not confined to developing countries only
 but is universal. ‘At present there are 37 million illiterates in the US. In other words there is one illiterate in every five persons.
 PALWAL: In Islam education is Obligatory. Therefore literacy should also be
 compulsory. There is difference' between the teaching of children and the elders. Regarding this, the available books have to be revised.
 AYEEN:  When the UNESCO planned its program to fight illiteracy, the word
 "compulsory" was meant for the governments not persons. Education should be supplemented by experience. Illiteracy is a negation of complete Islamism. In other words, a person's belief in Islam cannot be complete unless he is literate.
 GHALEB: The first revelation from heavens started with the order "Read", and the Quranic phrase of "Teach" with "Pen" means teaching literacy. An elder is valued by the degree of his literacy. The captives of the Battle of Badr were set free during the time of Mohammad, peace be upon him, if they taught 10 Muslims how to read and write.
 SALJUKI: Every human being sometimes learns like a student. There is difference
 between compulsory and obligatory. We ought to have Islamic education and as such the question of compulsion does not arise. Such an institute ought to be affiliated with a higher quarter of authority to be effective,
 RAHMANZAI: Teachers are low paid employees. Those who turn more people literate
 ought to get incentives.
                                             ARTICLES
                                    EDUCATING THE HANDICAP
 WROR: The sixth and last topic of the seminar was teaching of the disabled
 which was discussed by Dr. Wror in his paper. He explained: "As a great number of our sisters and brothers have been incapicitated for life due' to the
                                              77
 iX
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 HIuHfUlJtllilU                           V0L.4 N0.1
 onslaught of the colonialist and expansionist Soviets and in the way of their homeland and jehad, they have lost one or two of their links therefore it will he in the fitness of things that Our Islamic Afghan and national educationists chalk out a syllabus and program which wil suit their condition of disability and circumstances of deprivation, aptitude and their requirements. In this regard a preliminary survey has to be carried out, an outline made out, trades and professions discussed which is not impossible. As an example, the blind who are deprived of the greatest blessing i.e. eye-sight, can be helped temporarily with academic and trade activities in three ways: '
  1.  Just like general teaching and training, for the blind also ,a program can be made out and with utililizing a know and effective system.
  2.  Program for literacy: For those disabled who are unable to attend public
      schools, courses must be arranged. Programs for the blind will be through Braile system and for the deaf and dumb will be through sign language, thus separate syllabus for each group of the disabled will be provided;
  3.  Programs for professional teaching:   Such  programs will   be made out
      according to the physical ability of the disabled.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 KOHISTANI: There ought to be a- separate institute for this purpose.
 STANAH:  The blind  who learn certain things from the computers, can they learn
 the same by other means as well?
 WROR: By means of writing arid reading the bli^id will be at par with others.
 AYEEN:  Till now the disabled were treated on compassionate grounds and their
          legal rights were not recognized. The crippled should be considered as an asset..
 GHALEB:  Firstly we should try to find and diagnose their physical defects and
 search for their cure. The lunatics are also part of our society. We should take special measures for them also. As far as disabilities are concerned, some are inborn and some are caused by accidents. They behave differently. They ought to be treated according to their behaviour. In Islam limbs are considered divine blessings, as such their loss should be compensated.
 KARYAR: Some of the disabled can work with normal people as well. This should be noted legally.
 DOST MOHAMMAD:   Work for the disabled changes according to the environmental
 requirements. For instance in Islamic countries the blind generally membrize the Quran and the state has an institute for this purpose named "Darul Heffaz" (the Home of Memorizers) ., In this state institute the blind are the privileged class and they should be treated as such.. Similarly in the case of employment, the disabled and crippled, who are affected through jehad, must be preferred.
 RAHIMI: Special attention should be paid to the jehad widows and orphans.
 HABIBULLAH RAFI:   Read the report of the seminar alongwith its conclusions,
 proposals and resolutions which were endorsed by the participants of the seminar and were accepted as documents of the seminar.
      (EDITOR'S NOTE: The text of the report was published in the previous issue
 of the AFGHAN JEHAD).
                                             78
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHllll JfHAO *                  V0L.4 NO-1
       Official Report Adopted by the Seminar
       "The Seminar on Education in The Future Society of Afghanistan", held ,by the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies (IAPS) of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance, October 7-10 1990, in Islamabad beg&n with the
 recitation from the Holy Quran by Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal. Prominent specialists on education and experienced personalities, scholars, and professors participated in the forum. After the recitation of Quran, a jehadic chorus was sung by the students of Imam-e-Fakhr-e-Razl School. Then Sabahuddin Kushl^aki, founding member of the CCAR welcomed the /visitors and said by holding these forums, the IAPS of CCAR intends to get a cross-section of Afghan view ,on fundamental topics related to the development and reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 He said, we strongly believe that the future, society of Afghanistan should be an open society and there should be many sources for working out ideas for the progress and prosperity of the country. He said, owing to the Russian • invasion, our education suffered deeply morally and materially. Prior to the invasion about 35% of our children might have been able to enter schools but, after the Russian onslaught, it may have dropped to 10%. In the education sector we are in dire need of a single and unified curriculum. At present up to 95 % of our 6 to 20 years are illiterate. Thus for those youngsters who are past the age of school or who may return home after receiving some education in other countries, we ought to prepare the right curriculm.
     The leader of the Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor who inaugurated 'the seminar with his speech said, "Islam has made it compulsory for every Muslim - men and women - to acquire knowledge so they may be able to ameliorate the lot of their Muslim community. He explained that if in the Muslim society a needle maker is needed but one cannot be traced out, the entire Islamic society is considered responsible. Similarly in the medical field, industry and other sectors specialization is compulsory. To acquire specialization in all walks of life is a religions obligation. This present' seminar is of utmost importance as it emphasizes that humanity owes every thing to education and learning since by dint of power acquired through learning and education a human being can reach great heights and can subdue all at will.
     The Chairman of the Seminar Dr. Juma Gul Bandawal in his address stated that the main object of the forum will be to suggest ways for preparing Afghan student acquire the kind of education which is fit with Islamic spirit.
     He said, we have to devote our system- of education to the reconstruction of * our country because after the April, 1978, coup followed by the Soviet military
                                            79 .
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flffiHflW tlMMl                          VOL-4  NO-1
 invasion of Afghanistan, we have lost a whole generation 6f trained teachers. Some of the teachers left their homeland, a great number of them were killed or jailed by the Russians or their puppets or many of them joined the ranks of the mujaheddin. We. have to seriously work for educating our teachers. At-the same time, many of our youth have been deprived of learning and many are crippled and disabled. Ground should be paved for the necessary education of all of them.
      This seminar will be different from other seminars held so far by the CCAR in as much as in it greater emphasis will be placed on debates, discussions, exchanges of opinion punctuated by contemplations and concentrations' during free times.
                                        FIRST SESSION
                             (1)  ADMINISTRATION
      During the first session, the subject         under discussion was the
 administration of education. The paper on this subject was written by Dr. Juma Gul Bandawal, the Chairman of the Seminar. He said, education is an important and indispensable sector of an organized society and education should have a dynamic leadership. This leadership,'by the virtue of its office, should also enjoy personal influence. In a just and unbiased society, every one should be offered equal opportunities for acquiring education in accordance with his/her natural talents. He then posed this question:   should  education be.
 centralized or decentralized? He explained both of these as well as the age for compulsory education in various countries. He also discussed different stages of training and education from nursery upward.. He offered guidelines for the creation of an efficient administrative cadre and said: "The Afghan society is
 passing through a very difficult stage. Some considers it a disaster while others say it is a blessing in disguise. Whatever the case may be, what matters our success depends on how to create the kind of atmosphere in which our children and youth are best educated.
      Later the participants became engaged in free discussions in a cordial atmosphere for one hour. Amendments.and alternatives .were offered. Then members of the seminar broke into four groups separately to offer proposals regarding this subject. The proposals were discussed again in a joint session to be registered in the list of final proposals. The seminar participants fixed compulsory education upto sixth grade. The Chairman of the seminar urged the participants to think about the mode of compulsory period. For instance, those who complete these grades, what should be their standard of learning in religious subjects, mathematics, languages, geography, history, etc?'
                                       SECOND SESSION
      In the 2nd session, at the outset, opinions were presented on issues related to the subjects of compulsory education. The majority were of the opinion that the student of compulsory period ought to know the basics of the Islamic religion so as to make him proud for being a Muslim. He should be able to recognize the enemy of his faith, religion and homeland and ought to disdain him. He/she should recognize himself/ herself his/her creator and his/her
                                            80
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGIMN JIHAD                             VOL. 4 N0.1
 people. He should be literate to the extent as to be able to make himself understood and understand others through reading and writing. To some extent he ought to 'know about the history of Islam and his land. He ought to identify the well-known' personalities of his country and some of the leaders” of other , countries. He should be familiar with his own country and that of the neighbouring countries. He should know eleirientary mathematics, be acquainted with simple practice of scientific experiments and should be able to use some Useful instruments and gadgets. He ought to be conversant with first aid methods and knowledge of health. Finally the compulsory period education should be capable of presenting a true Muslim Afghan and patriotic son or daughter to the Afghan society.
                              (2)   OBJECTIVES
     The second topic was that of objectives of education. There were several papers .on this subject, the main one being that ofr Dr. Moqeem Rehmanzai. Excerpts from papers by Abdul Ahad Amozgar, Mohammed Aref Yadgari, Goljan, Worur Wardak, Hasan Gul Bandawal and Esmatullah Rohani were also incorporated in Dr. Moq'eem's paper. The paper elucidated the aims and objectives of education in general in these words:       "Education  consists  of physical, aesthetic,
 psychological,social, mental and ethical development and progress of an individual to enable him to learn skills, understand his culture, shoulder, family responsibility, choose a profession, utilize his free time properly and, finally, become a useful and productive member to his society." From what has been said, curriculum for various stages of education and courses arp geared towards the realization of these objectives. For example, both at primary and secbndary levels, every subject was designed to fullfil these objectives. The article spelled out the following values as aims of 'general education in Afghanistan:
     Moral values which depend on guide-lines from the Holy Quran, traditions, of the Prophet, peace be upon him, along with other religious instructions, love of the country and saving the country sincerely. Social values depended on historical trends, incidents and experiences. Health values which meant to develop a disease-free society. All. these values are incorporated as aims and objectives in the primary, secondary, middle and higher learning courses. Light was thrown on the objects of different subjects.
     This main, article had with it two complementary papers, one of them being written by Mohammad Siddiq Rashed Saljuki dealing with Islamic education and the other by Mohammad Aref . Yadgari on a science, health and practical ' curriculum.
     Saljuki identified the Islamic education and teaching objective in these terms. A 12th class graduate should know his God to such an extent that, in addition to having firm belief in Islamic fundamentals* ought to be enlightened
 enough by offering scholarly and logical arguments. His education in this respect should be based on religious values and essential Islamic commands to enable him to know these issues in academic manner and should himself practice them. He should be capable of identify his own physical relationship in regard
                                                       81
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 fltGUflHllfHAD                             VOL.4 NO-1
 to the Creator, his family, his environment and surroundings,'the humanity at large and the whole universe. He ought to concede faithfully and whole-heartedly that life is interlinked directly with faith and religion and be supportive of science and technology and, along with this, he should know that science can truely guarantee peace and welfare for mankind.
      Yadgari’s paper dealt with the beginning of contemporary education in the history of Afghanistan. He discussed the scientific role of academic carriculum and pointed out that the system of education and training in our country was converted from conventional and traditional form to a formal pattern during the reign of Ameer Sher Ali Khan. In 1967 in the Department of Primary Education of the Ministry of Education a project of teaching carriculum was introduced in Afghan educational system and thus, Afghan education came out of its traditional format to a modern one.
      Ih the past. 12 years thousands of our youths were deprived of the blessings of education and knowledge. If we wait, in that case another thousands of our innocent children and youngsters will meet the same fate. As such, it is incumbent upon us that inside our impoVerised tents, on the'cliffs of mountains, inside the mosques, homes, under the trees and elsewhere get busy in educating our children and create conducive environment for this purpose. In accordance to the requirements of the coming generation of Afghanistan, we should plan a curriculum because our current Curriculum and, prior to -the April coup,• too, the curriculum were not good enough. Lack of professional heathers ought to be catered for, demolished school buildings ought to be reconstructed, for the pupils of compulsory period books, stationery and other facilities should be furnished, the teachers’ standards of knowledge and economic ought to be improved. In professional subjects, particularly in the 'teaching methods and problems, Muslim scholars and professors ought to be provided and trained.
            '                          I                      -
 During the interim period, i.e., until we get a new curriculum, current text books, including those prior to April coup,. may be scrutinized by an eligible team and sorted out. The selected ones may be used temporarily in schools, the administrative staff of educational departments have to be trained, special and healthy attention has to be paid to women's education, the Afghan educational genuineness ought to be preserved in accordance with Islamic principles and values. Assistance in this regard from Islamic and friendly countries, without stringes, should be solicited and short term training courses for the professional cadres be opened.
                          (3)   TEACHER'S TRAINING
                   '       'I             1    ' ' - '        .      ' - '
      After reviewing     (1)    issues related to the administration and (2)
 objectives of educational* the third subject matter of our seminar was education and training of teachers which was duly discussed by Ghulam Ali Ayeen in .his. central essay. The following points were emphasized and explained -by him: Limitations of funds, lack of teaching and academic material, the effect's of jehad years on the health of school going children, the effects of a long drawn jehad on educative values from social point of view, current educative philosophy under the light of social philosophy, from the point of view of the significance and place of education in our national priorities. In the administration branch, the extent of centralization or decentralization was
82
  OCTOBER-OECEMBER. 1990 HlGIUlNJIHAD                                 VOL.4 NO.1
 discussed. Issues related to teacher's training were discussed on world level, teacher's training development phases were explained. He then presented his proposed policy for the training and education of teachers. He proposed the establishment of a national university for education, "Soldiers of Education", the revival of unofficial education and training. Finally, he threw light on the social personality and character of a teacher.
      There was a complimentary paper of this ;essay entitled "Yesterday and Tomorrow of Teachers' Education in Afghanistan" by Ahmed Khan Panjsheri, Moqeem Rahmanzai and Wazir Mohammad Naikbeen which was delivered by Panjsheri. The history of teacher's training was discussed and it was mentioned that in 1912 for the first time an institute, called the Basic Teachers' Training School was founded in Kabul. This school educated students upto the 9th grade and offered them' to the Afghan society as "graduate teachers". He explained then his proposed program for teacher's training which for primary schools will be of a two years period, for secondary schools four years, for teachers' training institutes one year. They all will train students of post-graduate standard. There should also be intern courses for training purposes.
      The papers  were discussed  minutely and the   participants  offered their
 proposals individually in this connection.
                   (4)   VOCATIONAL. TEACHNICAL TRAINING
      The fourth  subject matter of the seminar was vocational     and technical
 training, it was discussed, by Nazar Mohammad Karyar in his paper. He explained the history of this branch and for the reconstruction of Afghanistan the role of agriculture, technology and industries was emphasized which could not be achieved without professional training. As such the role of professional training and computerization was emphasised.
      Three critical supplementary papers formed part of this paper. They were by Dr.   Abdul Wahed Hasani, Ghulam Dastagaer Amanzai  and a short    memorandum by
 Rashid Saljuki.
    ■  Dr. Hasani      explained that  Karyar's discussion of professional training
 suited more to the scholars of the countries having different conditions than, ours. He strongly hoped          that   it would have been far better had Karyar' s
 explanation suited the conditions of our own people. He added that in Afghanistan not   only the Ministry of Education    but other ministries and
 institutes as well had catered for professional training. He also pointed out the contributions by institutes towards the professional training of refugees at present in learning of different trades. Amanzai, while praising Karyar's paper, pointed out its shortcomings. He said Karyar's paper had left out professional training in health sector. He also critized some other portion of the paper.
      Saljuki in his paper said religions professional training was left out. He then    explained the history of      Islamic professional training, from 5th Hijri
 Century onward. He proposed the details of a curriculum for such schools and said     that the      center of each province should have a religious institute to
 attract.the students from surrounding districts.                         *
                                                     83
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 MGIIIIHJtHflll ___________ VOL.4 N0.1
      Afterwards the Chairman asked the participants to prepare their proposals for tomorrow while taking into consideration Karyar's address. Proposals and opinions were presented in the morning's first session on the subject.
                            (5)   ADULT EDUCATION
      The 5th topic of the seminar dealt with adult education of citizens. The paper on the subject was prepared by Sayyed Ibrahim Abdali which was read out for him. The writer had proposed:   creating of a national authority to fight
 illiteracy/ bringing forth an advisory board comprising scholars# professionals, cultural and administrative figures for the promotion of literacy, long and short term planning to root out illiteracy, establishing a judicious fund for this purpose with the help of international bodies and institutions, employing experts, to train and educate cadres for fighting illiteracy, soliciting active contribution of the masses to this end, planning end -organizing a project for promoton of literacy among the masses amalgamating trade education with literacy program (functional literacy) providing the society as a whole including the women with functional literacy.
      Members of the seminar discussed and debated the subject matter, proposals
 were made in this regard, amendments considered and questions asked. Dt. Rahmanzai. who delivered, the paper on Abdali's behalf, pointed out that during their practical work the proposals already made will be taken into consideration.
                           (6)    HANDICAP EDUCATION
      The 6th and last topic of the seminar which dealt with the education of the handicap was by Dr. Goljan. However paper has mainly dealt•with education and literacy of the blind. He had explained Braile's method to educate the blind and said that with the help of this method the blind could learn and progress just like normal people.
      While discussing this paper, it was pointed out, critically, that it should have covered the handicap as a whole rather than confining itself only to the blind. Then the literacy and education program of all the handicap were discussed and proposals forwarded along side with this. A number of other essays were also prepared by the participants of the seminar which were distributed among them. They dealt with the following topics:
 1.   A short history of the main fundamentals of literacy, by Fateh Mohammad Muntazer Asmai.
 2.   Education and training and forms of learning, by Nur Gul Rahimi.
 3.   The organization of the Ministry of Education, by Mohammad Naeem Murabbi.
 4.   Language and Education, by Hasan Gul Bandawal.
 5.   Religious Sciences and the- objectives of education and training, by Esmatullah Roohani.
84
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
 6.   Some of the value::, and problems in the Afghan society, by Abdul Ahmed Amozgar.
 7.   Afghan cultural heritage and education, by (Ms.) Sarnia Tayyeb Sai.
 8.   Education and training in western parts of Afghanistan, by Abdul Rauf Mukhles.
 9.   The objectives of Education and training in the Afghan society, by Dr. Wror.
 10.  The Russian influence on the Afghan youth. Translated, by Professor Dr.
      Sayyed Yousuf Elmi from an official US document.                           *
 11.  The text of interviews with Afghan specialists on education in Afghanistan and the text of proposal by a group Of Afghan experts meeting two years ago in Germany. Both of those were published in the AFGHAN JEHAD.
      Our seminar, lasting four days, had a complete command over the subject. It was so busy that even the participants, worked at night. However, as it was conducted in discussions, debates and consultations, it was not monotonous. The debates were conducted in a scholarly manner and in an amicable-, atmosphere and as a result of these debates, mature proposals were worked out and left behind a good reservoir of scholarly ideas and concepts.
                                             PROPOSALS
      Our'seminar dealt with the following six topics:
 (1)  The administration of   education,. (2) The objectives of education,     (3)
 Teachers training, (4) Vocational and Technical training, (5) Adult education, (6) Handicap education.             ^
      During each seminar day, the participants were asked to offer proposals. And; .therefore, each day they offered their collective or individual proposals. These were coordinated and unified. The following is a list of these proposals:
                              I - ADMINISTRATION
 1.   The administration of education in Afghanistan should be based            on
     the standards and guidances of the holy religion of Islam.
 2.   Education in Afghanistan  should basically and generally be centeralized, it
     should have a unified curriculum but in details it ^hould have              a
     decentralized form: there should be local autonomy, the administration of education should start from the village level and educational affairs should be adapted with local requirements and conditions.
 3.   Upto grade VI (primary level) education should be compulsory and above the primary level, the state should provide possibilities and facilities for the education of all Afghans.
 4.   Schools should have three levels -- primary, middle and secondary,       the

VOL.4 NO.1
                                                      85
^
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 WilliJtHIB                                  VOL.4 NO. 1
      primary being upto sixth, middle upto ninth, and secondary upto the 12 grades.
 5.   The high schools should be classified on the basis of . religious madrasas, vocational and general education.
 6.   After learning reading and writing beyond the primary grades, the boys should be trained in light industry techniques and the girls in handiwork such as embroidery, sewing, etc.
 7.   a seperate department should be established within the framework of the Ministry of Education to help students with incomplete education finish their education within the country or in abroad where they are living.
 8.   For students whose■ education has been interrupted Vocational and technical
      training schools should be established.                              '
 9.   A program should be chartered out for the administrators of the Ministry of Education so that they are trained in a professional manner aimed
       at improving the administrative activities of the Ministry.
                       II  -OBJECTIVES OF EDUCATION
 1.   Our education should responed to the demands and urges of our future Islamic society and should , be intimately connected with our history and culture.
 2.   The curriculum of     our schools should contain provisions enabling our
      students to undertake practical work applicable to our environment.       ^
 3.   Our school curriculum should prevent the propagation of false, meaningless
      and. anti~Islamic ideas and equip the Afghan youth with pure Islamic and national spirit and nourish the overall personality of the individual.
 4.   Our future students should be taught that the Afghan Muslim and brave
      nation had for the first time defeated the communist movement and ideology and confronted it     with defeat throughout   the world and stories abov^t
      our people’s heroism should be included in the school text-books.
                           111  - TEACHERS TRAINING
 1.   A university for training teachers or an       Institute of higher learning
      should be established to enable us provide sufficient number of teachers to the society.*                                                        >
 2.   A large number of      university graduates     should undertake a two year
      teaching service under the name of th^ "Mujaheddin of Education" and short-term courses should be organized for them to learn teaching methods.
 3. ^ Any system of education should be in conformity with the overall national
                                            86
OCTOBER-DECEMBER
      planning and environmental conditions
                                                                            VOU-4 NO. 1
 4.   Teachers' should have a general knowledge of other subjects in addition to their specialized branch and should be knowledgeable about the fundamentals of.Islam.
 5.   The government should encourage un-officiai or free education and provide facilities for it and, through examinations, should keep the door open for studying at any educational level and should pave the way for the establishment of mass media facilities such as radio, television and newspapers for the popularization of unofficial and free education.
 6.   All the activities related to teachers training should be conducted on the bases of organized plans.
                            IV- VOCATIONAL. TECHNICAL TRAINING
 1.   The students talents and likes and dislikes should be tdken into account in regard to enrolling them in vocational and technical schools and these schools should be equipped with modern facilities.
 2.   The people of localities should be consulted in the establishment of vocational and technical schools as this will have a great bearing on the success of such schools.
 3.   Vocational>and technical curriculum for schools should be prepared on the basis of real needs of the Afghan socity and public priorities should be taken into account.
                                                             i
 4.   In the center of each province at least one agricultural, one technical and several local handicraft schools should be established.
 5.   The curriculum of technical and vocational schools should have a direct relationship with the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 6* Technical education and training should        not be confined to only a few
      limited fields but should be all embracing.
                                                                         I
 7.   In addition to a teachers training university or academy in Afghanistan, at present in the environment of migration a two             year teachers' training
      school, several vocational high-schools      and an          institute for teaching
      computer sciences should be established.
                                         V - ADULT EDUCATION
1.    In popularizing literacy we should concentrate on functional literacy
     rather than general literacy. It should       not be         compulsory but Islamic,
     persuasive and related,to the environment of work and productivity.
2.    An authoritative commission should be established for fighting illiteracy
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MflHJIHllfl                                 VOL.4 N0.1
      and its Chairman should be the Head of State or Government and ministers related to literacy programs should be members of the commission so that they all contribute in adopting effective and useful measures for the popularization of literacy.
 3.   Literacy courses should be opened in all economic/ social and agricultural sectors of the country.
 4.   The Ministry of Education should meet the scarcity of teachers for literacy program by opening specialized and in-service cdurses.
 5.   The government should order all ministries, industrial and commercial institutions, factories and other state or private owned institutions (military or civilians) to provide the grounds for their workers to attend daily literacy courses for 1} hours, equivalent of. two class hours.
 6.   In all the • mosques, the imams should be instructed that, keeping in view the Islamic commandments regarding the acquiring of knowledge by every Muslim as an obligation, they should teach the adults reading and writing.
 7.   The office of literacy compaign should despatch mobile teams through its supervisors to the countryside to acquaint the formers with new methods of plantation arid harvesting.
                        1 ' '
 8.   The government should issue coupens, titles and other pursuasive prizes and honor those who become literate by attending literacy courses.
 MOTE: In this connection the Ministry of Agriculture can help by providing to
 such people chemical fertilizers, long and short-term loans, improved seeds, anti-disease medicine; the Ministry of Education by providing books, educational supplies and teachers; world organizations such as UNICEF, UNESCO, FAO, and other, institutions by their aid offers so campaign against literacy are expedited.
                                      VI - HANDICAP EDUCATION
 1.   For the handicap education, too, like the office of fighting illiteracy,, an authoratitive department should be established. International assistance should be solicited and personnel should be trained.
 2.   The handicap issue no longer should be a mercy -issue .but. should be dealt as a legal right and the talents of the crippled and invalid utilized.
 3.   As an Islamic government would be in need of people who memorize the entire Quran, in institutions teaching the memorization of Quran, the blind should have the priority for being enrolled.
 4.   The handicap who have been crippled for the sake ofs Islam and the country should have a priority for being offered jobs and the survivals of the martyrs of jehad should be privileged with legal rights for receiving jobs
88
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
      and assistance.
      The seminar also proposed that, as a first step, an authoratitive office should be established for the handicap, statistics should be collected about the handicap, the handicap should be classified on the basis of their invalidity, their basic needs should be catered for, health and care centers should be built for them and training centers should be established for them taking in view their specific problems.
      The handicap and the invalid should be given priority in receiving jobs; they should hcfve special privilege in being paid and- new avenues should be sought for offering help to the invalid, such as soliciting assistance, providing them with means to produce things, finding markets for their products, organizing exibitions for their products and marking a special day for honoring the handicap.
      Education has no .flames, nor burns those who seek it.
      Yes, education is such a torch and light for mankind (Pashtu Poem)
 LIST OF THE ARTICLES AND PARTICIPANTS OF THE IAPS SEMINAR ON THE FUTURE OF : EDUCATION IN AFGHANISTAN. HELD IN ISLAMABAD. PAKISTAN op
 7-10 OCTOBER, 1990.
 1.   THE ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATION IN AFGHANISTAN, by Dr. Juma Gul Bandawal,, Afghan educationalist, working for the Education Department of the State of Indiana, USA, as consultant.
 2.   THE OBJECTIVES OF EDUCATION IN AFGHANISTAN, by Dr. Moqeem Rahmanzai, specialist in education working for the University of Nebraska team in Peshawar, Education Sector. His article was written in collaboration with other Afghan experts.
 3.   TEACHERS' TRAINING STRATEGY, by Ghulam Ali Ayeen, former Minister in the Royal Afghan Government, veteran educationalist, now residing in the United States.
 4.   THE ISSUE OF ADULT EDUCATION IN' THE FUTURE OF ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN, by Sayyed- Ibrahim Abdali, working' with the SAVE CHILDREN adult literacy project.
 5.   HANDICAP EDUCATION, by Goljan Wardak, working with the Pak-German education, projects.
 6.   VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, by Eng. Nazar Mohmmad Karyar, working with the University Of Nebraska Team, Education Sector, in Peshawar.
 7.   EDUCATION AND IMPORTANCE OF TEACHING METHODS, Noor Gul Rahimi, official of the AIG Ministry of Education.
 8.   AFGHAN CULTURAL HERITAGE AND OUR PRESENT EDUCATIONAL PROBLEMS, by Samia (Ms.) Sai .(did not participate in the seminar).
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flIGIllIMJtHAD                    VOL.4 NO. 1
9. THE PAST AND PRESENT OF TEACHERS' TRAINING IN AFGHANISTAN, by Ahmad Khan
     Pansheri, Moqeem Rahmanzai, Wazeer Mohammad Naikbeen.
                    • ‘ ’ • •
 10. SOME VIRTUES AND PROBLEMS OF THE AFGHAN SOCIETY IN RELATION TO EDUCATION,
     by Abdul Ahad Amozgar, working with several educational institutions in Peshawar.                                                    • ,
 11. COMMENTARY ON THE KARYAR ARTICLE ON VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING, by
     Ghulam Destageer Amanzai, working with the University.' of Nebraska Team, Education Center, Peshawar.                                  '
 12. THE IMPORTANCE OF LANGUAGE IN EDUCATION, by Dr. Hasan Gul Bandawal, working with the University of Nebraska Team, Education Sector, Peshawar.
 13. DEVELOPMENT OF A NEW CURRICULUM FOR NATURAL SCIENCES, PUBLIC HEALTH AND TRAINING TECHNICAL CADRES, by Mohammad Aref Yadgari, working with the / Pak-German education projects..
 14. PROPOSAL ON AN ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, by Mohmmad Naim Murabbi, former official of the Ministry of Education, currently living in Pakistan.
 15. EDUCATIONAL PROBLEMS IN WESTERN PARTS OF AFGHANISTAN AND FOR AFGHAN REFUGEES LIVING IN IRAN, by Abdul Raoof Mokhles, incharge of educational projects for the Afzali Front of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan.
 NOTE: In  addition to  Noor Gul Rahimi and Ahmad Khan Pan j sheri of the AIG
 Ministry of Education, the following four other officials of that Ministry also
 participated:
     (1) Abdul Majeed, President of the Department of Teachers' Training,
 (2) Mawlawi Dost Mohammad, Member of the Department of Curriculum, .* (3) Meer
 Abdul Azam, Member of the Department of Teachers' Education, (4) Mohammad Naser
 Khan, Director of Education and Inspection.
                                              irit
                                           90
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flf CHAN JIHAD VOL.4 NO. 1
Islamic Philosphy of
       Education
            EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the speech of Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Leader of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-Islami Afghanistan and a prominent scholar of Islam which he delivered in his key note address to the seminar of the Institute of the Afghan Policies Studies of the CCAR held in Islamabad 7-10 October, 1990. A summary of the speech has also appeared in this issue alongwith the summary of the articles and discussions of that seminar (page.60 ). The speech is an elaborate treatment of the Islamic pholosophy on education.
           IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS. MOST MERCIFUL
Mir. Chairman and Gentlemen,
     First of all I would like to thank the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies (IAPS) of the Cultural Council of the,CCAR for holding the Educational Seminar, which is of vital and fundamental importance for the brave Afghan nation.
Mr. Chairman and Dear Gentlemen,
      There is no doubt that the life of the' Muslims is entirely devoted to Islam and they are obliged to preach Islam to the four corners of the world and invite mankind towards the religion of God. The sole factor of unity and progress and all moral and material Islamic movement subsequent to acquiring knowledge about the teachings and wisdom of the sacred religion of Islam, is to engage in scholarly enterprises and vision and to abstain from all evils. This very sacred, religion in itself is the fountainhead of honor and the source of the Muslim Ummah1s quest for its noble ideals and achievement of its goals. For this very reason, the Muslims in the past had devoted all their physical, spiritual and rational energies to this religion and had mentally and sincerely prepared themselves to preach and propagate Islam and concentrated all their efforts to the understanding .and interpretation of the Holy Quran and collection of the
                                                          91
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 H1UIIHIIifllUlU                   VOL,4 NO. 1.
 Traditions of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, and solution and treatment of all the human difficulties were directly or indirectly sought in the Holy Quran or the Traditions of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him. Later, when followers of other religions entered the Islamic society and mixed with the Musl-ims, they brought with tjhemselves the culture, the reasoning, the thoughts and thei principles of the past heresy.
       On the other hand, the principle of Islamic preaching has been based on logical comparison of this religion . with other religions of the world and, to protect the sacred religion of Islam from the encroachment and mental confusions created by the enemies of Islam. Therefore the Muslims bent all their energies to the rational learnings and started to teach the Islamic beliefs from . the rational angle and to explain and prove it in the same light. Although the Muslims mastered various dimensions of human culture and each scholar tried to .specialize, in each and/ every dimension of culture yet each specialist, litterateur, expert in natural sciences and mathematician first of all, specialized in Islamic culture and later used this knowledge in the teaching of all the sciences and cultures. Some of the scholars gained special fame incertain subjects e.g. Imam Mohammad Ben Hasan in mathematics, Allama Ibn-e-Batuta in geography, Allama Ibn-e-Aseer in history, ‘Allama Ibn-e-Roshd. Al-Ondolossi in natural science. Sheikh Abu Ali Seena (Avinie) in philosophy and Abu Nawass in poetry, etc. <But their fame and reputation was not indebted to their style of teaching or expertize in these subjects but a sequel to their duty of teaching* all the Islamic sciences and culture and were considered among the rbest scholars and researchers.. But still they prepared themselves for all kinds of sciences and cultures because they knew that all these were subsidiaries, of the Islamic knowledge and cultures and .were deduced from the Islamic sciences and culture* The reason is that the roo't of the matter is in the Holy Book,the Traditions and Sayings of the Holy Prophet, the consensus of the Islamic ulema and logical deduction and analogy in the light'of the Islamic jurisprudence.
                                       ISLAM AND KNOWLEDGE
      Islam gives top priority to knowledge. No other religion has put so much-emphasis on education and has not done so much fundamental work for the promotion of knowledge and for ensuring highest regard for the scholars. The Holy Quran places the scholars at a high pedestal and God Almighty says:
      "God will raise up, to (suitable) ranks those of you who believe and who have been granted knowledge". (Surah Mojadellah; Verse: 11)
      God Almighty considers knowledge, more specially, as a standard of superiority of some people over the others and treats scolarship and wisdom as a yard-stick of superiority. He says:
      "God has chosen him (a man who became King of Israel) above you and has given him knowledge and bodily prowess." (Surah Bagarah; Verse: 247)
      Thus God has ordained knowledge as the standard of superiority among human beings and, from the Islamic viewpoint, a man develops a better and complete '
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 HIUIIHHUlllHU                     VOL.4 NO.1
 personality when he possess knowledge. For this reason God Almighty commissions His most favorite prophet, peace be upon him, to propagate knowledge and this is an ideal for us so that none should feel tired of acquiring knowledge and wisdom and no one should think that hS has sufficient knowledge and so does not stand in need of acquiring more knowledge. "And say, O God, advance me in knowledge” (Surah Ta-Ha, Verse 113). This is why the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, has deemed the ink and the writings of the Scholars superior to the blood of the martyrs, on the Resurrection Day, and made every Musiim, man and women duty-bound to.seek knowledge, till the Doomsday. The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, says: "The search for knowledge is obligatory on each and every Muslim."
      As regards supremacy of knowledge, God says:
      "Read, In the name of your Lord who created. Created man out of a (mere) clot of congealed blood. Read, And your Lord is most bountdful; He who taught (the Use of) the pen. . Taught man that which he knew not." (Surah- Alaq: Verses 1-5)  .   ■                                                                    \
      In these verses, the words "teach" and "pen" have been used twice. The penis used for writing which is the source of knowledge and reading and ^he word "Teach" has also been explained. These are the first verses conveyed from the Divine origin to the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, at the beginning of his mission. Thus in the beginning of the divine revelations,, God Almighty had drawn the attention of His Prophet to reading and teaching and promotion of education. Here the word "Read" has been made dependent oin the name of the Lord because true belief does not originate from copying others but by learning and specific logical knowledge and vision which can be acquired by reading and writing. And, furthermore, reading and writing are regarded important meahs for acquiring knowledge, the acquiring of which as well as acting upon it are necessary. Similarly, it has been explained in these verses that reading becomes valuable only when it is done for the sake of Allah. Ibn-e-Abbas ( a companion of the Prophet who died in .........) hes said:         i
      "...In the Holy Quran first the Sura Alaq was revealed and then the Surah Qalam and Surah’Muzzammel and Surah Al-Moddasser". God Almighty has sworn by the pen and whatever the transcribers write with the pen because pen is the source of good for the human being. Scientific facts are recorded by the pen, treaties and agreements are signed by the pen., history is recorded by the pen, accounts are maintained and regulated by the pen, ideas and thoughts are transcribed by the pen. Thus there are many benefits acquired in this way arid these thinkings cannot be gained without the use of pen and writing. Islam has not only laid down principles of preaching through the Holy Quran or the Tradition of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, but the Holy Prophet has given practical demonstration of this in order to reach our objectives. Therefore, he trained perfect, human beings and great personalities like his blessed' companions who became the best of men and the living examples of ^the ideals nourished in Holy Quran, the traditions and sayings of the Holy Prophet and the fountainhead of divine guidance and blessing.                                        .
                    TYPES OF KNOWLEDGE BASED ON ISLAMIC JURISPRUDENCE
     Some types of learning are obligatory and some others are utilitarian or subsidiary. Some of the branches of knowledge are obligatory and some stem from Tradition whereas a number of them are allowed and lawful, some"are disapproved
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flffillllNiftHilll                                 VOL.4 (>10.1
 and quite a considerable number are forbidden and unlawful according to the Islamic Code of Laws. The Islamic jurisconsults have expressed the opinion: "Obligatory knowledge is the one needed by a man according to the requirements of his own religion and utilitarian or subsidiary knowledge is the one acquired for the benefit of others and hence is very much needed".
       There is no doubt that the Islamic jurisconsults- have explained that the knowledge needed by the Islamic Ummah arid useful for the Muslims, is obligatory knowledge, though not on rill:. Bup if the acquirement of this knowledge is discarded and some of the sections of the Islamic Ummah do not : try to learn, then all the members of the Ummah are considered duty derelict and would be considered abettor in the sin of deliberate abandonment of obligation. The utilitarian duty is optional when it is performed but if it is disregarded then it does not remain optional but becomes each and everyone's responsibility.and assumes the form of obligation. Iir connection with the research and detail of the obligations which are to be performed by a section of the society for the benefit of’ the entire population (Farz-e-Kefaee), the author of "Sharh Al-Tahrir" writes:                        •
    :  "The Farz-e-Kafaee encompasses religious duties like -the funeral prayers
 and also includes wordly affairs like thxe know-how to, establish industries and factories needed by the society".
       The author of "Tabyy-ul-Maharam" says:
       "The Farz-e-Kafai may be interpreted as the type of learning which are indispensable for the performance of religious and worldly affairs and which cannot be ignored, e.g. medicine, mathematics, grammar, Islamic, jurisprudence, recitation of the Holy Quran, verification of Tradition's and Sayings of the Holy Prophet and his revered Companions, the knowledge of comprehending the intricacies of the will of a dead person, law of inheritance, the art of writing, literature, principles of knowledge, general and special knowledge and knowledge of the hidden meaning and the obvious. All these disciplines of knowledge are means to learn the art of interpretation of the Quranic text and the sayings and traditions' of the Holy Prophet. Similarly the knowledge of past relics and news, biographies of great men and knowing their programs, knowledge of the characteristics anil names, of the Holy Companions, the. ability to discriminate between the authentic and non-authentic Hadith and knowledge of the life-style of the one who quotes a Hadith, science of • the principles of industry, science of agriculture, political science and science of blood transfusion are also very valuable".
       Whoever studies extensively the writing's of the respected jurisprudents and deliberates upon them, would certainly come to the conclusion that the religion of Islam stresses the existence of specialists in ee^ch .subject of the Islamic culture and elevated civilization. All the jurisconsults have explained that if Muslims stand in need of making a needle but none of the Muslim; communities have the capacity to manufacture needles,' all the Muslims would be considered as abettors in the sin of disregarding their duty. Therefore among the sciences, all the useful learnings and specializations are Farz-e-Kefaee and it is desired from the Islamic point of view to have expertize' in these
                                             94
   OCfOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HffillWIJIHAD                               VOL■ 4 NO■ 1
  subjectsSpecialization in the treatment of cardiac troubles is Farz-e-Kefaee. Similarly expertize in the exploration of oil and its exploitation,
  specialization in the manufacture of equipment for this purpose and their utilization, refinement of petroleum, know-how of the manufacture of refinery equipment and .specialization in nearly ’80different techniques of oil exploitation are required and all these techniques are part of Farz-e-Kafaee. In the same way, medical education and paramedical training, education in the field of agriculture and all its peripheriai subjects, nuclear science and all the subjects and sciences connected with it, training in all the fields of airforce and the navy are, according, to the Islamic precepts, necessary and obligatory because the Islamic Ummah needs specialization in all these sectors. Hence Islam demands from us to have expertize in all the sciences and techniques required by us .and to perform all these functions perfectly and seriously. Our Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, says:
      "Verily God Almighty loves the man who performs his duty diligently and perfectly".
      Another Hadith reads:
               I    *          _          .            •                _
      "Verily Allah has ordained that every duty be performed correctly and perfectly. Therefore if you kill anyone, kill him in a proper manner and if you lawfully slaughter an animal, do so in a proper and decent manner".
      Although Farz-e-Ain (obligatory on each grown-up) are of many kinds but
  generally they are divided into two categories. Firstly, the recognition of the right of the creator. Secondly appreciation of the right of the creature which includes respect for God. Almighty, the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, the tenents of Islam, the ways and means for the purification of the heart, piety, learning of the essential knowledge like the ablution, saying of the daily prayers, keeping fast according to the Shari'ah, acquaintance with the rules of Zakat and Haj and nikah (wedlock) and talaq (divorce), knowledge of commercial transaction for those in the business community, knowledge of the performance of any duty assigned to man and knowledge of the permissible and the unpermissible and the presentation of witnesses and the knowledge of the good and the evil and particularly the unlawful actions as detailed below:
  1. Dependence and trust in anything than Allah claiming that it has nothing to do with God Almighty.
        •           i        '            • '
> 2. Not admitting the fact that all the manifest and non-manifest, sensory and moral blessings have been granted to us by God Almighty.
  3, Serving non-Divine purposes and specifying non-divine aims and objects . without the permission of God Almighty e.g. to give priotity to nationalism and patriotism tp.an extent to make them as objectives.
  4; Ceding the right of command and prohibition and the specification of the lawful and the unlawful and the right of sovereignty to others than God.
  5. , Giving preferance to the commands not ordained by Allah.
                                         95  ■          . .
 QCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHUMlltHilB                              VOL-4 N0.1
  6.  Obeying the decrees of others in a way to be contrary t^o Allah's leave and will.
  7.  Hating some or all the Muslims. •
  8.  Pref'ering the worldly life to the Hereafter.
  9.  Deriding the Holy Quran or the Holy Prophet's Tradition; scorning others
      because of being a scholar of the Quran and the Tradition of the Holy
      Prophet or - to pass sarcastic remarks concerning any divine commandments
      contained in the Quran or the' Traditions of the Holy Prophet and/or one of ■ - \ the Islamic tenents.
 10.  Considering something lawful which has already been declared unlawful by. Allah and vice versa.
 11.  Loving and being'sincere with the infidels and the hypocrites at the cost of friendship and love with the Faithful.
 12.  Not believing all the contents Of the Holy Book and all the precepts of the Holy Prophet's Tradition.
 13.  Disrespecting the Holy Prophet. .
 14.  Detesting monotheism and to like polytheism.
 15.  Claiming that the hidden meaning of the Quran is different from its apparent sense and that some people intrinsically possess the knowledge of the hidden purport of the Quran and have thorough knowledge of the same.
 16.  Disbelieving in God's attributes or one of His attributes or one of His names or anyone of His actions.
 17.  Disbelieving one or all the attributes of the Holy Prophet or mentioning his attributes disrespectfully or scornfully and not believing the fact that the Holy Prophet was a blessing for the' mankind.
 18. Considering as infidels those who confess to the fact that God is one and Mohammad is His Prophet or not considering an infidel as an infidel and/or considering it permissible to wage war against the Faithful and to kill them.
 19.  Performing an act related to Divine obedience and worship for someone else, e.g. slaughtering an animal under* the name of others than God or worshiping or prostrating in front of anything else except Allah, etc.
                        THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN KNOWLEDGE AND CULTURE
      Knowledge is the information obtained through experience, .eduction or
          reading books e.g. natural sciences, chemistry and other experimental sciences.
          Culture is the information received through news, interpretation or logical
                                        96
                                                                                                           (
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MWJtHflO ;                  ^            VOL.4 N0.1
 deduction like interpretation of the Quran, Ahadith, Islamic jurisprudence, philosophy, history, philology, culture and all such‘experimental subjects. But there are some non-experimental disciplines which, despite being a part of culture, are -connected with knowledge and learning such.as mathematics, geometry and handicrafts and artistic productions, yet have roots ambng the masses and are common and do not belong to only one nation and include all the human beings. Hence they are called knowledge. Similarly, some of these resembling an industry are categorized as knowledge and arts like photography, sculpture and music are: considered a part of culture. In short the difference between knowledge and culture is, that knowledge concern's all the nationalities and is global or universal and do. not belong to .only one particular nation, whereas culture is special and relates to a nation by whose initiative it comes into being and is considered one of its distinctive characteristics.
                                THE MODE OF TEACHING IN feLAM
                         The Holy Prophet, peace be; upon him, has described three ways of teaching:
 1.  Lecturing or teaching. by the educational text material.. The Holy Prophet delivered lectures to the revered companions when they had no previous knowledge Of the text-material, or the /spiritual text or delivered sermons for their spiritual guidance. Of all the three styles of education, teaching by lecture was the most successful especially for the students who had strong memories and power of comprehension. This mpde of teaching is very effective for students who have the ahility to grasp the sense of the subject.with their high intelligence quotient. In contemporary period, this mode of teaching is in vogue in the universities.
 2.  The method of logical deduction, i.e., appreciating a point by deducting. The Holy Prophet used to put the text material in the form of a question to the companions and asked them to disclose the.answer with reference to the original substance. Then the companions would answer by logical deduction. But if they could not do so, then the Holy Prophet would explain the answer and drew their attention to it by logical explanation and arguments. For example, Abdullah s/o Omar quotes the Holy- Prophet as saying: "Verily there is a tree, the leaves of which do not fall, and this tree resembles the Muslims. Will you please explain what kind of a tree is this?" The companions began pondering over this question. Abdullah s/o Omar says that he thought of a date tree but because he was minor among all the students, so he kept silent. The respected companions replied, "O Holy Prophet, please let us know what sort of a tree is this?" The the Holy Prophet said: "The date tree". This method of teaching sharpens the students' intellect and encourages them to think and ponder. The reason is that one starts . thinking and using his thinking faculty when challenged by an enigmatic question and, when he finds an apt answer, after due deliberation, then rarely he forgets it. This was the method usually used by the Holy Prophet while teaching and this method too has many aspects and requirements which may be availed in a proper manner in a class room, e.g., giving home work to the pupils, awakening the intellect of the students before starting
                       ‘teaching of the text book, elaborating the details after teaching the
                                            97
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 IHNJtHflD                                  VOL.4 N0.1
     general points of a subject and putting the student's intelligence to test, etc.
3.   Teaching by practice. This helps the pupils to express his general knowledge and to prepare answers for discussions. Meanwhile such an exercise creates an atmosphere of inquisitiveness and dynamic interest in the subject under study, preparing the student mentally to develop
     confidence in extempore response and spurring his imagination faculty. In this manner, an atmosphere of interest and attachment with the educational institution is created and students develop great interest and love for their institution. Mostly the Holy Prophet held the academic sessions in this way and.gathered the revered companions around him and prompted them to question him and then provided the answers. Sometimes he used to answer his own questions for them, whereas, at other times, put the questions in such a manner that the students' minds were spurred to provide an apt answer. Abi Moosa Al-Asha'ri says the Holy Prophet said his early morning prayers and we gathered around him. Some of us asked questions about the verses of the Holy Quran, some others questioned him about their moral duties and Others asked questions regarding interpretation of dreams. Abu Horeira quotes the Holy Prophet as . saying, "Do you know what is back-biting?" The revered companions replied, "Allah and His Prophet know best.” The Holy Prophet then said, ”It means, stating a habit of your • brother which you do not like". They said, "If our brother has a defect in
     his character,   even             then it would be termed as back-biting? The Holy
     Prophet replied, "If you reveal a defect of your brother which really exists in him, surely you have indulged in slander and if that defect does .not exist in him then certainly you have accused him falsely." Thus the traditions say    that              the revered companions put questions to the Holy
     Prophet and he answered them or the Holy Prophet would put a question and seek its answer from the companions. So he used all the three methods of teaching in an appropriate manner. This discussion makes it abundantly clear that in    the first Islamic academy, all the effective    modes of
     teaching were introduced and implemented. This was the epoch, when there was no treatise on the art of education and no text books were compiled in the form of educational syllabus.
                            THE METHODS OF TEACHING ISLAMIC CULTURE
     There are three methods as detailed below:
     The educational text should be taught in.a precise and correct manner as a work of research and the facts of the matter be presented with vision and proper reasoning because the Islamic culture has deep roots and is based on precise and thorough insight. Its teaching requires patience and perseverence. It has practical and theoretical aspects and hence intellectual effort is a pre-requisite for teaching the meaning of Islamic culture. In order to communicate its various dimensions, one should have a proper comprehension of the use of correct words and expressions and be able to appreciate the realities, in their true perspective and to connect them with the perception that makes the realities understandable. Therefore it is essential that this perception should be put under microscopic
                                         98
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGIIIlMJ[HAD                              VOL.4 N0.1
      research so that the essence of the inquiry may come to the limelight. For instance a Muslim is dutybound to acquire his- belief through reasoning. Consequently whatever is related to the fundamental belief, should be demonstrated practically and theoretically in the course of teaching. For the logical deduction of those Islamic laws and commandments communicated to us through the Holy Quran and the Traditions of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, it is necessary, that such a deduction ought to be based on correct conception of the idea and provide a solution for the difficulty in. view as well as the original .text should be applied to the case concerned with perfect understanding which is not possible without the excercise of mental process. Those people who adopt the commands of Shariat and act upon them without understanding the rationale of these commands, should first of all try to comprehend the problem, at hand and the particular order given for dealing with such a difficulty so that they may be able to differentiate between the commandment concerning their immediate problem arid the commandment issued for another problem and choose the one related to their own. Hence one definitely needs mental exercise and intellectual effort to grasp the meaning of the Islamic culture.
 2.   The teacher ought to have firm belief in the subject to be taught so that, if required, he could act upon, it or, in other words, he should not have any doubt in his mind regarding the text of the matter. In case the subject does not relate to the teacher's religious beliefs, and convictions but concerns rules and regulations or social manners, it ought to be evident and visible in most of the affairs of the daily life.of the teacher so that it may be based on reality. But the, in any case, the teacher should believe in what he is teaching notwithstanding the fact whether the belief is adopted or genuine.
           Portrayal of Islamic culture* adopted from any other source, would not be appropriate. The reason is that Islamic culture is very deep and, at the same time, dynamic and effective. It generates such a spirit in the teacher that all forms of evil are eliminated and creates such an illumination in the miqd that the path and necessity for reform becomes distinctly visible.
 3.   Teaching of practical lessons should be performed by a person who has the ability to undertake subjective communication of the knowledge of every reality and should never base his arguments on suppositions so that concrete and solid examples may be cited or pointed out to bring i.t hojne to
 ' the student. In this way the pupil learns the facts as they exist in human lives and feels it in his bones. For this purpose, the teaching of Islamic culture should not be based on imagination or supposition but should have a real and practical shape, pointing out its effect on the. life and the practical dimensions of our daily lives. Therefore we must examine the matter to be taught which brings out the beauty in the perception of so many things and apply our intellect to perceive its intrinsic value.-
     Briefly speaking, Islam advises three ways for discernment:
     Deliberation and precision in research.
                                  • ■ • [.
                                        99
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHflNJtMlll                            V0L,4 NO. 1
  - Absolute belief in the matter under discussibn and research as well as comprehension, of its meaning and applying it in our practical life* Emergence of the forces . of Islamic personality and adoption of proper educational policy for it.
                                  ISLAMIC EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
      Undoubtedly tremendous energies exist in man and human personality. Man's entity and his stamina, human soul and ego and their force and ability# man's strong will to. choose between the good and the evil, man's.capacity to conquer the universe and take advantage of it and his practical talents in . life, when developed in a healthy and positive environment, infuses so much freedom in human personality that he achieves the real and fundamental Islamic personality and all his potentials become manifest and alive. In the negative case, he is confined in a vicious, useless and worthless environment and becomes a prisoner of that surrounding. On the other hand, in the positive case, he develops the force of freedom and survival in a healthy environment. But if he is deprived of a healthy surrounding, then his energies and capacities are stunted.and sapped.
 A correct and healthy policy requires that all human forces should develop and grow so that he may be able to move rapidly on the right path and towards the right goal, and no impediment should obstruct his movement. Such an educational system which develops and activates all the positive potentials in the human form in an appropriate manner, does not exist in any other religion except the sacred divine religion of Islam.
      In order to elaborate these realities and facts, the following points are mentioned as briefly as possible:
                                   STRONG SPIRIT AND BODY
  1.  A holy Hadith reads:     "Verily your body has a right on you". Another
      Hadith says: "A strong man of   faith is better than a weak man of faith and
      is very dear to God."
      Accordingly, Islam has ordained all the Muslims and the guardians of the children by the laws of Shariat to bring up their children, with strong Islamic spirit and encourage them .to be bold and courageous. To quote a Hadith: "Teach and train your children, how to swim, how to shpot at the target and how to ride a horse, and order them to ride a horse swiftly and by jumping on their backs". Almighty Allah says:
     :"Make ready your strength to the utmost of your power, including steeds of war, to strike terror in the (the hearts) of the enemies of God and your enemies" (Surah Anfaal: Verse .60)
      This Verse embodies all the means required in the battle field and asks us* to acquire all the military hardware and get equipped in the best possible manner. It enumerates all those means of war which the human brain can imagine. This verse contains a term which' connotes a weapon or all those weapons^which are used for throwing•something to a distance. The Holy Prophet has interpreted the words in this way: "Beware that the force lies in the throw. Beware that the
                                          100
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGHflNJtHflB                            VOL-4 NO.l
 force lies in the throw. Beware that the force lies in the thorow." Therefore this type of ihstrument encompasses a bow, a gun, a klashenkov, cannons, rockets, missiles and. atomic bombs and such like weapons. In this verse, we have been asked to utilize everything connected with war* such as aeroplanes, helicopters, warships, submarines, tanks, armored vehicles, etc. Islam has ordained that man should learn all the tactics and arts of warfare, be it on the land or On the hills or in the cities. Similarly mobile or immobile warfare, waf on the land or on the high seas and all the tactics connected with them should be learnt. The reason being that an important duty of an Islamic state is to persuade all the world to accept the command of Allah but if.they defy or resist against this action, then they should be made to obey the Divine commands by resorting to war against them. On the other hand, all the subjects of an Islamic state must obey 'the sovereignty and the command of God Almighty and this can be possible only if the Islamic Urnmah is totally prepared for the jehad.
      As a matter of fact the pre-requisite of war or jehad is physical fitness. Hence the Islamic education system stresses physical strength and prowess through excersie and all those modes of physical activity which make a body strong and enable a man to resist aggression. This position'can be achieved only when all those exercises and sports, which activate all parts of the human physique, are carried out carefully and dexterously so that man may gain Strength and develop the art of fighting expertly i.e. racing, tactical sports, climbing up the heights swiftly and then climbing down, jumping, going up with the help of ropes and .moving alqng them, moving on tiprtoe *in the sitting condition, expanding the chest, crawling on the ground, wrestling, judo and karate, target shbcting, horse riding and all forms of riding and driving vehicles. Unfortuntately in the present system of education these practices are completely ignored. According to the Islamic system, all purposeless and non-beneficial sports and games are considered waste of. time. Hence it is essential that the Islamic educational institutions devote one. hour daily, to physical exercise of the students according to the fundamental laws of Islam so that the next generation may be brave and resistant.
                                ACTIVATING LATENT QUALITIES
   2.   Islam is the only system which activates all the latent qualities of men to the highest degree and provides special training to man's spirit, reason, heart, mind, memory and perceptive faculty. It has a special mode for the purity of soul, for enlightening human, heart and mind, for inculcating persever.encfe and independence of thought and action. Similarly it provides very scientific education for developing the power of speech and perception as well as activating latent characteristics and elevating them to a sublime. It opens, the mind to be exposed to all sorts.of information and assessment of the information gained within the framework of reason so that one may be able to achieve the high levels of perfection. The human soul and mind need to be fed properly like his. body. The. food for mind is purity and piety and the food for soul is wisdom, philosophy, good deeds, sincerity, devotion and prayer. That is why namaz (saying the daily prayers) is obligatory in Islam, and is considered the pillar of faith for a Muslim. We have been emphatically ordained to say our daily prayers with heartfelt devotion and humility.
                       In all the affairs of life, man has been obligated to do his duty with
                                       101
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHAHJtHflB                               VOL.4 N0.1
 sincerity, good intention, repentance and attention. Pondering over his deeds and celebrating the name of God are the important duties of man. Praying to God and saying one's prayers at night and meditation are the means to purify the soul, to strengthen the spirit and. to attain enlightenment.
      Man has limitless desires and demands which cannot be harnessed without the religious obligation for keeping fast. Therefore fasting has been declared obligatory and in some cases it is a tradition and a desired function.
      The Islamic educational program* definitely takes into consideration the human sentiments, the human desires, the spiritual requirements and all the underlying and hidden human aspirations which can be satisfied in a healthy and positive manner only when the students live in a congenial atmosphere* If human reason may not be able to solve its problems in consonence with his essential and natural requirements and may remain deprived of special guidance, it may not be able to ascend to a higher scale, it may not grow and mature, the memory and perception may not continuously develop in harmony, the important points or matters may not be registered mentally and may not get accustomed to retain the important things to remember, then it becomes rusted and stunted. In the same way if the said human potentials' do not develop equally and in hermony with the fair Islamic programs, the human psyche suffers and is damaged.
      On the contrary, in the present day schools and educational institutions, the power of expression and perception are not given the importance they deserve. The classical and great literature, which are everlasting, are not seriously taken into consideration. The disciplines of mathematics and culture are taught in such a- manner that one cannot find any sign of Connection between them and the religion; nor any effort is made to their rational application to the search for appreciating the existence of God. Therefore reason is confined in a narrow   alley. Similarly in today's educational      system, the student spends a
 fixed time     in the school and after that he is frequently cut off from the
 academic environment and hence does not•get the education and training that is required of him.
                  i                               ..       .
       But in the Islamic system of education, the pupil and the teacher both have to observe certain rules and the pupil himself makes deliberate effort to coordinate his mode of living with that of the educational institution. Then it is investigated whether the student feels any obligation towards his school and the mosque and whether he keeps  good company or not. It is seen       that the student
 should get   acquainted with the various aspects of       daily life  in a natural and
 positive manner so that he may be enabled to ensure the purity of heart and soul, to do kind deeds, to be sincere, to repent his sins, to pray with devotion and humility and to adopt Islamic habits and manners.
      The Islamic educational system determines norms of behaviour inside and outside the educational institution for the student. So when a student is imbued with these ideas, he gains the power of perseverance and explanation and justification of his “behaviour and his conviction very naturally and with considerable ease. Under these conditions, every student realizes his potential for retaining and promoting his talent in the course of his studies. There is no doubt that the endorsement of the Imam of the mosque of the student's character
                                        102
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 BfCIMf JtHflD                           VOL.4 N0.1
 and perseverance in his studies and the approval of his neighbours and co-villagers regarding his good character and decent behaviour, should not be considered less important than the character certificate issued by the school , concerned* Preservation of piety, moral discipline, faith, purity of soul and heart and thought are of vital and fundamental importance in the Islamic system of education* Some of the teachers do not attach much importance to these matters. Whatever may be the religion or sect or school of thought of such teachers, it is evident that we, as followers of the Divine Religion, believe that the viewpoints of these teachers differ from our points of view and surely we are on the right and they are on the wrong and it is essential for us not to have any doubts in our mind in regard to our assignments.
                                 DEVELOPMENT OF CHARACTER
 3. The Islamic educational system has a special program for the development of human character and moral discipline. It is only Islam which states clearly and comprehensively the ways of good or evil for the human beings. Therefore the teaching of ethics and assessment of the character as well as the academic attainment of a student, are the basic requirements of the Islamic system of education.
                                         PRACTICALS
 4. According to the Islamic educational system, alongwith theoretical studies, practical application of knowledge and abademic exercises are also kept in consideration and every student is given practical assignments to apply his knowledge to the daily affairs of his social life and to participate in the affairs of his community.
 5. Thus the student possesses knowledge of the essential jobs and functions for the performance of his future duties. The Holy Prophet, peabe be upon him, says, "Verily God likes those who are skilled in various trades ahd techniques." Hazrat Omar Farooq has said, "When I sef a man whose appearance amazes me and I ask him about his profession, then if he says he is not skilled in any profession, he loses respect in my eyes."
                              NO CONTRADICTION, IMAGINATION
 5. The Islamic education. is basdd on such principles that it encompasses all the requirements of education. It is shorn of any,contradiction and imaginary views do not take the place of factual knowledge. Therefore, the higher grade of learning is given its due pridrity and the secondary grade is given a lower category. All this is done in the light of Islamic ideology. In the same order, the subject matter of pre-adolescene period of education should be different from that of the post-adolescence period. It is the Divine Command that in the first stage, man should be mentally prepared to tolerate and acquire knowledge and, in the second stage, the temporal and the spiritual world-or this world and the Hereafter - are revealed to him. As the details of these two stages are mentioned in the books of Islamic jurisprudence, the teachers should refer, to these books for further information and the student and his guardian should
                                     103
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER,, 1990 HfCllflNJfHilD                      VOL■ 4 NO. 1
 Observe minutely the basic points in their studies as well as their, conduct.
                                  TEACHER'S QUALIFICATIONS
 6. In the Islamic educational system the duty-, of teaching is assigned to
 pious, faithful, honest and good charactered scholars who should have good intentions and should observe academic, practical, cultural, spiritual and good conduct rules and regulations. Imam Ibn-e-Sireen says: "Verily, knowledge and
 learning is religion. Hence you ^ ought to know and to ponder that who is the source of your religion."
                                     RULES OF CENSORSHIP
 7. In an Islamic academic institution and library non such a thing should exist which may not be consonant with the Islamic school of thought or the righteous path of Islam or should in any way be repugnant to them because a library is a means to accomplish the perfection of a student. Therefore, the library should never.be a means to destroy the talent of the students.
 8. Those educational programs initiated by the colonial powers, create hurdles for the Islamic educational programs arid the method applied for the execution of such colonial programs in the schools and universities, produce such intellectuals who consider the colonial cultures superior and have great regard for them and vehemently argue and express their opinions in their favor and let the colonial cultures rule their lives and teach them in schools, colleges and universities of the Islamic Ummah and the, Muslims also adopt them in their lives and seek guidance from them for their problems. The result is that many of the intellectuals and the educated people, instead of quoting the Holy Quran and the Traditions, find it convenient to have a recourse to these cultures and talk about psychology, social sciences and educational science. Consequently wrong
 ideas take root in the minds of the Muslims and they tread the wrong path, as a result of which, acceptance and comprehension of those specific, positive, correct and definite ideas, which counter the colonial cultures and produce logical arguments based on research and rational analysis against them, becomes a very difficult job for the believers of the so-called social science and psychology, etc., whose minds are boggled with confused thoughts and misconceptions. For example, it has been proved by reasonable and definite arguments that Islam is politics and politics is Islam. It has also been proved that Islam is the only solution of all the difficulties and evidently the entire Islamic Ummah is united, consolidated and inseparable and all the Muslims haVe complete faith in the fact that "There is no god but God Almighty and Mohammad, is the Prophet of God" and again it is proved that, for ensuring the unity of the Muslim Ummah and managing their affairs and enforcing the divine commands and justice, a caliph must head " the united Islamic state. 'But the Colonial culture, on the contrary, says that religion is separate from politics, state and the life and hence the colonialists wage war against the Islamic governments.
                   The fact is that these sciences are not part of education but form part of the, colonial culture because they have been composed of deductions and
                                      104
                                                                                 f
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 ilfGIMNJIHAD                              VOL.4 NO.1
 conclusions drawn from various observations, without being based on positive experience. However its impact on different minds varies according to. the receptiveness of that mind. It has no realistic infrastructure and cannot be described as an experiment of those capable of carrying out experiments and thoroughly analysing the result of such experiments to reach a certain conclusion but are simply observations and forecasts, falling under the category of culture. Besides they may be right or may be wrong, i.e., they are suppositions and hypothesis and cannot be termed as something specific and substantial.
      Similarly these cultures are based on wrong assumptions because they have one individual or person in mind and believe that individuals compose a society. Therefore their approach is based on individual basis and from the individual it goes to family and from the family to the elite under the distinctive colonial influence, who ultimately take control of the affairs of an Islamic society in order to achieve the colonial targets.
      Such attitudes are of no use to the Islamic society and the Muslims but, on the contrary, put the affairs of the Muslims on the wrong track. For instance, the responsibilities of administration in' the Islamic departments, Islamic educational institutions, Islamic judiciary and medical services and such.like jobs are assigned to that cadre, who has been educated in the colonial system and their job is to implement those laws, cultures, politicies, systems and civilizations which have been an offshoot of colonialism. The colonialists have introduced the evil ways of administration iri sensitive departments such as security arrangements, guarding of the territories and the police organization.
      The only way to solve this delima is to eliminate these colonial programs and process. At the same time, this conspiracy should be exposed for the benefit of the iulers, officials, judges, administrators, controllers of education and doctors so that all Muslims become completely aware of these designs and their targets and should try to root out all such conspiracies and nefarious programs chalked out by the colonialists. It should be done in such a manner that those Muslims, who have been trained under such programs, should give up depending on them and these designs and instead devote their energies to implement Islamic educational programs and Islamic mode of education for the coming generations.
                                  VALUES REPUGNANT TO ISLAM
 9.   The implementation -and continuation of the colonial programs and attitudes have led most of our graduates or students to such a path which is repugnant to Islamic ideology, ethics and behaviour. By Islamic education programs we do not mean only industrial and scientific curriculum because these disciplines do. not belong to one particular nation but are general and universal and concern the entire humanity. We would like to counter those educational and cultural syllabi of the colonialists which .have an impact on the life pattern such as the subjects of history, philosophy and literature, etc.
      The reason being that history is the interpretation of.the events of life, literature is the painting of the life scenario, and philosophy is the original thinking which sets the pattern of life arid finds a solution for our problems. These subjects provide the foundation for the superstructure of. the human bonds
                                       105
 OCTOBER--DECEMBER, 1990 IlfGHilH JtttflP                           VOL. 4 NQ.1
 and relationships. But the colonial infidels prepare these programs in such a manner and brain-wash the Muslim youth in such a way that some of them consider Islam redundant in their life and society and some others raise the banner of hostility against Islam and consider Islam as an impediment to progress and an obstacle in the path of development which dees not help them so,lve their difficult problems and hence they defy it. It is for this reason that we consider the elimination of such a way of thinking essential and necessary.
 10.  A part of the cultural education is magnified beyond the reasonable proportion and are labelled as universal sciences# e.g. the cultures of sociology# psychology# education and individuals forming a community and transforming into a bigger society. They think that societies are Composed of individuals# therefore# all societies are considered separate from each other and what is good for one society# is not good for another. But all these are wrong presumptions. The fact is that a society comes into being on the basis of human, thoughts, beliefs and systems and hence these thoughts and solutions# which help some of the individuals at one place to demonstrate their talents# are capable to do so in every place and reform their thoughts, systems and beliefs and thus preserve their unity. Therefore any misconception in a society causes misconceptions in the educational planning. Then any misconception in social c-ultu're as well as psychological culture leads to dual misconceptions.
      The psychological culture suffers from double misconception. Firstly# the psychological culture or in other words the science of psychology divides the , brain into several sectors and believes that each sector has a special, function. Similarly it believes that certain brains have unique abilities. But brain is such a thing which is always subject to and influenced by previous feelings and perceptions and thoughts.
      On this account it is not correct to say that some brains posses certain abilities which the others do not. As a matter of fact, all the brains have the ability to think about everything provided the past realities and informations are stored in the memory.
      The difference between brains is actually related to the power of communication and the power.of.feeling just as there is a distinct difference between a good eyesight and a bad eyesight.* The point to note is that all kinds of information ajre available to each and every person and each person can assimilate that much knowledge that he can. Therefore what is termed as a special gifted ability# in the psychological terminology, has no basis at all.
      Secondly, psychology gives credit to a number of instincts some Of which have been discovered till today and some have yet to be discovered. Hence with this defective and limited, knowledge, the psychologists have adopted certain wrong assumptions about human instincts. One can observe the facts of life with the help of his five senses and anyone inclined to look into the meaning of action and reaction, can do so wa.th the help of his own natural senses because every individual possesses this living faculty# and this faculty has two manifestations. The first one urges for the provision of means for its survival and if the means are not [provided/ it will stop existing and the second manifestation is' that, despite lack of sustenance, it can continue. But vdu'e to the lack of the means of sustenance man is faced with despair and,ambiguities.
      The first manifestation is the physical need like hunger, thirst and other such requirements. The second manifestation is instinctive, like instinct of

                                          106
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGHilNMB                                  VOL.4 N0.1
 .religiousness, reproductive instinct and the instinct for survival. These instincts are further sub-divided into the consciousness of humility, consciousness of the survival of human race and consciousness of enjoying the, benefits of survival. There are no other instincts beyond these three instincts, and if any other manifestationN occurs, it would t stem from these triple instincts, e.g. fear, leadership and proprietorship manifesting the survival instinct; fatherhood and brotherhood manifesting human bonds and piety and purity demonstrating the religious instinct. Hence the belief in many instincts, according to psychology, would be wrong. Similarly the way of valuing the differences in brain is that the theories which are based one brain and psychology were also wrong. Educational sciences of modern day are based on psychology and, therefore, it is logically essential, not to term them "science" But they are only part of culture and not more. We should not treat them as absolute facts but rather facts based on conjectures which are actually based on wrong assumptions and therefore they cannot govern our lives and it is only Islam that governs our lives.      •
                                        WOMEN EDUCATION
     The educational policy of Islam encourages the growth of manly characteristics iii man and womanly characteristics in women. From the Islamic point of view, except the characteristics of manliness in men and womanliness in women, as required by nature, there does not exist any other difference between the male and the female. Hence all those things which are considered to give heavenly reward to men, are also considered to be the same in the case of women. God Almigty inspired Her Eminence Mother. Mary to say that, "Man is not like a woman". On this basis, although woman have been ordained to be educated and to seek knowledge and many women have achieved high degrees of knowledge in Islamic jurisprudence, Traditions and Sayings of the Holy Prophet, literature and medicine,etc., Keeping in .view the demands of nature and the intellectual capacity of woman, at present all the female education institutions ought to be completely transformed preserving female modesty and observance of the religious code of conduct. Such arrangements must be made for woman that any kind of mixing and contact between men and women should be scrupulously avoided and in educational institutions there should be complete segregation between men and women. This can be ensured only when the following points are seriously, noted and implemented:-
 1.  Separate syllabus ought to be prepared for female education.
 2.  Such facilities should be provided wherein women should specialize in appropriate disciplines.
 3. Female education program ought to guarantee the respect and modesty of woman and any probability of suspicion of a wrong deed during visits, to them and by them, should be forestalled.
 4.  Women should be kept separate from men in all the stages of education.
     In conclusion, I' pray to Almighty Allah to bless•allthe Muslims in this world and the hereafter and grant us the ability to understand Islam and to act according.to the principles of Islam.
     Sincerely,
     Wishing the supremacy of Islam.,
                                       107
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HIuHhIIJIHIII]            VOL-4 N0.1
 CHARTER’S TEXT:
 ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSORS OF AFGHAN UNIVERSITIES
               IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
                                      I
                                  PREFACE
    In consequence, of the 27 April coup, especially, after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the academic, cultural and other domains of ouy country's life were severely damaged,
    Not only the political system and1 the government administration of the country was completely disrupted, our educational system, too, has suffered an irreparable harm and the scientific and academic standards of the universities and higher studies became subservient to communistic; objectives.
    For the sake of Sovietization of the educational system undertaken vehemently and expeditiously, a considerable number of teachers and professors were arrested and some of them were executed without trial an.d without any sort of accusation. Insecurity, -police harrasment and persecution and the insulting attitude of the authorities caused the evodus of experienced and veteran teachers and professors. They sought refuge in foreign countries under protest against these conditions. In their absence, a number of unqualified, non-professional and in-experienced communists were appointed to educational positions and sensitive posts. Later, some of the university departments were either abolished on the advice of the Soviet consultants or unreasonably affiliated to academic or non-academic institutions.
    Due to unwarranted imprisonments, executions without accusation and trial, compulsory military service and discriminatory and derogatory attitude of the authorities, the number of students particularly the male students, reduced considerably in the universities and other higher educational institutions in the country.
    Furthermore, abolishment of entrance examination in the universities, introduction of the quota system for accommodating members of the communist party, compulsory teaching of the communist doctrine, "political economy", "scientific sociology"and "revised" history of Afghanistan in the educational curricula of all the colleges, reduction of the average passing grade and giving passing grades to students with conditional grade, promotion to a higher class on the basis of "satisfactory" record, promotion to a higher class in proportion to the years of military service arid ^special concession to permit admission.in
                                           108
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGIMN JIHAD                              VOL-4 NO-1
 the university on the basis of expediencies, subsequent to completion of military service, were other major causes for lowering the academic standard at universities.
      Today, when our heroic and mujahed nation is on the verge of a historic victory after giving tremendous material and physical sacrifices, the enlightened class of this ancient land, wherever they may be, consider their earnest duty to get together for the reconstruction of their beloved country which lias been turned into ruins and to think of the future of their homeland and take active part in its rehabilitation and prosperity. In view of this obligation,' the scholars of our country, particularly those who once had academic responsibilities in the university, should leave no stone unturned for reaching the future goals, as detailed below:
      Effective participation of the teachers in the righteous jehad of the people of Afghanistan.
      Organizing of a cadre ready to return and perform its assigned duty in the country.
      Specifying the role of teachers in the reconstruction of the universities of Afghanistan.
      Providing facilities for the teachers to render academic service in the educational centers of Afghanistan and the universities run by’ the mujaheddin and to stop their migration to other countries and to attract teachers from other countries to serve for the.jehad.
      Therefore, a number of senior and experienced professors of the universities have decided to form an Association of the Professors of the Universities of Afghanistan, under the present difficult and unfavorable circumstances, for continuing their struggle against the domination of communist culture upon the Islamic and national culture of the Afghans. The founding member of the Association are:
      Prof. Abdul Salam Azimi; Prof. Dr. Mohammad Hassan Kakar; Prof. Sayyed Mohammad Yousuf Elmi; Prof. Dr. Azam Gul Khan; Prof. Abdul Rasool Ameen; Associate-Professor Hakeem Tanival and Associate Professor Ahmad Yousuf Noorestani.
      Participation of other members in this Association and the requirements of the new jehad phases, entail the revision of the previous charter.
               CHARTER OF "THE ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSORS OF THE UNIVERSITIES OF AFGHANISTAN" '
                                         CHAPTER I GENERAL RULES
 ARTICLE 1: This charter has been prepared to ensure .--ruination of educational activities of the professors in restoring the academic status of the universities and preparing the ground for their participation in the reconstruction process of the country in general and achievement of other objectives/cited in -this Charter.
                                      109
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flffiHJWJlllfltt                            VOL.4 NO. 1
ARTICLE. 2: The Association of Professors of the Universities of Afghanistan will hereinafter,■in this Charter, be mentioned as the ''Association".
ARTICLE 3: The Association is a legal entity represented through its chairman.
                                          CHAPTER II ORGANIZATION
ARTICLE 4: The Association consists of the following organs:
     (ay General Assembly, (b) Supreme Council, (c) Administrative Board Their structure and functions are as follow':.,-
                            (a)   general assembly
•-                                          '               I
ARTICLE 5: The General Assembly comprizes all professors who have been accepted as members of the Association, according to the conditions laid down in Article 24 of this Charter.
ARTICLE 6: The General Assembly will meet every six months.               *
ARTICLE 7:  Quorum of the meetings of the Assembly would be complete with the
presence of two-:thirds of the members.
ARTICLE 8:  Resolutions1 of the Assembly will; be approved by the majority of
votes of the members present in the meeting.
ARTICLE 9: The General Assembly, being the supreme organ of the Association, has the following duties and powers:
  a- Hearing of the report of the activities of Association once in every six months and adoption of necessary decisions, b- Expressing views and giving advice on general problems related to educational policy and welfare and the raising of educational standard of the. universities, c- Endorsing the Association's Charter and amending ^it.
  d- Electing >the Chairman . of the Association from amongst the candidates introduced by the Supreme Council.        *
                            (b)   SUPREME COUNCIL
ARTICLE 10: The Supreme. Council is the highest academic and executive authority of the Association which, in addition to the present founding members is composed of ten professors of the universities in Afghanistan ' (i.e. Kabul University, Nangarhar University, Jehad and Religious Preaching University and
Jehad University) having the minimum status of Pohandoy (two levels lower than a full professor). Election of members of the Supreme Council will take place according .to a separate regulation.
                                          110
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHMI,JlHAD'                              VOL.  4 N0.1
 ARTICLE 11:  The  Supreme Council of the Association has the following duties
 and powers:
   a- Proposing the draft of the Association's Charter and relevant rules and regulations.
   b- Approving the professional and administrative establishment and sanctioning the annual budget of the Association, c- Endorsing the appointment of administrative and professional workers of the Association.
   d- Determining and specifying the obligations and competence of the chairman and all the workers of the Association, e- Introducing candidates for the post of President, from amongst the Supreme Council members, for the General Assembly.              .
   f- Approving the acceptance of new members and repealing the membership from the Association, as required.
  ,,g- Approving the convening of seminars and workshops.
   h- Determining qualifications for granting scholarships and specifying those who should take part in the conferences, i- Hearing the functional repbrt of the Association once in every three months.
   j- Forwarding general proposals for improving the conditions for: the universities in alii the sectors of education.
   f
   k- Supervise correct application of the provisions of this Charter.
 ARTICLE 12:  Routine sessions of the Supreme Council of the Association would
 be held once a month.
      Emergency meetings may be held on the recommendation of the Association's Chairman or the proposal of one third of the members of the Supreme Council. ARTICLE 13:   The resolutions of the Association's Supreme Council would be
 adopted by a majority of vote. In case, equal number of votes are cast, the Chairman's vote will decide the mattef. The Chairman of the Supreme Council has the right of vote only iri case of a tie in voting.
 ARTICLE 14: The quorum of the sessions of the Supreme Council will be complete with the presence of two-third of the members.
                          (c)  ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD
 ARTICLE 15:. The Association will have a Chairman, a Secretary, an organizer of programs and committees and administrative personnel.
 ARTICLE 16: The Association will have the following academic committees:
   a Academic personnel and Teachers' Affairs Committee b Scholarship and Students' Affairs Committee c Procurement Committee
   d Publications and Educational Research Committee       '               <
      Duties and responsibilities of these committees will be regulated through a separate regulation* '
                                       111
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HIUIIHH dlllHU                    VOL.4 NO.1
ARTICLE 17:   chairman of  the  Association will be elected by majority of votes
cast by the members present in the General Assembly, for a period of two years.
 ARTICLE 18: The Chairman, who is responsible for carrying out the affairs of the Association, will.have the following duties and powers:'
   a- Proposing appointment of, professional and administrative personnel and • admitting new members and repealing the membership in th^ Supreme Council, b- Proposing amendments in the professional and administrative establishment, c- Controlling financial and budgetary affairs.
   d- Ensuring liaison with the Islamic Government of Afghanistan.
   e- Establishing contact with educational and cultural institutions inside and i      outside the country for the sake•of developing and improving the ‘academic
      affairs and securing financial and technical assistance, f- Contacting the professors of universities of Afghanistan inside and outside the country for ensuring their renewed cooperation, g- Proposing the holding of academic . seminars and conferences as : and when necessary.                v
 . h- Submiting quarterly report to the Supreme Council and biannual report to the General Assembly. i- Looking after the performances of the committees and creating necessary facilities for carrying out the assigned duties, j- Arranging the agendas of. the sessions of the General Assembly, the Supreme , Council and Administrative Assemblies and presiding over them, k- Dealing with all matters referred to it by the Supreme Council.
 ARTICLE 19:  If the Chairman or any administrative member is not present on his
 duty for more than 30 days- without any reasonable cause, he would be deposed from his post and his membership would be cancelled.
 ARTICLE 20:  The Association would have one secretary who would cooperate with
 the Chairman in carrying out the duties mentioned in Article 18 and, in the absence of the Chairman, would look after the affairs of the Association. ,
      The Secretary of the Association would preferrably be selected from amongst the members of the Supreme Council and appointed according to the rules of this Charter.
 ARTICLE 21:  The person in-charge of the Association's programs, besides the
 duties assigned to him, by the Supreme Council, is duty-bound to register and compile the decisions of the different organs of the Association and intimate the members of the Association, if necessary.
 ARTICLE 22: Committees of the Association have the following main duties:
   a- Study and analyse the existing condition's of professors in the universities from the point of view of the. standard of professors and putting forward specific proposals in this connection, b- Checking the admittance documents of the new members of the Association, c- Studying and. analysing the academic condition, standard of the‘students, their number and mode of admission in the universities dnd presenting
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 IlfllllllNJIHAD                            VOL.4 NO. 1
      reports and personal reformative proposals in this connection, d- Studying and analyzing the condition of the universities from the view point of facilities, equipment, laboratories, libraries, facilities for scientific studies and submission of reports and proposing specific solutions in this connection.
 ARTICLE 23: The duties and powers of all the administrative and professional
 members of the Association would be regulated by a separate formula.
                                           CHAPTER III
              TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR fEMBERSHIP: RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE MEMBERS
 ARTICLE 24; Professors with the following qualifications are entitled to membership of the Association:
   1  Should be Afghan with no affiliation with non-Islamic parties and with no
      indulgence in any activities against the national interests.'
             . ' ' 1 •
   2  Should possess good moral character and good reputation.
   3  Should have achieved at least one promotion in any university.
   4  Should have directly or indirectly cooperated with the cause of Afghan jehad.
 ARTICLE 25: Written request for membership will be addressed to the Chairman.
 ARTICLE 26: Membership entrance fee would be (Pakistani) Rs. 20/-.     >
 ARTICLE 27: Each member of the Association, who is a salaried person or has a profitable occupation, has to pay (Pakistani) Rs. 30/- per month as regular membership fee to the Association Fund against a receipt.
 ARTICLE 28:   A  member unable to pay his membership fee for s.ix months
 consecutively without any plausible reason, will lose his membership.
                  ' • • / • -ARTICLE 29: Any new proposal outside the context of agenda can be included in the agenda, subject to the approval of one third of the members of the Supreme Council, as an extraordinary measure.
                                            CHAPTER IV
                            FINANCIAL AFFAIRS OF THE ASSOCIATION
 ARTICLE 30: The Association's budget will be financed unconditionally with /the following assistance:
                                                            t
   a From international sources
113
 OCTOBER-PECEMBER. 1990___________MMJIHAD___________ VOL.4 N0.1
   b From Afghan sources •c From individual sources
   d From the entrance fee and regular membership fee of the Association's members according to articles 26 and 27 of this charter.
 ARTICLE 31:  The. mode of utilization of the Association's funds would be
 explained through a separate regulation.
                                    CHAPTER V .
                                 MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUCTIONS
 ARTICLE 32:  Amendment, deletion and/or addition of any matter in this Charter
 will take place on the basis of a proposal moved by one-third of the members of the Supreme Council and consent of the majority of the members.
      The decision of the Supreme Council will be submitted to the first session of the General Assembly for approval.
 ARTICLE 33: The Association has a periodical publication, the publicity policy of which shall be explained separately.
 ARTICLE 34: This charter shall be enforced after the approval of the Supreme Council and endorsement of the General Assembly. With the enforcement of this Charter, the earlier Charter dated 21 March 1989, stands cancelled.
 ARTICLE 35: This charter consists of a preface and 35 articles.
114
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MGIWN JlHflll VOL.4 NO-1
 Reconstructing Rural Areas
Islamic Scholar, Experts Interviewed
           EDITOR'S NOTE: The following section is devoted to issues , of village reconstruction in Afghanistan. First: there is an article by Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal of the CCAR on Islamic view and requirements in regard t'o village and town construction and in the second part there are interviews on the technical   aspects of rural development with (1)               Dr.
           Abdullah Alit   former President of House              Construction and
           presently an Advisor with the AIG,. (2) Engineer Mohammad Siddiq Ehsan ,  former President             of Rural   Development and
           presently Chief of the VITA,     (3) Engineer Mohammad Yusuf
           Rahmanzai, former Vice President of the Construction and Canalization Department of the Ministry of Public Work and presently an engineer in the Afghan Construction and Logistic Department in Peshawar, (4) Enigneer .Nazar Mohmmad Niaz, former Chief    of Large Scaler               Project of the Afghan
           Construction Department and presently an engineer• in the Afghan Construction and Logistic Department in Peshawar, (5) Engineer Mohmmad Siddiq, former President of Construction Department of Kabul Municipality and presently member of the Techincal Board of the RAFA in Peshawar, (6) Engineer Sher Mohammad Kameen, former Deputy Ditrector of the Department of Water Supply of the Kabul Municipality and presently• member of the Techincal Board of RAFA in Peshawar.
  ^ As a result of the establishment of a communist regime in Afghanistan and later the invasion of our country by the Russian army and the ensuing war for 12 long years,, the once green' land turned into mere mass of earth, gaping caves, debri and totally destroyed country. Now that by the grace of God Almighty the Soviet pLunderers, facing a shameful defeat from the valiant mujaheddin, have
                                                    115
 \
 turned tail and God willing their communist well-wishers and puppets will also follow suit,a gigantic task of reconstruction of ruined Afghanistan has remained to be undertaken.                    *
      This work calls for urgent endeavour as the rehabilitation of Afghan refugees ptust be taken up-.in right earnest. Houses for their living, schools for their children and lands for the grazing of their animals and tilling and sundry are the top priorities of the government and state. In re-building our houses and villages and towns we should always keep Lr\ mind our Islamic culture and way of life. The following are a number of basic principles which I think should be borne in mind when we plan for the reconstruction of our villages or towns:
                         1.  THE DIRECTION OF QEBLAH
VOL.4 MO.1
      In house building the direction of Qebla is necessary. For the faithful it should be very easy to face the Qebla while praying in the room. The Quran says: "We inspired Moses and his brother with this message: Provide dwellings for. your people in Egypt, make dwellings into Qeblas and establish regular prayers and give glad tidings to those who believe. (Surah Yunus: Verse 87)
      While explaining this-' verse, Abdullah bin Abbas (a companion of the Prophet) says: The- Israelis said that they were unable to say their prayers in company of the, people of pharaoh. Therefore, God Almighty allowed them to say their prayers' in their homes. Thus they had to make their houses facing the Qebla. From, this, we can conclude that the direction of Qebla must be. kept in mind while constructing houses so - fhat we may be able to say some of our prayers.at home When we so desire.
                       2.   CONSTRUCTION OF LAVATORIES
      The direction of Qebla must also be observed while making ablution so that one may face the Qebla and not turn his or^her back to it.
      In the    holy Tradition of the Prophet, peace be upon him, also it is
 stressed that in the toilet. While easing oneself, one should not turn his/her face or back towards Qebla.Of course it is petmissible to turn one'sdie to Qebla
                       3.   THE BUILDING OF MOSQUES
      In construction of towns and villages the building of mosques must be incorporated in the maps or preferably, according to Islamic point of view, the Construction of mosques .should procede house construction. This is borne by the fact that in Makkah the construction of Baitullah Othe House of God) preceede;! other constructions and residential quarters. Based on the biography of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, and Islamic traditions it is said that when the Holy  Prophet    was migrating to Madeenah, he reached Qoba,    three ihiles from
 Madeena. Qoba is a tall building*which was also called "Aliah". During a period of four or 14 days there the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, laid the foundation of   a mosque with his own blessed hands. This was  done in the barren
 land owned by ,'Kulsum. The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him,-’ used to work as a
                                                116
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGIMNJEHAD                               VOL.4 N0.1
 laborer along with his companions carrying mud, earth, stones,' etc. to build the mosque. In order to encourage the workers, Hazrat Abdullah bin Rawaha used to sing "victorious is the one who builds mosques and recites Quran while sitting and standing". And when the God's beloved apostle, Mohammad (PBUH), arrived in Madeena and settled down there, his first and foremast task was to build a mosque over there also. In the construction of this mosque the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, worked side by side with his companion as an ordinary laborer. Then he constructed rooms also for his blessed companions.This episode demonstrates dearly that the construction of mosques ‘should be placed on top in the priority list, when plans are prepared for the construction of villages and towns.
                           4.   HEALTH AND HYGIENE
      Side by side with town and village building the health and hygiene issue should by no means he ignored, Islam pays very great attention to preventive cure and medicine in the promotion of healthy citizens and wholesome hygiene. In this context- God Almighty has .said: "Eat and drink but waste not by excess (Surah Araf: Verse 31). Needless to say that keeping a limit in eating and drinking will certainly contribute to one's good health and this is why Islam has specially emphasized this point. The same verse also conveys that do not eat if there is no appetite and be. neat and considerate while eating.
      Haroon-ur-Rashid had a learned Christian doctor. He told All bin Hussain that your holy book (the Quran) has said nothing about medical science whereas it is an important branch of science. Replying, Ali said: "Our God Almighty has summarized the entire medical science in half of His Verse which says: "Eat and drink but waste". The Christian told him again that your Prophet . is quiet regarding medical science. He replied that our Prophet, peace be upon him, has summarized the entire science of medicine in a few words by saying:   "The
 stomach is home of disease and fever is the top medicine".
      The Christian doctor then told him that your Book and Prophet have not left anything in the medical field for Jalinus (a famous ancient doctor). It is said that when the Emperor of Rome (Maquqas) sent presents to the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, a Christian doctor was also sent along with the presents. The Holy Prophet told the doctor "We are a people who won't eat unless we are hungry and when we eat; we do not burden the stomach". In other words, one should not eat so much to fall ill and call for the doctor. So the doctor left.
      From these episode it can be concluded that basic principle of, bodily and environmental health should be observed in an Islamic society. In the construction of towns, villages, houses and' schools the environmental surroundings must be kept neat and clean and the principles of hygiene observed. No room should be left for mosquitoes, flies and scavengers to grow and create health problems near the living surroundings. No pools or stagnant and standing waters should be permitted to mar the surroundings and create health and hygiene problems. Of course the importance of drinking water facilities and a foplproof sewerage system in all construction work cannot be overemphasized.
      Air and sun shine are other .important factors necessary for health and
117
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 199Q
 hygiene. They are also necessary for greenery, lawns and our 'gardens as well as our dwellings. As is very well said that prevention is better than cure, this golden rule must be observed to the letter so as to ward-off all diseases. Thus prevention is important than the cure itself.
      Sanitation and cleansiness also play important role in health and hygiene and the development of a healthy society both from the point of view of social and moral values as well as the Islamic way of life. The great Prophet of Islam, ‘peace be upon him, has said:  Sanitation and cleanliness is part of the Muslim
 belief and religion".. Another Tradition of the holy Prophet says: "Cleanliness
 and sanitation is half of Islamic belief". In other words as .belief purifies the inner soul, physical cleanliness cleans the. outer body. In Islam no one,is allowed to pray unless he is physically neat and clean. The body and the clothes must be neat and clean before one can pray. Hazrat Aisha Siddiqa, the wife of the Prophet, narrates that the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, has ordered to make mosques inside the houses for the "Sunnat" and "Nafl" prayers and keep them clean and sweet smelling.
      God Almighty has ordered: "And  we covenanted Ibrahim and Ismail that they
 should sanctify my House for those who compass it around, or^use it as a retreat or bow, or prostrate themselves therein in prayer, (Surah Baqara: Verse 125).
      The same cleanliness can be applied to the mosques, homes, etc.
                                                                  **
      Similarly while praising the Mosque of Qoba, God Almighty has said:    "In
 this mosque there are men who love to be purified and God loves those who make themselves pure". (Surah Toba: Verse 108). This verse clearly orders us to be clean physically and to keep the environment clean. Of course ablution which keeps the body clean is included in that. But the ablution must be thorough and. faultless. Neat clothes are also included. For God Almighty orders his Blessed. Apostle in these words:   "Keep your garment free from stain (Moddassar: Verse
 4)". It orders physical cleanliness as well as inner cleanliness, i.e. to keep away from all that is forbidden and considered filthy in Islam. In the champaign for cleanliness , the sanitation of the entire locality and area must be born in mind plans and maps should be prepared in this regard.
                    5.   COVER. VEIL AND PRIVACY (HEJAB)
      The construction of residential quarters must be made according to Islamic culture and traditions in which the principles of cover, veil and privacy is strictly observed. In other words, houses may be built in such a way so outsiders will be. unable to peep inside or intrude upon the privacy of the inmates. Parapets and walls could not-be crossed easily to tresspass inside the premises. Thus the doors or the main gates should be the only way for admission 0,f the outsiders inside the house. In Islam asking for permission to be Admitted inside is obligatory and if- one can see things inside tha. house without being admitted inside asking for permission will lose its significance. The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, in this regard has said: "When admission for entrance is granted then observance inside (therein) becomes inevitable." Similarly the neighbouring quarters inside should not be visible to one another. From Islamic jurisprudence point of view the owner of a.house is not entitled
                                            118
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 WUHAN JIHAD                                VOL.4 NO. I
   (has no right) to open a window or a door directly facing the inside of his neighbour's house so that his (the neighbour's) inside of the house or hidden things can be visible.
        Drinking ' water of residential quarters should be available inside the quarters so that women's privacy may not be disturbed outside due to outgoing to fetch water from wells or rivulets.
                                   6.   SECURITY
        In Islam security is one of the guiding principles of social life and its significance in house building cannot be overemphasized.Its'importance becomes all the more evident when God Almighty, says iri the praise of His own blessed House, says:. "Whoever enters it attains security" (Surah Omran: Verse 97). When God Almighty turned the Moses'1 cane (walking stick) into a snake and Mosses was afraid to catch it and ran’ away, God Almighty, . in order to console and pacify him, said   "Draw  near and fear not, for you are of   those who are
   secure (Sura Qasas:    Verse 31). In the context of   rewarding   the godly and
   righteous faithful with Paradise, God Almighty says: "Securely they (reside) in the dwellings on high:" (Surah Safa: Verse 37). Similarly in the context of His blessings on Qureish tribe of Makkah, Gpd Almighty mentions Security provided to • ' them as one of His blessings. He says:  "(God) provide them with food against
   hunger and with security against fear (of danger) (Surah Quraish: Verse 4): The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him/ has sai^d: "One whose neighbour is not secure
   from his harm or, teasing shall not enter the Paradise . In other words the security of one's neighbour is also one's responsibility and the neighbour should not be inconvenienced.
         The safety and security    of  route for  the  performance of Haj,    the
   pilgrimage of, Makkah, is obligatory and necessary. The, route- land, air or sea- must be safe        for  joufney otherwise the  pilgrimage    will not  be
   obligatory.
        t     •           '                                                '
        Similarly the amputation of hand, of the thief according to Islamic jurisprudence will not be carried out on a thief if he stole a property which was not secure or safe'* In other the security of property is necessary. From what has been said so far the security of home, locality, village and town or city becomes all the more necessary and planning for building it has to ,be taken into consideration.              (                                        ,
                                   7.   COMFORT
        For the comfort it is proverbial that is said: "Make yourself at home". In other words "house" is a must for one's comfort and convenience. Actually a good home is a' blessing of God Almighty. While recounting His blessings on Prophet
                   Saleh, peace be upon him, his tribe and his people, God said: "And remember how God ....gave you habitation in the land where you build for yourself palaces and castles in a plains and carve out homes in the mountains; so bring into remembe-rance the benefits (you have received)from God and refrain from evil and mischief on earth."(Sura Araf:Verse74)God Almighty instructed Prophet Noah,while he moved about in his boat to say: "Oh my Lord, enable me to disembark with your
                                             119
                                                                                                                I
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flffiHAW J(MB                             VOL,4 NO.1
 blessing, for You are the best to enable (us) to disembark". (Surah Momenoon: Verse 29). In Other words make my abode comfortable where I Can live comfortably.
      ^Prophet Solomon, peace be upon him, had paved his reception hall with glasses i.e.  mirrors instead of tiles, chips        or bricks so when Queen of Saba
 stepped into the hall, mistaking mirrors for        water, she pulled up her skirt.
 Prophet solomon seeing her confusion told her that these are not water but glasses.                                                 -
      Needless to say that home is a necessity and a blessing. As for its quality, that depends on      one's resources and status. But the originality and its
 value for its owner does     not change. For a poor man his hut is as precious as a
 mansion for a rich man.
                            8.   RECREATION CENTERS ,
      The sacred and comprehensive religion of Islam provides for relief in. this world and Hereafter both. Islam orders its believers to worship God Almighty alone, ask for His blessings, pray for His mercy and forgiveness; but at the same time it also permits them to relax so that . physicaLly and morally they get strong and well mobilized *to obey his Creator all the more. Thus recreation and having fun is also part of life but they should be performed within the framework of Islamic instructions and morality. Spending time with family members, tours, travels and excursions are not only permissible in Islam but encouraged because, they all promote healthy brains and inculcate the spirit of comtemplation regarding God's universe, its creation and complexities. Thus a' healthy Muslim, widely travelled and seasoned becomes more attached . to- his creator than the one who is isolated and keeps aloof from the society. Islam,-being a religion and a comprehensive way of life, encourages its believers to worship, pray and obey God Almighty and at the same time should perform his obligations towards his family arid society to the letter.
      The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, answering a query from Hazrat Hamzalah Asidy has said: "Had you spent all your time in worshipping and graying then the angels would have greeted you on the way and at home. But Hanzalah it is important to pray as well as relax and recreate". Similarly Hazrat Alishas said; "Undoubtedly hearts get tired like thse bodies (therefore cheer up the hearts)". £gain he has said: "Cheer up the hearts housely because a tired heart turns blind (it loses moral activiy)". Concluding, we can say that in the construction of townships and villages the building of recreation centers., parks, etc. is unavoidable i.e. it must be carried out.
      It is, therefore, necessary that provision is made for the construction of parks and recreation facilities for the inhabitants when constructing cities and villages.
               9,   SITES FOR SPORTS AND PHYSICAL TRAINING
      Sports and atheletics play an important role in the fitness of the human body and is also part of "jehad" from the viewpoint of Islam. For this reason, construction plans should also envisage such places where Muslims can perform
                                          120
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGHflNJfHAD                     VOL.4 NO-1
  physical training and build their bodies according to the religious tenets. The great leader of Islam, Mohammad, peace be upon him, has said: "A fit and strong Muslim is better than a weaker one and God favors him". Atheletics specially recommended in Islamic traditions are:
           i .  '  .          ' '                                                   y
  1.  RUNNING: It  is said that the four friends (Chahar Yar) of Prophet Mohammad
  used to perform racing while.being watched by the Prophet who himself performed similar: sport with his wife, Aayeshah.           ' '
  2.  WRESTLING:   Islamic narratives relate that the Prophet had been wrestling
  with his friend "Rakana".
  3.  PRACTICING WITH ARROWS:   The Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him, used to
  watch four friends while they were practicing with bows and arrows and used to encourage them by saying, "You continue your work and I shall be with you".
                                                       I
  4.  LANCING:  Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, had issued permission to
  Etheopians td practice this game and had also allowed Aayeshah tOv watch them performing these games.
  5.  HORSE RIDING AND RACING: There are many Islamic narratives and "Hadith" in connection with training of horses, riding and racing. One of these being from Omar, the second Calif# who is related to have said "Teach your children how to swim arid how to use the arrows and order them to ride on horses when they are gallopping".
  QUESTION:   How would  you  evaluate the conditions of the villages and rural
  areas of Afghanistan before the war?                                                 »•
  ANSWERS:
  ESHAN:  Afghanistan  is an agricultural country and 95% of its population’ are
* engaged in agriculture and activities supporting agriculture and more than 85% of the people of Afghanitan live in villages and these people have been deprived particularly of many amenities of life. This was so also in the past and former governments did not allow the farmers and villages to come together and work towards the improvement of their lot.
  NIAZ: Before the 27 April, 1978 coup the country was conducting a peaceful life and those who had seen the Afghan villages and rural areas before the war can hardly compare it with the pathetic conditions that prevail now.
  ALI:   In my view no defect existed in the construction system of these
  villages and only a number of changes and improvements were needed, such as tbe .
                                            121
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MMJIHIIII                                    VOL-4 NO  -1
 supply of. potable water, lavatories and stables. And already the Department of Rural Development had embjarked on useful measures in this respect.
 SIDDIQ AND HAMEEN: Afghan villages have been scattered and most of them have had different customs and cultural habits.But nevertheless they were mostly engaged in agriculture and tjieir educational standards were very low.Also their industry lack quality. The Afghan villagers were deprived of satisfactory health condition and faced many diseases. They did not have a sufficient transportation system and people used to ask the central government to help them. There was no efficient system of irrigation and many orchards and agricultural produces fell victim to diseases. Furthermore there was no coordinated efforts to enlighten the population of the rural areas in accordance with the Islamic concepts. They were mostly deprived also of the assistance made available to them as influential elements grabbed them before reaching the needy farmers.
 RAHMANZAI:  Afghanistan  is a mountainous country and because of' its climatic
 conditions* agricultural produces also differ from place to place; Eighty to ninety-five per cent of the people were engaged in the agricultural and animal husbandry sectors.
 QUESTION:  During the 12-year war, the rural community has suffered most of the
 losses and damages on account of bombing raids of the communist forces. Can the percentage of this loss and damage be estimated. Which sector was'the worst hit?
 ESBAN: Regarding loss estimates in respect to agriculture, canals and karezes I cannot say anything. According to the statistics released through some organizations, particularly the UN, about five million Afghans have sought refuge in foreign countries with another two million dislocated inside the country. The refugees who have lost their homes also number about 3.5 millions. Calculating an average number of six persons per family, at least 600,000 houses have been destroyed. A family of six needs at least 100 square meters of land for livingi purposes. Estimating 6,000 Afs. per square meter, based on current prices, 600,000 of houses will require Afs. 360 billion. This is only a cost estimate for rural areas where houses could generally be constructed of stones and mud and which do not include water supply and other sanitary services. If the latter is taken into account, the total reconstruction cost of these houses may go up by another 40%, bringing it up to Afs. 500 billion. It is also worth noting that these are only estimates and, moreover, they do not include the cost of public buildings such as mosques, hospitals and administration quarters..
 According, to UN figures, over 60% of the villages have been partially or totally destroyed. Based on these estimates, we can say with certainty that transportation routes as well as irrigation systems have suffered most of the damages. . We can also estimate that all of secondary roads have been totally destroyed and agricultural production has decreased to 50% resulting in 50% damage to the overall economy of the country. Pre-War annual wheat production amounted to 2,100,000 tons, whereas, this figure has now fallen to 1,100,000 tons* The real cause of this reduction lies in the destruction of arable lands as well as irrigation systems.
                  , ALI: There has been no actual assessments soxfar but we can say that more than 50% of the rural area throughout Afghanistan had been devastated through ^aerial
122
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 IlfGllllN JIHAD                               VOL.4 NO.1
  bombardment and ground fights, the infrastructure consisting of agriculture and pastures has been totally damaged. Irrigational dams and karezes have been destroyed and, in.majority of cases, there is no sign left of irrigation canals whatsoever.
  NTAZ: About 80% of the towns and villages have been destroyed during the 12 years of war. Estimate of the extent of damage to these areas can be made by an observation of these places.
  SIDDIQ AND KAMEEN:    During   the 12-year  war agricultural land, irrigation
  systems, transportation routes, educational, public health and other establishments have suffered extensive damage. Information supplied by international organizations and mujaheddin commanders puts the total at 80%.
  RAHMANZAI: Kabul, Herat, Logar, Paktia,Paktika, Zabul, Kandahar, Helmand, Farah, Nangarhar, Kunar, Parwan, Baghlan, 'Kunduz, Balkh, Takhar, Ghazni and Badakhshan provinces have suffered the most where the total damage can be put to 60-80 per cent..Some detail is provided below:
                                                                             fe .
  1.  KABUL PROVINCE:  Eighty per cent of villages along the Kabul-Charikar road
      have been destroyed. The remaining 20% have also been looted and robbed pf their windows,- doors and other useful construction materials by the militiamen. In Mir Bacha Kot and Qarabagh there are only a few constructions left, the rest have be^n levelled to - the ground. Only few villages, situated in distant valleys and out of reach of the Kabul regime forces, may be still intact.
                       . / .
  2.  PARWAN  AND BAGHLAN:    All   that was situated in the        vacinity of  the
      Kabul-Shairkhan Port Highway has been brutally bombarded by the Kabul regime air force and only some villages inside distant valleys have partially survived.'
  3.  KUNDUZ  AND BALKH:   I have    not personally visited these areas, but    from
      information supplied by local refugees an estimated 50-60% has been destroyed, Khanabad being the worst hit.                                >
  4.  LOGAR:  Logar, situated on     the supply route to Paktia and Paktika has
      suffered the most. In Mohammad Aga all villages have been annihilated; even those at far-flung mountain areas have suffered extensive damage. Only some
   ' villages at Baraki Barak, Baraki Rajan and Charkh have escaped and only few. of their inhabitants have been dislocated.
  5.  PAKTIA:  Like thqs^ in other provinces, the villages in       Paktia have also
      been destroyed. In Jaji, Chamkani and Zormat between 60-70% of houses have been completely destroyed.
  6.  KUNAR:  Apart, from Asadabad and a few villages in narrow mountain gorges,
      80-100% of the remaining part of the province on both sides of the Kunar River have been destroyed.
  QUESTION: How can the villages be re-habilitated within the shortest possible period?
                                                     123
 *
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
  ESHAN:  General development plans can only be successful when they are
  Implemented according, to economic and social conditions and on the basis of their economic ' importance.As a short-term solution, the                                        repairs of
  transportation routes, small irrigation networks and residences can be carried out by the direct and voluntary participation of the people themselves.
  ALI:  We .should Consider methods used in reconstruction. It is the style and
  nature of buildings for reconstruction that determine the periods for construction. Countries wishing to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan will, no doubt, do so according to their own will and financial positions. In the construction of houses some may be inclined to use wood, concrete and even plastic materials. If so, then within three-four years the face of Afghanistan will change its uniformity and its local character and national and native culture. This should not happen. It isv not completely definite that such assistance may actually be available. Or may be the assistance will only be sufficient for the construction of a few sample buildings and a lot of people may be1 left homeless for ever. .We should take, logical steps and let the reconstruction process carried out by the natives themselves. Useful and effective guideline can be offered by the authorities concerned to the local people in sanitation as well as construction with due regard to local    climatic conditions. Unfortunately, a definite policy                                for
  reconstruction has not been adopted and due to lack of a responsible authority, whatever is proposed is Immediately carrieid out without care for environmental or economic conditions, causing negative effects. A successful reconstruction program calls for adopting a clear policy with due; consideration to priorities.
  NIAZ: , Technically, there      are many ways      by which the' villages can be
  reconstructed. But before embarking. <on such plans, it is necessary to clear the land from mines    through                              emergency plans, thus paving the way for actual
  reconstruction.                          \
  SIDDIQ AND KAMEEN: First of all an actual survey has to be made of the extent of loss and damage. Through local populations, the..local,mujaheddin commanders and ’ experts . all the requirements should be enumerated according to their priority. An operational plan can then be organized making full use of the available funds,   Finally,                               Afghan experts  should implement the programs and
  supervize the work.
  RAHMANZAT: The implementation of short-term reconstruction plans of the villages calls for an exact survey in every village. Reconstruction plans can then be drawn and implemented on priority basis^-
  QUEST10N: 4. In the course of rural reconstruction, which sector should receive priority?
  .ESHAN: Priority should be given to the repair, of roads, irrigation systems,
  residential places and other sectors useful for raising the living standard.
  ALI: It is very difficult to offer a concrete suggestion in this respect before a thorough, scrutiny. However, our attention must first he focused on the reconstruction of the economic infrastructure. Programs should be planned to attract the villagers who si          feel, certain that ..they can live without
                                         124
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990        HfllllWHlltflHU                      VOL.4 N0.1
  difficulty and with better dividends. Otherwise, they will move to urban areas and thus will cause an irreparable blow to the agricultural economy of Afghanistan.
  NIAZ: Priority should not be given only to the villages but to towns and cities
  as well. In the agricultural sector cleaning the karezes and digging new /ones and construction of third degree roads for connecting villages should also be considered with a preference to the construction of low-cost housing.
  SEDDIQ AND KAMEEN: Priority should be given to an exact survey in reconstructing the rural areas. The opinion of the local people and shooras as well as the mujaheddin commanders should be sought. Priority should bri given to the revival of previous agricultural, educational and public health services, those that existed before the war.
  RAHMANZAI: • The government should; form commissions of economists, civil engineers, water and agricultural experts, doctors and lawyers to make a detailed surveys of all the losses and damages caused by the war. The commissions should also recommend plans for the reconstruction of all the sectors, They should give priority to agriculture in general with emphasis on the Construction of irrigation systems and animal husbandry.
  QUESTION: What is the best way for achieving rural reconstruction so as, on the one hand, the public needs are met, and on the other hand, it is financially feasible?
  ESHAN: Reconstruction of this section can be carried out with the cooperation of representatives Of the people and the development commission comprised of experts, elders and leaders of the nation. Priorities should bet determined according to the needs of, the people with full participation of the local populations.
  NIAZ: Reconstruction should be carried out by,using locally available materials taking into consideration individual and local trends. This will, at the same time, provide an incentive for voluntary repatriation of the refugees to their home and hemlets. Low-cost housing, but not humble, is yet another suggestion worth of consideration by the city planners.
  SIDDIQ AND JCAMEEN: Two basic factors will have to be considered:
   1. if it is meant the villages are to be built on barren land, it is necessary to carry out exact surveys of the sites and seek the public opinion. The plan        should include all public‘ amenities such    as education, health,
      drinking water and sanitation.
   2.  if a revival of pre-war conditions is meant, inhabitants may like to live close to their fields to enable them to attend to their daily needs. We have to carry d survey in this regard.
  RAHMANZAI:.  Reconstruction of the rural areas should     be carried out in a
  collective     manner after surveys and projections.     The government should
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 MMJtHAIl                                      VOL.4 NO. 1
    coordinate the views of experts and engineers and carryout a comprehensive survey of the total damage. Steps can 'then be taken towards the actual reconstruction      work by preparing the necessary economic,     agricultural and
    construction plans.
    QUESTION:   How      can we achieve our   Islamic needs and       requirements  in
    reconstructing our town and villages?
    .i;              ’ •
    ESHAN:  In the     villages of Afghanistan the mosque was not     only a place for
    worshipping but,.also for meetings. The views of mullahs, ulama and elders should be sought in regard to their needs in this regard. Norths Yamen also used this procedure.
    i        ’  . ■        .. .      .   , • • • •  . .,                  .. • • .
    ALI:   There was no problem in this regard in the past and the people prepared
    their homes according to Islamic conditions and it will be the same in the future. In the reconstruction of public buildings in the cities and villages we
    should take Islamic conditions into consideration.
             _ •’ ’ ' •' ■ _ ..... " ’ _
    I .     •   , ,                  ’       -r            ’                     '
    NIAZ:   The Islamic concept is generally on the top of the agenda whenever the
    design of a city or village is under consideration. Blue prints are then submitted to the technical commission.
    SIDDIQ AND KAMEEN: Islamic concepts should play an important role with technical and engineering norms in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
    RAHMANZAI:  It was customary in the pre-war period of Afghanistan that mosques
    were constructed according to the size and population of villages. Their children used to learn primary Islamic, teachings in the mosques and this is still practiced and will be so in the future.
                                               126
OCTO0ER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOu-4 NO-1
 Commander Masood I n ter viewed on
 the Afghanistan Issue
            EDITOR'S NOTE: The following ,is - the text of an interview given to the Association "‘of the Writers and Preachers of Afghanistan of the Jamiat-e-Islamia Afghanistan by Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and published in the Jamiat paper 21 October, 1990,
   QUESTION: What is the object of your visit to the border town "Topkhanah"?
   ANSWER:/ I came to, the border town to participate in the commanders' meeting. You know that in •’ the past we had meetings with a number of commanders inside Afghanistan regarding the! establishment, of a unified center within Afghanistan. It is not now but in the past also that We all agreed on this pattern and on this issue. I      had personally worked to this end and had           rapport with
   our brothers. As a result; we came to the conclusion that    a visit  to the border
   and meeting our brothers will not be out of place. We had in mind that first we should come to an agreement on all issues pertaining to Afghanistan. Luckily, all the brothers, who have come here, are in agreement regarding a unified strategy, operational plans along with security measures and creation of an organization, inside Afghanistan.
   QUESTION:   What   is your personal opinion in regard        to the     creation of
   "Commanders' Council"?
   ANSWER:  One of    the problem that the jehad, invariably,   had to    face was the
   need for unity and support among the commanders. We can say that lack of a unity among the leaders in Peshawar had affected the public in Afghanistan so much so that the commanders were also influenced by this to the extent that they were, not able to take orders from a unified quarter or a single center. It goes without Saying that, in war time, when the offensive stages fade away, if a united command center does not exist, the situation will be wrought with great dangers. That is why it was decided that the commanders should meet to establish a unified command center so as to be able to deal against the enemy unitedly.
   QUESTION: would you kindly dwell on the significance of "Council* and its establishment?
 'ANSWER:  If  various fronts deal against the enemy separately the effect of
                                            127

    QCTOBER-DECEMBER, 199Q flfGl.UHJ1I1H11 _____________________________VOL.4 N0.1
    their operations‘ will be very meagre. On the other hand, if all’ the sectors are united then their striking force will also be a challenge to- rackon with . We hope that the meeting of commanders on a common platform will, God willing, bring about politically as well as militarily a number of gains to our jehad in Afghanistan and' a change in the overall situation of the .jehad.
    .   ..  '; . ’'  f      '
    QUESTION: What conclusions did the commanders reach in their meeting?
    ANSWER:   With the Grade of God Almighty, the conclusions were quite positive
    and, as I pointed out, we fully agreed with each other in regard to the military problems as well as political issues pertaining to the interior of Afghanistan.
    QUESTION: Do*not you think (difficulties would crop up during the implementation process of commanders' plans which might entail the assumption of some powers of jehad leaders?                                                             .
    ANSWER: We have given this careful consideration so that the work of commanders should not weaken the parties' .role and the powers of jehad leaders. Based on this, we confine all our work to the interior, of Afghanistan and I believe that the assembly of commanders' shoora is not meant to weaken the leaders and the parties but to strengthen them. They could achieve their objectives much better in view of the unity among commanders. We hkve also decided that, as far ds the affairs among commanders are concerned, we shall by no means and no way interfere in any matter. '
    QUESTION: Was any decision taken in regard to organizational matters in the
    meeting of the commanders?                      <
    ANSWER:   Yes, we have divided the entire area of Afghanistan into nine zones.
    Each zone will have an officer incharge. Missions will be sent to Afghanistan to arrange for meetings inside Afghanistan with the participation of commanders, religious scholars, elders and other influential persons to nominate Officer—in-charge for these zones. Then officers in turn, after consulting the elders, commanders> the public and other residents of • the zones,V will appoint district and sub-district officers. This will provide the area with an administrative set-up and security. Thus the areas were divided into zones with a small office in each one for coordinating the activities of all the zones.
    QUESTION: What is your opinion about the present condition of jehad?
    ANSWER:   As we all notice presently the jehad affairs are not as it should be
    mainly due to lack of politically and militarily unity among the leaders of parties. This absence of unity has affected greatly the war fronts. As an example, if an operation is needed against a city, there are different parties stationed around the area. If there is no unity among them, they will be unable to do anything against the enemy. It is essential to establish unity in the area so that a single authority may issue command and begin the offensive. Of course, offensive is'not enough. There ought to be liaison with other areas so as to engage the enemy there as well.Establishment of liaison with areas where the enemy may use airpower is also important so that aircraft may not be able to bombard and is forced to seek additional forces. So wd come to the conclusion that as long
                                             128
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 llflillllliJIHflll                                 VOL.4 N0.1
  as there is no political alliance followed by a united command, military operations are bound to face difficulties,
  QUESTION:   There are rumors of an imminent coup in Kabul now-a-days, what sure
  your assumptions in this regard?
        A- if you are against coup what is the alternative?
        B- In case the coup succeeds, what will you decide upon and what will be your planning?
  ANSWER: We have also heard rumors of a coup' in Kabul but, as far as we know, we don't think there is any substance in it. We have already explained our stance that we are against all kinds of coup in Afghanistan unless the rest of the parties are taken into confidence and a general agreement is reached prior to that.- Regarding the question that what is the alternative, it was decided in the meeting of the commanders that a general operational plan for entire Afghanistan should be undertaken. <■      .
  QUESTION:   In case military and financial aid from the friends of jehad is
  terminated with no desired change in the political scenario of the country, then what will be your plan?                             -
  ANSWER:   It goes without saying that, in case outside aid is cut off , it > would
  have undesirable consequences on our jehad but, nevertheless, our jehad shall continue as before, i.e. as it started, with trust in God Almighty with bare hands till Kabul regime is toppled.
  QUESTION: You had pledged last year to capture a number of cities. Why were you not able to do so?
  ANSWER: The delay is due to a number of reasons: (1) last year we lost many of our jehad commanders, their martyrdom was a big blow and it took some time to make up for it. (2) military aid from all donor quarters was stopped totally since two years. As such, to corf^ar big cities with ^bare hands was not possible.
  QUESTION: ' It is about two years now that the Russian troops have left Afghanistan but the mujaheddin have failed to attain further success. What are the main factors behind this?
ANSWER:
When the mujaheddin want to resort to offensive operation they need:
        i. A unified command,
      ii.  Education and training of personnel
     iii.  An organizing institution to train our men to attack,
      iv.  Availability of facilities in various fields li]<e:
          (a) small arms, (b) heavy weapons, (c) economic problems and the ' like of it.                              «
        We are sorry to say when the Russians were moving out of Afghanistan, none of the things. I mentioned before were provided for the mujaheddin. Furthermore,
                                           129
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
     While the Russians were stationed in Afghanistan as invaders, the mujaheddin were on the defensive. But when the Russians left, the mujaheddin needed sometime to address themselves t6 the new situation, i.e. to change from defensive to an offensive posture. The political conditions were such to expect us to attack   without first addressing our military shortcomings and then
     resorting to offensive operations. The mujaheddin needed time to organize an army to attack. But, unfortunately nothing was done in this respect. Later, the parties came to realize this reality and still first steps are being taken in this respect.
     QUESTION: From military point of view, what kind of planning is needed in order to topple the Kabul regime?
     ANSWE^:  For toppling the Kabul regime;, T consider several points as important:
          (1) Genuine unity among jehad leaders.
          (2) A sound and viable military plan.
          The unity of leaders along with a well organized military command coupled with sound planning will certainly, God willing, prove death knell to the Kabul regime.
     QUESTION: What is your opinion about elections and its modality and procedure?
     ANSWER:    Under prevailing circumstances, holding of elections will prove
     difficult. The mujaheddin, as is obvious, are busy fighting. Security, as necessary, does not exist.In some localities, e.g. areas under the control^of the Supervisory Council, the conditions may be conducive and favorable, since there is security and the whole area is administered under a unified command and supervision. In such areas holding of elections may be simple. But in other regions of Afghanistan, I figure, as long as perfect peace does not prevail, elections cannot be held.                         .
     QUESTION: Why the general session of Supervisory Council is nob being held?
     ANSWER: We usually call up meetings or hold sessions when striking changes surface in the ptevalent conditions or else When new strategy or policies have to be .debated "and adopted- . After the withdrawal of Soviet forces, conditions in Afghanistan have not changed much and, as such, nothing really is debatable,. We don't see jjany rational for contemplating new resolutions and their approval. We still consider Our previous plans to be viable and sound. What actually has; be devilled us is lack of facilities and urgent need for reflemishing ofvour needs.
     QUESTION:  How far do you think press and media can help to promote the jehad
     objectives?
    ANSWER: The medial has a constructive role and today one of our mujaheddin's weak point is that they lack an effective media and, on the contrary, this “ initiative has been taken by the enemy.
   QUESTION:  What is your opinion about the AIG, should it be strengthened or
   replaced?                                        ^
   ANSWER:    This is up to the leaders and what they decide upon. We all know that
   the present government has not carried out the duties that it should have, so far. As far whether the leaders would like to strengthen the same government or form a new one, is up to them.
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1990 AfCHflM JfHMl                     VOL.4 NO.1
        Operation SALAM
   Issues Annual Report
           • • • \ ■ ' '
         EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the introduction of the Operation SALAM pn its year long activities in Afghanistan published in its Third Consolidated Report printed in Genevan October, 1990.
PART*I - OVERVIEW
                "S
    INTRODUCTION
 V
 I
      The Third Consolidated Report covers the second full year of the coordinated efforts of the United Nations system to<provide humanitarian and economic assistance to the war-ravaged people of Afghanistan. It has. been a period of optimism mingled with despair:   optimism  because  despite the volatile situation,
 it has been possible for the United Nations to extensively implement aid projects in all parts of the country; despair because an overall settlement - of the Afghan issue continues to be evasive.;
      The Office of the Co-ordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance relating to Afghanistan (UNOCA) was established by the Secretary-General in 1988 following the Geneva Accords. The developments in the country since then have belied the optimism to which these Accords and the consequent withdrawal of foreign troops had given rise in’ many quarters. Throughout this period, the challenge facing.UNOCA has been to rescue hope from a dismal situation; to build1' humanitarian bridges between rivals; to coordinate UN efforts to bring emergency aid to the needy, irrespective, of their affiliations; and to scrupulously maintain a strictly neutral and purely humanitarian attitude. As this report demonstrates, the challenge has been by ^nd large met. -
      It will be recalled that the First Consolidated Report (September 1988), intended to back up the Appeal of the Secretary-General to the world community, was based on whatever information was then available to the UN- regarding conditions vin Afghanistan* Most of the country had not been accessible to the UN during the previous decade. The Report nonetheless provided a framework for action and traced, the direct-i r>" *r     , Honors responded generously at the
                                           131
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
    Pledging Conference in New York the following month, enabling "Operation SALAM," representing the concerted efforts of the UN agencies and programs, to be launched forthwith. The report, covering all sectors of assistance, emphasized the importance of assessment missions - to ensure efficient project planning and urged a pragmatic and flexible approach to overcome the constraints imposed by the prevailing situation.
                                                t                     '
         The Second Consolidated Report (October 1989) provided details of what had been achieved in the context of the 1989 UN Plan of Action, elaborated jointly by the UN agencies and programs under UNCOA's overall guidance.- During the first year. Operation SALAM established essential points of access around the country and proved that the idea of "humanitarian encirclement" was a workable one. Substantial material assistance was provided to the needy through cross-iborder operations from Iran, Pakistan and the USSR. UN presence was
                'I          . ? •                         . *         ■ ■
    ensured at -several points inside Afghanistan and in the.neighboring countries. Working at the grass-roots level, the UN was able to demorfstrate that a "humanitarian consensus" among rivals was possible in the context of Operation SALAM. Experience gained during the initial period through the implementation of wide-ranging programs showed that, with the exception of a few specific areas, still prey to armed conflict, the aid activities could be extended to the whole country. Timely assistance reached vast sections of the population, particularly in the fields of food, agriculture and health.
         The Third Consolidated Report is the most detailed of the series in'terms' of facts and figures relating to the activities of the UN system. Table 1 shows the distribution of the projects by sector and indicates their present status. Table 2 provides details relating to the funds allocated to each sector of assistance., Annex V to the report is a compendium Of all the projects and sub-projects funded by the UN.
         The principal part of this Report is devoted to Provincial Profiles which contain details of UN assistance activities and show the extent of its outreach. A major breakthrough wa.s, achieved when early this year, the UN teams, led by UNOCA, started to undertake what have come to be known as "cross-line missions" which involve moving between zones under control of opposing forces. During the last nine months, over thirty such missions were successfully undertaken. They testify to the acceptance of the UN's humanitarian role by Afghans irrespective of their affiliations. They also demonstrate the pragmatic attitude of Afghans toward international aid. These missions enabled UN aid to reach all sections of needy populations and to wprk* in areas to which access had hitherto been *' difficult.

rs Jo
11

                                                   132
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HIUI1HI!llIIIAU                        VOL-4 NO-1
                 TOTAL NUMBER OF "OPERATION SALAM" PROJECTS AND SUB-PROJECTS: 473
     Out of a total of 239 projects: 225 are single projects. 14 major projects are divided into 248 sub-projects,
             TABLE 1. TOTAL NUMBEROF PROJECTS AND SUB-PROJECTS*BY STATUS
                    Completed  Operational Pipeline Proposed Total Total excl 
                                     ■ ■ i                           Proposed 
Agriculture                .86          52      : 8    11      157    146     
Culture                    0             1        0    0         1     1      
Disabled                   2           6 '        4    2        14     12     
Education                  0           9 .        4  '■ 1.      14     13     
Food Aid                   23           42        1     2. •    68     66     
Health                     8            34        6    16       64     48     
Logistics & Communications 7          ' 12        2    4        25     21     
Management, Training &                                                        
Support \                  0             2        0 : 0          2     2      
Mine Clearance u.          0             5        3    1         9     8      
Power & Telecommunications 0             0        0    1         1     0      
Road Repair                11            4      . 5 ... 3 ‘     23     20     
Shelter & Public,                                                             
Buildings                  0      .... 2 '        4     2 ,f   . 8     6      
Voluntary Repatriation     13           15        0    1        29    28 '    
Vocational Training        4            13        4    ■0       21     21     
Water Supply &                                                                
Sanitation                 0             0        6    10       16     6      
Multi-sectoral and                                                            
Miscellaneous              3             9        4    5        21     16     
TOTAL 157                              206       51    59      473    414     
TABLE 2 - TOTAL BUDGET OF PROJECTS AND SUB-PROJECTS BY STATUS
                                                 (IN US$)
                ,                          \     4         .
            Completed Operational   Pipeline     Proposed    Total   \Tota1 excl.
                                                                      Proposed
Agriculture Culture :Disabled : Education,
Food Aid
Health
Logistics $'
Communication^
Management,
Training a. •.•••
SuDport
                                                                                                                        9,578,271
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                       290,000 •" 0 82,748,236 1,490,823
                                                                                                                       55,631,313
                                                                                                                        ;• o
 .21,607,970 300,000 2,282>007 . 4,096.000
 40,604,661 36,067,014
118,338,441
1,975,587
                                                                                                                   10,000,412
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                    3,708,775
                                                                                                                    6,661,213
                                                                                                                    2,688,912
                                                                                                                   12,656,980
                                                                                                                    1,605,000
0
                                                                                                                   47,572,500
                                                                                                                          '0
                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                      218,050
10.320.000 27,901,800
26.300.000
                                                                                                                    88,759,153
                                                                                                                       300,000
                                                                                                                    6,280,782
                                                                                                                    10,975,263
                                                                                                                  136,361,809
                                                                                                                    78,116,617
                                                                                                                 41,186,653 300,000 6,280,782 10', 757,213 126,041,609 50,214,817
201,8774,754   175,574>754
 1,975,587
1,975,587
0
ill
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 VOL-4 NO•1
 Completed Operational         Pipeline      Proposed
  Mine Clearance              0
  Power &
  Telecommunications          0
  Road Repair           350,807
  Shelter &
  Public Buildings            0
  Voluntary
  Repatriation        11,105,944
  Vocational
  Training             6,222,098
  Water Supply &
  Senitation                  0
  Multi-sectoral and     29,386
  Miscellaneous ---------------—
 TOTAL            167,446,878
                                                                                                                      17,970,576
                                                                                                                               CT
                                                                                                                      ,616,404 776,884 16,625,238
                                                                                                                     2,340,575
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                    22,022,065
 285,123.422
 28,576,170       240,000
           0     2,000,000
 17.350.000     14,600,000
 18.955.000      4,276,500
           0     7,810,000
     358,230             0
 15,732,529     25,022,000
  7,924.150     19,818,900
 126 >217,371  186,079,750
                                                                                                                          Tptal
                                                                                                                    46,786,746
                                                                                                                      2,000,000
                                                                                                                    32,917,21l’
                                                                                                                     23,508,384
                                                                                                                     35,541,182
                                                                                                                     8,920,9031
                                                                                                                     40,754,529
                                                                                                                     49,794,501
                                                                                                                   764,867,421
  Total excl Proposed
  46,546,746
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                    18,317,211
                                                                                                                    19,231,884
                                                                                                                    27,731.182
                                                                                                                     8,920,903
                                                                                                                    15,732,529
                                                                                                                    29,975,621
                                                                                                                   578.787,671
     Operation SALAM has benefitted greatly from the cooperation extended by the participating UN agencies and programs to UNOCA. At the field levgl, interagency meetings are regularly, held in Kabu . as well as in Islamabad and Teheran participation in inter-agency missions and the SALAM Mobile Units (SMUs) has also contributed to bringing staff members of various agencies into closer working relationship with each other. This is further strengthened'by the need to work in unison in view of the prevailing situation and the attendant security risks.                                   •;             ..   . -•        .  •
      An Inter-Agency Working Group was established at the outset by UNOCA to coordinate policies and project activities. This group has regularly met at the UNOCA Headquarters in Geneva and has successfully elaborated the guiding principles for UN action (Annex III) and common pplicies regarding elaboration and monitoring of projects. While maintaining their separate identity according' to their mandates, each agency has nonetheless tried to adhere to a common UN policy.
      Coordination has, however, not been always easy mainly due to constraints inherent in the UN system* Firstly, the modus operand! of each agency varies according to its mandate and vocation and is not always geared to responding speedily and effectively to emergency situations. Secondly, the financial regulations as well as reporting procedures of agencies are governed by the directives given by their respective governing bodies and vary from- agency to agency. Thirdly, the mandates of many UN agencies and Programs and consequently their programme activities require them to work through the government.                     ,                                   ,
      Afghanistan is a sui generis case where it is not yet possible to reach, or plan for, the entire population through a single central authority. These constraints are further exacerbated by the prevalent volatile situation, characterized by uncertainty and insecurity, which encourages a cautious "wait and see" attitude. While this is understandable, it is difficult to accept that impoverished, hungry, sick or wounded persons, including large numbers of children and women, should wait for help until all national issues ..have been resolved. The overall situation has imposed upon UNOCA a catalytic role which is unusual. In addition, it has been called upon to carry out tasks not covered by
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 mUllMdlllHU                                VOL.4 NO. 1
                                        • > '• . ' ' existing ON bodies, such as the Mine Clearance Programs detailed later in this
 report.
      The role of NGOs in the implementation of cross-border projects from
 Pakistan has been vit.al to the success of UN programmes. There are practically • .
 no NGOs on the Iran and Soviet sides. However, those operating from the south and south-east have accumulated considerable operational experience in certain areas of Afghanistan arid have helped in the implementation of projects of the UN agencies and Programs. In order to promote self-reliance, UNOCA has encouraged the formation of Afghan NGOs. Eighteen such entities have been, registered with UNOCA and more are in the process of being established with the UN support. The results achieved by most of those already operational are encouraging.
      It has been the policy of UNOCA from the outset to keep its organizational structure very small. The total administrative expenses of UNOCA since its inception have remained less than one and a half per cent in relation to the pledges received.
      In addition to administering the Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund (AETF.), UNOCA has had to coordinate all activities of the UN system in the context of the pledges made to Operation Salam. Due to the lack of experience and first-hand knowledge of many of the' participating agencies, UNOCA has been expected to initiate activities in the field, to negotiate with local as well as national authorities, to organise inter-agency missions, to field SALAM Mobile Units and, above all, to take all necessary measures to ensure UN presence in key areas of Afghanistan. Such presence has thus been ensured by UNOCA in 10 different locations inside Afghanistan in provinces including Badakhshan, Balkh,
 Bamyan, Herat, Kandahar, Kunar, and Paktika. The main presence of UN Agencies is, of course, in Kabul although in view of the present circumstances, a very decentralized approach has had to be adopted by UNOCA.
      The initial donor response to the appeal of the Secretary-General was generous. However, in''recent months, competing demands imposed by situations elsewhere have tended to thrust Afghanistan into oblivion. The main problem remains the cash flow management in relation to the bulk comprising in-kind
 contributions, as will be seen in the paragraphs that follow.
                                   STATUS OF CONTRIBUTIONS
      As of 1 r September 1990, contributions in response to the original Secretary-General's Appeal totalled US$ 1,031.1 million. The pledges and actual receipts are broken down into the following broad categories: Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund (AETF), Cash Contributions Direct to Agencies or NGOs, and Contributions in Kind. The total amounts pledged, or received through these contributions are detailed in Table 3 below:
                        TABLE 3 - CONTRIBUTIONS PLEDGED OR RECEIVED
 .... $ 1,000
 Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund                   232.2          22.52
 Cash Contributions direct to Agencies or NGOs      104.5          10.13
 Contributions in Kind                              694.4          67.35
Total                            :  *             1,031.1         100.00 -
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 fltCHIIHJtHllB                         V0L.4  NQ.1
                                  CONTRIBUTIONS IN CASH
     In establishing AETF for receipt of cash contributions, the intention of the Secretary-General was twofold: to ensure flexibility in operational terms
 and to strengthen the coordinating mechanism through a centrally controlled £und. It is gratifying to note that a number of major donors chose to use this channel through unearmarked contributions. However, some sixty percent of the funds were made available with specific,stipulations regarding their use and the organizations to which they should be applied. $
     As of 1. September 1990, a total of US$ 232.2 million had been pledged in cash contributions. Of this amount, US$ 201.4 million had been received into the AETF while US$‘ 27.5 million in unpaid cash pledges remained outstanding. The breakdown of cash contributions actually received are contained in Table 4.
                   TABLE 4 - EARMARKINGS OF CASH CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
                              (1988)           (1989)       (1990)    TOTAL     
                                            /                                   
                          ’ $(1,000)         $(lr000)     $(1,000)   $(1,000)   
Earmarked to Agencies       10,319.8         72,905.2      2,285.3   85,510.3   
Earmarked to Programmes      2,576.7         21,491.3      2,487.2   26,555.2   
Co-ordinators Office         2,642.7          2,796.1        825.8   6,264.6    
Unearmarked                 10,121.1         41,222.8     37,759.0   89,102.9   
Total                       25,660.3        138,415.4     43,357.3  207,433.0   
Details relating to donor countries  and    recipient agencies are contained in 
Tables 5 and 7 at the end of this section.                                      
                          0                                                     
         It will be noted that cash  received in      the form of  uneirmarked  
 contributions totalled US$ 89.1 million. Of this amount, however, US$.54 million was in the form of       a reserve for use       in activities relating to refugee
 repatriation and could only be allocated to programs with the agreement of the donor. Only limited amounts have hitherto been allocated on a case-by-case basis. Table 5 and 6 at the end of the section present a detailed statement of cash receipts by each donor as well as earmarkings specified for 1988-1989 and 1990.
      It appears that    certain donors are     increasingly reluctant to consider
 additional allocations in the absence of large-scale refugee repatriation. Consequently, the UN     is limited in its capacity to undertake rehabilitation
 activities that are     likely *to influence       the process of refugee return.
 Similarly, as long as repatriation remains a condition for funding.of Operation SALAM activities, the UN is constrained in its ability to implement relief and rehabilitation activities on behalf of the needy populations inside Afghanistan. While respecting the wishes of donors, it is extremely difficult for the United Nations to ignore the fact that the vast majority of Afghans are, after all, in their country and not outside. The situation appears particularly poignant’ if one considers the plight of large numbers of internally displaced persons whose needs are analogous to those of refugees. The only difference is that they did
                                                  136
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 AfCHIIMJfllJID                          VOL.4 NO. 1
 not cross an international border. On purely humanitarian grounds, it is impossible to justify that genuine needs of large sections of deprived, populations should not be met until others have made up their minds to return home. In recent months, the Co-ordinator has been under increasing pressure from UN Agencies and Programmes to provide them with necessary funds required by them, particularly.since such funds have actually been transferred to UNOCA and are available. This unusual situation needs to be addressed on an urgent basis. Details relating to present status of transfers, allocations or commitments to other UN agencies as well as NGQs are contained in Table 7 at the end of this section.
     In view of the continuing expansion of the UN activities and' the large number of pipeline projects based on identified needs, it is of utmost importance that the unpaid pledges are honored as soon as possible and further contributions are announced at the earliest. This would not only ensure a smooth continuation of the on-going activities but also help maximise the impact of the in-kind contributions which constitute the bulk of pledges hitherto made.
                                   CONTRIBUTIONS IN KIND
    c Eighteen donors' have hitherto announced pledges in-kind in response to the Secretary-Qeneral1s appeal. As of 1 September 1990 these amount to US$ 694.4 million. Many of the donations consist of food.aid directly to WFP as well’ as vehicles, clothing, blankets, medical supplies and miscellaneous commodities of daily necessity that have been made available to UNHCR, UNICEF, WHO, etc. Donors have also supported the UN Mine Clearance programs by providing essential equipment as well as the services of trained de-mining experts. Details, relating to donors and recipients are contained in Table 8 at the end of this section,
     EDITOR'S NOTE: According to the report the Soviet Union has provided to UNOCA $613.7 millions in aid for food and other essential goods, equipment furnished by Soviet republics and facilities for transit trade through the Soviet Union. In fact these all are part of the assistance offered by Moscow^ to the Kabul government in the past and at present.
137
OCTOBER-DECEMBER.
VOL.4 NO.1
Latest Facts, Figures on Afghan Provinces:
Baghlan,  Badghis, Far ah, Faryab, Kabul
 EDITOR'S NOTE:   Thei followings ‘ are accounts of latest
 information on social and economic conditions in six provinces of Afghanistan worked out by the Operation SALAM. Information on 12 provinces have already been.„ published in the previous issuep of the Afghan Jehad.
Area (sq.km.)                                                      17,106
Official Population   (1979 Census):                              493,882
Estimated 1990 Population:                                        484,480
           of which: At Home Population                           262,720
                         Refugees                                 221,760
Capital:                                                          Baghlan
Districts (Woleswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
      Straddling the main supply route from the north to Kabul and through the Salang Pass, Baghlan is of major strategic importance. Operation SALAM has successfully used this route, the site of considerable fighting during the war, to channel wheat supplies to Bamian and Kabul province. The road is in good condition and is regularly used by commercial traffic.
      Whi’le having generated a significant refugee population, Baghlan has also produced a large number of displaced persons. In the lower Andarab Valley, an estimated 80% of the villages were destroyed. There are reliable reports that the local population has nonetheless started to return, to rebuild their houses and to cultivate their former lands.
      Prior to the war, Baghlan was an important producer of cotton. Pul-e-Khumri functioned as a major commercial center and contained several industrial plants, including a major cement factory. A sugar plant of 16,000 MT capacity was closed as a result of the war. Before it can provide job opportunities for returnees, and increase the local availability of sugar, it will need major repairs.plans are underway to replace this facility with a new, 27,000 MT-capacity plant.
      Prior to the war, most of the agricultural land was irrigated; wheat, rice, and barley were the region' s rtiain crops. The area has now been severely affected by locust infestation, drastically reducing the agricultural yield; In order to address this problem, FAO has initiated a major locust control program in the
138
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990        ' ' -flfGHAW JUIAB                  VOL-4 NQ.1
 northern provinces, including Baghlan. UNOCA and technical staff from the Plant Protection Department of the Ministry of Agriculture in Kabul are supplying technical assistance. The local labor shortage and lack of fertilizer have further contributed to the decline of agricultural production.
      To improve productivity, FAO has estimated fertilizer and wheat seed requirements for 1990 in. consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture (Of the Kabul regime). Efforts are being made to provide these necessary inputs for the next sowing season. In addition, a UNDP seed testing and multiplication prpject in the area has been completed. A UNDP project, involving rural rehabilitation and reconstruction in several provinces, including . Baghlan, is now operational. Project proposals, involving the* production and multiplication of vegetable seeds, increased farm power and food assistance, are under review. FAO also supports basic veterinary services at Pulre-Khumri, Doshi and Andarab veterinary clinics.
      The main health facilities are situated in the city of Baghlan; there are also hospitals in other areas. A modern health care center is operational in Khenjan, WHO is financing the rehabilitation of Nahrein hospital and has undertaken a project for quality control and storage of medicines. Two consignments of medicines were delivered to Talawa Barfak for distribution through local channels.
      UN Agencies:
      FAO, UNDP, UNHCR, WHO
      Implementing NGOs:
      Afghanaid, AMI, Avicen, CMC, DCA, FMD, GAC, GAF, IMC, ISR, MSH, NCA, SCA, SCF (US), SNI, VITA
                                                   139
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL-4 NO.1
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF BAGHLAN PROVINCE
     International boundary
     Province boundary
     Woleswali and Alaqadari boundary
     Paved road
     Province Center
     Woleswali Center
     Alaqadari Center
140
Ill
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
Badghis
     21,854 233,613 317, 530 150,430 167,100 Qala-e-Nau 6
              Area (sq.km.):
              Official Population. (1979 Census):
              Estimated 1990 Population:
              of which:                At Home  Population
                                       Refugees
              Provincial capital:
              Districts (Woleswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
      An estimated 50% of the population of this northwestern province is reported to have taken refugee in Iran. The diminished economic activity, the decline in the local population and the deterioration of the physical infrastructure have led to increasing isolation and poverty in the province.
      In 1990,, Operation SALAM provided special assistance to Badghis in the context of locust and sunnpest control activities, which had almost ceased in the province since 1984. UN efforts to counter the effects of the local infestation were considered essential because Badghis continues to be one of the most food-deficient, provinces in Afghanistan. This year, however. Operation SALAM obtained the equipment and insecticides necessary to undertake a major training program in locust and sunnpest eradication.
      In April 1990, a joint UNOCA/FAO mission to the most affected districts delivered an initial consignment of 150 MT of BHC pesticide, well in advance of the annual locust hatching,. By June 1990, when a UN team visited Qala-e-Nau and Koshk-e-Kohna, a total of 230 MT of BHC pesticide had been delivered to 26 distribution sites. In order to encourage refugee return in the area, a larger-scale locust and sunnpest control program has already been initiated for the 1990-91 season to reduce crop losses and the need for food aid in the coming year.
      During the first half of 1990, UNOCA/WFP initiated Food for Work projects for the especially needy groups and also supported ten private sector support projects. The latter were designed       to increase   the supply      of commercially
 available food and, at the same time, to reduce the price to the levels existing in food surplus areas. A UNICEF mission to Qala-e-Nau initiated a health project to deliver medical supplies and equipment to the area.
    . To help meet the need for food and other commodities, road repair in the province is an urgent requirement.       Routes from   the USSR, Iran (via Herat
 province) and Mazar-e-Sharif (via Balkh, Jauzjan and Far'yab provinces) have priority. The only asphalt road in the province at present is located between Torghundi and Herat. A few unsealed dirt roads have been improved with culverts, but the remaining road infrastructure is in a chronic state of disrepair..Local commuhities have contracted for FFW projects involving the rehabilitation of over 350 km of commercial access roads   in food-deficient areas.
      A survey of the road linking       Bala Morghab   to Ghormach       was recently
 completed for the purpose of mine clearance. UN0CA is making arrangements in the context of its Mine Clearance Program (MCP) to make the road negotiable before the wipter season in order to ensure easy access for, the ^upply of essential aid commodities.
 UN Agencies:FAO, UNDP, UNICEF, WFP, WHO Implementing NGs:    Halo Trust, SCA
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL-4 NO.1
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF BADGHIS PROVINCE
International boundary Province boundary
Woleswali and Alaqadari boundary Paved road Province Center Woleswali Center Alaqadari Center
 0 10 20 L----L----1—
50
_1_
100km
J




 r
 v
 Y
 \
 ♦
J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,i

\
Ghormach
>
\
                                                                                                       \
£ Morghab \

FARYAB
\
\

x
                                                  /Tv._7(
  V /
  7   /
  /
  I •
Kushke Kohna
                                                        >—I
Y
X
7\-
 I
)
A'
 /

/
v.
/
■L
QALA-I-NAU
r
 V
 J
                                                                              7
                                                                              S
                                                                               (
                                                                               \
Qades V
 Jawand
\
\
r
  \
  \
                                                                                              i
                                                                                              i
                                                                                          r^j

HERAT
I
                                                                   T
r
GHOR
142
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flffiMM JtHllll
  Farah
            Area (sq.km.):
            Official Population (1979 census): Estimated 1990 Population:
                 of which: At Home Population
                            Refugees
            Provincial Capital:
            Districts (Woleswalis) and sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
VOL.4 NO. 1
                                                                                                  47,786
                                                                                                  234,621
                                                                                                  377,800
                                                                                                  129,140
                                                                                                  248,660
Farah
                                                                                                       11
      The lowlands of Farah extend from the Khorasan in Iran. The Khash Rud and Farah Rud are the main rivers of the province, which provide local irrigation. According to reports, the population of this largely desert province, primarily of Pashtun, Tadjik and Baluch' origin, is slowly returning from Pakistan and Iran. With more than 50% of its population estimated to be living as refugees in' neighbouring Iran and Pakistan, Farah is considered one of the target areas by UNHCR. Internally displaced families have settled hear district or provincial bazaar centers.
      In agriculture, assistance was provided before the 1990 planting season through a UNHCR^supported program for the delivery of 200 MT of improved, wheat seed. As part of its 1989-90 program, FA0 sent 95 MT of improved wheat seed and 90 MT of fertilizer to Farah. Additional projects are expected in the months ahead.                           .
      Following severe flood damage during the spring in 1990, UNDP/WFP initiated a number of FFW projects to repair canals and buildings. Floods caused by the melting snows are very frequent in March and April, .after which the climate becomes, extremely hot. and dry. Increased agricultural production therefore depends on the local availability of irrigation. A UNDP-supported pilot program for the rehabilitation of karez in Bakwa has been launched and is expected to be replicated elsewhere in the province.
      Irrigation systems with either karezes or dug wells are in place throughout the province; most of these require intensive rehabilitation. Cereals produced locally provide 80%. of the population's needs. Local, food supplies originate from the provinces of Herat and Helmand as well as from the USSR. The main crops include cereals, fruit and vegetables.
      Health facilities, at present, are rudimentary and widely scattered. The infant mortality rate is extremely high. UN implementing partners have provided medical assistance on a limited scale.
      Education has deteriorated over recent years, with oi^ly a few religious schools in operation. The rehabilitation of school facilities is therefore being given high priority.
      The road infrastructure also needs extensive repair, and proposals have been formulated for work to be initiated on routes linking the provincial capital with surrounding districts.
     UN Agencies:
     FAO, UNDP, UNHCR, WFP Implementing NGOs:
     FRF, SCA
                                                      143
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF FARAH PROVINCE
 International boundary
 Province boundary
 Woleswali and Alaqadari boundary
 Paved road
 Province Center
 Woleswali Center
 Alaqadari Center
HERAT
                                                                                                   . ' •
 /
■ •
 I
 \
/
'TS—^
 \-
 \
                                          ■ •
 i
                                           ■ •
 r
 Qala-.e-Koh
Anar Dara W
                                                        '
^ Khake Safid
                                                                                                    Bala Balouk
                ( B
                \           T
      —>                  j FARAH ^ |
 / Bakwa
nimroz
 20
50 _J_
100km ___I
144
 OGTOnFR-DFCFMBFR , 1990_flftlllflN JIHAD _  vol .4 no. 1
Faryab
             Area (sq.km.):                                       22,274
             Official Population (1979 Census):                  582,705
             Estimated 1990 Population:                          674,000
                    of which:    At  Home Population             665,980
                                 Refugees                          8,020
             Provincial Capital:                              Maymana
             Districts (Woleswalis) and
             Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):                              12
      Bordering the USSR, Faryab could form an important transit point for food and other assistance destined for Badghis and Herat provinces. The lack of an adequate road network, high transportation charges and local conflicts have hindered the rehabilitation process in the province. Operation SALAM has established a UN presence at Darzab and Almar, from which local needs and the availability of food commodities may be assessed.
      The dacade of war has devastated the agricultural economy of northern Afghanistan, causing widespread malnutrition and isolated cases of famine. For the third consecutive year, sunnpest infestation has severely damaged the wheat harvest in southern Faryab. This year, however, FAO was able to document the problem in time and test the use of pesticides. It is hoped that this serious threat to wheat production, which is already insufficient, can be prevented- in the future by further control programs, including the provision of 240 MT of BHC pesticide and sprayers, distributed to five strategic points.
      Under a UNDP/UNHCR/FAO program, 70 MT of wheat seed, 19 MT of agricultural chemicals and 140 knapsack sprayers are being provided. In addition, UNDP is funding a program for the establishment and improvement of veterinary services throughout the north, while similar programs are implemented with technical Support from the government (of the Kabul regime).
      Food deficiency will persist as long as the agricultural sector remains under-assisted and the province remains largely' dependent on outside food supplies. During May-June, 1990, Operation SALAM delivered over 3,800 MT of wheat, 130 MT of sugar and eight MT of edible oil for vulnerable group feeding. These commodities were delivered through local yshooras (of the mujaheddin). In July, 650 MT of wheat were delivered across the Soviet border to Almar and other districts, followed by 300 MT reaching Maimana, Almar and Qaisar in August. The proceeds from the sales are used for local rehabilitation. The Andkhoy district, with a population of an estimated 50,p00, has consistently suffered from drought in recent years, causing significant livestock loss. Projects to address the, needs of this area are under review by UNDP and UNICEF.
      Through an FFW project, the road from Jar Quduq to Darzab was improved, but some 50 kilometres along the main delivery route from Shibergan and Mazar-e-shar'if via Andkhoy to the provincial capital of Maimana requires massive repair. A large-scale FFW project is under study for the repair of road between Dawlatabad and Maimana. ’ The airport was recently opened to (Kabul regime) helicopter traffic but not for civilian air movements.
                                                    145
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
      During a monitoring mission to Almar district in May, UNICEF found high malnutrition levels (50% in children under-five) causing reduced immunity and growth impairment. The most common health problems are diarrhoea, malaria, respiratory infections and tuberculosis. Educational facilities are supported by NGOs in Almar, Andkhoy, Darzab, Maimana and Pashtoon Kot districts. .
 UN Agencies: FAO, UNDP, UNICEF, WFP Implementing NGOs: ACAF, SCA, SNI
 ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF FARYAB PROVINCE
 International boundary Province boundary
 Woleswali and Alaqadari boundary Paved road Province Center Woleswali Center Alaqadari Center
• • mmmmm •<
FARYAB
Jilaiin
 N
I
                                                                                                   Khan Char Bagh
   i
   I
                                                                                                         JOWZJAN
 0  10 20
 1 _L- i
50
_1_
SAR-E-PUL
BADGHIS
GHOR
   146
'1
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHflH JftIJIl)                 VOL.4 NO. 1
Ghor
              Area (sg. km.):
              Official Population (1979 census):
              Estimated 1990 Population:
                    of which:  At Home Population
                               Refugees Provincial Capital:
              Districts (Woleswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
      Isolated Ghor province has become even more inaccessible as a result of war. Located west of the Hazarajat in central Afghanistan, it consists of rugged mountains and narrow canyons, many of which can be reached only on horseback. Before the war, one main road, now destroyed, linked the provincial capital Chaghcharan to Bamian province to the east and Herat province to the west.
      Another main road leading to Ghor from Pakistan via the Paisang Kotel Pass is closed during the winter months, which restricts the transport, of commodities into the province. Under these circumstances, Ghor has so far received limited assistance from the UN since Operation SALAM was initiated. It has not yet been possible to field a SALAM mission to the province although data has been gathered by NGOs as well as Afghans for the UN.
      According to UNHCR estimates, approximately 5% of the province's estimated 1990 population are refugees. Given its location and the difficult terrain, it is likely that most of those who fled their homes during the war have become internally displaced rather than travelling to a neighbouring country. No statistics exist, however, regarding internal displacement. Ghor appears to have largely escaped the worst of the war and to have suffered minimal population movements. The needs for assistance of its population, however, are considerable since, like the rest of Hazarajat, it has been traditionally a neglected area.
      FAO has approved the distribution of seven MT of wheat seed and two MT of DAP fertilizer to Ghor through its 1990-91 program. In mountanous regions, arable land is limited. Livestock has traditionally provided the main source of income in the province. Karakul (Persian lamb), which together with sheep and goats are traditionally raised in Ghor, provided five percent of Afghanistan's export earnings before the war. Little is known about the effects of the conflict on animal husbandry in the area, but veterinary extension services will be required in grazing areas. •
      WHO supports LEPCO in the construction of a new clinic in Lal-wa-Sarjangal which will provide services to leprosy patients. Through the summer of. 1990, a training course in deformity prevention was provided. Outreach programs currently underway complement these training courses.                  '
      Several NGOs support assistance activities in the province on a limited scale. In Chaghcharan district, for example, basic health posts, a basic health center, and a primary education centre are /supported by NGOs. In Lal-wa-Sarangal, two inpatient centres, an immunization project and five basic health posts are supported by NGOs. In Shahrak district, one basic health center is supported.
                                                                                                  38,666
                                                                                                 353,494
                                                                                                 318,380
                                                                                                 302,500
                                                                                                  15,880
                                                                                             Chaghcharan
                                                                                                       7
                                                   147
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HUlllMIJlffllll                            VOL.4 NQ.1
     NGOs are als6 operating in all districts of southern Ghor. In Pasaband district, basic health centers and basic health posts are supported through NGOs. In Ghor Taywara district, health centers and some 25 basic health, posts are supported; the rehabilitation of a village school, clinic and mosque are also underway as a result of NGO efforts. In Saghar district’, NGOs support one basic health center and three basic health posts. In Taolak district, one ; comprehensive health centre, basic health centres and three basic, health posts are supported by NGOs. NGOs provide essential information regarding local conditions: in  late 1989, MCI supported a mission to southern Ghor by Afghan
 staff who reported food scarcity in the region.
     Despite the support of NGOs in various parts of the province, comprehensive information regarding local needs is relatively limited. As with other, similarly isolated provinces like Bamian, Uruzgan, and Badakhshan, Ghor is so poorly endowed with natural resources that it is unlikely to develop to the level of the rest of the country. Unless new sources of economic activity are introduced, it is probable, as , rehabilitation and ■ reconstruction assistance become increasingly available in neighbouring provinces, that a proportion of the population will migrate to other areas. This is why both for Ghor and Uruzgan, Operation SALAM plans, in addition to the supporting NGO activities, to have as many -UN aid activities as possible. It is expected that these would gather momentum only after winter.
     UN Agencies:
     WHO
     Implementing NGOS:
     Afghanaid, Avicen, FMD, GAF, IMC, IIRO, MCI, MSH, SCA, SNI^ UNO -
                                                    148
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO-1
ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY MAP OF 6HOR PROVINCE
 International boundary
 Province boundary
 Woleswali and Alaqadari boundary
 Paved road
 Province Center .
 Woleswali Center Alaqadari Center

FARYAB
JL
JAUZJAN/SAR-E-PUL
                                                                                                                     \
A
 BADGHIS
 HERAT'.
 I
J
f
CHAGHCHARAN
A
 /
J
A
     I
     ( '
     \ Toolak J
     ' #
                                                                                               (
 ,___s'J • y—.
 [        Saghar
 V
\
 Sbahrak

\
Y
v.y
                      .
                                                            ^y I
           ---.-Pasaband       \
                                                       • / 1
      \ Ghore Taywara j
FARAH     v   /\______
                  /—
   - - /
                      i HELMAND

  A /
  \    \      bamyan
  \          V
  ’              s
  I Lal-Wa-Sarjangal >
  I •             /
/                r
                                                                                          r
                                                                                      ./Of.
               \
               \

URUZGAN
                                                                                                                                                      \
 10 -__L
20. __L
TO Okm
 149
  o(;Tonri<~nrRFMnrR, 1990 HllillliHJIHIIU                      voi. .4 no.1
 Kabul
           Area (sq.km.):
           Official Population (1979 Census):
           Estimated 1990 Population:
                 of which:  At Home Population
                            Refugees
           Provincial Capital Districts (Woleswalis) and Sub-districts (Alaqadaris):
     Kabul province has suffered extensive damage as a result of war. The poor condition of roads, water supply and sanitation, coupled with the difficulty of receiving goods from outside the city, have made Kabul heavily dependent on foreign aid. Supplies are flown in regularly from the USSR in the framework of bilateral aid programs. The long-term effects of the war are considerable. The current population of Kabul City, estimated to be over 2 million^ has been bloated by large numbers of internally displaced Afghans'from the -countryside, it , may be necessary to provide assistance to a large proportion of this vulnerable population for years to come. This was borne out already in 1988-89 when during an exceptionally harsh winter, large quantities of supplies, particularly food, made available through Operation SALAM by the USSR was distributed by the latter through the local authorities.
     In recent months, several projects have been initiated in the agricultural sector in the province. FAO has distributed nearly 9,000 apple and stone fruit tree saplings to nurseries for cultivation and multiplication. UNOCA is considering support to an income-generating project for sericulture development in Kabul and other provinces specializing in silk production, which will be implemented by FAO in conjunction with the technical departments concerned. UNDP supports a veterinary services project implemented by FAO and the Ministry of Agriculture, which aims to upgrade the facilitities of 17 local subclinics. The UNDP/FAO seed production project in Kabul receives inputs•from WFP.
     WFP also provides food assistance to vulnerable groups through MGH facilities located in the poorest districts of the capital. Wheat rations have been delivered to needy families. Two projects provide food assistance to internally displaced persons and vulnerable groups in Chardehi district, while two new projects have recently been approved to provide food rations to TB and leprosy patients and to the mentally ill.
     In the Kabul Peace Guesthouse, an average of 1,500 returning refugees receive food and medical .assistance each month from UNHGR and WFP before travelling to their provinces of origin. Additional food aid is given through a variety of FFW projects for the improvement of water supply and sanitation, reforestation, embankment construction and institutional rehabilitation. Ditches in eleven zones will have been cleaned through one FFW project thus improving local sanitation.    *
     The need. for a large-scale campaign for demining and mine awareness training was endorsed by UNOCA in March, 1990, and an agreement signed with the
                                                                                                  4,583
                                                                                              1,373,572
                                                                                              2,280,420
                                                                                              1,930,340
                                                                                                350,080
                                                  Kabul
                                                                                                     11
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 IlfllllllN JlHIill                VOL.4. NO.1
  Halo Trust, an internatonal NGO, to implement a training.project. Arrangements .were also made with the Afghan Red Crescent Society for a related mine awareness program. Despite limited access, Kabul remains a focal point for transit.trade.
      Under the Emergency Winter Relief Progam 1989-90, UNICEF provided assistance to the Indira Gandhi Children's Hospital for repairs, and maintenance, provision of supplies and drugs and staff training. UNICEF has undertaken a nutritional screening program to identify moderately or severely malnourished children and to provide them with supplementary feeding. UNOCA has provided financial assistance to the Marastoon (agency for helping the distitute) for the purchase of an ambulance and repair of buildings.
      During the last decade, UNICEF has provided and maintained the water supply to 170 schools and health clinics as wall as 15 hospitals in Kabul City. In 1990-91, UNICEF plans to concentrate on the maintenance of the water supply system of Kabul and other cities, where drilling rigs are already present. UNDP has installed    four pumps to increase the cities' water supply, while
  construction of a ring Supply system to connect all existing water networks is progressing. The Master Plan for Solid Waste Management in Kabul City is currently under preparation.
      UNESCO supports, the rehabilitation of seven educational institutions that will benefit as many as 15,350 students. UNDP has sponsored evening courses in English, . lasting six weeks, for 260 students from UN agencies, public services and the university. WHO has agreed to fund courses in the Ministry of Public Health beginning February 1991; UNDP provides teaching materials. UNDP also supports the four-year industrial craft centres Project, which will be Implemented in   both Mazar-e-Sharif   and Kabul, providing machinery as, well as
  management and   skills training to     participants. UNDP has posted seminars on
  Involvement of   the Private Sector       in National Development, Development of
  (Kabul.) Government Planning Capability and Development of Low-Cost Housing in the city of Kabul.
      Through Operation SALAM, medical. equipment has been provided to the Kabul Physiotherapy School as well as the Orthopaedic Clinic and Physiotherapy School. The WHO project' for rehabilitation of the Kabul Orthopaedic Center, which produces 60-100 artificial- limbs each month , is nearing completion. A WHO-supported project, involving the local production of drugs, oxygen* arid intravenous fluid, requires additional funding.
      A UNESCO consultant is training staff and students of the National Archives and Archaeology students in techniques for the preservation of these collections* A needs assessment is being made for the preservation of Kabul Museum, focusing particularly on repair of the ivory collection.
      UN Agencies:
      FAO, UNCHS, UNDP, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNICEF, WFP, WHO
     . Implementing NGOs:
      ARCS, Halo Trust, IAH, NCA, SCAl
                                                  151
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990      HlUllHIlilillHiJ             VOL-4 NO-1
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 VOL-4 NO.1
Instiututions Helping the
Addresses
 EDITOR'S NOTE:   The  foilwing  is  the  third part of the
 addresses of the insitutions working under the MG as well as non-Afghan aid giving organizations in Peshawar. It has been adopted from an ARIC publication. The numbers are of the ARIC related to the map.
 21 Afghan Rehabilitation and Training Services (ARTS.), Board, Jamrud Road, Tel.42464
 6 Afghan Trauma Center (ATC), Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar Tel.44566
 14 Afghan Welfare Center Medical Training Institution, Nasir Bagh ROad, Peshawar Tel.42851
 '42 Afghanistan Nothilfe,' E.V. Teaching Hospital, Canal Road, Peshawar Tel. 42818
 41 Afghanistan Nothilfe, E.V. Polyclinic, Canal Road, Peshawar
 35   Afghan Interim Government (AIG), Headquarters, University Road, Peshawar Tel.40528
 38   AIG, General Directorate of Preventative Medicine, Khalil Town, Rail Road, Board, Peshawar Tel.42645
 2    AIG, Media Information Department, Rahatabad Peshawar Tel.40768/43562
 34   AIG, Ministry , of Education, Darul Uloom-e-Jilania, Danishabad, Board,
      Peshawar Tel.44289
 30   AIG, Ministry of Education, Directorate of Religious Knowledge, Board, Jamrud Road, Peshawar, Tel. 41978
 31   AIG, Ministry of Education, Khalil Town, Board, Peshawar Tel. 40493
 40. AIG, Ministry of Interior, Danishabad, Board, Peshawar, Tel. 44031/40320
 27   AIG, Ministry of Public Health, Khalil Town, Rail Road, Board Peshawar, Tel.43624
 11 AIG, Ministry of Public Health, Basic Health Services Department, Str.No.5 Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar/ Tel.42497
 28   AIG, Ministry of Public Health, Central Poly Clinic, Khalil Town, Railroad, Board, Peshawar, Tel. 42497-
 39   AIG, Omar-e-Sani Lycee, Tajaba&, Board, Peshawar,                         •
 25 Association of Afghanistan Calligraphers, Str. No.l, Nasir Bagh Road,
                                                     153
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1990 HlUllHIlUluHil                               VOL.4 NO.1
      Peshawar.
 36   Association of Professors of the Universities of Afghanistan, Khalil Town,
    * Railroad, Board* Peshawar# Tel. 43449
 43   Care International (Cl), H.No.1237, Ali Road, Academy Town, Peshawar
      Tel.43875                                                          .
 1 Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Representative of Kabul Province, Rahatabad, Peshawar, Tel. 43889                                                           ,
 10 Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Representative of Parwan Province, Str. No.5 Nasir Bagh Road, Tel. 43189                 .
 26   Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Al-Hejrat Wal Jehad Hospital, Board, Peshawar,
     . Tel.41252
 29   Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Al-Hejrat Wal Jehad Poly Clinic, Board, Jamrud
      Road, Peshawar.
 19   Inter-Church Aid, Emergency Relief and Main Store, Gulabad, Board, Jamrud Road* Peshawar, Tel.43824
 5    International Medical Corps (IMC), Nasir Bagh, Peshawar, Tel. 41755/43512
 13   International Rescue Committe (IRC), Outreach Program, Str.No.5 Nasir Bagh
      Road, Peshawar.
 22   IRC, Printing Press, Str. No.3 Nasir Bagh Road, Tel. 42727
 23   Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan, Str. No .2 Nasir Bagh Road,
      Reshawar, Tel.42549       <        •
 4 Islamic Relief Agency (ISRA), Medex Training Institute, Rahatabad, Palosai Road, Peshawar, Tel.42549 12    Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Madrasa-e-Jahmeh-e-Uloom Islamia, T-92 Canal
      Colony, Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar.
         , * >
 20   La3nat Al-Birr Al-Isiamiah, Wprld Assembly of Muslim Youth; Work Shop,
      Board, Peshawar, Tel. 43712 18    Muslim World League, Ansar High Institute, Jamrud Road, Board, Peshawar
      Tel.42650
 12 Nazo Ana Afghan Refugees School, Str. No.5 Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar, Tel.
      41459                          '
 3    Pak-German Non-Formal Basic Education, Tatar Road, Rahatabad, Peshawar,
      Tel. 44803
 32   Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani Welfare Organization, Nimat Mahal, Board, Peshawar, Tel. 42763
 33   Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani Welfare Organization, Technical Training Center, Nimat Mahal, Board, Peshawar.
 9    Shura-e-Inqilab-e-Itifaqe Islarai Afghanistan, Main Office, Str. No.5 Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar, Tel. 42451
 37   shura-e-Inqilab-e-Itifaque Islami Afghanistan, Military Office, Khalil Town, Rail Road, Board, Peshawar, Tel. 41142
 17   United Medical Center for Afghans (UMCA), Board, Peshawar, Tel. 41697/43293
 8    Welfare and Relief Committee (for Afghan Refugees) Head Office, Str. No.6
      Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar, Tel. 42231 7     Welfare and Relief Committee, Orphan's Sponsorship, Engineering,
      Agriculture, Str. No.6 Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar Tel. 42908      )
 24   Zaid Bin Harqam Primary School, Str. No.l, Nasir Bagh Road, Peshawar.
 16 zaid Bin Harqam Secondary School, Board, Peshawar.
                                             155
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL .4 NO -1
NGO’s Serving Afghans
ARIC, AFGHANAID, AHSAO, AMA, AOGH
      The ACBAR RESOURCES AND INFORMATION CENTER (ARIC) was founded on August 4, 1988, by 42 Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), in Order to provide a forum for the coordination of Afghan relief and rehabilitation. ACBAR currently represents 60 NGO's.
      ARIC' coordinating role ensures that the best use is made of international aid for Afghanistan, preventing wasteful duplication and mistakes made in the planning and implementation of projects.
      ARIC'S area's of work are: .
 1. NGO REGIONAL COORDINATION: This , department manages monthly regional coordination meetings, produces the ARIC/SWABAC data base of NGO programs and helps to establish priorities for NGOs regarding the coordination of programs in Afghanistan through its Cross-Border Coordination Council.
 2. ARIC LIAISON , TO UN AGENCIES: ARIC has formalized links with the UN-agencies in a regular the ARIC Liaison to UN Agencies (ALUNA), which has resulted in increased cooperation between the UN, NGOs and ARIC.
 3.  ARIC COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT:    Ensures efficient communications between
 ARIC and its members. In addition this department keeps UN donors and) the world press informed of issues impacting on repatriation and rehabilitation/
      In May. 1989, ARIC established a semi-autonomous body for information; gathering and dissemination, the ARIC Resources and Information Center (ARIC).
                                           156
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 IlfGIIIlNJIHAD                           VOL.4 NO-1
 ARIC is responsible for compiling and distributing documents of interest to NGO's. It will also act as a resource center to NGO's and UN agencies.
 FUNDING: Governments of  Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, UNDP,
                            United Kingdom, UNOCA). Membership dues. The Asia Foundation for
      AFGHANAID was set up in 1984 and now runs cross-border agricultural rehabilitation projects, a tailoring program for disabled refugee tailors, and emergency programs including food distribution, and an ambulance service.
 i     The   tailoring project  in  the  camps provides employment for 70 disabled
 tailors who make school uniforms for refugee children. Since 1986 AFGHANAID has been running an ambulance service evacuating war-wounded from front-line areas. At present seven ambulances are being operated, five for Jalalabad and two for Khost/Gardez.                t
      The main area of work is in Afghanistan implementing agricultural rehabilitation programs. All programs consist of irrigation repair, inputs of seed and fertilizer and 'assistance with traction. AFGHANAID presently runs agricultural programs in 13 provinces, concentrated mainly in the north of Afghanistan. By October- 1989, AFGHANAID had taken a total of 790 tons of improved seed and fertilizer across the border, and 160 pairs of oxen had been transported to project areas. AFGHANAID also runs pilot projects in opium eradication and house reconstruction.
      In addition to agricultural programs, AFGHANAID will respond to emergency situations and have, in the past, provided assistance to Badakshan to help alleviate the food shortage arid to the people of the Salang after a bombing attack destroyed their homes and agriculture. AFGHANAID is also running food distribution programs to vulnerable groups in areas around Kabul and plans to provide food to the people in the north-west of Afghanistan affected by the locust and sunnpest infestation.
      AFGHANAID has a field staff of 38 persons who, in cooperation with the local population, survey the project areas, assess needs and implement the programs. Local; leaders , and elders are consulted at the regional and village level, and people are elected from the community to work with the AFGHANAID
 staff in implementing and administering the program. Programs are also monitored, by expatriates.
 '               '       '•                                                          i
                    The rehabilitation project at Robart, Ghazni, focuses on allowing an internally displaced population to return home by providing assistance to- revive food production. The irrigation system was surveyed in March and work on 12 karez commenced in August, 1989. inputs of 35 tons of winter wheat, 20 tons of 'Short-season spring wheat and 100. tons of, fertilizer haye been provided by FAO. The seed is treated in the area in treatment drums transported from Peshawar. Forty-four pairs of oxen have also been distributed. It" is estimated that this
                                         157
                                                    vS1                „
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 project will produce 935 tons of wheat in 1990
 FUNDING:   Overseas  Development Agency (ODA), USAID* UNHCR, UNDP, WFP, FAO,
           Canada and Help the Afghans Foundation.
      The AFGHAN AID ASSOCIATION (AAA) was founded in 1983. It works in both the health and agricultural sectors. AAA also intends to implement a rehabilitation and reconstruction program.
      In 1987, the Association opened a clinic in Peshawar which provides medical treatment to between 4,5000 and 5,000 men, women and children each month. AAA is also conducting a male training program; one course is for a three-month period, another fop six month's. Four clinics have been set up in Afghanistan in Laghman, Parwan, Joazjan and Nangarhar.
      AAA is looking for foreign volunteers .(doctors, nurses, medical assistants, etc.) to come for short periods of time to work inside Afghanistan. The organization would also welcome consultants who could assist it in its administration and proposal preparation.
      In the agricultural sector, a number of projects the AAA.
 FUNDING UNHCR, WHO and others.
        AHSAO
have been
undertaken by,
      AFGHAN'S HEALTH AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE ORGANIZATION (AHSAO) was organized in June, 1985 tC meet health and education needs of Afghan refugees. In Peshawar, a children's clinic with an out-patient department and a 20-bed "indoor patient department" provide a broad range of services for children as well as for adults.
      The out-patient department of the children's unit examines,, diagnoses and treats mild -to severe disorders and diseases through its following programs:
                        , .                 •                               • y 1 2 3 4 5
      1.   Malnutrition:  Malnourished children are treated and issued food of
           high-nutrient value (fruit, eggs, dal, high protein biscuits, etc.);
      2.   Special Care:    For  children who need continuous and/or prolonged
           medical care for illnesses such as polio, epilepsy, diabetes, asthma, blood problems;                    -
      3.   Vaccination:   Afghan  children and their mothers are provided all
           vaccines;
      4. . Tuberculosis:  Male and female adults and children suffering from
           T.B. are examined and treated;
      5.   Health Education: A health educator works with two groups of 20 women each day for 45-minute periods, teaching hygience, sanitation, nutrition, treatment of diarrhoea, communicable diseases.
      When treatment is not possible in the out-patient department, children are
                                           158
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flfCllflMJIHAD                        VOL.4 NO-1
 admitted for extended care in the in-patient facility. ,
     Two basic health units operate in the Aza Khel. camp zone, in which between 300-400 patients (male, female, and children) are treated daily. The same range of health care services are offered in the BHU's as are in the children f s clinic. In addition there is a malaria control program and a mobile vaccination team attached to the units. Clinics are also operating in Nangarhar and Kunar Provinces-.
     A TBA Training Program has been recently started in Aza Khel to train 150 Afghan women.-After training, these women will work in Aza Khel. Other education projects/programs include an English language course, two primary schools in Pakistan in Dilawar Shah and Badeber camps and one in Nuristan in Afghanistan. One-year paramedic, and 6-month nursing and technician training courses are provided to Afghan students.
     AHSAO has two agricultural projects ' in Chowki and Khas Kunar Districts in Kunar Province.
 FUNDING: Afghan Relief (UK), Oxfam (UK), ODA (UK), UNHCR and UNICEF
                                                AMA
     AFGHAN MEDICAL AID (AMA) was established in November of 1983 in Peshawar. AMA works both in the refugee camps in Pakistan and in Afghanistan. Their principal health care facility is a clinic in Peshawar. Two basic health units are operated in Bajaur Agency in Ganjgal and Rashakai, out of which AMA provides a milk, distribution service for children as well as vaccination and Traditional Birth Attendant programs. ,
     The main clinic in Peshawar provides for ante-and post-natal care and treatment for the following diseases: eye and ear infections, respiratory^ tract infections, joint and skin diseases, nervoys disorders, parasitic problems and disorders of the intestinal tract. An estimated 25,000 patients are treated at tiie clinic annually. Additionally, the clinic is.currently training 20 Afghan students for FHA.
     In Afghanistan, primarily in Kunar, Afghan Medical Aid is active in the training of mid-wives. This program was .started in April 1989 in Pech valley. A second one was started in Narang sub-district in November 1989 by a mobile team, which will train 40 mid-wives in a three-month period.
    . In central Nuristan and Dehves Valley, in an area covering 25 villages with a population of approximately 10,000 people, a paramedic program is operating*. , AMA has extended its malaria control program in .central Nuristan to nine villages—Keygal,Chimie, Vant, Mundesh, Gemamesh/ Waygal, Shinigal and Kurbagh,. :
     AMA has one primary school in Ganjgal camp and another in Ganjgal in Kunar. The number of students in Ganjgal primary school is 100 and;y^^J Ganjgal, Kunar, it is 107.                 ^
                                            159
  OCTOPER-DECEMBER* 1990 flffillllHJIHJ1D                  VOL-4 NO.1
      Repair work on Asadabad hospital started in July 1989,', was finished in August 1989, and handed over to - • a central council of muja;heddin. Another reconstruction project in Afghanistan has been the repair of Sarkani and Khas Kunar road.                '
 FUNDING:   Afghan Relief (U.K.), Oxfam, Overseas Development Agency, UNHCR, and
UNICEF.
AOGH
       THE AFGHAN OBSTETRICS GYNAECOLOGY HOSPITAL (AOGH) was founded in 1984 with the support of the IRC to provide improved obstetric and gynaecologic facilities to Afghan women.             . .
       Sixty percent of the Afghan refugee population consists of women and children. The harshness of life in the camps contributes to malnutrition, anaemia arid disease which create a difficult climate for women of child bearing age. Since at any given time an estimated 40% of the women, aged between 16 and 45, are pregnant* the provision of obstetric and gynaecologic facilities is an essential element of^any attempt to assist Afghan women.
       The hospital began as an outpatient/ unit, and a five-bed inpatient facility and labour room were added later. It now has a surgical unit and an air-conditioned 15-bed inpatient unit. During 1987 with the help of a Pakistani pediatrician, facilities for paediatric care, particularly of preterm infants, were developed, enabling the hospital staff to save the life of a 28-week old infant who had been refused admission to a local hospital due to its size and non-viability of space. After 51 days of careful treatment the baby was discharged in good condition.
 ,     A team of Afghan doctors and nurses is assisted by visiting expatriate
 medical staff. Some of the staff operate a mobile obstetrics and gynaecology service for the camps. Over the years,- the numbers of women coming for ante-natal care with the intention of delivering their babies in the hospital has greatly increased. More women are also seeking advice on birth control, and there has Ipeen a tremendous response to the immunization' service.
 FUNNDING: HELP (Germany!, Help the Afghans Foundation, the Norwegian Refugee Council, Doctors for Afghanistan, the Governments of Australia, New Zealand and Japan and groups in the USA and France.
                                  ARF
     An Afghan run non-governmental organization, the AFGHAN RELIEF FOUNDATION (ARF) was founded in 1986 with the support of the Help the Afghans Foundation (the Netherlands).
     Afghan Refief Foundation started its work for the destitute people of Afghanistan by providing wheat, rice, edible oil, tea, soup, etc. Later on the Foundation established a mother and'child health care clinic.
      The Mother and Child Health Care Clinic is run by three doctors, five nurses and 14 other staff persons. In this clinic, situated in Shaheen Town, Peshavfar, about 100 to 150 out-patients per day come on consultation and treatment.                                                              ,
      ARF has also established two schools, one in Munda Refugee Camp and another in the Khyber pass area, under the names of Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi Vocational School and Khyber Agency School; ctbout 1,000 students receive their
                                                160
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HtbUHIldtHflii                            VOL.4 NO. 1
 education in these schools. Most of the students are orphans who also receive a monthly allowance of Rs. 200.
      In Afghanistan, ARF has provided emergency aid in various*provinces. In all cases food commodities and used clothes were distributed among the clothes destitude. All * programs have taken place under the supervision of a representative of this office at all times and . with the help and full cooperation of commanders and the tribal chiefs.
 FUNDING: Help  the Afghans Foundation (The Netherlands)
      AFGHANISTAN NOTHILFE (AN) was founded in 1983 through the joint efforts of German and Afghan doctors. In     1987, AN began administering to   Afghans  in
 Pakistan and Afghanistan. Its    Board of Directors consists of   members   of
 political parties and medical specialists.
      Medical services "and facilities of AN consists of an 80-bed hospital in Peshawar, three primary health units at refugee camps in NWFP, a polyclinic with a teaching center at Quetta, and eight dispensaries in Kunar, Nangarhar, Paktia and Kandahar provinces.
      The hospital at Peshawar offers surgical treatment, internal medicine, eye and dental treatment, x-ray facilities arid a laboratory. A vaccination program is run by UNHCR, a TB treatment   program by ICD, milk distribution provided by
 SNI, and a' facility for lab examination is operated by Afghanaid. Each month,
 approximately 150 surgical cases ,are admitted, and 300-350 patients receive admission in the hospital. More than 6000 are received at the polyclinic. Since December 1988, the health units have rehabilitated between 800 to 1300 patients. Since 1983, AN has sent 68 physically handicapped children to West Germany for appropriate treatment.
      Through the support of , CARE,. a German committee, Afghanistan Nothilfe provides one-and two-year medical nursing courses, and more than 600 male and female students have now * graduated. Since 1987, 26 Getman doctors and nurses
 have worked with Afghanistan Nothilfe.                        ,
 FUNDING:' The West German Government, donations of the West Germany people, and CARE, a German committee.
                        ABBREVIATIONS
 Food and Agriculture Organization United Nations Development Programme United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees United Nations Children's Fund Office of the Co-ordinator for UN Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programmes relating to Afghanistan '
 World Food Programme
 World Health Organization,
FAO
UNDP
UNHCR
UNICEF
UNOCA
WFP
WHO
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
                                                                           VOL.4 NO.1
          EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are the highlights of a report issued by the "Muslim Aid" on its activities among Afghan refugees and the people inside Afghanistan, The material has been selected from a recently published pamphlet by the Muslim Aid,
      Muslim Aid is a London based international relief agency set up to help the needy and troubled Muslims' all over the world. The Pakistan chapter of this agency was established in February, 1987.
                    Yusuf Islam, formerly known as Cat Stevens, is the Chairman of the Agency. It was under his leadership that the Pakistan branch initiated its relief work.
      The agency provides relief to the troubled and needy Afghans and education a.nd vocational training      to children. The ^ultimate aim is        to help the
 Afghans preserve and promote    their intellectual, cultural   and  technological
 independence. Obviously these objectives cannot be materialized without proper emphasis on education.       The agency, however, initiated     its    services by
 immediately attending, to the social needs of the people.
                                           SOCIAL SERVICES
      Widows, orphans and the war-wounded invaldds are particularly hard pressed as a result of the war.      The survey conducted by Muslim Aid indicates that
 one out of every 10 Afghans has been killed during the last 11-12 years of war. As a result, there are nearly 100,000 acknowledged widows, over 300,000 invalids and around 400,000 orphans living in these camps. One may observe that the Afghans have paid far greater a price for their liberation and freedom than any other nation in the world - including the Russians and their oft-trumpeted losses during the World War 11. In the first round, the agency distributed 100 sewing machines among the widows. Subject to availability of funds, this has now become a regular feature of their services. The main purpose is to enable widows to earn their own bread with grace and dignity. Likewise, they distributed 2,000 pair of clothes among the orphans and the war invalids. There is a wide gap between the actual needs and the help offered. On long-term basis, however, the Governing Body of Muslim Aid decided to open regular vocational' centers for widows/orphans and young Afghan girls, which are meant to train them in cutting, stitching, sewing, knitting, embriodery4, etc. Besides,the agency gives them regular basic teachings of the Quran and Islam. The agency has, so far, opened 30 vocational centres in various refugee camps with a total enrollment of
                                         162
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 IlfGHilN JtHJlD                         VOL.4 NO-1
 over 1,000 trainees. The course is for six months. Upon successful termination of training, graduates receive sewing machines along with o,ther necessary appliances by way of gift. A female inspection team regularly visits these centers and closely supervises the work and progress of the trainees. This project is extremely popular among the Afghans and there is mounting pressure for more vocational centers.
                  During the last four years Muslim Aid has been able to establish an impressive network of cross-border school. The following tables show, the nature
and scope of the work done so far:                                      
                             INSIDE AFGHANISTAN      1                  
Provinces        No. of     NO. of    NO. Of    No. of Head-     No. of 
                 Schools   Students  . Teachers Masters .    Securities 
Badakhshan               3   652        20                 3 5          
Baghlan.                 2   240         6                 - 2          
Balkh                    1 * 225         6                 1 2          
Faryab                  '3   360         9                 - 3          
Ghazni                  12   850        36                 1     11     
Helmand                  5   1000       20                 5 5          
Jauzjan                  7   920        24                 1 8          
Kabul                    2   115            3 '            -            
Kandahar                18   3000       45                18     19     
Kapisa                   2   431        13                 2 2          
Kiinar                  19   1819       49                 -     11     
KUnduz                   i    80         2                 - -          
Laghman                 10   1154          33 . '            7          
Logar                   33  2677 •      94                 4     20     
Nangarhar               46   2833       94                 - 4 .        
Nimroz                   1   300         4                 1 2          
Paktia                   5   613        16                 - 5          
Paktika                  2   128         5                 -            
Parwan                   1   291.       10                 2 2          
Takhar                   3   550        15                 2 5          
Wardak                  15   1858       60                 7     14     
Zabul                    8  , 950       16                 8 8          
TOTAL:                 199  21,051      580     55              13.5    
                           IN PAKISTAN                                  
Secondary school for boys     4          No. of students            932 
Secondary school for girls    1          No. of students     312        
Primary school for girls         12      No. of students          1,560 
Vocational center for                                                   
widows and orphans               26      No. of trainees         12,000 
Language center               1         No.' of students             47 
. The agency also keeps two mobile teams of doctors for their own students and maintains a central medical laboratory offering,services to some 43 hospitals.
                                           163
 I
                                               OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGHAH JtHftll
    Universal Islamic Declaration Of Human Rights
       Based on Quran and Sunnah
    gf EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a deceleration worked *3   out by   the  Islamic Council, an organization of Islamic scholars
    (3!  and leaders  of international Islamic movements on human rights in
    8    Islam.   The  original text has been in Arabic and Dr. Rawan
    8 Farhadi, Afghan scholar, translated it into Dari for the CCAR 8    seminar   on  the future of judiciary and legal institutions in
    8 Afghanistan held in Islamabad 3-6 May, 1990. The English text has
                                                     i* been worked out by the scholars themselves.
    8 8
                                               FORWARD
              Islam gave to mankind an ideal code of' human rights fourteen centuries ago. These rights aim at conferring honour and dignity bn mankind and eliminating exploitation, oppression and injustice.
                 ■                ,             '          \            I
              Human rights in Islam are fiimly rooted in the belief that God and God alone is the. Law Giver and the Source of all human rights. Due to their Divine origin no ruler, government assembly or authority can curtail or violate in any way the human rights conferred by GOd nor can they be surrendered.
              Human rights in Islam are an integral part of the overall Islamic order ang it is obligatory on all Muslim governments and. brgans o£ society to implement them in letter and spirit within the framework of that order.
              It is unfortunate that human rights are being trampled upon with impunity in many countries of the world, including Muslim countries. Such violations are a matter of serious concern and are arousing the conscience of more and more people throughout the world.                          ,x  . • ..
VOL.4 NO.1
                                          164
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 MfillllNJEHAD                                   VOL.4 NO-1
                                                                  • • • ••• \
              I sincerely hope that this Declaration of Human nights will
         give a powerful impetus to the Muslim peoples to stand firm and
         defend resolutely and courageously the rights conferred on them
         by God.
 ,            This  Declaration of Human Rights is the second fundamental
         document proclaimed by the Islamic Council to mark the beginning of the 15th Century of the Islamic era, the first being the Universal Islamic Declaration announced at the International Conference on The Prophet Muhammad, peace and blessings be upon him, and his Message» held in London from 12 to 15 April 1980.
              The Universal Islamic Declaration of Human Rights is based on the Quran and the Sunnah and has been compiled by eminent          (
         Muslim scholars,, jurists and representatives of Islamic movements and thought May God reward them all for their efforts and guide us along the right path.
                             .v                              «
 1 .. ' ■ ■ ■ % •
         Paris 19th September 1981                      Salem Azzam
                                                    Secretary General
                                              PREAMBLE
 WHEREAS, the age-old human aspiration for a just world order wherein people could live, develop and prosper in an environment free from fear, oppression, exploitation and deprivation, remains largely unfulfilled?
 WHEREAS the Divine Mercy unto mankind reflected in its having been endowed with super-abundant economic sustenance is being wasted, or unfairly or unjustly withheld from the inhabitants of the earth?
 QHEREAS Allah has given mankind through His revelations in the Holy Qur'an and the Sunnah of His Blessed Prophet Muhammad an abiding legal and moral framework within which to establish and regulate human institutions and relationships?
 WHEREAS the human rights decreed by the Divine Law aim at‘ conferring dignity and honor on mankind and are designed to eliminate oppression and injustice?
 WHEREAS by virtue of their Dxyine source and sanction these rights can neither be curtailed, abrogated or disregarded by authorities, assemblies or other institutions, nor can they be surrendered or alienated?
 THEREFORE WE, AS MUSLIMS, WHO BELIEVE                       f
 a)   in God, - the Beneficent and Merciful, the Creator, the Sustainer, the Sovereign, the sole Guide of mankind and the Source of all Law?
 b)   in the Vicegerency (Khilafah) of man who has been created to fulfil the
     Will of God on earth?      .       ~                                        1
 c)   in the wisdom of Divine guidance brought by the Prophets, whose mission
                                        165
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
     f-ound its culmination in the final Divine message that was conveyed by the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, to all mankind;
d)   that rationality by itself without . the light of revelation from God can neither be a sure guide in the affairs of mankind nor provide spiritual nourishment to the human soul, and, knowing .that the teachings of Islam represent the quintessence of Divine guidance in its finaj. and perfect form, feel dutybound to remind man of the high status and dignity bestowed on him by God;                                                              ,
     e)in inviting all mankind to the message of' Islam;
f)   that by the terms of our primeval covenant with God our duties and obligations have priority over our rights, and that each one of us is under a bounded duty to spread the teachings of Islam by word, deed, and indeed in all gentle ways, and to make them effective not only in our individual lives but also in the society around us;
g)   in our obligation to establish an Islamic order;
     i)   wherein all human beings shall be equal and none shall enjoy a privilege or suffer a disadvantage or discrimination by reason of race, color, sex, origin or language; y
     ii)  wherein all human beings are born free";
     iii) wherein slavery and forced labor are abhorred;         :
     iv)  wherein conditions shall be established such that the institution
         . of family shall be preserved, protected and honored as the basis of all social life;
     v)   wherein the rulers and the ruled alike are subject to and equal before the Law;
     vi)  wherein obedience shall be rendered only to those commands that are in consonance with the Law;
     -vii) wherein all wordly power shall be considered as a sacred trust, to be exercised within the limits prescribed by the Law arid in a manner approved by it, and with due regard for the priorities fixed by it;
     viii wherein all* economic resources shall be treated as Divine blessings bestowed upon mankind, to be enjoy'ed by all in accordance with the rules and the values set. out in the Quran and the Sunnah;
     ix)  wherein all public affairs shall be determined and conducted, and* the authority to administer them shall be exercised, after mutual consultation (Shoora) between the believers qualified to contribute to a decision which would accord well with the Law and the public good;
     x)   wherein everyone shall undertake obligations proportionate to his capacity and shall be held responsible pro rata for his deeds;
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
      xi)  wherein everyone shall, in case of an infringement of his rights, be assured of appropriate remedial measures in accordance with the Law;
      xii) wherein no one shall be deprived of‘ the rights assured to him by the Law except by its authority and to the extent permitted by it;
      xiii) wherein every individual shall have the right to bring legal action against anyone who commits a crime against society, as a whole or against any of its members;
      xiv)  wherei'n every effort shall be made to:
            (a) secure unto mankind deliverance from every type' of exploitation, — injustice «nd oppression;
            (b) ensure to everyone security, dignity and liberty in terms set out
                 and by methods approved and within the limits set by the Law;
            Do hereby, as servants of Allah and as members of the Universal Brotherhood of Islam, at the beginning of the Fifteenth Century of the Islamic Era, affirm* our commitment to uphold the following inviolable and inalienable human rights that we consider are enjoined by Islam.
                                        I - RIGHT TO LIFE
 a)   Human life is   sacred and inviolable and every effort shall be made to
      prote.c^ it. In particular no * one shall be exposed to injury    or death,
      except^ under the authority of the Law. .
 b)   Just as in life, so also after death, the sanctity of a person's body shall
      be inviolable.  It is the obligation of believers to see that    a deceased
      person's body is handled with due solemnity.
                                      II - RIGHT TO FREEDOM
 a)   Man is born free. No inroads shall be made on his right to liberty except under the authority and in due process of .the Law.
 b)   Every individual and every people has the inalienable* right to freedom in
      all its forms - physical, cultural, economic and political - and shall be entitled to struggle by all available means against any infringement or abrogation of this right;- and every oppressed individual or people has a legitimate claim to the support of’other individuals and/or peoples in such a struggle.                                       '
                      mi - right to equality and Prohibition against
                                 IMPERMISSIBLE DISCRIMINATION
 a)   All persons are equal before the Law and are entitled to equal opportunities and protection of the Law.
 I
 b)   All persons shall be entitled to equal wage for equal work.
 c)   No person shall be denied the . opportunity to work or be discriminated against in any manner or exposed to greater physical risk by reason of religious belief, color, race, origin, sex or language.
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 199(3_________flffiljflllMilO__________________
                             IV  - RIGHT TO JUSTICE
 a)   Every person has the right to be treated in accordance with, the Law, and only in accordance with the Law.
 b)   Every person has not only the .right but also the obligation to protest
      against injustice? to recourse to remedies provided by the Law in respect of any unwarranted personal injury  or loss? to self                defense against any
      charges that are preferred against him and to obtain fair adjudication before an independent judicial tribunal in any dispute with public authorities or any other person.
 c)   It is • the right and dtity of every person to defend the rights of any other person and the community in general (Hisbah).
 d)   No person shall be discriminated against while seeking to defend private and public rights.
 e)   It is the  right                 and duty of every Muslim to refuse to obey any command
      which is contrary to the Law, no matter by whom it may be issued.
                          V  -RIGHT TO FAIR TRIAL
 a)   No person  shall lie adjudged guilty of an offense                   and made liable to
      punishment except after proof of his guilt before an independent judicial , tribunal.
 b)   No person  shall                be adjudged guilty except after a fair trial and after
      reasohable opportunity for defence has been provided to him.
 c)   Punishment shall be awarded in accordance with the Law, in proportion to the seriousness of the offense and with due consideration of the
      circumstances under which it was' committed, d*) No act shall be considered a crime unless it is stipulated as such in the clear wording of the Law.                              *
 *e) Every individual is responsible for his actions. Responsibility for a crime cannot be vicariously extended to other members-of his family or group, who are not otherwise directly or indirectly involved in the commission of the crime in question.              ,
             VI  - RIGHT TO PROTECTION AGAINST ABUSE OF POWER
      Every person has the right to protection against harassment by official agencies*. He is not liable to account for himself except for makings a defense to the charges made against him or where he is found in a situation wh'erein- a question regarding suspicion of his involvement in a crime could be reasonably raised.                                       v
                VII - RIGHT TO PROTECTION AGAINST TORTURE
      No person shall bie subjected to torture in mind or body, or degraded, or threatened with injury either to himself or to anyone related to or held dear by him, or forcibly made to confess to the commission of a crime, or forced to consent to an act which is injurious to his interests.
                                                     168
HI
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
           VIII  - RIGHT TO PROTECTION OF HONOR AND REPUTATION
      Every person has the right to protect his honor and reputation against calumnies, groundless charges or deliberate attempts at defamation and blackmail.
                             IX - RIGHT TO ASYLUM
 a)   Every persecuted or oppressed person has the right to seek refuge and asylum, tfhis right is.guaranteed to every human being irrespective of race, religion, color and sex.
 b)   Al Masjid Al Haram (the sacred house of Allah) in Makkah is a sanctuary for all Muslims.
                          X  - RIGHTS OF MINORITIES
 a)   The Quranic principle "There is no compulsion in religion" shall govern the religious rights of non-Muslim minorities,.
 b)   In a Muslim country religious minorities shall have the choice to be governed in respect of their civil and personal matters by Islamic Law, or by their own laws.
      XI - RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE CONDUCT AND
                                MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
 a)   Subject to the Law, eyery individual in the community (Urnmah) is entitled'
      to assume public office.       -L                           .
 b)   Process of free consultation (Shura)is the basis of the adminitrative relationship between the government and the people. People also have the right to choose and remove their rulers in accordance with this principle.
           XII  - RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF BELIEF, THOUGHT AND SPEECH
 a)   Every person has the right to express his thoughts and beliefs so long as he remains within the limits prescribed by the Law. No one, however, is entitled to disseminate falsehood or to circulate reports which may outrage public decency, or to indulge in slander, innuendo or to cast defamatory aspersions on other persons.
 b) ‘ Pursuit of knowledge and search after truth is not only a right but a duty
      of every Muslim.'
 c)   It is the right and duty of. every Muslim to protest and strive (wifhin the limits set out by the Law) against oppression even if it involves challenging the highest authority in the State.
 d)   There shall be no Bar on the dissemination of information provided it does ( not endanger the security of the society or the state and is confined
      within the limits imposed by the Law.              s
 e)   No one, shall hold in contempt or ridicule the religious beliefs of others or incite public hostility against them; respect for the religious feelings of others is obligatory on all Muslims.
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flffiliflHJfH/lB                          VOL-4 N0.1
                      XIII  - RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF RELIGION
       Every person has the right to freedom of conscience and worship in accordance with his religious, beliefs.
                       XIV  - RIGHT TO FREE ASSOCIATION
  a)   Every person is entitled to participate individually and collectively in the religious, social, cultural and political life of his community and to establish institutions and agencies meant to enjoin what is right (ma'roof) and to prevent what is wrong (munkur).
  b)   Every person is entitled to strive for the establishment of institutions whereunder an enjoyment of these rights woiild be made possible. ColTectively, the community is obliged to establish conditions so as to allow its members full development of their personalities.
        XV - THE ECONOMIC ORDER AND THE RIGHTS EVOLVING THEREFROM
  a)   In their economic pursuits, all persons are entitled to the full benefits of nature and all its resources. These are blessings bestowed by God for the benefit of mankind as a whole.
  b)   All human beings are entitled to earn their living according to the Law.
  c)   Every person is entitled to own property individually or in association
       with others. State ownership of certain economic resources in%the public interest is legitimate. '     !                                        .
  d)   The poor have the right to a prescribed share in the wealth of the rich; as fixed by Zakat, levied and collected in accordance with the Law.
  e)   All means of production shall be utilized in the interest of the community (Ummah) as a whole, and may not be neg-lected or misused.
  f)   In order to promote the development of a balanced economy and to protect society from exploitation, Islamic Law forbids monopolies, unreasonable restrictive trade practices, usury, the use of corercion in the making of contracts and the publication of misleading advertisements.
  g)   All economic activities are permitted provided they are not detrimental to the interests of the community (Ummah) and do not violate Islamic laws and values.
                   XVI  - RIGHT TO PROTECTION OF PROPERTY
       No property may be expropriated except in the public interest and on. payment of fair and adequate compensation.
                    XVII  - STATUS AND DIGNITY OF WORKERS
       Islam honors work and the worker and enjoins Muslims not only to treat the worker justly but also generously. lie is not only to be paid his earned wages promptly, but is also entitled to adequate rest and leisure.
                      XVIII  - RIGHT TO SOCIAL SECURITY
       Every person has the right to food, shelter, clothing, education and
                                            170
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990                                                VOL^_^g^j_
  medical care consistent with, the resources of the community. This obligation of
  the community extends in particular to all individuals who cannot take care of
  themselves due to some temporary or permanent disability.
            XIX  - RIGHT TO FOUND A FAMILY AND RELATED MATTERS
  a)   Every person is entitled to marry, to found a family and to, bring up children in conformity with his religion, traditions and culture. Every spouse is entitled to such rights and privileges and carries such obligations as are stipulated by the Law.
  b)   Each of the partners in a marriage is entitled to respect and consideration from the other.
  c)   Every husband is obligated to maintain his wife and children according to his means.
  d)   Every child has the right to be maintained and properly brought up by its
       parents, it being forbidden that children are made to work at an early age or that any burden is put on them which would arrest or harm their natural development.                                                            >
  e)   If parents are for some     reason unable    to discharge their obligations
       towards a child, it becomes the responsibility of the community to fulfil these obligations at public expense*                                    : "
  f)   Every person is entitled to material           support, as well as care and
       protection, from his family during his childhood, old age or incapacity,. Parents are entitled to material support as well as care and protection-from their children.
  g)   Motherhood is entitled to special respect, care and assistance on the part of the family and the public organs of the community (Ummah).
  h)   Within the family, men and women are to      share in their obligations and
       responsibilities according to their sex, their natural endowments, talents and inclinations, bearing   in mind their    common responsibilities toward
       their progeny and their relatives.
  i)   No person may be married    against his or her will, or lose or suffer
       dimunition of legal personality on account of marriage.
                         XX  - RIGHTS OF MARRIED WOMEN
       Every .married woman is entitled to:
  a)   live in the house in which her husband lives;
  b)   receive the means necessary for maintaining a standard of living which is not inferior to that of' her spouse, and, in the event of divorce, receive during the statutory period of waiting (Iddah) means of maintenance commensurate with heir husband's resources, for herself as well as for the children she nurses or keeps, irrespective of her own financial status, earnings, or property that she may hold in her own right;
  c)   seek and obtain dissolution of marriage (Khul'a) in accordance with the terms of the Law. This right is in addition to her right to seek divorce through the courts. -
  d)   inherit* from her husband, her parents, her children and other relatives according to the Law.
                                            171
 OCTQBER-DECEMBER, 199Q AfRHflH JtHilD                              VQL.4nQ.1
 e)   strict confidentiality from her spouse, or ex-spouse if divorced, with regard to any information that he may have obtained about * her, the disclosure of which could prove detrimental to her interests. A similar responsibility rests upon her in respect of her spouse or ex-spouse.
                          XXI  - RIGHT TO EDUCATION
 a)   Every person is entitled to receive education in accordance with his natural capabilities.
 b)   Every person is entitled to a free choice of profession and career, and to the opportunity for the full development of his natural endowments.
                          XXII- RIGHT TO PRIVACY
      Every person is entitled to the protection of his privacy.
           XXIII - RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT AND RESIDENCE
 a)   In view of the fact that the World of Islam is veritably Ummah Islamia,
      every Muslim shall have the right to freely move in and out of any Muslim' country.                                         •
 b)   No one shall be forced to leave the country of his residence, or be arbitrarily deported therefrom, without recourse to due process of Lav/.
                                       EXPLANATORY NOTES
      1.   In the above formulation of Human Rights, unless the context provides otherwise:
           a)  the term "person" refers to both the male and female sexes.
           b)  the term "Law" denotes the Shari1ah, i.e. the totality of ordinances derived from the Quran and the Sunnah and any other laws that are deduced from these two sources by methods considered valid in Islamic jurisprudence.
      2.   Each,One of the Human Rights ennunciated in this Declaration carries a corresponding duty.
      3.   In the exercise and enjoyment of the rights referred to above every ^ person shall be subject only to such limitations as are enjoined by
           the Law for the purpose of securing the due recognition of and respect for, the rights and the freedom of others and of meeting the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare of the Community (Ummah).
      4.   The Arabic text of this Declaration is the original.
            ) ‘ .                _ s-                                 ’ ■
                                            172
                                                              OCTOBER-DCCEMBER. 1990
VOL.'4 NO. 1
              BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN
                      BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
                                                  {
 (1)  THE QURAN.PASHTU TRANSLATION (FIRST VOLUME: PASHTU)
 TRANSLATOR: Sabahuddin Kushkaki Editors: Mawlawi Mahraood Darswal and Mawlawi Hazrat Khan Hameedee; Published by the CCAR; 394 pages.
 CONTENTS:  The   first 10 sections                     (Para) of the Holy Quran    with Pashtu
 translation based on the Dari text of the Translation and Commentaries of the Quran by Abdullah Yusuf Ali in English. Four volumes of the Dari text of the Translation and Commentaries of the Quran have so far been .published by Kushkaki.
                                                    * *
 (2)  THE ROLE OF BELIEF IN THE MAKING OF GENERATIONS (DARI)
                 . '     '                      f
 AUTHOR:  Sheikh Martyred Abdullah                       Ezam; - translator: Abdul Ahad Tarshi;
 published by the Maktab-ul-Khedamamat (Office of Services); 300 pages.
 CONTENTS: Definition of belief.and unitarianism; reason for human decline:
 deviation from the truth; some qualities of belief and the status of ,human
 beings .in the context of belief; principles of belief; signs                     of forsaking
 belief and its consequences.
 (3)  THE STRUGGLE OF MOSES AGAINST PHAROE (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Dr. Saeed Ramdan; translator: S. Samar; published by the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 38 pages.
 CONTENTS:   A description of the struggle of Prophet Moses,peace be upon him,
 against Pharao based on Quranic verses.
 (4)  THE LIGHT OF RELIGION (FIRST VOLUME. PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Ma,wlawi Mohammad Ishaq Muheq; Published by AIG Ministry of Haj and -
 Endowment; 60 pages.
 CONTENTS: After a brief description of principles of Islamic belief, it explains Islamic ablution, washing of one’s body, tayammum (an Islarpic symbolic ritual ordained for cleanliness in case of an absence of water), regular prayer, fasting, Zakat (obligatory tax), Haj and jehad.
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990___________MHJfHflB                ____ VOL.4 N0.1
  (5)  THE FUTURE OF ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN. FIRST SEMINAR (PASHTU AND DARI)
  PUBLISHED by the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies (IAPS) of the CCAR; 385 pages.        . ’
  CONTENTS: Collection  of articles and discussions of a seminar held on the
  basics of a future constitutional order'for Afghanistan held in Islamabad 24-27 March, 1990 by the IAPS.-
 (6)   THE AFGHANS AND AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
  AUTHOR: Professor Abdul "Hai Habibi, published by the Association of the Refugees
  of Afghanistan; 16 pages.
  CONTENTS: It is a pamphlet which on the basis of 1,700 years of history gives a
  philological explanation of the name "Afghan" and -Afghanistan.
 (7)   PROMINENT VERSES (PASHTU) '
 AUTHOR: Gul Pacha Ulfat; Published by Kabul Book Store; 407 pages.
                 ' \ ' ) ■
 CONTENTS: A re-print of the collection of, a poems of late poet. First published in 1964.
 (8)   THE STORY OF TOMORROW (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Salahu^ddin Saljuki; published by the CCAR; 40T pages.
 CONTENTS: The last unpublished book of the famous Afghan Philosophar and Author. It is a pholosophical discourse of future technological advances and the position of mankind.                      •
                            . i      .       • ■         -                . /
 (9)   SUCH DAYS AND SUCH REMARKS (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Al-Haj  Nangyal; published by the Afghan Jehad Research Center; 112
 pages.
 CONTENTS:  A collection of essays and. stories on social aspects of the jehad
 which also contains some criticism of the events.
 (TO) THE ART OF AFGHAN CALLIGRAPHY AND PAINTING (DARI. PASHTU, ENGLISH)
 WRITTEN AND PUBLISHED by the Cultural Association of Afghanistan; 35 pages. CONTENTS: Has a list of well-known Afghan painters and calligraphers.
                                          174
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990     fifHUNJBU1D                   VOL.4 N0.1
 (11)  ROUNDTABLE ON ISLAMIC UNITY (DARI)
 PUBLISHED by the "Qest* journal; 30 pages.
                                                 '
                    C ■      ' -          ,          .       - -
 CONTENTS: Collection of discussions held in a roundtable in Tehran, Iran, on the occasion of "Week of Unity" on ways for Unity of Islamic Ummah.
 (12)  AN APPEAL TO THE YOUTH (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Martyred Hasan-ul-Bana; translaed by Fazl-ul-Hadi Wazeen, published by
 The Publishing Department of Hejrat; 51 pages. -
 CONTENTS:  A guide on the Ikhwan-ul-Muslimeen (Islamic Brotherhood) Movement
 aimed at inviting the youth to join the Movement.
 (13)  CONFESSION OF THE HEART (PASHTU)
                            V                *    ,            '     •
 POET: Asadullah Ghaleb Kamawal; published by- Taj Mahal Company; 74 pages. CONTENTS: Contains religious, social, jehadic and love poems of the writer.
 (14)  FROM THE DESERT TO GARRISON (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abdul Qadeer Fetrat; published by Jamiat-e-lslami Afghanistan; 78 pages. The story of an aged shaperd, with a paralyzed hand undergoing many vississitudes.            '
 (15)  AFGHANISTAN: TRANSITION FROM THE ORDER OF FORCE TO THE ORDER OF STATE (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Dr. Mohammad Qasem Fazili; published by the author in Paris; 53 pages.
 CONTENTS:  The  nature of the order  based on force; the present crisis and  the
 issue of the transfer,, of power from the order of force to an order of the state; the order of the state based on ideology; jehad and the acceptance of the order of force; present option:        The Loya Jirgah; elected Shoora;
 consultative Shooraj the option offered by the writers who have contributed to jehad efforts; the loya jirgah of the men of wisdom (ahl-e-hal wa aqd);t the Islamic nature of the future government of Afghanistan; efforts of the Kabul regime to appear Islamic.
 (16)  THE GIFT OF INDEPENDENCE (PASHTU)
 POET: Latif Jan Babi; published by Aman Book Publishers; 170 pages,
 CONTENTS:   A collectiCn of jehadic  poems in praise  of   the defeat of Russian
 by the Afghan mujaheddin.     _
                                            175
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 ftffiHflNJtHflD                           V0L.4  N0.1
 (17)  ON THE MOVE (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: . Esmat Qanay; published by the Jamiat-e-Islami (The Association of Writers and Preachers); 177 pages.
 CONTENTS: Fifteen short stories of the writer related to the Afghan jehad.
 (18)  BAIDEL AND THE ART OF SPEECH (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Dr. Enayatullah Eblagh; 168 pages.
 CONTENTS: Contains; description of the art of speech exploited by the renowned
 classic poet of Dari language, Abdul Qader Baidel.
 (19)  THE PUL-E-CHARKHI PRISON: A HELL OF RUSSIAN IMPERIALISM IN AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Professor Dr. Mohammad.Usman Rostar; published by WUFA; 144 pages.
 CONTENTS: The writer> a former inmate of Pul-e-Gharkhi jail, describes in vivid
 style the events of the prison centering around torture of the inmates.
                                              r
 (20)  THE EMBODIMENT OF FAITH AND JEHAD (PASHTU AND DARI)
 WRITTEN by several individuals; 40 pages.
 CONTENTS: "In the memory of the opressed Martyr Ustad Mohammad Zafar Khateeb: a
 few tears in the form of poetry and prose."
 (21)  INJUSTICE TO JEHAD
 AUTHOR: Dr. Abdul Rahman Ulfat; 28 pages.
 CONTENTS: A critical evaluation in poetry of what the writer has called the
 disease of sabotaging the jehad. It cites Quranic verses to support his arguments
 (22)  THE TRENCHES OF JEHAD: A COLLECTION OF EPIC POEMS (DARI)
 POET: Mohammad- Maneef (Balkhi);  published through contribution by Al-Haaj
 Hedayatullah Khulmi; 411 pages.    *
 CONTENTS: Collection of jehadic poems.
 (23)  THE ART OF GOOD WRITING (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Gul Pacha Ulfat; published by the. Danesh Book Store; 220 pages.
                                          176
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfEIIIlNJfHMI                             VOL.4 N0.1
 CONTENTS: A guide of good writing in Pashtu language.
 (24)  THE RECONSTRUCTION OF AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
 SPEECH by Burhanuddin Rabbani; published by the AIG Ministry of Reconstruction; 4 7 pages.
 CONTENTS: An exposition of views and hopes on the reconstruction of Afghanistan
 expressed in a speech delivered to a seminar on the Afghan reconstruction.
 (25)  THE DEW ON A BITTER LAND (PASHTU)
 POET: Saaduddin Shpoon; published by the WUFA; 107 pages.
 CONTENTS: A collection of selected poems on jehad and social issues.
 (26)  AFGHANISTAN.IN FIVE LAST CENTURIES (SECOND VOLUME, DARI)
             ' * . - - .                           • \             * * ■ .
 WRITER:  Meer Mohammad. Siddiq Farhang:    Published  by Moha.jar Ghaznawi &
 Panjisheri; 246 pages.
 CONTENTS: ,In two chapters it discribes the events of the Daoud republican regime and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan - as well as the rule of Taraki and Amin marked by violance and bloodshed, in an annex, the writer has answered the criticism levelled against his first book by Dr. Mohammad Hasan Kakar.
 (27)  THE CRIES FROM PRISON (PASHTU)
 POET: Mohammad Siddiq Pesarlai; 52 pages.
 CONTENTS: Collection of poems written by the poet in Kabul jail.
 (28)  THE AFGHAN RULE IN INDIA (DARI)
 AUTHOR:  Eqtedar Husain Siddiqi; translated by Prof. Hamiddullah; published by
 WUFA; 235 pages.
 CONTENTS: T?he establishment of Ghori Kindgom, Sultan Bahlol; Sher Shah Sooree
 and his 'dynasty the military and agricultural system.
 ' 1                                         .     1 '    '
 (29)  THE LACKEYS OF IMPRIALISM IN THE GARB OF RELIGION (DARI)
 AUTHOR:  "English Spy"; published by the Mullah Mushk-e-Alam Publications; 97
 pages.
177
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 CONTENTS: The "writer!* has described the funds spent and efforts used for the
 popularization of the "Wahabee" sect and the influences it had on the person of Abdul Wahhab Najdi, the founder of Wahhabee sect.
 (30)  ENLIGHTENING THE MUJAHEDDIN
 AUTHORS: Scholars of the Education and Enlighten Department of the AIG Ministry of Defense; published by the AIG Ministry of Defense; 164 pages.
 CONTENTS: 'A guide on .Islamic beliefs.
 (31)  THE DARK NIGHT (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Zareen Anzore; published by the WUFA; 104 pages.
 CONTENTS: Collection of seven stories depicting events of the 12 years of war.
 (32) QUALITY OR QUANTITY? (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abu Hatem; 35 pages.
 CONTENTS: It is not important how many people participate in elections but it is important what kind of people are elected. It advocates the system of the election of , "men of wisdom" (ahl-e-hal wa aqd) .
 (33) THE SIGNS OF THE BREAZE (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Habibullah Rafee; published by the Secretariat of the Seminar of the Contemporary Afghan Literature;-96 pages.
 CONTENTS: It has described 168 books published on literary subjects during the
 jehad years.
 (34)  THE CLEANSED LEAVES
 TRANSLATED AND' COLLECTED by Mohammad Qasem Fazili; published by the Center of the Research and Studies on Future Afghanistan in Paris; 34 pages.
 CONTENTS: A collection of poems written by non-Afghans on Afghan bravery during the jehad years as part of the solidarity of the poets with the Afghans. Both originals and translations of the poems are published.
                                                     178

OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN
NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICALS
179
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
                                                Ary ana
 OCTOBjER-NOVEMBER
 EDITORIAL: "Our Aim". This editorial,
 after recounting what it terms the chaos, conspiracies of the enemies and the aimless activities following the withdrawal of Russian forces from Afghanistan, throws light on the objectives of the newspaper in these words:
    "We would try our best, through this journal, to state the realities of jehad as they are and assess the hurdles in the path of the mujaheddin impeding the military and political evolution of the jehad so that our countrymen outside Iran and Pakistan may be better acquainted with the issues complicating their destiny and may be able to see their way. Similarly we will try to encourage our beloved countrymen, more than ever, towards realism, well-wishing, righteousness and quest for the truth and to invite them towards unity, brotherhood, love and sincerity . . . We believe that the best interests of the present and future of Afghanistan and secret of its existence and survival lies in unity, harmony, solidarity and brotherhood (as realized by our noble ancestors and as practised by them) Those who think otherwise, are either unaware of the historic realities ' and social fabric and texture of yesterday arid today's Afghanistan or they are not imbued with the Afghan spirit and/or the light of Islam and Quran has not enlightened their hearts and minds. We appeal to all our countrymen -especially the ulema and the intellectuals - and all those whose hearts beat with this love of their land and whose body and spirit-feel the pangs of homelessness, to extend.their helping hands to us and to send their views and opinions to us.
 However, we would abstain . from publishing articles, subjective matters devoid of - content and other biased write-ups (containing contradiction in terms and having partision leanings and iso long as we are . not compelled or pressurized, we .would continue to protect the sanctity and purity of the pen. "
      This issue of the journal contains the following news stories:
 - Mr. Mujaddedi's visit to the front-a great and unprecedented phenomenon in the history of the Afghan jehad.
 - the heroic jehad Commander Engineer Ahmad Shah Masood1s visit to Islamabad; the happy and important news i of agreement to resolve the differences of opinion among the jehad organizations.
 - a glance at the elections in Pakistan and its implications..
              OCTOBER
      14
 EDITORIAL: Mentioning the needs of the
 jehad orphans and disabled, the editorial has made to following proposal to overcome them, "The youth1' and others committed Islamic   forces
 should establish an Islamic Fund. The founding members should pursue the idea in the form of an Islamic insurance firm. Volunteers can commit themselve to pay a fixed membership fee and, if . possible, increase their contributions. The Islamic insurance firm will assist its needy members in cases of death and disability,’             and     will take  all
 responsibility to maintain their families. Working on the project is an urgent and             basic necessity for  the
 cause of             jehad.   The "Azadi" will
180.
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGllllNJfHMI                     VOL-4 N0.1
 establish contact with all those interested in this project and will publish their views and opinions.
 REPORT:  Hujjat-ul- Islam Taqaddusi,
 speaker of the Shia Coalition Council of Afghanistan, who has transferred his office to Peshawar, has said in an interview, "While we have always' expressed our gratitude to Pakistan and Iran for hosting the Afghan refugees, in •their , countries, we have also urged , their leaders not to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan.apparently„ this has not been appealing to the Iranians. On the other hand, the political atmosphere in Iran during the last year or two has been such that it could no longer be endured by the Coalition Council which has conducted a resolute and irreconcilable jehad against the Russians and their plots. When asked if the Iranian political climate was not suitable for the Coalition Council, why the Hezb-e-Wahdat^ formed only a year ago, gained the support of Iran so unexpectedly, he said "It is quite natural that when a country 'establishes a party, it tries gain recognition and popular support for it. The Afghans are naturally averse to things that may have an imposing nature. They have always fought against foreign influence'' and have frustrated interventionists.. He added, "whenever we had to pay a visit to Peshawar in the past for talks with our brothers, we would need at least a month to go through all the formalities for obtaining the necessary permits from relevant Iranian offices. While here, we can telephone anywhere we like and. can meet and hold talks , with our brethren in whatever levels they, may be. Contrary to Iran, the refugees in Pakistan have, been given greater press freedom. They can publish whatever they wish without the least .. fear of censorship by the host gountry. In the past many of our proposals and opinions were not taken, seriously by our brethren here in Peshawar and this
 ■was one of the reasons why our offices were transfered to Peshawar. After arrival and during our first meetings with' leaders of some groups we said, "we are now here at your side."
                15
      "God's willing you will read the 'Azadi' every day as from today". Because of tremendous difficulties in obtaining jehad news and reliable and first-hand information from the fronts, the need for a standard and comprehensive daily newspaper was felt for a long time. Though we will not be capable to establish a newspaper to represent the cultural values of the jehad but, as a first step in this direction, we have decided to publish the "Azadi" on experimental basis and in four pages in a small' format every day. We sincerely hope that the committed friends of jehad will welcome this decision and assist and guide us to continue and develop it further.
 NEWS ITEMS:           ,
 -  According to Hezb-e-Islami sources, Na.jib has transferred his -offices from the Presidential palace to a basement construction at Khawaja Rawash Airport and it is from there that he keeps in touch with military operations.
 -  Khan Mohammad, the famous commander of Harakat-e-Islami, has recently been martyred during an ambush.
    Mawlawi Khales has announced his opposition to the AIG draft law on elections.
                16
 EDITORIAL:   "Jehad- Hospitals Need
 Attention".
 NEWS ITEMS:
    Sadruddin Aga Khan supports the Ismaelia sect in Afghanistan.
181
VOL.4 NO.1
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 IlfflllflN JllllB
 - The government of Pakistan and the mujaheddin will never accept Najib.
 -Prof. Rabbani criticized the landing of Najib's aeroplane in Mashad.
 - Najib will wait until Zaher Shah's stew is cooked.
                  18
 EDITORIAL: " It is being said currently that general elections will be held in Afghanistan. It is expected that all Islamic groups that have had a role in the Islamic jehad of Afghanistan will participate in the elections and find a just and peaceful solution to the Afghanistan problems. In the past an understanding did not exist between the jehad groups and the’ Islamic parties in this regard. Now that the news of the elections is heard once again, the position .of the groups particularly that of genuine fundamentalist parties seem to be vague-
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - The Foreign Ministry of Pakistan has asked for details of the meeting between the' US Secretary of state and the Soviet Foreign Minister. According to a Pkistani source, agreement between the two superpowers point to the continuation of Najib rule which will not be acceptable to the people of Afghanistan and the government of Pakistan.
 EDITORIAL: "Weddings and the Recitation of Holy Quran". "A topic worth discussing is the convening of meetings for the recitation of the Quran during wedding! ceremonies on Fridays. The reason such meetings are held specially on Friday is to make i sure that relatives and friends are able to attend. But as the trend is to hold the occasion on Friday, one person ends up being invited in several such gatherings. And it often happens1
 that fewer persons turned up whereas the catering might have been arranged for many more. Thus unnecessary expenditure are made." The paper suggests that these meetings could be arranged also on week days to ensure maximum attendance.
 NEWS ITEMS
 - As the result of the new strategy worked out for the jehad, the Laghman province may soon fall to the mujaheddin.
                 19
 EDITORIAL:  "Relief Organizations or
 Espionage?". Side by side with the invasion of Afghanistan by the Red Army, interventions, plots and the formation of spy rings under the attracting title of relief organizations have been hatched against our country. Among these organizations one - the UNISIAR (stet) - is worth mentioning. This organisation has been collecting information for two years about tribal and ethnical identities of the people. Its activities are managed through people picked up from (refugee) camps and from interior of the country. This organization has been creating "forms" for the people asking them to give the names of their seven ancestors. The mujaheddin organizations should put a stop to such activities.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 -Australia has supplied US$ 4,000,000< worth Of wheat as aid to the Afghan refugees.
 -The Jauzjan mujaheddin have freed 10 villages from the control of the Kabul regime.
               20
 EDITORIAL: "Jehadic  Personalities and
 Seminars    held    by    Pro-western:
182
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 fifCllflN J(HAO                    VOL.4 NO-1
 Organizations". The paper is critical— of persons "who attend such seminars without further enquiry as soon as they receive the invitation card. Foreign organizations, run by pro^western elements, have specific reasons for inviting jehad. figures * to such seminars. They may have their own designs which may not be in concord with the interests of the Islamic movement and Islamic jeAad. By holding such seminars, the organizations concerned not only earn themselves popularity among the public, but can collect considerable funds from colonialistic centres by submitting documents they may have obtained through bringing jehadi personalities together and thus may harm the moral and social character of our Islamic movement. We hope that our jehadi personalities' will not attend seminars or conferences held or convened by pro-western elements and respect the-policy and digrnity of the Islamic jehad."
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - The AIG faces economic difficulty.
 - Mawlawi Arsalan Rahmani, a commander in Paktia, has said that the mujaheddin-will never tolerate "the traitor" Zaher.
 -  The strike of employees of Afghan commissionery of Pakistan will continue for another three weeks. They are demanding the reinstatement of the
 3,.000 employees who were laid off.
   A mujahed, Eng. Mohammad Nawab Hanafi, has succeeded to build a missile.
                                DECEMBER
                1
 EDITORIAL: "Strike by - the Refugee
 Drivers": Drivers of Afghan buses
“commuting* in some Frontier areas, staged a strike 12 November. The strike later spread among the owners and the drivers of buses belonging to other refugees ... The reasons for their strike is the promulgation of a traffic law in Pakistan which sentences a driver accused of killing people while driving to six years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 100,000. According to the people the strike is a pre-text by some quarters to weaken the government of Nawaz Sharif. We hope that the jehadic authorities will be aware of such unwarranted moves among the refugees at such sensitive times.
 NEWS ITEMS:
     Ayatullah Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohsani, leader.of the Harkat-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said until the final success of the jehad we are facing tens of problems and difficulties.
 -  The United Front, a group of Shia Coalition (of Afghan mujaheddin) in a statement from Tehran has said that it is going to continue its activities in the capacity of an independent organization in the framework of the Coalition, The- Wahdat-e-Islami Party has been unable to emerge as a single decision making body for the Afghan Shias at political and internatiorial levels ... The Wahdat Party has committed unwarranted actions and has causedfurther inte-rparty and communal differences, the statement said..
 -  Collusion between Najib and psuedo-mujaheds is not out of possibility. It says taking in view the plots hatched by the Americans and Russians to bring to a failure the fundamentalists in Afghanistan, one can conclude that if, got forbid, the true forces of jehad, headed by the Eezb-e-Islami and Jamiat^e-Islami, do not succeed in the toppling of the Kabul regime, the plan for the establishment of a regime
183
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990  IlfGHAN JIHAD
VOL,4 NO.1
 infiltrated by the pro-American, pro-Russian and pro-Iranians in Kabul will succeed without any obstacle.
 - The Hezbullah of' Afghanistan in a statement has described as unfounded the news of the meeting in Mashad between "Najibov" the President of the Kabul communist regime with the representatives of the nine mujaheddin groups stationed in Tehran.
 - Ahmad Shah Masood has turned down an
 invitation of the Iranian government for a visit to that country.    '
 Arman-e-Mujahe d NOVEMBER
               29
 REPORT: Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzer*, the
 Amir of Harkat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in a telephone interview with the reporter of the paper from Teheran has said the leaders of jehad organizations will ' never meet with Najib the murderer of hundreds of thousands of Muslims. Meeting with him will be tantamount to a great cruelty to the 11 years old jehad.
 - Two hour meeting of the representa-
 tive of the Iranian newspaper The Jamhori Islami with the leaders of jehad groups of Afghanistan:      Mr.
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi during this meeting arranged in a roundtable, said, in our talks in Tehran we haVe achieved impressive success vis-a-vis the unity of jehadic groups.
     Mawlawi Moazzen: There are many
 international activities on hand to prevent the formation of an Islamic government In Afghanistan.
     Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor: Under
 no circumstances we will be ready’ to
 sit down around the same table with the Russian puppet regime in Kabul and talk with it about i the future of Afghanistan.
      Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani:      Any
 kind pf cooperations and contact by the jehadic groups with the communist elements is condemned.
      Hujjat-ul-Islam          Mortazawi: The;
 pretentions of the puppet Marxist Najib government for protecting Islam is deemed to failure because the nature of this regime is known to all people.
                               SEPTEMBER
              27
 EDITORIAL; "Students and political ,vision^: "If today a student learns
 religious subjects, tomorrow he may well be a scholarly and spiritual leader". The editorial has said that in the past religious leaders remained out of contact with administrative and political affairs but in the future it woun't be the same. As such, we are working npw with open mind, open heart and political acumen so that we could serve the cause of God's faith and His faithful".
 REPORT: It has discussed that visit of
 Arefullah Aref, the General Secretary of    Students'   Organisation of
 Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, to some border areas during which he met students of religious schools and reminded    them      of    their
 responsibilities.
 ARTICLES: "The Wisdom of the Faithful". iV advises that Muslims of Afghanistan should continue their jehad till the establishment of a tgenuine Islamic government and in particular they must not think gf Zaher Shah's return.
184
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 IlfGIIJlNJlHAD                    VOL.4 N0.1
D* Jehad
             SEPTEMBER
 Basheer-u
                                                    NOVEMBER
              19
 EDITORIAL: Discusses  jehad's different
 aspects separately and says:" The political initiative .of jehad leaders and commanders is a point to be marked in the tecnicolor history of the valiant adventurers who have made history with their everlasting crimson drops of blood shed in the way of Allah's oneness and singularity; on the other hand, it is death-knell for the arrogant and their undetermined lackeys who like shadows follow their masters.
 ARTICLES: "The Afghan woman at the
 cross-road of History": If the   annals
 of history have recorded proudly the adventurous deeds of the valient. Muslim Afghan heroes, the names of Afghan women history makers and heroines, invariably, appear simultaneously who with their feats of valor.and sacrifice adorn the pages of historical records for ever. The torch-bearers of Islamic faith, who drove away the British agressors, are the solemn reminders of Afghan Muslim heroes and herpines who laid their lives in the way of Allah and for the glory of their motherland, Afghanistan. Although they are no more with us, according to Islam, they are undying, they live for ever and even today in our hour of adversity against the atheist , aggressors, they are beacons of guidance for us. The love of the Afghan Muslim ladies* for Islam and their motherland is 'proverbial and in this connection the heroic feats of an Afghan lady in the British-Afghan war are recorded. She is identified, as the daughter of Sardar Painda Mohammad Khan and sister of Amir Dost Mohammad Khan known aS the mother of Madad Khan.
            27
 REPORT: Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, the mujaheddin commander in Pajctia, referring to the long siege of Khost has said in a radio interview, all the surrounding areas of Khost and, in some parts, upto six or seven kilometres from the' center of Khost are in the hands of mujaheddin. He added, the Khost Airfield is entirely surrounded by the mujaheddin and* the enemy aircraft cannot use it. Sometimes, however, with great difficulty they manage to parachute supplies to . their besieged soldiers. The mujaheddin are deadly against rocketting the residential areas for fear of killing the public and civilians. Even big and heavy fire is riot directed to the civilian targets. In fact the mujaheddin want to conquer Khost without incurring any loss in men or material to the public. As such, on the one hand, the mujaheddin are tightening the siege of Khost and its airfield and, on the other, they are staging attacks on security posts inside Khost and its suburbs.
                           OCTOBER
           7
 EDITORIAL: Of late there appears to be certain burning news coricerning the mujaheddin main invasion Of Kabul and, if such a planned invasion, does take place there will’ be a possibility that the puppet Kabul regime will collapse and the mujaheddin will conquer Kabul. In relation to this, fi'rst of all, Mr. Hekmatyar in a , declaration gave a warning to Kabul regime troops that they should make good use of the last chance ... Similarly contacts and
185
OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1990 flfGHflN JEHAD                     V0L.4N0.1
 exchanges of views took place accordingly among other mujaheddin on the subject but the results are not known. However such a unified program and current dialogues give to many hopes. In case of a great invasion of-Kabul what       came in  the way of
 'mujaheddin ' was the problem of the. citizens of Kabul who might suffer human and material losses. In order to curb such losses, the mujaheddin withheld their attack on Kabul and, on the other hand, the Kabul regime has used the Kabul residents as a ploy and shield. The question arises as to how long will the mujaheddin stand committed to wait and withhold their invasion of Kabul on the ground of risk to Kabul residents and would this not adversely affect the jehad process? And how long will it take to work other options? Needless to say that the mujaheddin are committed to bring the war to a decisive stage as soon as possible. The status quo must end. Under the prevalent situation and prior to the invasion of Kabul, two main presequis.ites have to be carried out:
 '(1) To create a single and united command and administration and (2) operations should be directed simultaneously from all directions and the thrust.must be decisive and final. In this way the Najib regime will collapse and at           the same time,
 insecurity arid anarchy will be avoided.
 REPORT:   Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani,
 the mujaheddin commander in. Paktia has said in an interview with the correspondent of De Jehad Hindarah, to conquer Kabul through fighting from the provinces needs1 * time and will be. expensive 'and will result in many losses. It is prudent and wise that prior to launching an overall attack, united and general strategy should be worked out.
* Other highlights . of this issue of the newspaper are:'
 -  Mawlawi Khales rejects any kind of coup in Afghanistan.
 -  Uruzgan province has been conquered by the mujaheddin.
 -  Afghan war penetrates into the Soviet Union.
 -  Five jehad organizations invasion of Kabul.
                  17
 EDITORIAL:   "Commanders' Council held
 inside Afghanistan". "The (third) meeting of 1;he Council of Mujaheddin Commanders was:     held in Topkhan,
 Badakhshan. The meeting, following the two other meetings held in Paktia> was convened at v a time when the entire mujahed Afghan nation, supporters of jehad and the world in general are anxiously waiting for a positive and revolutionary act (aimed at solving the Afghan issue)".
 REPORT:    Interview with Mawlawi
 Jalaluddin Haqqani:    The Commanders'
 Council is not a separate institution or apart from jehad organizations* but, to the contrary, its very aim is to bring about solidarity among the jehad organizations. As such, it won't be in the fitness of things and will not be sensible to differ with such a beneficial, effective and suitable program. In fact the Commanders' Council is the only option for jehad organizations for achieving • real unity".
                          *
 *   The AIG President Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi's interview:   Zaher Shah has
 no role to play in the Afghan problem. Neither he has taken part in jehad nor has played any rol.e in relation to the resistance.
 *    Commander Engineer Ahmed Shah Masood: When the Commanders' Council is
favor joint
         r\
186
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 JlfClIllHJIHAD                   VOL-4 N0.1
 set in motion, there won't be any need for "Supervisory Council" in the North.
                 23
 EDITORIAL:  "New hopes and movements
 towards unity" The editorial discusses the incredible defeat of Russians and, while feels optimistic about the recent . efforts of the resistance organizations towards solidarity says:" Now that the mujaheddin are once more talking of a united force to be created and the Council of Commanders is also holding meetings towards that end, it is but necessary to ponder upon previous shortcomings and reasons behind the crisis and downfall faced by the previous alliances and governments. Recent endeavors are hopefully considered since senior mujaheddin commanders have also participated in these meetings. According to latest reports, during these sessions, the commanders have compromised on the point that some changes in the interin government could contribute effectively to'its revitalization and influence".
 REPORT:  "Al Haj Mawlawi Jalalluddin
 Haqqani has said in a press conference the council of commanders was an important step forward in the unification of resistance forces and contributed towards a comprehensive council as a result of which an intra-li'aison of East, West and North, South in Afghanistan was established. The resistance administration and, for that matter, any sort of resolution is up to the struggling Afghan nation. The Afghans do not and will never relinquish this right in favor of any power or an alien nor will be pressured. *
 * ,Leader of Norway-Afghanistan solidarity has said, owing to interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, Gorbachev did not deserve the Nobel prize.                 „
                                 NOVEMBER
                 1
 EDITORIAL:  "The last chance and
 opportunity" The editorial praises the sessions and approvals of the commanders' council but opines that the leaders of jehad ^re indifferent regarding their success and writes:: "The council of jehad commanders is the last chance for the jehad forces and if it is not properly utilized or noncooperation and differences with it prevail, certainly the nation will lose its patience and may not wait any longer and the leaders will be: responsible for the ensuing consequent ces and these leaders will not bei forgiven for this lapse".
 * The news and Reports ■ of this issue:
 - Al-haj Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani's
 interview by the "Alnasiha": "Since the:
 UN is. influenced by atheistic forces,, therefore, the Afghan mujahed nation,, including my organization, will not: allow any foreign power to play with the internal affairs of the country."
 - A Russian general has said: "Soviet
 forces could not win the war in: Afghanistan from the mujaheddin.".
 - Mujaheddin's operations in Khost
 against the enemy ports continue. An enemy transport aircraft crashed in: Khost".              ..
 - in northern Afghanistan an agreement: was signed to eliminate the differences; between Jamiat and Hezb.
    Mujaheddin destroyed five Kabul regime aircraft in Shindand Airfield.
                                                 7
 EDITORIAL: "Another aspect of interna-
187
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHflN J[HAD             VOL.4 NO.1
                                           14
 tional intrigues against jehad": Lately the Soviets and Americans have once again come closer on the Afghan issue and have intensified their cowardly intrigues, pertaining it. According to the US press reports, Russia and the US want to implement their designs through the UN. Therefore.it is necessary that jehad leaderships support the actions which are underway to thwart such activities. As a first step; cooperation with Commanders' Council could be effective      to frustrate      the
 US-Russian designs. In this context it is imperative that jehad leaderships cooperate with this all-embracing council to bring about a united force, command and a common strategy.
 REPORT:   Mawlawi Nizamuddin Haqqani:
 "The Soviets and Americans are busy scheming against the Afghan jehad. Therefore the     Afghans have     lost
 interest in their parleys. All the responsibility    of bloodshed      and
 fighting in the country lies squarely on the shoulders of Russia and its puppet Najib's regime since they started the war in Afghanistan".
 - During the last five years, the KGB has killed seven million human beings.
ARTICLES:  By Aiwazzuddin Siddiqis. In
 a critical review of UN aid program for     Afghanistan,     he     writes:
 "Now that the UN has understood that its programs are not progressively oriented and Mr. "Mike Grate'?, a member assigned to this program, disgusted with his work has resigned, therefore those who are really interested to serve the Afghan cause and have no other aims with a view to advance and promote their own program, should maintain their contacts with the Afghan mujaheddin which is the only feasible and useful option for their programs".
 EDITORIAL:   "The UN, a broker of
 International Intrigues": The editorial terms the UN resolution on Afghanistan as intrigue against the Afghan jehad because therein the Russo-American attention is drawn towards the Afghanistan issue and is also supporting the participation of. Communists in the:   Afghan polls. The
 editorial urges the jehad forces to be aware of such designs and manoeuvres and should not .treat them as ordinary and superficial. On the other hand, they should confront it with a united stand. Otherwise the imperialists, with a view to     implement     their    nefarious-
 machinations, will sow the seeds of such tricks and intrigues, which with the passage of time, would require a Herculean force to challenge it and our current might will fail to thwart it'.
 NEWSITEMS:
 - The AIG Premier Professor Sayyaf, in
 a gathering of religious scholars 31 October said:  "We support the council
 of commanders and, because of their basic and, principled stand, we consider them indispensable and effective for the resistance".          '
 -  In relation to the universal failure and defeat of communism, four American researchers and political observers opine:
 1.  The Afghan resistance relieved East Europe and the . entire world from the evil of Communism. (Graham Parlor).
 2. The struggle of the Afghans taught the lesson of freedom to the other nations of the world so that they throw away the communist yoke. (Yoekoyama)
 i. Moscow had to pay, in all respects, a very heavy price for its invasion of Afghanistan, (James Taylor)-
 4.  Afghanistan is a very great factor
188
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 IlfGHflMJEHAD                     VOL.4 N0.1
  in the defeat of communism. (Anthony Arnold)
                28
  EDITORIAL: "Side by side: with the
r coordination of the affairs of the jehad we need the formation of a common political front": The editorial, after
  referring to the efforts exerted by the jehad commanders and leaders, insists l on the formation of a joint political front and says "in the lack of such political front the entire sacrifices of the martyr-loving and victorious nation of Afghanistan will not bear fruitfull results"
  NEWS ITEMS:
  - Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales in an interview with the VOA has said that Najib has lost his prestige in Afghanistan to such an extent that no body will dare to get close to him.
    The mujaheddin have defeated two Kabul government .battalions in Ghazni.
    The Commander .of the Rashid and Setam group has defected to the mujaheddin alongwith his 32 colleagues in Paghman. .
     The mujaheddin .demolished 19 November two government planes in Kandahar Airport.
                                DECEMBER
                12
  EDITORIAL: Throwing light upon the
  unsuccessful election activities, the . editorial says: One hundred and thirty-eight members of the Election Super-visory Commission were being sent, to south and southeast of the country-with a new plan for.. Loya Jirgah elections. Commanders, ulama and elders are expected to elect representatives for the jirgah according to•their own
 decisions.' Teams of the Election Supervisory Commission 'to the remaining parts would be despatched in the future. As stated previously, the plan will not be successful and will be confronted with great deal of opposition. If the election process is put off like the one before     at
 such a sensitive stage it will only help the Najib regime to prolong its rule. This action will only be interpreted as an injustice to the: jehad and to our people. It is, therefore, necessary that the jehad leaders reconsider their present election plans and, in the light of decisions made and plans prepared by the Council of Commanders, workout ah alternative plan in the shortest possible time, a plan acceptable to the majority of our people.
 NEWS ITEMS:
                           I
 -, Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has told a news, conference held by the Council of Commanders that the Afghan" mujaheddin will never hold talks with Najib. Whoever takes such a step, will be treated as the enemy of jehad and our Muslim nation.
    Families. of high-ranking Kabul regime personnel are being sent to the Soviet Union.
 - The Revenue Commissioner's office in Kandahar has been captured by the mujaheddin.
 - Najib is going to resign in favor of Zaher Shah.
                               SEPTEMBER
               24
 REPORT:  The AIG  President Prof.
 Sebghatullah mujaddedi has said in a radio interview that the President of Russian Federation has invited him to visit' Russia to discuss with, him issues
                                                   189
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flKlIlllll JIHAD
 related to Afghanistan and prisoners of war. In his telegram, the President of the federation, while addressing him as President Mujaddedi, has said, I feel honored in inviting you for negotiations. I hope that members, of delegation and date of negotiations' will be intimated to the Parliament of the federation or our representative in Peshawar.
 * Professor Mujaddedi added, it is the first time in the history of jehad that the mujaheddin are being invited to the Soviet Union as a party to the Afghan issue. This” is a matter of gratification and-I feel very 'thankful to them. This is also understandable that Russia wants to have good relations. Difficulties and problems created by the Soviet invasion must be removed and the Afghans allowed to determine their own future. I did discuss this topic in the Cabinet meeting and the majority agreed that on a positive response to the invitation. Prof. Mujaddedi added, may be the visit will be postponed. He said that the Russians wanted to condemn the Red Army's outrage and onslaught in Afghanistan and this is a great victory for the mu.jaheddin.
                     Inqelab-e-Islami
                        Afghanistan
                          OCTOBER
              3
 REPORT: Prof. - Burhanuddin Rabbani,
 Leader of Jamiat-e-i-Islami Afghanistan said, "you are all^ware that resorting to public opinion and establishing a broad-based council for the transfer of power a time when the war is still waging is not an easy task. However,, there has been plenty of activities to prevent the, mgjaheddin from
 VOL-4 NO.1
 establishing a gpvernment. Once they said that a broad-based government was required, at another time they called for a neutral government and there are now talks of elections and a coalition government with members of the Khalq Party. Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, while supporting the principle of the council (shoora) and the participation of all classes and categories of people in it for determining their fate, is of the opinion that at a time when, tanks and guns still roar, there is no security and terror and slaughter of the Afghan people are still carried out on a large scale holding general election is not easy. But, in order to determine the process of the peoples participation in    elections, we  have
 supported an election project in which commanders learned figures, tribal leaders who are in fact the representatives of the people may participate. If these people consider general elections to be held here or there, by using a desirable method, they may elect the persons they want for the purpose. Our' acceptance of this form of elections is to safeguard the national interest of our Muslim nation and to break the present deadlock."
      The     happy occasion   of   the
 birthday anniversary of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him , is full of blessings for Muslims all over the world-. One of these blessings is the further strengthening of      bonds  of
 friendship, cordiality and unity among the followers of Islam. The 12-17 of Rabi-ul-Awwal in the Lunar callendar coincides with the birth of the Prophet,    peace be upon him, and this
 year,upon the initiative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, a week has been named as the week of unity during which Muslims all over, the world, in special ceremonies for the occasion, meet and contact each, other to benefit from one another's experiences and their
                                                  190
0CT0BER-DECEM8ER. 1990
scientific and cultural wealth.
established.
VOL.4 NO-1
                          NOVEMBER
      10
  EDITORIAL:    "Falaq":  "The Herald of
  continuity of Islamic -Revolution." "Armed resistance in’the country, which disturbed the equations of world communist front, demonstrated the power , of the Islamic revolution. .But, to exhibit this force in its totality, the mental and cultural progress of our v people in accordance with Godly standard must be intensified. It is exactly for this purpose that this newspaper is starting publication and, at the same time, requests all those forces and personalities who believe in the continuation of jehad in the light of ideological unity and oneness of God Almighty, to accompany it in its responsible cultural journey onward.
  EDITORIAL:   "Waiting for the Dawn
  Again". While discussing the defeat of Russia and international communism step by step it calls upon the Muslims •, the world over to defeat the US also in Makkah and, concluding# says:     "If
  analysts have underrated the power of the great Islamic revolution and have failed to observe its influence in determinning the future fate of humanity thep, certainly, they are stuck in the marshland of blunders. With the strongest belief, we declare loudly that the dazzling light of Islamic revolution will once more brighten up the star-studded firmament and its beacon will glorify the altar of the faithful which will encompass the entire world. , in its everlasting dawn of faith and morality."
  ARTICLE:   Our struggle will continue
  till Islamic order of justice is!
 SUBH-E-PAIRUZEE- 18 November
 EDITORIAL: "Signals of Death-Knell to
 Russian". While describing universal frustration, internal anarchy and disorder and signs of Russia's disintegration, it says that all these are the consequences of the Afghan Muslim nation's jehad.
 NEWS ITEMS:
     The leaders of Hezb-e-Islami and* Jamiat empha-sized the need for creation and promotion of practical solidarity    between    the    two
 organizations.
 - Kabul regime's No 4 and 15 armored forces stationed in Pul-e-Charkhi were hit by the mujaheddin's long-distance rockets.
 - Commander Ahmad Shah Masood returned to jehad positions of the country 14 November.
   In the provinces of Jauzjan and Samangan 12 people of the enemy were killed and 494 persons were captured by mujaheddin. .
                                    DECEMBER
               16
 EDITORIAL: Enumerating "the plots
 hatched against, the aspirations of the Islamic revolution" and addressing, the Afghan nation writes: "You should never despair. The Sons of the Divinely Movement in Afghanistan will not sit idle against foul play and harshness but will fight with all their might against deviations, treasons, collusions, and dealings against the high values of Islamic revolution. They will follow the path of the martyrs and will sing 'victory or Martyrdom* louder and
191
  OCTOBER -DECEMBER # 1990 HIuUHII tllllflll              VOL.4 NO-1
 louder still."
 NEWS ITEMS:
 ' i- The Kabul mujaheddin have killed 27 troops and militiamen of the Kabul communist regime, injured another 18 and destroyed three tanks.
   Prof. Rabbani* has told reporters that the decrease in foreign and international aid to Afghan mujaheddin and refugees will have negative impact on Afghan jehad. It was not expected that countries such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, which had always supported /the Afghan mujaheddin and refugee position in the. past, place their economic and financial aidsj at the disposal of the Soviet Union Which Is the main factor behind the war in Afghanistan.
                        Ittehad-e-Jslami
                             OCTOBER
    ; ; 1 :
 REPORT: A seminar\ on "The v Afghan
 Islamic movement in the past, present and future" was inaugurated in Islamabad Hotel 29 September under the auspices pf Arabic Section of "The Institute of Policy Studies (IPS). The gathering was attended by a . large number of journalists, scholars and intellectuals. Dr. Ahmed Alasal, Dean of the Islamic University, Islamabad said, "The Ikhwand-ul-Muslimeen was capable of creating ripples, upheavals and movements in the 20th century in the Islamic world which spread progressively throughout Islamic and other parts of the world. The Islamic revolution of Afghanistan, as part of ideological branch of the this, organization, brought about an unprecendented political upheaval in the world changes in East European -countries and the defeat of soviet. Russia may be attributed’ to* the Afghan
 Islamic revolution. Ijaz Ahmed Gilani said, Islamic movement of Afghanistan inculcated the spirit of. honor and freedom in the Muslim body and re-awakened the whole world especially the Muslims.
                   8
 REPORT:  The AIG Prime Minister Prof.
 Sayyaf. . said after. Jumma Prayers in Hejrat Qelai Congregation Mqsque 5 October said, "If we are .going to continue our differences and fight for leadership, it will be unrealistic for both our jehad and our people to hope for liberation. Since our jehad is gearing victoryf plots and intrigues against it are also increasing accordingly. The Russians and the Americans, surrpunded by other satanic forces in the east and in the west, are all plotting to prevent the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan".
 *   The .editorial of the newspaper, while expressing optimism over recent understandings reached among the mujaheddin, has compared their unity to an arrow piereced in the heart of enemy.
 *   In .an article . entitled, "The
 Re-unification of Germany: from a Dream to Reality", the paper discusses the background of events leading to the reunification of.the two Germanys.      /
                22
      "The Conquest of the Provinces of Afghanistan, Good News for Full Victory".. Now that almost two years have elapsed since the withdrawal of Russian forces from Afghanistan and the main cities have been conquered <,by the powerful hands of the mujaheddin (stet), and nests of ihfedility and atheism are being demolished one after the other, the shaky foundations of the Kabul regime, whose collapse has been
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 prevented by advanced Russian weapons' alone, are beginning to crumble. During the past year, four provinces - Kunar* Takhar, Bamian, and Paktia - were conquered by the mujaheddin, and their administration passed into their hands. This year the,large province of Uruzgan was conquered by the mujaheddin administration. This was made possible by their joint, cooperation and disre-grad to party differences. This suggests that, if the mujaheddin leave their party differences aside and unite in brotherhood and solidarity, if they bring all their possibilities under a single command and if they coordinate their mortal strikes at the infedil and athiest enemy with good will and a heart full of faith and reliance on God, victory will come from God to the soldiers of Islam.
 ARTICLE:  "Nobel Prize for Enemies
 of Peace." Apparently this award was given to Gorbachev for his role in ending the cold war between the capitalist Christians and Communist Russians. Because, according to Chritians, Gorbachev saved East Europe from the evils of Communism and allowed economic changes and improvements in Russia and accepted sacrifices for the sake of peace... Referring to the collusion between Gorbachev and the West, the article concludes, "the award of the Nobel Prize, therefore, is a lesson in the history of Christian adventurism and that of the West.
                 29
 EDITORIAL:  "Hopeful Endeavours":  The
 editorial looks forward hopefully to the latest endeavours of the mujaheddin leaders being underway as a result of their intra-meetings. It expresses confidence that these attempts will lead to the fall of the communist regime and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan."
 REPORT: /In. his address 26 October,
 •Professor Sayyaf said: "Besides our
 personal and family responsibilities, we have our obligations towards the environment and society to turn them into a good and welfare state so that a body of Muslim individuals, Muslim families Islamic . environment and a Muslim .society may be established. Engineer Ahmed Shah Ahmadzai, the AIG Minister -of Communications said:  We
 • should give up our demand for chair and status because in the Afghan jehad the entire nation has participated".
 * In the same issue, there are reports and news regarding the gains and successes of mujaheddin in Herat and Kabul.
                                 NOVEMBER
                5
 EDITORIAL: "Let us pray for God's
 mercy". The editorial while enumerating the enemy's designs against Islam ^nd mujaheddin and considering the inimical aim in the guise- of friendly gestures and branding all of them attempts to steriligo, the jehad concludes: "Even
 so, there is still time; enemy tricks and hypocrisy have not borne fruit and there is yet a way out for our elders and authorities. Our jehad boat, in the face of stormy waves full of hypocritical and scheming ominous designs, is still heading towards the safety of coast and liberty braving all the hurdles jauntily.
     It is incumbent on every individual Of our nation to take advantage of this opportunity and, while considering the interest of jehad, the objectives of Islamic nation and realization of Islamic government in Afghanistan, bring out feasible plans for unification of all sections of jehad and help them adopt a united resolution and active participation in jehad.
 REPORT: The AIG Premier Professor
193
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO-1
 Sayyaf said in an address to a two-da.y seminar of religious scholars 31 October: "We have no complaint against
 the enemy, the real trouble lies in us who fall among ourselves. Unless we get unifed we won't be able to reap the fruits of jehad. I want a council to be formed and unless an authoritative council is not created our problem will remain unsolved".
 *  In a meeting with the Administrative Council of the Ministry of Education 20 October, Professor Sayyaf stated: "During 12 years of jehad, our jehad forces have taken positive steps towards the education and training of the Muslim children of our country. One of the objectives of our education and training is the solidarity of our nation which is achieved and this is a great blessing-of God Almighty".
 *  One enemy post in Baghlan was captured and 14 soldiers along with an officer were killed.
                 26
 EDITORIAL:  "Enemy loudspeaker":   The
 editorial discusses various topics such as empty handed resistance, different aids with jehad arid then the participation of communists in elections as proposed by some. Commenting on this, the paper says: The West has employed some Afghans to work as their 'loudspeakers' or publicity organs to propagate their opinions. In this connection,' Dr. Mohammad Yusouf, the ex-Prime Minister, Ashraf Ghani and those who are among the mujaheddin (without mentioning them by names)'are mentioned and claim that in their radio interviews, they give the right of participation p.n elections to Najib. The paper goes on to say- that the enemies of jehad cannot dare so far to say such things directly but exploit their "loudspeakers" for promotion of their nefarious designs against the
 mujaheddin. However, we are confident that jehad lovers are very much alive and wide awake to the situation and are ever ready to defeat the Satanic intrigues against the mujaheddin. We are sure that they will not lay 'down their arms till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - Prof. Sayyaf the Amir of Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, while speaking with members of his party, said: "Those who remain as heirs to this jehad are endowed with Islamic ideology and Islamic objectives".
      -In Kabul ana Logar the mujaheddin carried out their operations successfully against the military installations of the enemy regime.
 - In Shakar Darah a major attack of Kabul regime forces was repulsed by the mujaheddin 13 November.
 - In Bagram Airfield eight aircraft of. the Kabul regime were .destroyed by rocket attacks of mujaheddin.
 - The mujaheddin fired missiles from Safi Mountain range on the 14 and 15 Armored Division forces of the Kabul communist regime.
                                 J
                           ■ S
    The logistics chief of militia battalion of Kabul regime was killed in Sangcharak district.
                                    DECEMBER
                                              3
 EDITORIAL: It refers to the disgrace-
 ful meetings and contacts that have taken    place    betweeri     some
 psuedo-elements of jehad who do not manifest' any of the etiquette and characteristics of jehad. It says, they "recently 'had meetings with Najib outside Afghariistan and thus once
OCTOBER-DECEM&ER, 1990
 again their unblessed faces have been unmasked in the eyes of our mujahed and Muslim nation and they have themselves shown their hypocratic nature ... The fact to be regretted is that a number of our mujahed brethren have been decieved by the leadership of such people and so far have carried out their jehadic responsibilities under their umbrella and now it is necessary for them that, after the proof of the deviation of their leader from he objectives of the jehad, they should review their adherance to the path they have been following so far and instead join the ranks of their committed brethren and the mujaheddin who are sincerely supporting the objectives of the jehad".
 REPORT:  Prof. Sayyaf the AIG Prime
 Minister in a speech after the Friday* prayers 27 November said "Lately some people belonging to the mujaheddin ranks have met with Na jib. This is not only illegal on the basis of Shariat but it is also a big treason against the jehad, mujaheddin, Islam, country and the martyrs . . . You should not be panicked by this cruel move of these hypocrites as it is a way and tradition of Divine to cleanse the Musligi ranks.
 - The AIG President has told newsmen that in his talks with the Wahdat Party of mujaheddin in Tehran he has reached understanding on several points. These include the continuation of jehad until the downfall of the Kabul regime and the formation of a joint committee for the evaluation of the political andi military conditions of the jehad. The committee will have three members from the Wahdat Party and three from our side
    Work on holding elections inside Afghanistan has begun. In a function held in the headquarters of the AIG Supreme Court for despatcing the_
                                                           VOL-4 NO-1 *
elections supervisory teams 2 December, leaders of the AIG participated and urged the supervisory teams to guide the people to elect people who are capable of discharging the affairs of the country. '
  Jabh-e-Jehad
    SEPTEMBER
           23
REPORT: The  historical visit    of
Sebghatullah Mujaddadi, the     AIG
President, to Northern parts of the country indicates the deep rooted relationship of the leader with the nation. This visit can justly be called a historical  one in as much as the
northern parts of the country, throughout jehad, constituted one of the front , lines of actiori and Until now they are mostly free areas. Furthermore the majority of famous commander's have their headquarters in the northern parts of the country, on Monday, 10 September, 1990, Prof. Mujaddedi left Peshawar for the northern part of our'beloved homeland. On arrival at the border ■ of the country, the AIG President was given a hearty welcome at Topkhana by hundreds of mujaheddin of Jurm, Badakhshan.
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The Kausar, journal was published in two editions after its 40th issue, one published by Mohammad Amin Ferotan and the other by the "Kausar Board of Writers". From this date on, every week two editions of "Kausar” are being published separately with identical numbers and dates. In order to keep abreast with the items appearing in both of them summaries from both editions are being presented here: '"Kausar (1) is that edited by Ferotom and"Kausar 2 ) "by the "Kausar Board of Writers".
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
    Kausar m
                       SEPTEMBER
                              22
 EDITORIAL:. As expected; recently some sheets entitled "Kausar" • with a
 "declaration of writers' Council*" along with P.O.Box 473, Peshawar, Pakistan, were published   hurriedly and,as
 announced, this first issue belongs to the series which have been decided to be published.
            29
 REPORT: Following contacts and
 negotiations among some jehad leaders for evolving a common military strategy, changing the AIG, invasion of Kabul, and the repeated request of re spacfed riekmatyar, for mujaheddin, cooperation, with Kabul regime officers to topple the regime, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus. Khales, the leader/ of the Hezb-e-Islami' Afghanistan has, in a statement published by the Pakistani media, rejected any coup in Afghanistan. Khales opined that may_ be the Russians, in their own interest, will hand over power to one of their favorites from the Khalq party. The implementation of the Geneva Accords allowed exchange ' of prisoners and inviting the President of AIG for a visit to Moscow , are all rings of the Same chain in the hands of the Soviets, Mawlawi Khales added. -
                         OCTOBER
            6
 EDITORIAL: "The German unification": It considers the unification of two Germanys a proof to the historical fact that "a nation, proud of its national and social identity can, after long period of toils and tribulations, injuries and separations, re-identify
 and reassert itself as a people who feel honored by its history, culture, civilization, moral and material values and physical entity. This is a clarion call for the Muslims the sworld over that there is still opportunity, that contrary to what the imperialists and expansionists have been trying , to accomplish, they overcome the miseries which have overwhelmed their honor and dignity and, by eliminating geographical      restrictions      and
 prejudices of ignorance, emerge as a united, grand and credible nation in the world. The day may not be far away when Muslim rulers listen to the cries and demands of their people and masses and replace all these kingdoms with a single, unified and magnificent all time center of glory and grace of Islam.
       Other prominent features of the paper are:
      U.S.' Congress cuts down one-third of American aid to . the Afghan ; mujaheddin - The Governor of Uruzgan provinces surrenders to mujaheddin; Uruzgan conquered.
      AIG President, Mujaddadi says: Eventhough that I am the President of AIG I don't find myself in a position to sanction any kind of assistance to those who need it. Rockets shower on Kabul.
                                                     8
 EDITORIAL: Discussing the principle of
 elections ^nd practical issues involved for holding it, the editorial says: "As the question of justice /and fair play will not arise when a group of people decide to divide public property _a,mong themselves. The implementation of free-elections by those who, with. their supporters are pursuing an arrogant, dark and monopolistic path, has more-or-less the same meaning*
1S>6
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 flfGHflHJtHAD                     VOL-4 N0.1
   - The daily Le Monde of Paris:      "The
                                                            announcement by Najib in which he set forth conditions for his resignation is . • nothing more than a political manoeuvre Najib wishes to pretend to his extremist opponents, who are the torch
 v bearers of extremist fundamentalism and are not only against Najib but are also opposed %o a neutral government headed by Zaher Shah, that during his talks with representatives of the former King in Geneva, he has been assured that the latter will remain neutral.’;
   EDITORIAL:  "Elections with  Added fraud
' or repitition of the        Old Play":
   Though  elections    is   an   important
   Islamic principle and the formation of an Islamic shoora based on healthy Islamic norms is important, our people ' are wondering whether elections will ensure   the   emergence   of    a united
   leadership.   It     will       be worth
   considering that what were the motives that changed our stand’ about the principle and character of an Islamic Shoora to the extent to agree on having a traditional Loya Jirgah? To what extent  this  kind of election is
   supported by the mujaheddin forces? Why all of a sudden there has been a speeding up of the process?
      Najib has announced in a recent a press conference that, during talks with representatives of the former King and, according to him, moderate leaders of the mujaheddin, he had submitted c proposal for the formation of a council with authority over the armed forces during the transitional period.
   EDITORIAL: "Should we Try them Again?". Under this title the editorial discusses rumors regarding the return of the former King' Zaher Shah.
 , Enumerating the economic, social and political damages done to Afghanistan during his rule, the editorial
 expresses the opinion that bringing him back will be a big and unpardonable crime to the cause of jehad and the struggle of this nation.
                    ; •
 REPORT:  Prof. Sayyaf during Friday
 prayers in the Hejrat Helai Mosque 7
 December said: "We have begun our jehad
 for establishing God's Religion and
 Shariat in Afghanistan. When the
 Shariat is applied in a community, the
 religion, life, property, knowledge
 honor and dignity of the people will be
 automatically protected,"
 - Russia has placed new arms at the disposal         of the Kabul regime.      A
 military Caravan reaching          Kabul 29
 November included 45 huge rockets.
                 13
 EDITORIAL: "America's enmity  and    slogan
 for the sake of slogan":   The    editorial
 says, now . we        are facing the’ USA-
 "enemy No.l of the Muslim world." The Afghan          jehad  culminated    in  the
 stunning defeat of the Russian army and the glorious victory of the mujaheddin was witnessed.by the whole world. This feat proved beyond any shade of doubt to the Muslim ummah and to all the freedom loving movements as a testimony and solid proof that the muslims are capable to live as free people and, by their trust in God Almighty, can win and achieve victory. But we have not reached a consensus in regard to the kind of program that ought to be embarked upon after victory achieve an honorable living, for our people who have suffered enormously for 12 years ... If only the jehad forces forge unity in their ranks and files and march ahead hand in hand, if they are alert to the realities facing their deprived and oppressed people and rely on past experiences in dealing with arrogant dictators and their puppets/, then we can play our proper and deserving role as a revolutionary Muslim and progressive nation and
 i
197
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO-1
 pioneers of the Islami movement.In this way the valuable legacy of jehad7 can be passed on, as a sacred trust, to the coming generations with pride and honor. Otherwise, building castles in the air and raising slogans for the sake of slogans will cure no one's ills."
 REPORT: According to an interview with a group of American correspondents, the ex-King of Afghanistan Zaher Shah is after the formation of a grand national council (loya jirgah). He has said, "I believe the time has come ,that realities should surface, the criticism that I could not keep myself in step with the mujaheddin and the resistance forces has no substance, because protection of the trenches of jehad, providing supplies to mujaheddin and promoting causes of . publicity and political activities all have been a -part of our jehad..
       Other features appearing in Kausar-I are:
      What do the heads of jehad say?"
      The latest reports pertaining to the invasion of Kabul".
      Peter Tomsen, the US ambassador's meeting with some leaders and commanders of jehad in Chitral."
                 20
 REPORT:  "The Recent Meetings of the
 Leaders and Commanders of Mujaheddin in Islamabad":     Sources close to
 Ja^iiat-e-Islami  Afghanistan have
 confirmed that' a meeting was held 4recently between jehad' leaders, including Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan and Prof, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President with jehad commanders. Present at the meeting were also Mawlawi Jalaluddin Hagqani, the leading
 jehad commander in Paktia province and .Ahmad shah Masood, the great commander of mujaheddin in northern Afghanistan. According to the same sources, the meeting was arranged byProfessor Sayyaf. The talks took place behind closed doors. Professor Mujaddedi took part in the meeting despite his previous pronouncement that he would not attend any meeting attended by Hekmatyar. According to these sources, talks among the jehad leaders ,and commanders       focussed     on     the
 reorganization of the AIG, adoption of a common military strategy, and the setting Upi of a single command for jehad forces.
 REPORT:  "Mujaheddin attack on Kabul.
 Suspended": Special political situation prevailing in the country and the. region and continuing efforts by certain foreign powers, including the US, to solve the Afghan issue, made it necessary not to press for the plan of region and continuing efforts by; certain foreign powers, including the' US, to solve the Afghan issue, made it necessary not to press for the plan of attack on Kabul at the moment and to* seek another plan with the consent of. jehad commanders. Currently it is clearly seen that, despite Hekmatyar and Professor Sayyaf's extreme optimism concerning the plan of attack on Kabul, it was suspended,. Sources close to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan say that internal commanders, including Ahmad Shah Masood and Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, want to put all military power in the country under a council of commanders and the political leaders look after political affairs.
 * General . Aslam Beg, Chief of Staf f of Pakistan Army, » has said, "the experience gained by the Islamic revolution of Iran and the Afghan jehad provide good grounds for moral and ideqlogical advancement of Pakistan."
198
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 IlfGIMN JlHJlU
                                                                                      VOL.4 NO.1
 country."
                 30
 EDITORIAL: "Experiments and Gains". The editorial is pointing to the experiment of elections in Pakistan and, while discussing elections in the other countries, writes: "There are illusions to the fact today that even the most backward nations from south Asia to North Africa and Latin America have gained the strength and power to bring forth into the mainstream of political arena, on sound competitive ground, their political forces and not based on ignorance and childish hostities and' shprn off any school of thought and Considerations (stet). However, there are many others who think that no talking, no accepting and no forbearance are the hallmark of our jehad and national pride and should be maintained at anyfcost. Whereas this kind of behaviour is actually a heritage of ignorance eventhough, sometimes, it may be. entertained and : welcomed with intelligent slogans. However, now ' it has become crystal clear that childish hostilities and creating hurdles, like the •'Great Wall of China, in the way of thinking and methods of others may push us to a desolate island of seclusion and hesitancy all the more."
 * The following items regarding Afghanistan are also included in this issue of Kausar.
     A news item about the crash of an aircraft .belonging ” to Kabul regime in Khost.
     A report about Zaher Shah says. that he is in contact with all the leaders of Afghan jehad.
                                    .
     Press conference of Prof. Mujaddedi which states:    "The Afghans
 will not allow any 'foreign power to meddle in the internal affairs of their
 -    A report regarding the communists in Afghanistan who are actively fanning ethnic and linguistic differences among the regimes opponents.
   :c
 -    A part from the UN Secretary General's report about Afghanistan to the General Assembly.
      The interview of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar with VOA which states:    "The
 leaders of other parties are having no program".
      An item under the heading of A corner of the dinner of Prof. Mujaddedi in honor of Ahmad Shah Masood, the President of the Supervisory Council".
                31
: EDITORIAL: "The need for the creation
 of an anti-Hindu Islamic Front":    The
 creation of such a front is indispensable to counter the operations of Hindu extremists to desecrate Baburi Mosque."
                                                                * Reports included in this issue are:
                   . V t
 -  Ahmed Shah Masood, while talking to the Nation daily of Pakistan said that there is no need to send mujaheddin to defend Saudi Arabia. The rights of: women are acknowledged and they ought to be given.
 -  Some of jehad leaders are visiting the Islamic Republic of Iran. Pakistan authorities formally asked the Iranian Islamic Republic to a fresh round of talks pertaining to the Afghan problem and the Peshawar based mujaheddin plans to find, with the help of these two neighbouring Muslim countries, a comprehensive and acceptable solution to all !the Islamic wings and jehad circles.
199
 \
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL-4 NO. 1
   An Afghan jehad delegation meets with the Kuwait foreign office authorities in Saudi Arabia.
-  Peter Tomsen, the US envoy for the
mujaheddin, says to' VOA: "We .prefer
political solution of the Afghanistan problem". We do not support a particular individual or party. We appreciate the pattern of the commanders' council organization".
-  Ahmed Shah Masood, talking with foreign journalists in Peshawar, has said, "We could get the support of the leaders regarding the future strategy of jehad. During the first meeting with Mr. Hekmatyar we did arrive at a conclusion pertaining to the removal of internal tensions. It was decided that, in order to solve internal problems, we should take the people into confidence and seek their views. Whichever group is supported by the- people will command the area".
                                 NOVEMBER
                 7
EDITORIAL:  "The press and cheap
publicity". Pointing to the increase in the number and volume of publications, it advises the mujaheddin press to adopt’ innovations and initiatives' in their work and writes: The experience
of fast growth and development which we witnessed lately indicate that if, on the one hand, there had been a great revolution in the outward qualitative and formative appearance of jehad publications, on the other hand, lack of a sound program in the propagation sector, coupled with lack of attention towards the consequences of long term press work, made us inefficient and that is why we could not arrange a worthwhile framework for the jehad press and. publications.
NEWS ITEMS OF THIS ISSUE:
                                                          Hajatt-ul-Islam Murtazawi, the
 spokesman of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami ■Afghanistan, believes that Najib can only be defeated militarily. The mujaheddin will not allow others to meddle in their affairs.
 -  The advisory council of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan establishes' the first Islamic Bank in Taluqan, Takhar. Ninety per cent of the building of the bank has been completed.
 - As quoted by The Washingon Post, the
 Council of Commanders would be able to provide a leadership supported by all the Afghans and this has been what till’ now the mujaheddin leadership has failed to accomplish.
                                                   10
 EDITORIAL:  "In the past fortnight w.e
 witnessed extraordinary . political activity in Peshawar and Islamabad among Jehad organizations and the interior commanders. We are very well aware, of the consequences of these get-to-geth'ers, sittings, negotiations and agreements among friends but, ironically, are at a loss to understand as to where did the activities of these people end and where’does it stand now? We observe signs of solidarity and agreements everywhere but, at the same time, counter-moves are disernable which create doubts about the effectiveness of ‘the new moves. The fact which is, however, ignored is that none of the activities could be considered as a temporary bridge or a means to an. end. Therefore if, a strategy for political and military action is intended, we ought to observe its du'ribility .■ And, at the same time, identify our fields of assignments and •responsibilities in the area".
 NEWS ITEMS:
    A joint agreement among the AIC, Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami and independent organizations of Afghanitan was signed in Tehran. The seven articles of the
200
V
&
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990   HIUIlHIl JillHlI                VOL. 4 N0.1
 agreement state:  (1) The Kabul regime
 is not a legal government; (2) under the present .circumstances a political solution to the Afghanistan problem is forthcoming and all the mujaheddin should continue their struggle for the establishment of an Islamic government; (3) as the will of the Afghan nation is the only and final factor for the solution of the Afghanistan problem, 'therefore, general elections for self-determinations of the Afghans must be held; (4) a body for the discussion and promotion of the Afghan political affairs should be established; (5) we urge all the Muslim organizations, Muslim personalities and other mujahed compatriots to lend their sincere services and effective role in the promotion of the affairs of . this committee; (6) we urge the brotherly Islamic Republic of Iran, to provide the . necessary facilities and help for promotion and strengthening of this committee; (7) the major victories of • the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan are the result of the struggles and solidarity of each and all the Muslim communities of the Afghan, nation and we consider those who terid to create rift and disunity as activists of satanic powers.
   The daily Le Monde writes:     "Ahmad
 Shah Masood believes that, according to Mr. Hekmatyar's plan, sheer military, ■operations on the city of Kabul cannot bring the Kabul regime to, its' knees but what is needed is simultaneous operations in - other parts of the country as well and, along with that, highways throughout the country must be closed"
 - The General Assembly of UN passed a resolution pertaining to Afghanistan emphasizing that, considering the wishes of the Afghans in particular, a political solution to the crisis in Afghanistan should be found out.
                14
 EDITORIAL:  "Retrogressive Defense - A
 Progressive Slogan". Pointing to the telephonic and written allegations against Kausar, which some have termed as an* "Iranian Letter" some as "Dari Letter" and some as a "Retrogressive Journal" and “Counter Revolutionary", the editorial concludes: "In a nutshell
 it is stated that the philosophy of the publication of Kausar is based on the framework and original line of Islamic revolution of Afghanistan in toto and that, in turn, is inspired by the general line ' of world Islamic revolution. In the midst of such a progressive and revolutionary policy, The Kausar stands on its own particular ground, i.e, it does not believe in multi-dimensipnism, neutrality and non-censorship. In this way Kausar freely 'projects different dimensions and views, various scripts, ideas and opinions and even opposite views. As such its editorial policy is in total harmony with objectives and principles of Islamic revolution and at the same time, it provides us with an opportunity to discuss views with which we either agree or disagree".
 NEWS ITEMS:v
 -  In the Brigade Jehadw.al of Paktia province, . some of the senior jehad commanders of that province held a meeting.
 - Mawlawi Khales, in an interview with
 VOA, said: "Non-cooperation with AIG is
 the main factor of . the current stalmate. He said' the President of the* state, duringNhis visit to Iran, should have consulted the Prime Minister of AIG, Professor Sayyaf and other members of the Cabinet".
 -  Mr. Moosawi, the Chief of Center of strategic Research in Iran, during a meeting* with a delegation of mujaheddin
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
UU1
 said: "Something  should  be   done to'
 avert any American claim on Afghanistan".
                  17
 NEWSITEMS:
    Regarding the steps taken by the Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar during answers with his characteristic "press intelligence" mainly dwelt on major political issues and emphasized his stancei The same can be traced out in Hekmatyar1s previous interviews and dialogues ... In responses of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Prof. Rabbani mainly those subjects are discussed upon which they agree.
    The special envoy has said about Afghanistan:   "Although ‘ the US and
 Russia are on the threshold of signing a comprehensive agreement regarding the resolution of the Afghanistan problem, ground for immediate means to a solution has nop been treaded upon. It is because the UN diplomats want the
 concerned parties to the Afghan war to come to a compromise among themselves-and accommodate each other's point of view. While rejecting outright any'
 outside solution, ‘the representative, Mr. Sevan, said the Afghans themselves have the right to determine their future.
 - Pir Sayyed Ahmed Gailani, the Chief Justice of the AIG, has said in London: "The Iranian stance upholds the Afghan's objectives and the differences with Iran-based mujaheddin are
 minimum". He felt confident that these differences will also fade away and the election task will start in another three or four weeks. He said that these elections.will be held in refugee camps and the liberated areas.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - Eng. Hekmatyar in an interview with the BBC has said, "the leader of ANP Khan Abdul Wali Khan wanted to mediate between us and Najib and we received through him messages from Najib but in all our answers we had told him that they should relinquish all the power and there was no chance of any compromise with Najib."
 - The leader of the Kabul regime Najib
 has claimed that he has established contacts with the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan led by Hekmatyar. Najib has added that, ' after an abortive coup by Tani, he has had talks and contacts with     the      representative     of
 Hezb-e-Islami.
    Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, •leader of the Harkat-e-Enqelab-e-Tslami Afghanistan has said that the armed jehad of the Muslim people of Afghanistan has made it clear that no un-Islamic way of thinking can have roots in Afghanistan.
               24
 NEWS ITEMS:
    Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, while explaining the stance of independent jehad organizations, said, "Holding a dialogue with Najibullah is tantamount to a treason with the Afghan jehad."
 - Najib requested Switzerland to play an intermediary role in organizing a joint Afghan conference,
    Pir Sayyed Ahmed Gailani has told the BBC in an interview:       "Without
 guaranteeing the transfer of power, Zaher Shah 4-s not ready to hold a dialogue with Najib".
202
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 AfCIUINJfHAD                      VOL.4 NO. 1
 -  "Alqabas" an Arabic daily of Cairo claims that Sayyed Ahmad Gailani had a .45 minute meeting with Najib.
 - Najib, the Chief of Kabul's puppet
 regime, has said:   "Our discussions in
 Geneva were according to what we had anticipated".
     Hujjatt-ul-Islam Mohammad Hussain Siddigi Neeli, the Commander of all military forces of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami-re-Afghanistan, whs martyred with his three year old son in the village of Sawakmorein Afghanistan.
                  28
 NEWS ITEMS:
 -   The Hezbullah-e-Afghanistan has
 rejected all kinds of dialogues with Najib.                       ,
    Prof. Mujaddadi,the AIG President, said in a press conference:   "Peshawar
 and Tehran based mujaheddin have agreed on the implementation of a joint military,and political program".
 -  The Washington Times has said,"Zaher Shah's peace plan is unilateral, and unrealistic".
, ' ( , j
    A spokesman of Iranian Islamic Republic's Foreign Office has said, "Mashad Airport granted permission of landing to only one. Afghan passanger plane, in accordance with international procedure, which t had signalled "alarm" for lack of fuel. No senior or junior official from the Iranian administration met with Najib or had talked to him when his plane had landed in Mashad".     t
 - Sabahuddin Kushkaki, managing editor
 of the Afghan Jehad, magazine and former Minister of Information and Culture of Afghanistan, in an interview with the BBC said:        "Najib is a
 criminal" and the Afghans will not hold
 talks with him.
                                   DECEMBER
                  5
 EDITORIAL: The editorial comments over
 agreements by Mujaddedi and other AIG leaders with Hezb-e-Wahdat and other       independent    mujaheddin
 organizations in Iran and, the fact
 that, before fulfilling these agreements, decided to • hold elections .
    "The AIG delegation to the Soviet Union": While debating the subject in
 the AIG Cabinet, Prof. Sayyaf the AIG Prime Minister, opposed the plan. But some other cabinet members explained that it would provide an opportunity tc explain the goals of the Islamic revolution and Soviet troops' brutality in Afghanistan.                ,
 * Prof. Sayyaf, the . AIG Prime Minister,, in a meeting held to mark the start of work on holding elections by the AIG said: "Holding talks with the
 Soviet Union and its . lackeys is impossible".
 - A spokesdman of the Hezb-e-Wahadat has said the AIG general elections . was just a show.
 - Justice Mohammad Amin Weqad, leader of Daiyah-e-Ettehad-e-Islami, has told the Kausar: "The key to the solution of the Afghanistan issue is neither in the hands of Najib, the super powers nor in the hands of ’the neighbouring countries." Only leaders of the mujaheddin organizations can solve the issue through unity and alliance."
 - Najib, the head of the Kabul regime,
 has said:  "I will resign only, when
 transitional government, headed, by Zaher Shah is formed."
 - An Afghan Religious Assembly was established in Tehran 2 December.
203
OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
-  The difference between the US and the Soviet Union on the Afghanistan question has been resolved. They are going to reach an agreement on the formation of an elected government.
                 12
EDITORIAL:   "A year  ago on this day
 Kausar embarked on its publication as an organ of a free Islamic press of Afghanistan and took its position among the family of dedicated publications of the country. It is under such circumstances that it is celebrating its first year of publication".
NEWS ITEMS:
-  Upon the decision of the Board of Directors Of the Association of Asian Journalists, Kausar and Qest, organs of the free Islamic Press of Afghanistan, have obtained the membership of the Asian Press Club.
     Murderers of Hujjat-ul-Islam Mohammad Hussain Sadeqi have been arrested inside the country.
-  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani has urged assistance from international relief organizations to ward-off the threat of famine in the north of Afghanistan.
-  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has told a press conference that the mujaheddin attacks on the Kabul regime positions during the last month were based on the strategy worked out by the Council of Commanders.
  '      j
-  In order to play an effective role in the Afghanistan issue, Zaher Shah has opened a secretariat. The Bush Administration has told him to launch his activities so he may receive all necessary assistance from the US.
                                                                 General Mohammad Yusuf Salangi,
 Commander of the Kabul regime Diovision No.2, has been killed in recent clashes between the mujaheddin and the regime forces at Karez-e-Mir, near Kabul.
    Kausar
    SEPTEMBER
           22
 ANSWER TO LETTERS: RESPECTED BROTHER
 A.J. RASIKH: In response to your letter it is stated that we do intend to bring out our publications with grace of God almighty and cooperation of our worthy committed brothers and sisters, based on the lofty Islamic ideals and would promote them on the foundation set earlier. We do wish that the .Kausar will follow its ideological activities without any let or hindrance and free from political chains and limitations. We earnestly hdpe that the Kausar will be able to reflect and expound accurately the political and social aspects of jehad and Islamic revolution in Afghanistan strictly in accordance with- Islamic point of view and its precious qualities.
           29
 EDITORIAL: we have constantly proposed
 . to jehad organizations and commanders that there is no longer any room for .differences and they ought to forget past rifts as this would provide an oppotunity for the enemies of the nation to exploit our disorganized status. Now that the political situation further becomes complicated and the enemies are busy creating bottlenecks and booby traps on our path, the importance of unity and soldarity among the mujaheddin and their organizations cannot be over ^emphasized. We are sure that, with such a move we will be able to bring down our enemy to its knees. In<this way our oppressed nation will be saved from
204
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.I
   disaster. We hear calls of solidarity, unity and of united mujaheddin attacks on Kabul and unified mujaheddin attempts from many hook and corner. These are very reassuring. We are hopeful that God Almighty will make
 * this a decisive solidarity „among the mujaheddin which will prove death knell to the enemy and our first glorious victory over the adversary.
                                  OCTOBER
                   6
   REPORT: "God willing you will  be
   hearing very soon, the good news of unity among the mujaheddin". This is what the leader of' Hezb-e-lslami Afghanistan said during a press conference. "He said differences must end and complete unity among mujaheddin maintained. In the ' meantime a representative council of the nation should be established to frame the constitution of the country to form the basis of the future government" . Hekmatyar went on to say, "Those who work against unity among mujaheddin are aimless and selfish elements. They are unsympathetic towards the oppressed people of Afghanistan and are callous to the grief and miseries of the poor and downtrodden. They are those who ( have great expectations from the US and Soviets and don't want the Afghan problem resolved by the mujaheddin.
   * A Conference, entitled "Islamic movement of Afghanistan during the past present and future" was held in Islamaabad (no date given) in which prominent leaders of jehad scholars and foreign specialists participated. The conference lasted two days and ended with approval of a resolution.
                13
 * EDITORIAL: To
   complexion of jehad national freedom
 uprisings, especially during the last several hundred years, are ploys and tricks used by - the imperialists and colonialists much to their advantage. In different ' stages, of history with different shapes and various roles, they have infiltrated through t;he territorial and geographical borders of other nations.. The keenest dnd sharpest edges of such traps are directed towards their victims through the ingenuity of their masters i.e. the dictators and expansionists. The formation of a genuine Islamic order in Afghanistan is akin to a goblet full of- poison for the colonialists which under no circumstances and by no means, they are ready to drink. Therefore, they raise up against Islamic movements through their mercinaries. Our nation, thank God, has realized that the only means for the realization of their Islamic aims and idea>s is the prologation of Islamic Revolution under the banner of unity of Muslim forces and discarding of all kinds of party, tribal, linguistic and religious prejudices.
 REPORT:  Zahed Ibrahimi a progressive
 Islamist and prominent commander of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan and the Amir of Jehad, in VNangarhar province, and eight other well-known commanders were martyred 7 October in the district of' Rodat at the Headquarter of Shaheed Ghulam Haider as a result of < rocket and heavy arms firing by the atheists. They had gone to Ghulam Haider Shaheed Headquarter in Rodat to frustrate ertemy operations.
 * The Kausar-II has also published an interview v;ith Ayatullah Taqaddosi, the spokesman of coalition council (of Iran) which has now moved its headquarters from Tehran to Peshawar. He says, "As of about two months that the Council's headquarters has moved to Peshawar some positive steps have been For instance, we have been able
                                                                                 twist the factual and to defame the movements and
 taken,
205
  i
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HIUIIHIIUllUUI                     VOL.4 N0.1
 to exchange views with the leaders of different mujaheddin organizations on the progress of the work of the elections. We have also sent a joint authoratative delegation to some areas of Afghanistan to help eliminate the existing rifts between Sunni and Shia groups as soon as possible and to adopt measures for maintaining security along the mujaheddin routes and prevent inter-fightings."
                                               20
 EDITORIAL:    "The Most Impatient
 Waiting":  Examines the effects of
 Afghan jehad. It writes, under the current state of affairs that the super" powers are shamefully plotting against our jehad and are trying* to discredit the sacrifices of our nation, it is incombUnt ''from Islamic point of view op
                       l
 all leaders of the jehad and other authorities to take effective steps toward unity. Now the time is past that the question of unity should be waved as it is directly connected with the fate of a nation. They must know that the real will of the nation must be respected otherwise they will be left alone. Ultimately, our nation will turn the jehad trenches into genuine political trenches.
 REPORT:  "The .Leaders of Mujaheddin
 Reach Consensus on the Plan of Attack on Kabul." After several days of talks between the mujaheddin leaders, including Ahmad Shah Masood, Head of the Supervisory Counci, Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, the proposed plan of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, for a joint and simultaneous attack qri Kabul city and a number of provinces was accepted,. But its application was suspended until the end of winter in'view of the arrival of cold weather. It has been said rhat the. plan was accepted after it was- fully discussed and now all mujaheddin leaders are working on the formation of a single command and
 reorganization of the interim government.
 REPORT:  In the International Islamic
 Conference in Saudi Arabia Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,leader of Hezb-e-Islami, said let us forge the US to pull out its troops front'the Gulf .
                27
 EDITORIAL:  "Greatest Blow to Colonial
 intrigues". The editorial discusses the history of jehad, victory and disunity and writes:  "And at long  last all are
 hopefully waiting with their fingers crossed that their political leaders will have reached a compromise and, considering past bittdr experiences, will not return empty handed or allow the same tragedy to repeat itself. Having had a very unwholesome taste left in their throats of the past anarchy, the, nation is not much optimistic regarding the current endeavours. However, it is hoped that leaders of the jehad, with a resort to sincerity and unity, will leave no stone unturned to achieve a safe plan, not allow an intrigue to succeed and bring about a speedy downfall of Najib. Needless to say that unity in the ranks of jehad will be the first and foremost blow to Najib1s toterring regime which will bring it to its knees and ensure mujaheddin's victory".
 *  In the same issue of this paper
 there is a report saying:  "The leaders
 of Jehad are bent upon sinking all their past petty differences and unitedly endeavour to topple the puppet regime of Najib".
 * There is also an analysis entitled: "The current problems and our mission" which optimistically writes: The latest solidarity of mujaheddin will bear positive results".
   „             I             .   •                    .
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990       MC1UHJtlUO                     VOL.4 N0.1
                                NOVEMBER
                                           3
 EDITORIAL: "The unrepeatable lesson of
 blunder" After a long philosophical preface concludes: "Praise be to God
 Almighty that all the responsible figures of jehad, after passing through the most tough and heart-rending toils and tribulations, have embarked on a new test and the nation is hopefully praying that the current solidarity may bring laurels and henceforth they will not witness their disastrous differen-nces, but with harmony and unity they shall ever move forward cutting at the roots of atheism and infidelity." Newsitems of this issue include.
 * 1 A senior Soviet general has acknowledged the continuity of his country's interference in Afghanistan saying: "On no account Russia" would
 like the communist regime of Kabul to collapse and replaced by an Islamic regime".       *
 - Ahmad Shah Masood opines in order to harmonize the jehad forces to bring about harmony between the Sunni and Shia mujaheddin groups and eliminate communal and intra-party differences, a new alliance should be created.
  ■      i
   To develop unified administrative units in the liberated areas, an agreement   was    signed between
 Hezb-e-Islami and Jamiat-e-Islami.
                                          10
 EDITORIAL: Following a philosophical
 prelude, it concludes: Praise be to God Almighty that now our nation by gaining experiences from the past and with full knowledge of the aims of outside aid, has marked its way, amidst political anarchy and turmoil, towards its objectives and shall close all the roads leading to disturbance in the
 Islamic revolution. The great wave of solidarity will certainly drive away all the alien opportunists . ’and atheists,     the     parasites     and
 disruptionists: from the peaceful scene of Islamic brotherhood. Our people will try their utmost to realize the Islamic revolution's objectives and make it complete success.
 NEWS ITEMS:
    The Military Academy of Kabul was attached by mujaheddin 5 November.
 - During their successful operations 2 November on Kabul regime posts, the mujaheddin captured a number of "Geleem Jama" militia in Arghanday, near Kabul.
                                                  17
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - Mr. Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, in his first parliamentary speech expressed his governments support for the Afghan mujaheddin.
    Around 200 militiamen have been killed recently in Logar province.
    Six security posts of the puppet Kabul regime were captured in Maiwand, Kandahar.
                21
 NEWSITEMS:  1
     Hazrat Ayatullah Khamenei, the leader of Iran Islamic revolution, while visiting the Afghan jehad leaders, said:   "Presently the world
 situation is drifting towards a direction where the victory of Afghan Muslims is certain".
 - A delegation of jehad leaders called on President of Iran, Hujjatt-ul-Islarr Ali Akbar Hashimi Rafsanjani 16 November.
207
  OCTOBER-DtCEMBER, 1990 flfCllflMJlHAD                    VOL.4 NO-1
     Ali Akbar Wilayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, during a. joint session with Afghan jehad leaders said: "From the very outset we have called for the establishment of an Islamic independent government in Afghanistan in accordance with the wishes of Muslim Afghan people. We opine that, had it not been for narrow raindedness, the Afghan case would have been different from what it is today and would have been in a favorable stage".
 - Dr. Najib is preparing since two months to visit Geneva and until now some 20 Afghans in Europe and America who have good contacts with the ex-King have expressed their.readiness to' meet the chief of Kabul regime.
                                               24
 ARTICLES:  "American ominous bid in
 relation to the Afghanistan issue" (By Rgshan Safi): The article, whi.ie after
 Russia considers US enemy number two, writes:  "As per  assessments made and
 summed up, after the departure of. Russian troops from Afghanistan, the US was confident that the mujaheddin will •never achieve their cherished goal of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan. . But later incidents,, especially in' the first round, Shahnawaz Tani's coup - support by the Hezb- disproved What they had thought. 7-he Americans got worried that the
 mujaheddin could dislodge the Kabul regime even from a distance and capture' power and in that case US efforts will end in vain. It is in this perspective that all the imperialists have joined hands together to divert the Afghan Islamic revolution from its ideal and lofty course. In this case, we have to hold on to^ our positions firmly and try unitedly to defeat the » East and West machinations against our sacred ideals and Islamic fundamentals. We have to protect our cherished and .invaluable Islamic values at any cost, come what
 may. Thus we shall continue our sacred jehad to the last, God willing".
    The same issue of the paper has commented on the stealthy and cowardly efforts of Najib and his unexpected visit to Geneva concluding that he wants to promote the cause of the super powers by his multilateral talks .and underhand tricks on the one hand, and in the same breath is trying to force a wedge of division in the ranks of mujaheddin.
                15
 NEWS ITEMS:
    Abdul Aziz Audah, leader of the Pelestine Islamic Jehad, in an interview with the Kausar has said that the return of Zaher Shah to Afghanistan will be a shame to all Muslim nations.
 -  A consensus has been reached between the US Secretary of State and the Soviet Foreign Minister that the future regime in Afghanistan will be based on "democracy" having good relations with the' two super powers as well as its neighbors. But what the US considers as an important hinderance in the path of democracy, is the presence of Najib as an active element in the general elections.
    In a communique between Presidents of Iran , and Sudan an independent Islamic regime in Afghanistan based on general elections has been urged.
 -  Prof. Sayyaf has said that both the US and Britian are scared of Islam and for this reason are creating obstacles towards the establishment of an Islamic regime in Afghanistan.
 EDITORIAL ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF KAUSAR: After one year behind it, the Kausar has decided to speak up louder and more clearly by publishing' news of the mujaheddin battles; to unveil the
208
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1990 HIUIIHIIUllliiU                    VOL.4 NO.1
 intervention of the super powers in the affairs of Afghanistan, to reveal business deals of the kings, amirs, sultans and pirs, and, by this means bring joy and happiness to sad hearts.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - Why did Aga Khan resign?; He has had a bad conscience not only'because he betrayed the mujaheddin in his relief operations, but because of his rascal transaction with the blood-thirty Kabul regime, ke certainly f;els ashamed and painful.
 - The opening of a secretariat by the former King Of Afghanistan in Rome is tantamount . to a continuation of conspiracies and a rebirth of disater.
 -The Soviet Foreign Minister has said that an agreement has been reached on the formation of a transit government in Afghanistan.
                           Khurs he ed-e-Jehad
                              NOVEMBER
                                         20
 EDITORIAL: "Who is responsible for the
 security of Baburi Mosque?". Regarding this, the editorial asks for safety of Baburi Mosque against the onslaught of Hindu extremists.'
 NEWSITEMS:
    Joint mujaheddin attacks on the puppet, regime's posts in Helmand and Kandahar. ‘
 - The "Gileem Jama' militia attacked a marriage function in Mirwais Maidan of Kabul ,city and tresspassed the life and property of the participants.
 Lew a-e-Jehad
                           NOVEMBER
             28
 EDITORIAL: "Saudi Arabia's Security Or
 Threat to the Entire Muslim World?": The editorial considers invasion of Kuwait by Iraq and Saudi's invasion to the Americans as a plot against 'the Islamic countries.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - Twelve enemy posts were captured in Logar 12 November.
   Attacks by the Kabul regime were repulsed in Logar.
    Fighting continues in Logar.
 - The AIG Prime Minister Prof. Sayyaf
 has said: "We have not deputed any one
 to pass a verdict regarding our future".
 Masuliat-e~Zan-e-Musalman
NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
 ARTICLES:  Saturday 24 November,
 coincides with the 5th of Jamadi-ul-Awwal, 1411 Hijra and the birthday anniversary of Zainab the daughter of Khalif Ali / and grand daughter of prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him. Her mother was Fatema the great and nobie woman of the Islamic world. The paper then relates her life history and her struggles fqr Islam.
 REPORT: Mr. . Qasemi, the Hujjat-ul-Islam Wal Musliemeen paid a visit to Zainabia Council in Peshawar i 8 November. Hujjat-ul-Islam.Qasemi and our sister who is responsible for orgnazing the issue of women's He jab “in Kabul, and was in Peshawar for sometime, both
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 were -invited to' visit the Zainabia Council.
             SEPTEMBER
                                             27
 EDITORIAL: Some refugee and mujaheddin
 brothers decided to bring out' a
 publication entitled "Mesbah" which
 should reflect real Islamic policy and
 the just struggle of Muslims including
 the whole Muslim ummah. At the same
 time, it will include the publications
 from "Islam Ulish"(way of Islam) in
 Uzbaki language also. We may point out
 here that "Mesbah" will follow the
 revolutionary policy of the most
 revered Prophets and the martyrs of the
 path of Islam along with; the valiant
 mujaheddin and Muslim fighters who are
 pitched against the atheists and
 satanic forces and their only aim is to
 get rid of those evil elements with a
 committed but independent policy. .
    /
               tk
 * Mesbah will not be only against all sorts of sectarianism, organizationism and parochialism but will also sincerely try to bring together all the genuine Islamic elements.
                                     OCTOBER
                                             12
 EDITORIAL: In the course of its
 existence the Afghan nation, has never had a government to safeguard its interests. Some governments ruled the people in the name of the people but were frequently without their support. These governments sought the secret of their success and the strengthening of their government pillars in general ignorance and particularly disunity of the nation. After a quick glance over the history, particularly that of contemporary Afghanistan, we can see that, apart from instances of direct
                                                                       VOL.4 NO. 1
 foreign intervention, the Afghans have never'been able to enjoy the blessings of a full national unity ... The aggression of the Russian giant forms one of those exceptional cases when the nation was united. But, when the Russians had to ‘leave the country shamefully, the differences were renewed. The blood which is being shed now is a source of joy for the enemies’ of God and the Quran.
    This bitter, experience can teach us that we should turn to the real aim of our truthful jehad. Recent murmurings about the realization of the process of unity among the various jehad groups- particularly betwen the Hezb^-e-Islami and'' Jamiat-e-Islam of Afghanistan are a welcome news that can bring peace to the souls of the martyred, and joy and comfort to their heirs, i.e. the mujaheddin and the refugees ... However, all the forces that yearn for returning to their homes, are hoping for unity. Others with a bad conscience toward their countrymen may be a little shy to return but, nonetheless, they ought to know that the Afghan nation,, with its sense of grandeur can be very forgiving. Even they should join the caravan of "Fundamental Unity" - not that of "verbal" unity - before it is too late, and attain God’s pleasure and that of the nation.
    The paper has also features about: America and the Afghan Jehad The German Unification The Meaning of Islamic Commitment Islamic Ummah in the Soviet Union
                              NOVEMBER
              2
 EDITORIAL: "Agreement and adherence to
 the". It praises the agreements between the commanders and jehad leaders but advises their pursuance so
210
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCHflN JtHflD                   VOL. 4 N0.1
 that the way is paved for the creation Of a comprehensive and united command. This calls for courage, accommodation and a spirit of give and take among the jehad organizations. Thus with the-formation and collective attempts of all mujaheddin , forces a comprehensive and unified strategy may be adopted.
 * News and other items included in this issue are:
 -• A big explosion rocked Najib's place 25 October.
 - Jehad leaders meeting to sink their differences.
    Ahmed Shah Masood, the Chief of Advisory Council, meets Qazi Hussain Ahmed, leader of the Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan.
 - • Central Asian Republics Condemn Russian invasion of Afghanistan.
 “ Exchange of POWs between the puppet regime and mujaheddin in the vicinity of Panjsher. Two Muslim women were also included in the exchange process.
                 15
 EDITORIAL:  "UN Resolution or' another
 Plot":  Condemning this "oppressive1
 resolution says:   "It is clear to  aid
 that it is the US and Russia who rule in UN." It says:    "It is   not the  UN
 but a number of countries who work for the interests of universal atheism".
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - From 18-26 October, 1990, i.e. for eight successive days the province of Baghlan was bombed savagely by the puppet regime of Kabiil.
 - The district of Kohistan, Jauzjan, was captufed and conquered by mujaheddin 9 November.
 - Ahmed Shah Masood said in an exclusive interview with the Shaq-ul-Awsat:  "We will never allow the
 communists to participate in any future elections."
    Thirty three militia of "Gileem Jama'' joined' the mujaheddin 11 November in Paktia province.          -
                                                  30
 EDITORIAL: "The change' in the policy of the super powers and need for undertaking a new approach":      The
 editorial says that our nation has resisted throughout history foreign .invasion and intrusion but, 'after defeating the foreigners, they sit idle and allow unrepresentative governments to take over the affairs of the state. Now at this juncture too we are facing the same problem. We have apparantly defeated our foreign enemies; however in regard to dealing with the remnants of foreign intervention, the situatior has undoubtedly changed. The big powers seemed to have reached' an understanding. in regard to Afghanistan and a big danger is facing our people. It says that nobody in its dealings with the Afghans is pursuing a selfless policy. They all nourish their selfish interests. We should not remain indifferent to these events. The paper says, "The logic and the grand Islamic revolution of us tell us £hat we should ignore all our group and self interests for the sake of our common interest. The journey by Najib to Switzerland and his stopovers in Ankara and Mashad should be considered as a prelude of things to come. Gur friends and foes should be made to understand that a nation which put its entire existence at stake for the sake, of its higher ideals and identity, will surely distinguish its genuine friends who had extended a sincere hand of assistance during the times of our trial and will render the same kind of blow to its
211
october-december. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 false friends that it had' rendered to the Russians to those who have vicious aims .against us".
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - The Russian Ambassador in Pakistan has had a meeting with AIG President Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi during which he held a lengthy discussion about the journey of a- mujaheddin delegation to the Soviet Union at the invitation of the President of the Russian Federation.
 -The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in a press, interview said talks with Najib will only be possible
 when he lays down his arms and transfers power to the mujaheddin.
    A wireless message by Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, from the fronts of Kabul says Zaher Shah cannot have any role in the resistance and, by carving out a deal with Najib, he will further disgrace himself.
                                DECEMBER
               15
 EDITORIAL: Attracting the attention of
 the mujaheddin to world atheism and infidelity, the editorial says: "It is
 necessary for, those responsible -for the affairs of Afghanistan to prepare themselves with ingenuity and experience to combat new conspiracies hatched by our enemies. We must be aware .that anti-Islamic forces are at work to weaken the newly established unity and alliance between the mujaheddin. Any attempt for. disunity among us will assist them in' their plots against us and we will be digging our own graves. We must place.the cause of jehad and the aspirations of our people over and above any other interest.
 ARTICLES: "A few words' about jehadic
 publications". Commenting on the increase in the number of newspapers and periodicals, the article writes that, under present conditions, the press should * commit itself to draw a realistic picture of the social system for the consolidation of which the nation has sacrificed a millionand a half souls. The press should represent the true ideals of our mujaheddin by introducing the full dimension of the Islamic system to the nation and discuss individual relations in such a system , clearing the minds of the people by religious beliefs and strong faith.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - An offensive by the enemy in Kunduz was repulsed. During this civilians 72 persons, including women and children, were killed and 200 homes were destroyed.
 - The Soviet Foreign. Minister has said talks 'between the two super powers on the Afghanistan issue have made progress.
 - Ayatullah Muhseni in an interview with the VOG has said that Najib's claim of his meeting with mujaheddin leaders was nothing but propaganda. He said for the sake of our respect to freedom and the blood of our martyrs, we have not done anything to weaken the AIG. The AIiG itself has weakened itself by not being able to carry its mandate. Right now actually nothing is left, out of this government.
                                Mujahed
                              SEPTEMBER
                                       23
 REPORT:   In an interview with the
 "Mujahed" correspondent "Sarainwal"
212
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 HIUIIHHliMHU ,                    VOL.4 NO.1
 Mahmud of Panjsher in an interview.has said: "Presently there are 60 primary
 and five secondary schools With 70,000 students attending them in Panjsher. There are also three madrasas with . hostels- and Islamic scholars have begun work for the propagation of Islamic knowledge among the public'. '
 * Dr. Mujahed, eye. specialist and head of the Mujaheddin Eye Clinic has said in an interview# so far 15,915 patients have been treated in the clinic. The average ratio of treatment Cum operation in this clinic is around 17 patients daily. Until now, 300 patients have undergone free operations and surgery and 3,210 pair of spectacles have been provided free .to the war affected mujaheddin whose eye sight had been impaired in action. This is a most modern clinic equipped with the modeirn facilities. Its staff is ready round the clock to serve the mujaheddin and refugees.
                                    OCTOBER
                 3
 REPORT: In an interview with a BBC
 correspohdant about the current conditions  in Afghanistan, Prof.
 Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami is reported to have, said, "it is high time that the mujaheddin organization, in ar effort to reach their common goal, should make serious decisions." In connection with the new efforts made by the>^ mujaheddin leaders for unity, Rabbani said, "By doing so we are not aiming at dismissing the present AIG but we only wish to organize our military    activities     together."
 Regarding a joint mujaheddin attack on Kabul, he   said > that the Jamiat
 mujaheddin under him had always carried out military operations in Kabul together with other parties and were now included in the new plan also. The only point worth consideration is that since a large number of Afghans
 live in Kabul, targets should be selected with utmost care and only military establishments should be chosen for mujaheddin attacks.
      The     construction work on
 Chatral-Badakhshan road at a height of
 5,000  meters on Topkhanah mountain is continuing. Prof. Rabbani visited the construction site 28 September and issued necessary instructions to the engineers so the work may be completed sooner. The construction work is currently proceeding at about two. kilometers on the northern side of the mountain. Three buldozers, 40 skilled and semi-skilled workers form the labor force of the road construction are working on thp road. Completion of the road will facilitate mujaheddin and refugee movement as well as the transportation of goods to and from Badakhshan, Takhar, Kupduz and other parts of northern, end north-western Afghanistan. The road will be good for traffic five months in a year and for the remaining months it will be covered with snow adice.
                                                  20
                J
 REPORT:  Ahmad Shah Masood on arrival
 Afghanistan and Pakistan border 10 October, 1990 in an interview with the members of the Association of the Writers of Afghanistan and Preachers of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan said, "in the meeting held by the commander^ it was decided to work out a comprehensive military operation, plan throughout the country. Thank God, the results of the session were very positive. We reached to full consensus on military matters as well as political matters concerning the interior of the country. If the leaders of the jehad become united and set up, a strong central military command and if reasonable schemes that are badly needed are worked out, I am confident the Kabul regime would fall with Gbd' s will. We devided the whole
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 MGIIJIII JfWlD
 area, of Afghanistan into nine zones. One head is to be assigned for each zone. It was decided to send delegations to Afghanistan to make contacts with commanders, religious scholars, elders, and other influential people. The delegations would appoint heads of each zone. In some areas, such as those under the control of the Supervisory Council, where security is already maintained elections may be held easily. In other areas of Afghanistan I think elections cannot be h.eld so long as. the situation is not ‘normalized."
 REPORT: The Cultural Department of the Supervisory Council of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan has broadened its programs. They now include the following sections:
     _1. Newspapers and pamphlets.
     2.  Films.
     3.  News reporting and distribution of publications.
     4.  Radio and recording.
     5.  Printing, „ .
     6.  Library and preserving the jehad material.
     The first issue of the Council newspaper, which is its organ, "and expresses the goals and ideals of the mujahed nation, of ■ Afghanistan," was published in mid January, 1988.
     The first issue of the paper has a welcoming editorial for Engineer Ahmad Shah Masood. Other articles have condemned the award of Nobel prize to .Gorbachev in view of his crimes in Afghanistan.
                                 NOVEMBER
                                            10
 EDITORIAL; "The success of Council of Jehad .Commanders",: in order to
 harmonize the collective operations against the. enemy, forces and complete
                                                                                          vol-4 no.1
 annihilation of Kabul regime, the session of jehad commanders proved a great source of hope for all Muslims particularly the oppressed Afghan nation. It was felt during the session that 12 year jehad of the Afghan people was in dire need of a unified council and harmony in jehad operations. Rift and disunity among the mujaheddin, coupled with an absence of coordination and harmonious, operations against the enemy, emboldened the puppet regime, saturated already with all kinds of facilities and armed to the teeth by its commrade-in-arms, the Soviets, and placing it in a much superior defensive . position and resistance against the. mujaheddin. The latest Council of commanders, led by the most victorious and powerful leader. Brother MasoOd, was held in Topkhanah of Badakhshan. The holding of such a Council was over due since it was of paramount importance in all the periods of Islamic revolution. We are confident that, with the grace of God Almighty, this Council will prove a big blow to all those who predicted a disintegration of Afghanistan.
 REPORT:   Brother Ahmed 'Shah Masood,
 explaining the role of Commanders' Council in relation to political and military affairs inside and outside the country during an interview said: "Maintaining peace and security in the liberated areas, removing internal tensions and applying of the , Shariat are the jobs of political sector of -jehad and the assignment of military sector of the jehad will be to organize harmonious and coordinated operations throughput the country. No one can make us accept something . which is unreasonable".
 - Abdul Hai Haqju the Amir of Baghlan in ah interview with the Mujahed correspondent, said:  "The  creation of
 Commanders' Council will be a severe blow to the enemy and will help
214
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 fifGHflHlllHilll                   VOL.4 N0.1
establish Islamic government in the country".
-  A Russian general has said: "Russia
is not sending its forces to the Gulf beacuse its army was unable to bring law and order to the country itself."
                                           26
EDITORIAL:  "Solidarity   the only
Alternative". While praising move? underway for the Jamiat and Hezb solidarity, the journal concludes:    "The
nation desires that this process be popularized by all jehad forces in the current stage of jehad, as a means for attainment of our ideal, so that the greatest jehad of the century leads it £ caravan successfully to its cherished goal and destination".
REPORT:   Ahmed Shah Masood, while
talking to the students of Jamia-e-Islami on his visit to Islamabad said: "Russia's aid to the
Kabul regime has increased instead of decreasing. This year the Kabul regime acquired the latest and most modern weapons from Russia. He said: Today we
have received an information that Russia has assured. Na jib of providing him with MIG-29 . in case Kabul is attacked so that they can effectively bombard mujaheddin position.
-  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, talking
to the correspondent of Mujahed- journal said: "The Council of Commanders will
restrain those corrupt commanders who under the guise of commanders receive money and arms from the atheist state".
                                  DECEMBER
                11
EDITORIAL: "Jehad and Present Political
Issues":  Prof. Rabbani, leader of
Jamiat-e-Islami, told a ■ press conference:  "The Muslim people of
 . Afghanistan, including those in the war fronts will strongly oppose any move aimed at giving the smallest role to national traitors and the black faces of history in the determination of the fate of the Muslim, nation of. Afghanistan. We should like to make it' clear to the whole world once again that the responsibility of the continuation of the Afghan war is with the Soviet leadership and that the; key to the solution of the issue is only in their hands. The Muslim nation of Afghanistan has a sacred and just, cause and has the right to determine its own fate. No world power will be permitted to deprive us of this legitimate right.
 NWS ITEMS:
     Fifteen military posts in Mohammad Aga, Logar, have been captured by the mujaheddin.
 - Sayyed Najmuddin Waseq, commander of the south-east region of Badakhshan, told the Mujahed reporter: "We have1
 elevated our guerrilla warfare to regular commando detachments.
   The mujaheddin of Jamiat-e-Islami: occupied eight enemy military posts in Shakardarah and captured 23 military personnel.
                              Mujahed Ulus SEPTEMBER
                                          23
 INTERVIEW:  Prominent social and
 political figures of the. country, have1 been asked • for their comments in relation to the Gulf situation and its bearing on Afghan issue. What will, be the effects of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and military intervention by some of the Western countries in the
215
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 Gulf area prompted by USA on the Afghan problem? Wouldn't .it prolong Kabul regime's ‘life, and strengthen it; likewise, the interviewer has asked the Afghan ■ to express their personal opinions, without reservations, about the leaders of seven organizations based in Peshawar whether they are capable henceforth, to steer the crippled ship of the country clear off the troubled waters and' bring it to the coast of peace and tranquility? In case it is beyond their power then what is to be done?
 ABDUL RAHMAN PAZHWAK:
    ’ I am ^ of the opinion that developments in the Gulf area have so far affected the Afghan issue positively, otherwise the Geneva guarantors would have come to a decision. All the. permanent members of Security Council ought to stand as. guarantors not only the USA and the Soviet Union. The Afghans should be a party to negotiations. Islam, with its genuine rational and democracy in its pure form, must be the hallmark and ideal in Afghanistan. Moral and material damages to Afghanistan must be compensated both morally and materially. Free elections, under UN supervision, is the only option for the realization of this object. Afghan political parties' should> participate in the elections. Jehad should continue and, in the meantime, a political solution to the problem must be sought. The AIG.,. comprising seven groups, stationed in Peshawar, lacks coordination and solidarity among its own members and is without liaison with other Afghans living in other areas.. Without establishment of a stable government with the participation of' mujaheddin, commanders, and national fighters we will not be able to achieve positive results. ,
 DR. MOHAMMAD YUSUF: Looking at it from two different angles, the events in the
                                                                                                    216
 Middle East will have a negative effect on the situation in our country. Firstly, it has diverted the attention of two super powers from the Afghan .case. Secondly, the engagement of world diplomatic quarters and of the news media with Iraq have provided ample opportunity for further meddling to the aliens in the internal affairs of our country. Regarding Cambodia's case, which has' some similarities identical to .events in our country, three interlinked- powers-Soviet Union, China and the US-haye reached a compromise. In order to end the war and bring peace there, five permanent members of the Security Council,have set forth a plan, America and the USSR have opened the door for a' coalition between Hun Sun and Prince Sfhaunuk,. some related quarters in Peshawar are concerned that the big powers may compromise similarly in. the Afghanistan case. While paying my highest personal regards to the leaders of the Afghan jehad, x I doubt they will be alone capable to solve the problems created by Soviet hegemony and its stooges— Parchamis and Khalqis ... ■The administrative set-up and government departments based on lofty Islamic values will be naturally set-up in accordance. with the wishes of the people. But as long as these wishes are not expressed through free elections, all animosities must end, cease-fire must , be honored as much as. possible, big powers must stop sending military hardware to the warring parties, Pakistan and Iran should also follow suit, all the organizations and parties stationed in Pakistan and Iran, must move to the interior of Afghanistan and armed struggle should be replaced by diplomatic and, political moves and struggles. This will pave the way for the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan and decrease the outright enterance in our affairs.
 SAYYED      SHAMSUDEJIN  x MAJROOH'S:
 Undoubtedly Iraq - Kuwait tussle is an
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 UfCHflMJtHAO                      VOL.4 NO. 1
 extremely untoward incident which has enormously increased the;inter-Islamic world frictions and its negative effect will certainly be felt not only in Afghanistan but also by the bulk of the masses in the region. The Afghan case will be overshadowed to some' extent and world opinion will turn away from it.
   NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
 ARTICLES: "A Call for the Rule of Law"
 by Prof. Rahmat Rabbi Zeerakyar. The writer outlines the complexion of the Loya Jirgah and an interim government, which according to him, is the net result of his 10 years of research and studies. He writes:
     "The Loya Jirgah . initiative can yield a positive result only when it enjoys the support of all the permanent members of the Security Couoncil. Hence this Loya Jirgah should be convened in Switzerland at the UN office and the following noteworthy parties should participate;
     Ethnic and local chieftains (one each from every district); two representatives of the AIG based at Peshawar; one representative each from the leadership of the seven parties and two representatives from the administrative ' set-up of each party; five representatives of the Shia Wahdad-e-Islami Party of Afghanistan in Iran; three representatives from other jehad circles in the environment of jehad; commanders introduced by the seven Peshawar-based parties (i.e. 7x3=21);
 five commanders introduced by the Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami; two commanders introduced by the AIG; one representative each of the commanders of'each province promoting the cause of jehad independently without having any connection with jehad organizations; about 120 representatives of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan ( 30,000 refugees
 ought to elect one representative, the total number of refugees being 3.6
    c           ,       , ' ■ *
  million); 53 repr eslentatives of Iran-abased Afghan refugees (of the total of 1.59 million); nine representatives of the Afghan refugees in other Asian countries (3 from India, 2 from Turky, 2 from Saud.i Arabia, one from Kuwait•, one from the UAE).;   4 from the USA; 2
  from Canada; nine from the European countries; 3 from Australia1; five representatives from Kabul and one each from the center of every province; 29 women representatives; 29 from the ex-members of parliament (one each from every province); a number of religious leaders (i.e. 10 from the Shia sect and 24 from the Sunni community):   29 from
  the high-ranking ex-military officers and ex-civilian officers. In order to ensure a proper balance between the official languages in Afghanistan, a number of the participants of the Loya Jirgah should be invited by a mini-jirgah; members of this mini jirgah ought to be elected by the primary, jirgahs. Each member of these two mini and primary jirgahs must ,possess     the      following      three
  qualifications:-
    Should have a national reputation; should be capable and experienced;, should be able to represent the cultural and geographical percep-ions of the country.
      For the sake of convenient contact and cooperation, members -of the primary jirgahs should be selected from those who reside in North America and Europe and are prepared to render service in an honorary capacity (without any honorarium). Members of the primary jirgah and the organizing mini jirgah must be Afghans, who (1) were forced to migrate after the Khalqi and Parchami coup in the country; (2) have performed their      national      and     Islamic
  responsibilities in' an obvious manner for the sake of achieving the jehad goals and ,(3) have given written under-taking not to accept any high
217
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGllllNJdflll                   VOL.4 NO.1
 authority in the interim government and to take part in the social affairs of the country on the basis of their experience and scholarly standard. Most (stet) of the members of the Loya Jirgah can be elected as head of the state and/or speaker of the National Assembly. A head of state is a ceremonial leader at the helm of the affairs. The National Assembly represents the Loya Jirgah as a permanent institution and elects a speaker for itself as proposed by the Head of the State, the Speaker would also be Vice-President of State. The National Assembly can elect a Prime Minister as proposed by the Head of the State, who would, in t^irn, form a Cabinet. The Prime Minister .arid the Cabinet would be answerable to the National Assembly rather than the Loya Jirgah as the Loya. Jirgah rests on a much higher, padestal. The National Assembly can formulate a policy with the ■ consent of' the Head of 'state, keeping in view the requirements of other government institutions such as the Supreme Court, Supreme Council of the Armed Forces and the mini jirgahs. The duties of the interim government (including the Prime Minister and the Cabinet) would be as follows:
 1- Restoration of relative peace in the country which is not possible without c6ase-fire.
 2-   Drafting the election Law and conducting parliamentary elections on that basis.
 3- Preparation of a constitution and submitting it to the loyavjirgah for ratification.
      The second .loya jirgah would be convened at Kabul on the basis of the presidential ordinance through the National Assembly. This loya jirgah
t                 .
 would be formed by members of the Parliament and other institutions of
 the existing system. The prime duty of this loya jirgah is to consider the draft of the Constitution. Subsequent to the approval of the Constitution by the loya jirgah, the Parliament and the government of the interim period will automatically be dissolved and thus a new system based on a new Constitution would come _into existance in Afghanistan. However, the institutions of the Interim government- would continue to function until the new system'(based on the new Constitution) takes over."
    This issue of the Mujahed Ulus journal contains other- matters about .the loya jirgah; a summary of the press ■ conference addressed by Ahmad Shah Masood; views about the situation prevailing in Afghanistan, expressed by Abdul Rahim Chinzai,. ,Dr* Farhadi, Farzan Awam Mai, Ghulam Mohyuddin Zarmalwal, Abdul -Qader Qazi, General Feda Mohammad Kakar and the - sixth instalment of a series of eyewitness accounts by Mohammad Hasan Ulusmal, the Editor of this paper, during the rule of Daoud Khan.
                              Nesa
                           OCTOBER
 EDITORIAL: The oppressed Afghans nation has severely felt, the heat of the war imposed upon it by a barbaric foe in the course of the last decade. May be it was a punishment for 'our ungratitude or a Divine test. If it were a test, the Afghans have come out victoriously but they had not yet fully started on the path to grandeur and greatness when tumbling blocks - this time in the form of the evils of disunity - mushroomed before them. Shouts of unity were raised many times, but they did not benefit th.e Afghans. Again, voices for unity are raised from all quarters now-a-days. Jehadic leaders are again planning for unity and alliances. Again
218
3
VOL.4 NO.1
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 AFGHAN J[WID
 our innocent people are listening intently to hear the welcome news of a complete and unfaltering unity from their leaders. But it seems as though it may not be coming about. One wonders why the jehad leaders • have never managed to come to an agreement on a subject so clear and so significant? May be they are only "politicians" and not jehad and national leaders. When we are clearly observing the shadow of our ■ strong enemies everywhere and are well aware of their malign designs and
                  i.
 we are also aware ' of the tragic conditions of our people, when we know that, after Almighty God, we are the only source to which the eyes of orphans, widows and the disabled turn, it will be brutal to keep a distance from our people by playing politics and being "politician". Although we wil.l not remain always silent to the rights of the Afghan women - and their rights will be given to them in the framework of the Islamic • "Shariat" - at this sensitive moment we are faced with other urgent tasks. This is the\ time bfor taking a big and constructive decision, a decision not "Islamic" by name only, but Islamic in its true sense so that no enemy, wherever he may be, will have a chance to prevent our unity..
 DECLARATION:   The Nesa has published a
 "Manifesto"      from     the      Islamic
 Organization of Afghanistan Women on the Gulf Crisis and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. Considering the event an act of brutality, the declaration says, "We the Muslim Afghan women strongly condemn the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. We the Muslim sisters of Afghanistan, while condemning the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait strongly and expressing our most sincere and deepest sympathy with the people of Kuwait who have . been driven out by the barbaric Saddam (Hussain) troops. We are quite familiar with the agonies of homelessness and the pains of migration and living as
 refugees as our Kuwaiti sisters, mothers, brothers and children are now faced, with. We appeal as sisters to all Arab and Islamic nations of the world to’ unite and frustrate the vicious imperialist designs' of §add.am (Hussain).  .
     This issue of the newspaper has also fe'ature on the "Rights of the women in future' society of' Afghanistan" and has 4n analysis on the Gulf Crisis and the Western reaction to it..
                          Neda-e-Haq
                           OCTOBER
                                 19
 EDITORIAL: "The Making of Government as
 a Goal." It refers to Russian crimes and their defeat in Afghanistan, the unique victory of mujaheddin, and the Afghan disunity. The paper has criticized current efforts aimed at bringing about changes in the government. The editorial insists that the wise thing to do now is to move toward achieving the original i objectives of jehad by keeping a distance from our personal ambitions and abstaining from using the words "I" and "You", (and accept the spirit of collectiveness). It proposes that the current base of the .government should be broadened and the entire forces of jehad should have equal opportunity to participate in the administration of the country. Thus,.a fundamental and a continuing unity, consistent * to national norms would be created within the framework of a government, the editorial maintains. Now-a-days issues, such as a major attack on Kabul, the establishment of a big council and another government are being discussed. However, launching of a major attack.on Kabul is apt to remind one of the
219
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flIGIIllNJLHAD                    VOL.4 NO-1
  Jalalabad- offensive. Beside its preparedness     to     confront the
  mujaheddin, the Communist government has reinforced its fortifications. While mujaheddin have not yet reached a consensus on the use of phrases such as "the new government", "the big council". How then they will agree on the attack and its circumstances. Any way, all these seem to be just excuses. The truth is that we no longer consider the government to be a means-but it has become, to us an end to itself. When there were no offices, and no pomp and no personal or political greed, the jehad was making good progress and its results were also quite satisfactory.
  ARTICLES: - "Literacy as the Prophet of Islam Saw it":       It .discusses the
  teaching and guidelines set forth by the Prophet of Islam, peace be' upon him, on literacy and the acquisition of knowledge.
  *  "A quick glance on the Life of Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani". Examines the thinking of Sayyed Afghani and his attempts for freedom of Muslims and their self reliance. *
  *  "The policy of the mujaheddin with respect to the tactics of the Puppet regime of Kabul" examinines the Kabul regime "cheap" propaganda, conspiricies and efforts aimed at , creating disunity among mujaheddin as well as exploitings their disunity. The article says, it is regretted that
  still some mujaheddin organizations have not realized the dangers of their differences and prefer their personal and .petty differences over those of Afghanistan and Islamic Ummah and are not aware of coming, dangers. One may ask the question as to how .long the Kabul regime will continue its precarious existence or whether the Kabul Ceausescu would face his end soon. The . answer to me' lies in the unity of
 mujaheddin and the policies of the countries involved in tfie Afghan issue, writes the, paper.
                          Neda-e-Sangar
                            NOVEMBER
 EDITORIAL: The brave mujaheddin have
  once again sought the way to unity and alliance and have taken practical decisions with firm determination. They
 have hailed the establishment of the
                        / 1 \
 Council of Commanders and desire its continuation for the future. ~
 * Eng. Ahmad Shah Masood, chairman of the Supervisory Council said: "I have
 come to Pakistan to work out a muj-heddin agreement for the creation of a united strategy.
 - The AIG Chief Mujaddedi,. during a meeting with Iranian and Hezb-e-Wahdat authorities said, "In the political.and social spheres, we require advice from friendly countries, particularly Iran and Pakistan".
 - Seven enemy aircraft were destroyed when the mujaheddin attacked the Shindand Airport 18 October.
                                OCTOBER
            16
 MESSAGE: Major mohammad Ismail Khan,
 mujaheddin commander of South Western Region of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, in an address to Sadruddin Aga Khdn, the UNOCA has said: "You are well aware that the UN officials are working in areas dominated by Najib regime too. But the mujaheddin do not: know such persons. The people of Afghanistan are against any aid from any quarter through the Najib regime. Visits paid by these persons to the mujaheddin controlled areas are not advised. It is
220
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 regrettable that three of your officials,   who without prior
 intimation, had visited a mujaheddin controlled area ill Herat province were arrested by the mujaheddin. Fortunately we were able to immediately contact the UN office in Zindajan and secure the release of those officials. In this context, we request your that hereafter your officials, closely associated with the Najib regime, may kindly be advised not to visit * mujaheddin controlled areas in their own interest. Otherwise the responsibility will rest on their own shoulders. Needless to say if some relief projects are intended to be implemented by you in the areas it may be carried out through the UN office in Zindajan.
 REPORT: In operations carried under the command of Major Mohammad. Ismail Khan Commander of the South West Region of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan in Badghis province, two Kabul regime fighter jet planes were downed and more than one hundred villages freed and more than 4,335 weapons were captured by the mujaheddin.
                           Payam-e- Mujahed NOVEMBER
                15
 EDITORIAL: "New Russo-American Plot".
 The editorial^ opines . that the UN resolution regarding Afghanistan has been stamped by Russia and America and goes on to say: "Independent elections
 under UN supervision is pre-planned by our enemies. The right of selfdetermi-
'nation belongs solely and wholly to the Muslim people of Afghanistan. Then how the UN is authorized to meddle in our self-determination and pave the way, once more, for the defeated
 communists?" Concluding, the editorial urges the mujaheddin for joint action
 Mil                    VOL.4 NO. 1
 in this connection.
 REPORT: In a post Juma prayers* address to the          faithful, the AIG Prime
 Minister, Professor Sayyaf said: "Our Muslim nation should solve their differences in. the frame of Shariat by the help of Islamic religious lawyers".
              25
 EDITORIAL: "The project of elections".
 Discussing ' the steps taken by the mujaheddin government regarding the implementation of elections, the paper writes: "Prior to the beginning of
 elections, its process and implementation under prevalent conditions must have been thrashed minutely so that those who are waiting eagerly for any loophole to be exploited to their advantage, cannot say that we are incapable of organizing an elected council. , Thus they will strengthen their medling and also chair and power hungry people will show-off and play a positive role in promoting the super powers' tailored plans to our disadvantage.
 - Other items of this issue include "the communist band of Khalq and future general elections" and "From Kabul to Geneva." In the, latter participation of communists in
 elections is termed as' "enmity with jehad". The paper also comments on the latest efforts fo Najib regarding his recent visit to Switzerland.
                                DECEMBER
               17
 EDITORIAL:  The paper says the US has
 assisted zaher shah to open a secretariat in Rome and is planning to impose him once again on the people of Afghanistan. But our nation will not bow to the ’satanic conspiracies planned by others and will fight until the
221
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 Islamic banner hoisted -throughout Afghanistan.
 REPORT: 'Prof. Sayyaf has said in a seminar held for military officers that if all the world join hands, they will not be able to stand against the will of only five devoted and dedicated mujaheddin.
 NEWS ITEMS           ;
 - Ten enemy, posts were captured by the mujaheddin in Kama, Nangarhar.
 Pay a m-e-Islam
                           SEPTEMBER
              26
 EDITORIAL: "The Super Powers and
 Afghanistan, War and Politics and the Future of the Rev ''lution" • The Islamic and historical uprising and struggle of the Muslim people' of Afghanistan,-launched for the establishment of an Islamic just order, tptal and complete freedom and independence of our Islamic homeland, and nat is currently called in the media of this region and that of the world as "The Afghanistan Problem", has changed to a chronic and tiring war and diplomacy. All this has happened because the revolution is void of a suitable and proper leadership as well as political and military organization required in modern times. The results are also far-reaching: The ?eal forces of Islamic resistance have been exhausted, and the enemy has been given the opportunity to intrigue to prolong its existence.
     Despite .the tumbling blocks thrown in its way and the malignancy expressed by the Soviet Union and its Afghan and international "hirelings", the
 revolution has zig-zaged' ahead through
 difficult^ mountain-passes as the rank and order of the administration of the Kabul, regime shattered in pieces in many parts of the country. Unfortunately, an effective and compatible organization based on the spiritual and  moral values of Islamic
 faith., which had formed the ' motive and driving power of       our historic
 revolution, was not established in ' areas lost by the regime. The real cause of this disarray was that the centers of   so called      leadership
 established outside   the geographical .
 borders of Afghanistan were related to political, economic,   military and
 strategic interests of the host nations f and their international patrons. The split policies adopted by the various resistance groups proved to be disadvantegous for Islam and the Muslims but serving the interests of the super powers and the Kabul regime.
 Such , policies also  weakened the
 political and military position of the mujaheddin and jehad groups. To encounter these intrigues and. plots-, unity, self-sacrifice and placing the interests of Islam and the Islamic homeland over   and   above  all other
 things, are needed more than any other time.
     This paper has also .published a number of articles. They include:
     *'"fhe Revolution at a Breaking Point",
     ★ "The    Gulf    Crisis      and
 Contradiction among the Arabs",
     *       "The Persian Gulf Crisis and Islamic Uprisings"
                                         OCTOBER
                                                   10
 EDITORIAL: . "Continuation of Afghanistan's Islamic Revolution, Achievements, Difficulties and Problems": Discussing foreign, interventions in Afghanistan
 222
  OCTOBER-DECEMBERf 1990       MAN JIHAD                  VOL.4 NO. 1
 and pin-pointing their aims, the paper writes, "the west is no longer interested in an Afghanistan as desired by the Muslims and has drowned, the Middle East in an unpredictable crisis as a result of which the Arabs can no longer attend to the needs of-Afghanistan. Pakistan has been entangled in Kashmir and our mujaheddin groups cannot stretch friendly hand to Iran because, of their close ties with the Arabs. The abnormal conditions, both at home and abroad, have darkened the political and military atmosphere of Afghanistan still further, has , placed the role of rich nations Under question and there are doubts about the ability of those in power to cope with these issues and plan, for the future of the country. The present critical conditions have placed the resistance achievements in the middle of a cross-roads, where ambitiousness and inability to grab the opportunity can deprive our people from everything at their disposal.
 * The same issue of Payam-e-Islam, apart'from relating news of the jehad, discusses and analyses world events centered on the Middle East crisis.
                                                   31
 EDITORIAL:  Starts with the Geneva
 Accords and calling the Rawaipin<^i Advisory Council gathering, discusses the helplessness and confusion in jehad leadership and writes:  "The continuity
 of the communist government in Kabul and absence of political solidarity and an harmonious comprehensive military program to topple the puppet regime, depreciated the value and prestige of party leaders outside the country and diminished the regional and international military, political, economic and moral support of the just Afghan cause. The Russian, together with the Kabul, regime, stepped into the diplomatic and war arena claiming
 that their opponents were inefficient and lacked experiences for the future political order in Afghanistan. They opined that, to compromise, with the rulers of Kabul, in regard to a broad-based government is and will be the final option for the resolution of the Afghanistan crisis. A sense of deprivation coupled with hopelessness is gaining momentum with every passing day and the Kabul regime accentuates this feeling. Thus the current critical and fateful conditions, coupled with major and historical obligations, forced the jehad commanders to alter their tactics and come out from the seclusion and dependence oii only military operations* So they discreetly decided to operate both on military arid political fields- in order to get the required result under present circumstances.
 ARTICLES: "Main factprs of the current
 stalemant and what will be the future of Revolution?". A part of the article says: Political, social and military
 conditions prevalent in Afghanistan show that it was the Islamic force which started the jehad and resistance, but economic factors, monopolized by a handful, our determination and zeal weakened and * we could not achieve the desirable results. In the migration environment a well-off and comfortable coterie has been created. They are wasting with impunity the gains of the the historic uprsing of the Afghan nation.                   *
                           Shahadat
                          SEPTEMBER
                                 26
 REPORT:' Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami has said in a press conference, differences must end, unity maintained an<i a representative cotincil
22 j
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 iM
 of the nation established to frame the constitution of the country which may form the basis for future governments. At least we should compromise on an administration which may replace Najib's regime whenever it topples down. A united and common stance must be taken for the resolution of Afghan problem. In order to give a decisive and final blow to the regime of Kabul, we must compromise on such a plan. For striking the main and final blow to the Kabul regime, we should agree on a joint plan and command. Bringing a quick end to the war and establishing peace and an elected Islamic government are the basic objectives which call' for serious attention and unity among jehad forces. . It is exactly for the realization of this object that Hezb-e-Islami has extended its hand of cooperation and solidarity to other groups. In case others do not give us a positive response and insist or differences, the responsibility will be on their shoulders. In any case, we will continue our work. After vendicating ourselves, we will take a suitable step. Only those will insist on frictions and differences who are selfish, aimless, unsympathetic towards the nation and are looking forward to the consequences of Moscow-Washington intrigues and want the status-quo to prolong and mujaheddin should not be the one to resolve the Afghan problem. God willing, soon you will hear the good tidings of solidarity among effective groups and the whole world will come to know of the decisive and final blow to the Kabul regime.
                               OCTOBER
                                        3
 REPORT: In a ;seminar on .political
 studies held in Islamaabad, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said, "The gains of the Islamic movement during the past 22 years' is unprecedented. In
P                       vol.4 no.1
 order to put an end to the present situation in the country and to overthrow Najib’s government, we should agree to a common military strategy and deploy our forces against the Kabul regime under uni-fied command according to this plan. We have experience from the past that the division of portfolios among various parties on an equal basis has not yielded the desired results and has not resulted in unity of the (jehad) fronts. Our bitter experiences have taught us that reasonable results cannot be achieved by this means. We must unite our ranks and establish a strong government capable of enforcing the Shariat and establishing an Islamic society ... We must solve peacefully and in a brotherly atmosphere problems such as the transfer of power, who should rule-the country, who should be the leader, by peacef ul means ..."
      Hekmatyar added, "if we fail to do so, it means that we are going to allow whoever obtains the support of the majority of the armed forces and of the mujaheddin and who succeeds to overthrow the Kabul regime by the use of force, will establish the future Islamic government. In the latter case, we either support and obey him or stand against him which will, no doubt, have serious and dangerous consequences both for us and for the nation."
      Learned figures and tribal leaders of Mohmand, Khyber, Waziristan and Bajaur agencies reiterated their support for the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees in a meeting in Gandaw under the chairmanship of Haji Mumtaz Khan, leader of the Tribal Ittehad Party. They issued a resolution in this gathering against the supporters of Zaher Shah in which they also assailed the enemies of Islam for their plots and intrigues. The declaration adds, "we leaders of all the agencies , are ready for- an all out support of our
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
  mujahed and refugee brethern, as in the past,too, we had supported the Muslim Afghan nation against all kinds of aggrression and imperialist designs and are ready to give any sacrifice for this cause. "
       22
       "The Secret of Our Succeess". The pure blood of Afghan martyres saved the delicate saplings of the Afghan Islamic revolution from drying, if the Afghans would have lost their valour, as did the countries of East Europe and hoped for others to assist them, they too would have been shattered to such pieces that no one would have even remembered them ... The fact that the voices of our jehad- are still echoed is due to sacrifices rendered by our nation for the honor of Islam. If we were to depend on jirgahs and talks, our lot would have been like that of East European countries. Now-a-days that our jehad fighters are intending to wage a war for conquering Kabul, in addition to breaking the present deadlock in our jehad it will be proved to the world that it is by the tip of the sword that the fate of nations is decided.
  REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
  the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan said in Nasrat Congregational Mosque, "Some simple-minded people think that unity is achieved by getting together and shaking hands with each other only. But the unity that God has linked His promise with is the unity of hearts, the unity of aim and unity for rallying to the cause of God. *
 * The AIG President, Professor Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has told reporters, I don't have hostile feelings toward Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. We simply have differences of opinion over certain issues. He said Hekmatyar was his brother and that the doors of government is open to him. He is not
opposed to attack military centers and installations of Najib, but is worried about the losses of the people of Kabul, in case of an attack on that city, he added.
     The same issue of the newspaper has features On the launching of a major . offensive on Kabul; the award of Nobel prize to Gorbachev and the solving of inter-party conflicts in Helmand Province. .
                               NOVEMBER
                7
REPORT: During the obituary rituals of martyred Abdul Sami Khadem 16 October Leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Hekmatyar observed: There are lot of
intrigues underway against our jehad and we must face them continuously. Why extensive propaganda campaign is launched against Hezb-e-Islami? What is our fault and what have we done: Why
all this venomous campaign against us by the BBC, VOA, Radio Moscow and Radio Kabul?. The reason for Radio Moscow and Radio Kabul's enmity is well-known since we have fought them. But why the BBC and why VOA? Why news agencies of European Countries? Their press are all exclusively engaged against the Hezb-e-Islami. They know that the Hezb is such an effective force, that, in case it remains sound and in one piece, and the Afghan issue is solved, this force may pose danger and endanger not only their regional interests but internna-tional interests too. Therefore, Hezb-e-Islami has to be beaten. Not a single night passes without their venomous propaganda against us directly through their commentators or agents who are specially trained for this purpose and for this day".
NEWSJTEMS:
- Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has, asked the
225
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990  HfGIIMI JIHIW
VOL-4 NO-1
 entire Muslim world to take the issue of the desecration of the B'aburi Mosque by the Hindus seriously.
 - The Baghlan mujaheddin have captured six posts of the Kabul regime during various operations.
    As a result of mujaheddin operations, a Kabul regime officer and four soldiers were killed in Parwan 30 October .
     A joint session of jehad organizations has established a' sub-committee in the district of Ch'amkani.
                14
 REPORT: In connection with the sessions of commissions assignedi to avert tensions the Council for Cultural Harmony     decided      to     arrange
 questionnaire for interviews with the leaders of J two major jehad organizations, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Prof. Rabbani. Accordingly, the Council interviewed     respected     Gulbuddin
 Hekmatyar 27 September and respected Professor Rabbani 9 November and presently, according to the decision of the "Council for Harmony”, the texts of their interviews are being presented to the worthy readers in both the shahadat (Hezb official newspaper) and Mujahed (the Jamiat official newspaper).
       Prof. Rabbani has said: "Obliged
 by' a historical responsibility we have decided that, this time, our resolutions should nit be fully influenced by sympathetic and other considerations but based,/ on realities which ought to be pragmatic to be implemented. I must add this also that, according to some people's thinking,* the mountains can come closer together, but Hezb and Jamiat's closeness was supposed to be impossible because they were unable to solve their mutual problems. But, I think that this is
 totally wrong because, if We harmonize and coordinate our positions, then, by this means, we can make a shor cut towards full harmony. It is better that we come to compromise on major issues and our stand should be common. I am of the view that our route is entirely straight and we should forgive and forget our bitterness and annoyance. Then we can march hand-in-hand together.
       Hekmatyar, in this interview said: "The future  government   ought to
 be an elected Islamic: government and manifest the will of the people. The situation that is described by others as a 'stalmate' ought to be brought to an end. If Jamiat and Hezb unite,* ,a great part of our difficulties will be solved. And this intra-unity will pave the way for the solidarity among other parties as well. We assure that our endeavours in creating unity in the ranks and removing the differences are the outcome of our faith and religious belief and are totally devoid of any political expediencies. Those who unknowingly and ignorantly oppose the process of solidarity must be taught to understand".
                  21
 EDITORIAL:  "Armed Jehad:  An Effective
 Remedy". "A couple of days back, the Hezb^-e-lslami, in order to si'lence the voices of complaint raised over the stalemate prevailing for sometime past in the battle-fields, started its operations against Kabul and. provinces surrounding it ..."
      The article concludes by regarding the military solution as the only, way to solve the problem,*
 NEWS REPORTS:
      The faithful and courageous mujaheddin belonging to' Hezb-e-Islami
226
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfCH/IM JfH/ID
 Afghanistan alongwith the commanders and the mujaheddin of all the jehad groups led by Brother Mujahed Commander Hekmatyar started coordinated and large-scale operations at six in the morning of 19. November against the military installations of the puppet regime in the provinces of Kabul, Logar, Wardak, Maidan, Laghman, Parwan, Kunduz and Baghlan. These extensive operations were inaugurated by firing the first missile, on a military installation of the regime in the Logar Province, by Hekmatyar.
 - Kabul-Heyratan Highway was completed blocked November 19.
 - 'The first security belt’ around Kabul was destroyed November 19.
     During the early stage of the commencement of these extensive military operations against Kabul, the head of, the puppet regime left Kabul for Switzerland.
 - The Seretary of the ruling party in Logar province was killed 19 November during a mujaheddin operations.
                'i ,
 ARTICLES: "Refutation of the Irrelevant Religious Decrees" by Mawlawi Abdul Rahim Khinjani. The refutation of the Fatwa issued by the Religious Scholars, Committee of the defunct AIG's Ministry of Haj and Endowment, published in the daily Wahdat States,that the President of the present Islamic government of Afghanistan 'Prof. Mujaddedi, elected by the sagacious ulema, jehad commanders and competent people of Afghanistan, is the authorized eminent religious leader of Afghanistan, according to the Islamic jurisprudence. Therefore, it is binding on the people to obey him and consequently * any opposition or insurrection against him would be liable to prosecution. Also any decision taken without consulting him, would be considered null and void and those who take such decisions shall
VOL.4 NO.1
 be prosecuted.
      The writer of^ Shahadat article, deems this Fatwa . illegal from the view point of Islamic jurisprudence and opines:
      "Declaring official allegiance to Mr. Mujaddedi by the Council of the Men of Wisdom (ahl-e-hal wa aqd) has not taken place. The influence and power and grandeur of the Imam (i. e. the Eminent Religious Leader) over the people is subject to the verification and authenticity of the imamate., But,
. as Mr. Mujaddedi has himself repeatedly admitted,   he  definitely does  not
 possess that much power and influence on the people in Afghanistan, while being based at Peshawar, nor he weilds any powerful   influence   over  the
 refugees or the mujaheddin or the residents   of his country i He  was
 elected so that after the departure of the aggressors and the downfall of the quisling regime, the new government (i.e. the AIG) should replace it and fill the vacuum as well as ensure the security of the country ... Anyhow, the present Imam of the AIG is neither the most Eminent Religious Leader (Imam) according   to the Shari'at nor  his
 obedience is binding, on everyone nor opposition to him could be termed as insurrection and liable to prosecution ."                   ‘    .
                                DECEMBER
                4
 EDITORIAL: Commenting on Najib's trip
 to Geneva, the editorial says: "The
 trip under-taken by Najib without prelude is, in fact, to escape from the decisive strokes1 of the mujaheddin and unfortunately this trend is being encouraged by reactionary forces in the region and some other deceptive personalities under the cover of jehad. The Islamic Republic-of Iran is not yet
227
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 fully free from its nationalistic fanaticism and can disturb the peaceful atmosphere even during period of Haj pilgrimage not to mention its duties to host Najib. But being also aware of the wrath of the Afghan mujaheddin, its Foreign Ministry, ignoring its own state owned press, dubs the incident as a normal air-traffic necessity. Meeting with Zaher Shah and his friends was yet another side of this trip. World infidelity intends to use the same tool which failed once again. But more shameful is . the contacts made with Najib by our moderates and nationalists who are involved in our jehad. But we are positively sure that neither Najib nor the moderates and nationalists can offer any proof to their masters for diverting the path of jehad. Neither they will be able to convince the, people of Afghanistan to follow their .example. This jehad is aimed at the establishment of an Islamic order in the country. Nothing short of that. And that is why'it enjoys the overwhelming support of our nation.
 NEWS ITEMS:
      Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, told the BBC:  ’’Those who fight in the fronts
 feel the need for peace more than anyone else.”
 -  The Logar mujaheddin occupied three1 posts on Saudagar Pass 2 December. In Wardak province, the mujaheddin captured all the posts in the Panama area I December thus breaking the first security belt of the enemy.
 -  A complete military detatchment of the Kabul regime was captured by the mujaheddin in Samangan 23 November.
VOL.4 NO.1
        16
 EDITORIAL: "The way to solve the Afghan issue will be to end superpower intervention in:   the  Afghan jehad".
 Discussing the meeting held between the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister on the Afghanistan issue, the editorial writes:    The  two
 ministers have said in a press conference that they have reached impdrtant progress in their talks on:
 1.  Cutting arms supplies to the conflicting sides.
 2.  Consensus on the formation of a transitional government to supervize elections.
 3.  Fixing of a date for general elections under the auspices of the UN for the establishment of a , lawful government.
      In fact this can be considered as the beginning of a new plot and intervention in the affairs of our country. It is hard to believe that the Americans and Russians will ever think about the benefit of mankind, or, at least, stop intervention in the affairs of the Third World countries, particularly the Islamic nations.
 NEWS ITEMS:
     On the occasion of the death anniversary of Dr. Abdullab Ezam, Hekmatyar stated in his message:    "The
 sufferings of Islamic nations have begun whenever they have put down their arms and stopped fighting for the cause of God."
 -  Three security posts were destroyed in Herat and 24 militiamen were killed by the mujaheddin.
    The mujaheddin have attacked the Kabul regime positions near Mohammad Aga 8 December killing 135 officers and troops.
    The Herat mujaheddin arrested six members of the KHAD.
 -  Seven personnel of the Kabul regime
228
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1990 flfGHAN JIHAD                     VOL. 4 NO. 1
 were captured by the mujaheddin in Zabul.
                           Snbh -e-Pairiizee SEPTEMBER
              23
 REPORT: Officials of the Agency for the Badghis and South Western Region say the mujaheddin have frequently observed Soviet bombers fly from the direction of Bala Murghab district, on the Russian border, to attack Qala-e-Nau, the capital ■ of, Badghis. In formations of two „ and three, they continuously bomb targets. The raids have 'resulted in heavy casualties and many people are forced to leave their homes and seek refuge in the mountains.
              26
 INTERVIEW: Fazal Rabbi AhacU, Incharge
 of Education and Training of Mujaheddin in Wardak, who has lately come to Peshawar, has said in an interview with the MIDIA, there are about 12,000-13,000 stpdents in 35 schools established^ by the mujaheddin organizations in Maidan Shar, capital of Wardak only and in its districts Chak-e-Wardak there are 470 pupils taught by 35 teachers in the school of Shaheed Abdul Rab Ahadi.
              30
 REPORT: To contribute to everyday life
 activities effectively and to raise the standard of living for the disabled of the holy jehad of, Afghanistan, a training,center was opened 25 September in Yaweri, Baluchistan, by Dr. Sayyed Mohammad Amin Fatemi, the AIG care-taker Deputy Minister of Health. In this center there are facilities for medical check-up and treatment, boarding and lodging, tailoring and carpet weaving for 100 disabled. At present, 50 disabled have been admitted
 in the center.
                                 OCTOBER
                                     ' 3 '
 REPORT:   Professor Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, the AIG President and his entourage who had gone to the northern provinces of the country 11 September to meet the commanders and mujaheddin and discuss with them typical issues and observe the jehad positions, returned to Peshawar through Chitral 1 October. He was received at Naushera by the AIG Interior Minister Mawlawi Moh'ammad Younus Khales, ^Defense Minister Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Defense Minister, Minister of Agriculture, Mawlawi Mohammad Shah Fazli, high ranking officials, heads of the departments and a large number of ministry officials. In a statement in the Dar-ul-Uloom Mosque, Professor-Mu jaddadi expressed his heartfelt gratitude to respected Ahmed Shah Masood, President of the Supervisory Council and the famous mujaheddin commander of Northern provinces of Afghanistan and other commanders along with the mujaheddin for their warm and brotherly reception accorded to him. He said, his visit was highly successful am? he was well briefed regarding the jehad affairs. He hoped that such visits may continue as they proved useful. Ahmad Shah Masqod had supported whole heartedly the AIG government. His visit was instrumental in promoting better understanding with the Supervisory Council, he said.
 INTERVIEW: In an interviuew with MIDIA correspondent, Commander of Mujaheddin forces in Paktia Jalaluddin Haqqani, said: The mujaheddin of Safi Mountain
 are operating unitedly with great success. He added the Safi Mountain, north east of Kabul and extending 60 kms. in. the vicinity of Kabul and Parwan, is a strategic area for
229

OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HlUllHHULilHt)                    VOL.4 NO.1
 operations on the military targets in Kabul and BagraM, and from this area the mujaheddin, unitedly, launch•their attacks on enemy installations. He said that the days of Kabul regime are numbered now but only' due to the lack of a united and single government of all the mujaheddin, it has survived.
      Other articles of this issue are devoted to the blessed birth anniversary of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him.
                                                7
 REPORT: A number of scholars, including the AiG judges and members of Supreme Court and mujaheddin commanders,' met the AIG President Prof. Mujaddadi and discussed with him Matters of interest. Prof. Mujaddadi briefed them on his recent'visit to the northern provinces of the country' and recalled with gratitude the warm and cordial reception accorded to him by Ahmed Shah Masood, the President of Supervisory Council. He said he is ready to hand oyer the power of President to a greater council comprising. the representatives of the whole nation or to an advisory council similar to one held in February 1989 in Rawalpindi. He disagreed with the invasion and stampede of the citizens of Kabul terming it the massacre of ; innocent people.
 * According to the mujaheddin, the c.ity of Tar in Kot, the capital of Uruzgan province was conquered 3 October.,The city was captured through the operations of the provincial mujaheddin and" direct participation of Kandahar mujaheddin, Eight hundred soldiers and militiamen surrendered to mujaheddin along with their equipments. The city was- occupied on the basis of a plan masterminded by the AIG scheme and implemented by Commander Mullah .Naqibullah Akhundzada of the United Council of the Chiefs of nine liberated
districts of Kandahar. About 2,000 mujaheddin participated in the operation.
                                                10
INTERVIEW:   The AIG President Prof.
Mujaddedi in a press interview has said, "Militarily we ought to be strong and we should increase our military operations. He said Commander Masood, in the past, particularly after the departure of the Russians, was faced with a kind of tight situation and was victim of arms sanctions and that is why he was unable to get even a single cartridge during past 1} year. The kind * of        well      administered
infrastructure that I noticed in areas under his^ control has no example in many of our other provinces. I hope other provinces will follow suit and arrange their affairs in the similar way. There is no role for Zaher Shah today. He neither took part in the jehad nor showed up on the scene. As such, his role has lost its ^lustre and there is no room for him today. Therefore under prevalent conditions he cannot be an option... ■ The Supervisory Council anci our mujaheddin brothers in northern provinces are against Zaher Shah leadership in Afghanistan".
* Dr. Abdul Rahman, Civil Surgeon of Shaheed Sayyed Abdullah Hospital, has said in an interview with MIDIA:    The
hospita-l was founded 10 years ago in Peshawar. Since one year, it has been affiliated to the AIG Ministry of Public Health. He has given the following figures in regard to the treatment of patients:     25,293 bone
patients;, 4,980 asthmatic patients; 6,790 patients of internal diseases;
2,215 patients of venerial disease; 421 children patients suffering from normal disease; 3,237 anemia patients and 1,612 paresytical patients. The hospital has 18 doctors, 14 nurses,
3 female doctors, 7 female nurses and 52      persCnnel     (medical      and
230
4
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MGHflNJIMD                        VOL.4 N0.1
 administrative. About 250 patients are being treated daily inspite of the lack of medicines.
       Other features in this issue of the paper are:
      course opened on libfary management.
   Institute of Political Studies in Islamabad ended its two day seminar on its annual program.
 * It has also, an article on news writing techniques.
                                                  14
 REPORT: Addressing a  gathering on the
 occasion ✓ of the distribution '• of credentials to the fifth term graduates of the Military Academy 11 October, the AIG Premier Prof. Sayyaf said, "The Afghan problem cannot be solved other than a resort to sword and gun and sacrifice. You should not wait to seek political avenues."
 * The 3rd session of the Afghan jehad
 Commanders' Council was held 14 October with participation of 33 commanders of various organizations from different provinces under the chairmanship of Ahmed Shah Masood,     the leader    of
 Advisory Council, in Topkhana, Badakhshan. Recent     political    and
 military developments in relation to jehad were discussed in the meeting. Nine commanders of different provinces were assigned during the second session of the commission to scrutinize problems of the jehad and, after adopting decisions for solving them, report to the general session of the commanders.
      Other items published in this issue are:
   500 troops of the atheist regime captured by the        mujaheddin    in
 'Qala-e-Nau1.
 - The Mujaheddin captured seven enemy posts in Bagrami, Kabul province.
 - Commander Sayyed Ahmed, a famous leader of the Kabul government militia^ forces was killed in Herat.
 - The mujaheddin killed 34 Kabul regime troops and militiamen in Kunduz.
 - An article, on "News editing methods" has also been published.
                17
 EDITORIAL: "From Addressing  'Basmachi'
 to ^Inviting": The editorial studies the hostility of the communists with Islam and the mujaheddin the communist coup in Afghanistan and states the change that have occured in their policy from time to time due to their defeat in various stages. With respect to Russian behaviour, it writes, "when they faced the realities and, pressured by world public opinion and the cold logic of reality, they realized that in any way the future of Afghanistan belongs to the resistance force of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. Admitting their latest defeat, the editorial adds, they invited the AIG President to visit Russia. They used the word "President" to Prof. Mujaddedi in their invitation letter. The world could not believe that the Russians would admit such a defeat.                            g
     The same issue of/ the newspaper covers:
 - Pakistan's invitation to Ahmad Shah Masood to visit that country; '
     Mujaheddin military victories in Parwan, Kabul, Zabul, and Nangarhar provinces;
          / _
     Styles of News Reporting.
231
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990_flluHMJfflM                     VOL.4 NO-1
            20
 EDITORIAL:   "Recent Efforts of Jehad
 Leaders Have Consolidated Hopes for Success in the Hearts of Muslim Afghan Nation." Shedding light on the recent meetings among the mujaheddin, it writes, in order' to bring about the overthrow of Kabul regime and, at the same time, safeguard public property and lives of the people who have forcibly been kept at the side of the infidel government or have not been able to migrate the leaders and commanders of jehad have resolved to launch extensive operations on the centers of the infidel regime. These operations are not designed by a particular group or commander. They are to be approved by all jehad parties and commanders. The plan of the attack is being worked out, since it is the urgent need of jehad.
 REPORT: The General Commander of Paktia Province Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani has said in a press conference of jehad commanders:  If the jehad commanders of
 Afghanistan unite, a single jehad command would be established and there would be no danger of Afghanistan's disintegration and foreign intervention.
 * The newspaper ,has devoted a> special page for children stories with moral touches and an'•article entitled, "Islamic marriage".
                                                 31
 EDITORIAL:  "Appraisal Self-making and
 Practical Action":    It writes:   "with
 physical ouster of the Russians from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin were poised militarily in a stage of aggressive strategy which they could have passed successfully and then the fall of Kabul regime and the establishment of an Islamic government would have become a , reality. But something went wrong with appraisal of the situation regarding
that stage. Whereas an appraisal of strength and number of .mujaheddin was
                    '   I '
indispensable at this stage for important military operations with a view to topple the Kabul regime. Taking advantage of this opportunity the mujaheddin could have known their own positive and negative points also. By having a realistic knowledge about the positive and negative points of the adversary, they could have embarked on gainful military operations.. But now with the passage of last one and half years, there is a feeling of dire need for another appraisal and self-making in both military as well as political sectors among all the ' mujaheddin and other activists of jehad and attempts are underway in this regard. Obviously it is the duty as well as Islamic and national obligation of our each and every Muslim compatriot, at this stage, to lend support to' this process so that political and military affairs of all the jehad forces are earnestly and sincerely coordinated which will culminate in final victory and the realization of our cherished goal.
* The following topics are also included in this issue of Subh-e-Pairuzee:                   . t
     Sessions for coordinating the military and political forces of mujaheddin continue.
- Abdul Hai Haqju, The General Amir of Jamiat-e-Islami in Baghlan province says:  The establishment of commonders
council, the exchange of views on military affairs and jehad and the adoption of common resolutions are the best way for embarking on a coordinated and harmonious military operation against the enemy and final victory in the jehad.
   In the provinces of Logar, Ghazrii and Kabul 50 enemy soldiers and militia were killed or wounded.
232
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 AfGHflN JIHIIII
    What was it that made Gorbachev eligible for the award of Nobel Prize, was it his invaluable services in the way of peace or humanitarian causes.
 - An article about headline writing in journalism.
                               NOVEMBER
                                          7
 EDITORIAL: The editorial, entitled
 "Najib is morally defeated and seems to be confused", points to the. recent Najib actvities by holding conferences, and advises him to avail himself of the opportunity provided by mujaheddin regarding "general amnesty" and surrender to mujaheddin along with his comrades.
 REPORT: In an interview with the press
 Ahmad Shah Masood said:    "If the
 mujaheddin existing forces are. utilized reasonably, the Kabul regime .will fall militarily. We are of the opinion that the formation of a new party clashes with Islamic ideals and the interests of Afghanistan .and we brand such an act as treason. An Islamic regime is what our nation has asked for, and we have always emphasized.the same. As long as the real motive behind war and crime -the existance of the communist regime in' Afghanistan t ; is not eliminated the refugees shall not return to Afghanistan. We shali never, accept power sharing with Khalq* party. Likewise, considering Zahir Shah's age, personal ineffectiveness and his past in Afghanistan, he cannot play an important role in future Afghanistan.
 *  Sayyed Yar Mohammed, commander in Arghandab district has said that as long as Islamic Shariat is not enforced in Afghanistan , the mujaheddin will not lay their arms.
 *  A veteran educationist Mohammad
 VOL.4 NO -1
 .Mohsen Farmoli says:    "At  present  the
  condition . of Kabul citizens is very1 critical and the state, as a whole, is faced with a . critical political and economic situation. Kabul has not got enough food for its Citizens, the prices have shot up sky high, inflation is back breaking and the people unnerved."
  EDITRORIAL:  "A  unified   political  and
  military strategy". While recalling the rifts and disunity, among the ranks of jehad movement and in the light of fresh developments, it writes:  "But now,
  no ambiguity is left as to the .urgent need for evolvement of a unified and reasonable military and political strategy for toppling the communist Kabul regime and the establishment of an Islamic government.’ The latest moves ; by jehad, leaders indicate that they, along with all the activists of jehad, are determined more than ever to' rectify previous serious blunder and launch an all out attack to bring to an end once for all, the communists criminal rule in Afghanistan and their unpatriotic activities. Needless to say that it is during this critical and sensitive period of our history that all peace loving and patriotic elements of our sacred land especially the intellectual scholars and dedicated Muslim brothers and writers endeavour selflessly to bring to a common and unified single fold all the jehad forces in order to realize the singular strategic military and political strategy and should abstain vehemently from anything in writing or verbally which will antagonize or harm the sacred national and Islamic cause of the Afghans ,or tend to create rift among the jehad forces.
  NEWS ITEMS:
  - The mujaheddin repulsed an attack of the puppet regime forces in Logar and captured 40 of their, militia men.
 i
233
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 AfGHflM JEHAD                     VOL.4 NO.1
 - In the district of Shakar Darah, of Kabul province 30 men of the enemy were killed and 20 others were captured 29 October by mujaheddin.
                                   The Kabul Airport was rocketted.
                                                 11
 EDITORIAL: "The  UN and an Oppressive
 Resolution".     Regarding the UN
 resolution of Afghanistan emphasizing the participation of all concerned parties in free and independent elections     in    Afghanistan,     the
 editorial, while expressing its concern, writes that the participants will include the Kabul regime and Khalq party as well. The editorial goes on as saying that the resolution is oppressive because the communists are criminals and murderers of the Afghan nation. Therefore the participation of Parcham and Khalq treacherous and unpatriotic       groups     in      the
 self-determination process of the Afghans, in any way and under any name is totally rejected. As long as the Communist Kabul regime, which is responsible for all kinds of crimes in Afghanistan, illegally holds Sway in the Afghan affairs there won't be any hope for peace and security in Afghanistan.
            V
 REPORT:   Mawlawi Abdul Razaq, the
 Commander of Zabul province and the AIG Minister of Haj and Endowment, on his return from Zabul province said:    "The
 Zabul Commanders have rejected the jirgah overtures and messages of Najib pertaining to a lifting of the siege of Qalat city, the center of Zabul province.
   A helicopter of the enemy was shot down in Ghazni and its pilot killed 7 November.
   In Kabul and Wardak six people, belonging to. "Geleem JamU", were
 captured along with a big quantity of arms and ammunition by the mujaheddin.
                                                 14
 EDITORIAL: "Najib implements Kremlin's
 new plan". True to the chain of futile Kremlin measures, now Najib has been ordered to meet the socalled scholars, intellectuals, religious personalities and elders belonging to various sections of the population and cpllect their     opinions    regarding the
 broad-based atheist government of Kabul along with a solution to the Afghanistan problem. In pursuance of this directive, as reported by the international media, Najib has taken up the implementation process of the Kremlin order in right earnest as of 8 November and has so far met with about 60 religious scholars, tribal leaders and intellectuals. It is said that in this process the program of meeting with 234 persons is included.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 -  The AIG President visited the jehad positions and trenches in the west of the country 13 November province.
 -  Prof. Mujaddedi., - in a wireless message from Herat province, has rejected the UN resolution urging holding of elections in Afghanistan with participation of all parties because such a plan would benefit the communists as well. They too will be eligible to vote and such a step negates the will and desires of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
    Eng. Aishan • Jan Areef, the AIG Minister of Mines and Industries, while talking to the correspondent of MIDIA said: "The  soap making plant of Pamir
 is one among tens of such projects which has been included in our work plan, since- the establishment of the Ministry of Mines and Industries. It is
234
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 MM JIHAD.                         VOL.4 NO. 1
 since one     month  that/ Pamir's.
 Soap-making  ,Plant  has    started
 productions with Rs. 800*000 capital and 10 workers. It is expected to produce around 380,000 kgs. of soap in the first six months.
                                 DECEMBER
                2
 EDITORIAL: The editorial has asked the Kabul armed forces to relinquish fighting the mujaheddin and come over to the resistance side and resume an honorable way of life.
 NEWS ITEMS:
    Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said, in a speech that if the jehad leaders did not ignore their privileges, there would no fundamental progress in the affairs of the' jehad leadership.
 - On the basis of the new war strategy workedout by the mujaheddin the Kunduz-jSherkhan Port Highway has been closed to traffic since 27 November.
    The mujaheddin of Parwan and Samangan provinces have killed 54 Kabul regime personnel.
     Mawlawi Mohammad Shereen a mujaheddin leader of Wardak has said that the question of complete mujaheddin unity depended on the leaders and. commanders of the jehad and there were still no complete unity of the commanders.
    The mujaheddin in Jauzjan have killed 24 pro-regime people and have captured 20 pieces of arms.
 - The newspaper has also an article on "techniques of 'interview" related to journalism.
                16
 EDITORIAL:   "Mujaheddin  Intensify
 Military Operations, the panic of the
  Kabul Russian Regime". Analyses the latest mujaheddin operations and considers it so effective to have caused a great deal of panic to the Kabul regime.            .
  NEWS ITEMS:
  - The Presidential palace Of Najib was hit by the mujaheddin rocket fire 10 December.
  - Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales met with inhabitants of Haska Maina, Shinwar in Nangarhar province 2-3 December regarding the Loya Jirgah. He also held separate meetings with commanders and elders of the area regaring jehad problems.
  - Dr. Asadullah Shinwari, President of . the Institute of Malaria and Lashmania, told a press representative, "We began our work in March when 765 persons were examined. This number increased steadily and at present stands at 6,090 monthly. He added that all the patients were given free medicine.
  COMMENT:  "God help, the 'Azadi' has
  become a 'Daily'. The Azadi, consisting Of four pages was circulated yesterday and it was obvious from its contents that it is going to be published daily. We congratulate iVs founder and editor, Afrasyabi, for this first Islamic and Jehad daily newspaper and wish him all success in this regard. We also hope that the paper pays more attention to the unity of the mujaheddin and the mujaheddin organizations and avoid writing materials that may sow the aeeds of disunity among them. Because all our grievances today ate the direct outcome , of disunity and if it is not stopped in time, it may prove to be fatal to all of us. Unfortunately, about. 60-70% of this paper's contents so far have been devoted to items which incite disunity. We hope this trend will not continue. Though we already see that its first issue as a daily is also following the same trend. If it - continues to do so, then God help us.
235
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990        AFGHANJfHAD _____         VOL.4 N0.1
      CHRONOLOGY OF AFGHAN
             EVENTS
OCTOBER—DECEMBER 1990
236
OCTOBER-DECEMBER.    1990     III    VOL.4 NO.1 
c             RO     N 01 LOi GY  0  F AFGHAN   
                          El  /El 41 rs         
OCTOBER —DECEMBER 1990
                                 OCTOBER
                 1
*  For fear of mujaheddin's infiltration and their _ possible attack on Kabul, the Najibullah regime ground and air units were carrying out large scale operations 30 September against mujaheddin positions and known infiltration routes. Kabul regime Foreign Ministry spokesman Humayun Mukammel said bombing raids by MIG-21s had destroyed vehicles carrying arms and ammunition to the mujaheddin dn Logar province. There was, however, no independent confirmation of the number of vehicles put out of action. (PT)
* As a preliminary step towards peace
in Afghanistan, both Moscow and Washington have agreed to set up a joint commission, reports BBC. For this reason, the settlement of the matter has been left for the experts' of both countries. The - Americans have . now conceded that Najib can remain President till the start of a peace process. (NTN)
*  Radio Kabul reported that at least 36 persons were killed or wounded by rockets fired on Kabul. The radio added that one of the rockets fell in a crowded bazar killing 10 persons.
(VOADS)             '  .
               2
                                                   The Afghan mujaheddin broke’off the security cardon of Kabul forces near
 Khost Airport 4 a.m. 1 October and r.eportedly captured two security posts and inflicted heavy losses to them in face to face fighting. Meanwhile, eye witnesses .reaching from Kabul reported great insurgency and chaos in the Afghan capital after the threat of mujaheddin to attack the city. They also reported clashes between the regime militia and its regular army. Reports also say that Najibullah has ordered three gunship helicopters, two at the Presidential Palace and the third at the Russian Embassy to remain on the alert for 24 hours. (PT)
 * On his return to Peshawar October 1
 after 20-day trip* to Afghanistan, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said, "Conditions are not conducive for elections at present". He described his visit as positive and praised the security      prevailing     in      the
 mujaheddin-administered regions.•(PT)
 *  In one of the worst days for Kabul in recent memory, the Afghan capital came under heavy rocket attack 30 September by the Afghan mujaheddin and 10 rockets hit the city in the first hour alone, reports BBC. The attack came on the day when the Khbul regime -announced further air raids on a mujaheddin convoy moving towards the capital. (PT)
 * The AAF sources have quoted the commander of the mujaheddin's joint force, Ataullah Khan, as saying that all preparations in connection with the fall of Kabul were complete and the mujaheddin were waiting for the
237
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1990 flfllllllN litfMU                 VOL.4 NO-1
 decision of their leadership. He said the campaign was planned keeping all the aspects of the military strategy. The agency further' said that the mujaheddin captured three security posts in Chakari near Kabul. Ten other security posts were also damaged ' during the operation and 28 Kabul troops were killed and injured and 15 others captured alongwith arms. (NTN)
 * According to The New York Times, the
 US Congress recently voted to cut the U& aid to the Afghan mujaheddin by one third. The Bush administration, however, has refused to accept any such condition or restriction. One reason for the Congress vote is that ' the Afghan mujaheddin are not willing for holding dialogue for a settlement of the Afghan  issue, the       paper says.
 Meanwhile, some members of the Congress are of the view that the aid to the . mujaheddin should continue as Soviet Union is still giving military and economic aid worth five billion dollars annually to the Najibullah regime. (JG)
 *  Twenty kgs. of explosives^ and 18
 bombs of various sizes that were planted in crowded parts of the district 6      of    Kabul   city  were
 discovered and defused. (RA)
 * A BBC correspondent, commenting on
 the situation in Kabul,„ writes that recently the    Kabul  regime troops launched     extensive operations     on
 mujaheddin strongholds around Kabul and claimed victories over their positions in the mountains northwest of Kabul. Bu- the mujaheddin are said to be still capable of firing rockets on Kabul and are constantly seeking opportunities for an upper hand. On the other hand, the > dismissal of the government of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan has strengthened the moral in some mujaheddin groups while a number of mujaheddin organizations have clearly spoken of increased pressure on the regime in
  Kabul. Despite differences between them, the mujaheddin, by firing rockets on Badghis* and their surprise and ma jor rocket attacks on Kabul city, have proved their ability to launch attacks of this nature upon the regime in Kabul. (BBCFS)
  *   By establishing military posts between Kandahar and Daman District, •the Kabul regime has created hinderances for the mujaheddin to carry out their logestic activities. In clashes between 25 September-1 October, 85 militiaman were killed, about 100 wounded and 17 tanks and vehicles destroyed.
       Fierce fighting between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime troops is continuing in Qalat. At least 60 mujaheddin have been killed and another 81 wounded, a jet-fighter of the Kabul regime has also been shot down. Similarly 26 September and 29 September, the mujaheddin attacked military posts at Chauk-e- Arghandeh and Karezak of Paghman occupying two military posts. There were 10 casualties among the regime troops and a B.M. 41 armored vehicle was also destroyed. (VOAPS)
                    3
  * A resolution, unanimously approved 2 October by the OIC and the text worked out after consultations with the Soviet Union, stresses an "early start" of the intra-Afghan dialogue for the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan and calls for "cessation of hostilities and creation of peaceful conditions that would enable millions of Afghan’ refugees in Pakistan and Iran to return to their homeland." It will now go before the UN General Assembly which will take up the Afghanistan question next month. (PT)
  * Kabul regime's militiamen, sta'tioned
 238
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990   nfGHilM'JfHAD                   VOL.4 N0.1
 around Jalalabad city in security posts, are. committing crimes against the civilian population and searching homes and looting property, reports a newly arrived refugee from the city. He told MIDIA that villages and townships around the besieged city were continuously searched by some strange looking militiamen. (PT)
 * The daily Independent (London)
 reports that the mujaheddin were
 preparing for a major assault on Kabul
 by deploying a substantial number of
 forces in an effort to capture the *
 city. They have established 40,000 rockets and some • 700 big ammunition trucks and arms around Kabul. Meanwhile the Kabul regime's, air force has destroyed 70 mujaheddin vehicles containing' arms and ammunition south of Kabul, according to Radio Moscow. (RMDS)
 * Twenty five persons were killed when a rocket hit a crowded area far coal distribution in Kabul. Twenty two other persons were injured. (RA)
 * In an interview with VOA, Mawlawi
 Younus Khales has stated that the ''Salafis", under Mawlawi Jamil-uru-Rah-man> were creating problems in Kunar. He said that they were dividing the people: which will eventually lead to a
 division of Afghanistan. On the other hand, an Arab employee of the "Aldaa'wa Elal Quran wa Sunna" which belongs to the Salafis, has said that though it would be difficult to establish the exact number of Arabs working in Kunar, Arab volunteers are said to be in thousands. .(VOAPS)
                   4
 * The Afghan mujaheddin, in battles in Daman District of Kandahar, have destroyed seven tanks of the Kabul regime and killed some troops, the exact number of which could not be
 determined. Sixteen     militiamen  wete
 captured and a military vehicle, containing   arms   and ammunition,  also
 fell in the hands of the mujaheddin. Regime . forces attacked a group of mujaheddin in the Munar region killing seven and wounding another 12. (VOAPS)
 *  MIDIA reports that 23 September the.
 mujaheddin     in Logar   attacked  some
 military      posts  at   Ahmedzai   and
 Qala-e-Shahee. One regime tank was destroyed, 13 militiamen were killed or wounded. On the same , day, the mujaheddin placed the KHAD Department of Ghazni under artillary fire killing seven KHAD members and wounding another six. One mujahed was killed and three wounded. (VOAPS)
 *   In an attack on Kabul regime military establishments in Imam Saheb, Kandahar around middle of September, 19 militiamen were reported to have been killed and another three captured. One mujahed al.so died and another two were wounded. Also in Baghlan, the mujaheddin attacked-a Kabul regime supply convoy in which they captured a truck with food supplies and destroyed one tank. The occupants of the tank were also killed. (VOAPS)
 *   Nine kilograms' of explosives,; planted in district 8 of Kabul, were discovered by the security units of the regime 4 October and were rendered ineffective. (RA)
 * A member of the UN, who did not disclose his name, is reported to have said that the Kabul regime Air force bombarded a UN - Camp (SALAM Operations) in Arghestan, Kandahar, and despite persistent' communication with ‘the regime's authorities in Kabul regarding the incident, bombing still continued. Officials of the camp have now returned **o Quetta. (VOAPS)
239
OCTOBER-DECEMBER*. 1990 IlfGHJIN J[WID                       VOL.4 NO.1
                      5
 *  The New York Times, commenting on Afghanistan 5 October writes,though the Soviet Union withdrew its 115 thousand troops from Afghanistan, by keeping over 500 of its advisers still in the country and by offering over five billion dollars annual economic and military assistance to the Kabul regime,has kept the communist regime in Kabul still > in power. Such substantial military and economic support has strenghtened the will of those members in the US Congress who believe that the assistance program to Afghan mujaheddin should be continued. (VOAFS)
 *  The capital of Uruzgan Province fell to the mujaheddin 2.30 a.m. 4 October and the Governor of the Province alongwith the military staff surrendered themselves to the '
 mujahed-din • joint council. Kabul regime Deputy Defense Minister General     Mohammad      Nabi     Azimi
 said, "several security posts" in U.ruzgan fell into mujaheddin hands before they overran the Tarin Kot Garrison. An independent military observer said in Kabul 5 October, the fall of Tarin Kot will rejuvenate the guerrillas and it is no doubt a major victory for the mujaheddin and a heavy psychological blow to the government.
. (PT)
 *  Latest reports from Afghanistan say that the mujaheddin are fortifying their positions after the capture of Tarin Kot, Uruzgan, by them.(PT)
                 l '      \  \   . ~
 *  Zahid Ibrahimi, the Jehad Amir of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) in Nangarhar province, was killed along with six- other eminent mujaheddin commander^,, in Rodat district Friday 5 October night when a rocket smashed the hut where they were counselling.
 (MLM)'
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have foiled and repulsed an attack by the Kabul regime forces on their positions at Samarkhel, Kan Qiraghi and Surkh Dewal outside Jalalabad, Nangarhar province and inflicted on them heavy losses in men and material. The mujaheddin also captured three new posts and arms and ammunition in Surkh Dewal area. (NWT).
 *. Replying to a speech by the Foreign Minister of Kabul regime in the UN General Assembly 6 October, the Pakistan representative Shaukat- Omar said that his country would continue-to support the struggle for basic rights of the people of . Afghanistan and Kashmir. He said that peace cannot be restored in Afghanistan unless a government acceptable to all the Afghans is established there. (JG)
 *  Certain important Afghan refugee leaders are understood to have offered their services for the defense of sacred places in-Saudi Arabia and told the. Saudi leaders that the Afghan
^refugees were keen to leave for Saudi Arabia to serve the cause. Meanwhile, reliable sources of Pakistan's Foreign Office have said that the Government of Pakistan will not stand in the way of Afghan refugees to go to .Saudi Arabia. However, they have been advised by the government. that they owed heavy responsibility with regard ; to the Afghanistan issue and it would be proper for them to concentrate at the moment on1 the establishment of a mujaheddin joint council. (MLM)
                  6
 * In discussiuons held between the Foreign Ministers of Pakistan and USSR in NY, 4 October the two- countries agreed to step up efforts to promote a peaceful settlement of conflict in Afghanistan. "We have agreed to hold consultations on a more regular basis and to help the Afghans achieve peace,"
240

 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HlllHflNJIHflU                    VOL.4 NO-1
 Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze told . APP. Expressing his "deep satisfaction", Sahibzada Yaqub Khan, Pakistan's Foreign Minister, said that consultations between■the two countries would be intensified to accomplish an early solution. of the Afghanistan problem. (PT)
 * Addressing a Juma congregation at
 Shamshatu refugee camp in Peshawar 4 October, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan      Gulbuddin     Hekmatyar
 expressed resentment over the sending of a delegation to India during the recent visit of Najibullah by a particular group asking him to hand over the reign of power to them. Hekmatyar disclosed that Najibullah turned down the request of this particular group and, instead, expressed readiness to share power with them. (PT)
 *  Pakistan has informed the US that any imposed arrangment will not f>e acceptable to Afghans - and it will support eVery such decision as is finalized after taking their leaders into confidence and that it supports their stand that no interim arrangement can work unless Najibullah is removed. According to informed sources, this was told to US Ambassador, Robert Oakley, when he met the Pakistan Foreign Secretary Shehryar Khan in Islamabad to inform him on progress of Baker-Shevardnadze meeting for an interim arrangement in Afghanistan.
 (JG)         '     (             - *
*   According to latest reports,' the Afghan mujaheddin, besieging Kabul city, have rocketted Najibullah1s Palace and Soviet Embassy and also t.argetted several other government offices. Unconfirmed reports say that Kabul regime ruler Najibullah has been injured in the attack and taken to Moscow. (MWT)
 *  It is reported from Herat that the
 Kohsan district in that province has fallen to the mujaheddin. A report from Uruzgan says . that the fall of Tirin' Kot, center of the province, has enabled the mujaheddin to capture 3,000 light or heavy arms, seven tanks and a large     number     of     ammunitions.
 Commanders, taking part in these operations, have said that the governor of the province finally surrendered to them after long resistance. The report adds that the Kabul regime carried out 140 air raids on Tirn Kot after its fall. (VOAPS)
 *  General Nabi Azimi, the deputy Defense Minister of the Kabul regime, has in an interview after the fall of Tirinkot, the center of Uruzjan, stated "there is no doubt thaf a small detachment of 500 strong defended Uruzgan for about a year and-a-half,
 but it was on the account of a treachery on the part of the governor and some of his close supporters that the mujaheddin infiltrated in Tirin Kot (RA) .
 *  A BBC correspondent reports from
 Kabul that the fall of Uruzgan is considered a great victory for the mujaheddin. The Kabul regime, making use of its large airforce, was trying to recapture the province. The fall of the province has made the         regime
 nervous and very concerned but they have, at the same time,’ tried to show that it was of no great importance.
 (BBCFS).
                   7
 *  There were .verbal exchanges between Abdul . Wakil, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, and the Pakistani reepresen-tative in the UN during the General Assembly. The Kabul regime Minister stated that Pakistan was aiding the mujaheddin with arms and military
241
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NQ.1
 training and was supplying them rockets. This, he said, has given the civil war in Afghanistan new dimentions resulting in an increase in civilian casualties. He also accused Pakistan of preventing the refugees to return home and to use them in the production of drugs. The Pakistan representative, on the other hand, while rejecting these accusations, blamed the Kabul regime for violating Pakistani air space and targetting the Pakistani territory with SCUD rockets killing hundreds of civilians. (BBCFS).
 * in   an unusual move, the Kabul
 government 5 October admitted losing Uruzgan province to the mujaheddin broad-based government in Afghanistan.
 ( JG)
 *' The daily Nation wrote in its editorial 7 October tha-t the Afghanis-tan problem had reached the stage of virtual impasse. The stalemate is due to the fact that neither the mujaheddin nor Najibullah have the ability to knock each other out. Moreover, both the US and the Soviet Union are now placed in situations which would render them incapable to continuing their aid to the respective sides. The pressure for a settlement is thus mounting for a face-saving settlement acceptable to all. The hope that the sudden stoppage of foreign aid to- the combatants would inevitably
 bring them to heel may not prove effective. Guerrilla wars, if fought long enough, are known to acquire lives
 of their own. Yet from Pakistan's point of view a solution of the problem is vital. It can hardly afford to leave
 any stone unturned to find a way out. To that extent the meeting of Soviet-Pak Foreign Ministers to
 coordinate their efforts to find a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem needs to be welcomed. (NTN)
                   8
 *  Mujaheddin sources have stated that the Kabul regime had established three security posts in Kunar region two of which had been captured by the mujaheddin. Observers have said that the regime forces were strengthening their positions around Kunar. (BBCFS)
 *  As a result of rocket attacks on a sparsely populated areas in Pakistan, near the Afghan border, one person is reported dead. AFP has reported that at least 17 rockets were fired from inside Afghanistan on a mountainous, district north of Pakistan. The report added that, .two hours after the incident, two Afghan MIG fighters flew over Chatral inside Pakistan. (VOADS)
 *  Iran Embassy Charge d* Affaires in Kabul has presented Afs. 500,000 to the President of Malalai Maternity Hospital and a similar amount.to the ARC. (RA)
 *  A seminar on contemporary literature was held in Swat, NWFP Pakistan, 3 October. The seminar jointly sponsored by the WUFA, the Association of the Professors of Afghan universities and the Cultural Organization of Afghans, lasted three days and was attended by 24 writers, researchers and professors.
 (VOAPS)
 *   Speaking at the 41st session of the executive committee meetings of the UNHCR in Geneva, Dil Jan Khan, Secretary States and Frontier Regions Division of Pakistan, has said the UNHCR and the rest of the donor community must ensure that those Afghan refugees who are not able to return will continue to receive relief assistance in Pakistan till they are repatriated. He said Pakistan earnestly desired that requisite funds should continue to come forth so that the humanitarian program of relief assistance for refugees continued
242
OCTOBER-DECEMBER * 1990
VOL.4 NO-1
 uninterrupted. (FT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin ambushed and killed 1st October the head of national reconciliation and his five militiamen in Khwaja Om'ri district, Ghazni where they had gone on a propaganda campaign against the mujaheddin. Three military vehicles were also burned in the operation. In Baghi Daoud,' Paghman, the mujaheddin killed six soldiers and destroyed two tanks in their attack on Kabul regime's headquarters of 4th army operatory division. In their joint operation in Dahai Dulaggai and Dahnai Zulfeqar areas of Herat 4 October, they claimed to have captured the areas., and arrested a number of Iranian volunteer communists while some crossed over the Russian border. On Torghudi-Herat Highway, they captured Kamar Kulghai's headquarter and imprisoned 60 officers and soldiers and captured 140 assorted weapons, four military vehicles and one tank. Mujaheddin suffered no loss. In Qala-e-Shahi area of Mohammad Agha, Logar, the mujaheddin destroyed one tank and two military vehicles 1 October. In their attack on military, positions at Katraghe and Surkh Deewal 6 October in Nangarhar province,two brigadiers bf the Kabul regime were killed alongwith 13 military personnel including officers by. the mujaheddin. Two tanks were also destroyed in the attack. The mujaheddin successfully pushed back the regime forces from the Katraghe and Surkh Deewal areas. (MLM)
 *, The Deputy Permanent Representative of Pakistan at the UN Shaukat Omar has refuted charges by the Kabul regime's representative that Islamabad was interfering in Afghanistan .in pursuit to a, military solution. Exercising his right to reply, he said, the hind'erance to a solution of the tragic Afghan problem was not Pakistan but the discredited Kabul regime whose hands are red with ,the blood of its people and had forced five million of
 its population into exile. (NTN)
                   9
 * BBC, quoting mujaheddin sources, say
 that Afghan mujaheddin have attacked three new army posts to the south east of Jalalabad. The Najibullah regime says that there are indications that the mujaheddin are planning to intensify their rocket bombardment at Kabul.- (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar, Mawlana Yousaf Qureshi, an independent candidate from NA-.l has said that the Afghan President had offered him a big amount of money for sending back Afghan refugees to their homes, but he turned down his offer and apprised the former Afghan Consul Gul Aga that he could never compromise oyer the blood of millions of Afghans. (NTN)
 * A Radio Moscow correspondent reports
 from Kabul, despite the arrival of the cold season, the opposition forces were determined to keep main routes to Kabul closed for causing scarcity of food supplies. With         respect   to
 conditions of war, the     situation in
 Kabul seemed to be normal, yet rocket attacks and rumors of a possible coup have caused great anxiety among Kabul residents. (RM)
 *  Seventeen ground-to-ground rockets hit Kabul. The rockets, hit from the west, injured four persons. (RA)
 * In answer to a question whether he
 would accept a request to  cooperate in
 the establishment of       an interim
 government, Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former King of Afghanistan, has said that,under present conditions, division of power was not a proper way for the solution of the problem. (VOAPS)
 *   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi the AIG
243
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfllHUN JtHM)                    VOL.4 NO-1
 President in an interview with the VOX, regarding Hekmatyar's plan for a joint mujaheddin attack on Kabul city, has stated that the plan was not good enough because it would kill a large number of innocent people..He said that ■t^he plan, could be modified by stepping up jehad activities.
      Hekmatya.r in his interview with the VOA, however, said that effective jehad forces had agreed to a joint operation on the city. All mujaheddin were anxiously waiting to see that the war .ended, Najib overthrown and a government elected by the people themselves. Hekmatyar added, those who were opposed to a joint operation by all groups were, perhaps, of the opinion that the Russians and Najib were going to hand them over the government. If they were going to do so, they would need to strengthen their own positions first. (VOADS)
 *  Ayatullah Noor Ahmad Taqaddusi, speaker of the Coalition Council, has said in an interview with the VOA that the mujaheddin stationed at and around Paghman were planning to speed up
 operations .and launch a final attack on Kabul in an effort to overthrow Najib. Mujaheddin would then be in a position to establish their military council and interim government. (VOA)
                   10
 *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said in an interview regarding Najib*s participation in, the forthcoming elections that communist participation ip the elections was out of the
•question, adding that their hands were stained with the blood of the people, and they were responsible for the present disasters. He said that those communists who had repented and were making use of the general amnesty.
  would be excused and would not be tried for their deeds. (VOAPS)
  *  The Kabul 'regime has said, their fighters have heavily bombarded mujaheddin positions in the center and south of the country. According to reports, all supply routes to Tirin Kot, center of Uruzgan, have been completely cut-off and the regime was trying hard to 'recapture Tirin Kot.
  (BBCFS)
  *  The Soviet Union is said to have conducted secret talks inside Afghanistan with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami. The report adds that Shah Nawaz Tani, former Defense Minister of the Kabul Regime, was also present during these talks. Hekmatyar has proposed to all the parties present in the AIG to take part with him in his attack on Kabul which
. has already been accepted by some of them. Hekmatyar's upperhand over Najib in military affairs may give the Soviet Union the opportunity to oust Najib in an effort to come to an understanding with the US on this issue. (VOG)
  * The Afghan mujaheddin have succeeded in jamming and disrupting telecasts in Kabul which they maintained was the part of their strategy of the siege put around Kabul. A Kabul resident, who arrived in Peshawar 8 October, told the AAP that the mujaheddin technical experts started the disruption in the TV programs of Kabul last week and the operation was still continuing successfully. The resident said that the Kabul TV was highlighting the attacks of the mujaheddin in Kabul on a wide scale and was projecting an imaginary and fabricated picture of the losses undergone by the residents of Kabul. (PTj
 * The Afghan mujaheddin leaders have appealed to the residents of Kabul to keep away from the military
244
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 installations and cantonments in Kabul in view of mujaheddin rocket attacks. (PT)     '
 * Two prominent mujaheddin commanders, Mohammad Samay of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan and Zabet Agha Jan of Jamiat-i-Islarai were martyred 8 October at Mohammad Agha, Logar,« as a result of heavy bombing by the Kabul regime on mujaheddin positions, reports ANA. In the Purak village also a woman, an eld'erly person and two children -were martyred and a number of civilians injured in the indiscriminate bombing the same ( day.. (MLM)
 * The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, received 6 October in - his office in Peshawar Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan mujaheddin, and discussed issues of mutual interest. (MLM) -
                   12
 * The Daily Jang says in its editorial 12 October that - the basic reason for not having peace in Afghanistan even after the withdrawal of Soviet forces is that there are still no signs of .Najibullah's removal and, unless this is done, there can be no peace in Afghanistan nor millions of Afghan refugees 'in Pakistan and Iran can go back to their homes. When the Soviet Union admitted its action in Afghanistan, as being a mistake, it should allow this admission to come to its logical end by removing Najibullah and permitting the people * of Afghanistan to set up a government of their own choice. (JG)
* A ceremony was held in the US Congress in Washington, to commemorate the death of two Americah journalists in Afghanistan.- The journalists were killed near Kabul in 1987. The ceremony was attended by the’ wives, mothers of
 the journalists, some Congressmen and a number of Afghans residing in the US.
 (VOADS)
 * American magazine. Inside, writes in an editorial that Sibghatullah Mujaddedi President of the' AIG is seeking to form a new alliance and thus put the jehad on a new footing. He wants that the new alliance should be headed by Ahmed. Shah Massoud, one of the strongest commanders of the mujaheddin. In order to do this, he recently embarked on a tour inside Afghanistan. (VOADSj
 * in their efforts to free Kohsan and Gulran districts in Herat, ■ the mujaheddin have, uptil now, captured 80 officials of that.regime. (TR)
 *  In an interview with the BBC, explaining the' causes of his limited Operations last year, Ahmed Shah Massoud has spoken of great problems which,he said, were now eleminated. He said, his major occupation last year was to fight forces -of the Hezb-e-Islami. He added, discussions and understanding have already started with. Hekmatyar who in turn has come to realize that problems between the mujaheddin could not be resolved by resorting to force. (BBCFS)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islhmi of Afghanistan, regarding participation in operations on Kabul by Shah Nawaz Tani, former Defense Minister of the Kabul regime, has stated that he would try to use him as long as he was still strong and effective. For the time being, Tani was at least capable to encourage his supporters to join the mujaheddin. Hekmatyar added that a • large number of regime officers were in contact with the mujaheddin and Najib, at present, relied only upon KHAD and his Special Guard. (VOAPS)
245
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 llfllllllllJIHAD               V VOL.4 NO-1
 *  Wali Junbesh, the Kabul regime governor in Uruzgan, who;/ was captured by mujaheddin during their attack on Tirin Kot, has said in a press conference at Spin Boldak, Kandahar, that he had not contacted any of the mujaheddin parties yet arid he had to surrender durinfg their military operations on the province. Mula FarOuq, district officer of the
, mujaheddin, said during the press conference that 200 soldiers were killed during „ the . liberation of Uruzgan. (VOADS)
 *  The Kabul Regime National Assembly, in a message to the Afghan nation, has appealed to all Afghans, including national figures, internal commanders, opposition armed forces, leaders of Islamic parties in Peshawar and Iran, the On and other -international organizations, leaders of neighbouring Islamic countries and world leaders to prevent major armed attack on Kabul city. CRA)
                   13
 * A seminar on the future of education
 in Afghanistan was held'in Islamabad by the CCAR 7 October. The seminar, which lasted four days, was attended by a large number- of Afghan4 scholars and pedagogues. Juma Gul Bandawal, Chairman of the seminar, said teachers training, vocational  training,   adult education
 and education of       the-  children,
 handicapped during the war years, were among the   subjects discussed in the
 seminar.
       Sabahuddin Kushkaki, founding member of   the CCAR,   said   that the
 seminar was the third on Afghan issues held by the CCAR this year. He added, the CCAR was pleased to have managed to bring together scholars to exchange views on the role of education in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and its future society. Kushkaki stated the works of these seminars would be
 published in separate books. (VOADS)
 * The British Foreign Secretary in. an interview regarding the Afghanistan problem said 13 October, it is a pity, that war still continues* due to differences among the- mujaheddin groups, but1 it is still probable that Afghanistan's difficulties ' may be resolved. Therefore,, l^e said, those interested to see Afghanistan Out of Soviet influence and. on its own feet should try to promote unity among groups that are fighting against the Soviet Union. (BBCFS)            ,
 .* The Afghan mujaheddin, launched a surprise attack 12 October around Baghlan city and captured six security posts without giving- the Kabul regime forces a chance to resist, reports ANA. Twenty-five militiamen were caught alive alongwith their ammunitions. No loss of life ' was caused to, the mujaheddin in the operation.•(PT)
 *' The Afghan mujaheddin have launched a two-pronged attack on Kabul and Afghan/.government troops are fighting back with air and artillery strikes, officials and diplomats in Kabul said 12- October. Guerrillas belonging to Heib-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) were spearheading the assault on the capital, from two ■ directions, a government statement said. Aircraft were streaking across Kabul -skies and loud explosions were continuing, witnesses said. (MLM).
 *   The UN , delivered 29,000 tort's of wheat, fertilizers, seeds and other commodities to 18'•provinces of Afghanistan between/March 1989 and September 1990. The deliveries cost about $3.5 million. (MLM)
 *   In the- two-pronged attack on Kabul, two mujaheddin groups belonging
246
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1,
 'to Hekmatyar and Sayyaf are involved in the operation,’ says a government announcement in Kabul. The fighting is mainly concentrated in Arghandab in the west and Khak-e-Jabbar in southeast. Meanwhile, gunmen shot dead militia commander Sayed Ahmad and seven of his' men 12 October in Herat. An unspecified number of others were also injured. (PT)
 *  Addressing \ a big gathering at
 Shamshatu refugee camp 10 October to mourn the matryrdom .qf Nangarhar Commanders,      the ' leader         of
 Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin
        I
 Hekmatyar scolded those opposing the jehad and waiting for the Solution of the Afghan problem through the super power agreements and stated that such people should note that only the legal heirs of the martyrs will rule in Afghanistan. He said it was a pity for a person who would call himself a Wijahed would send a delegation to India to talk with Na«jib and sit with US envoy for the Afghan mujaheddin, but refused to sit' on one table with his mujahed brother. Hekmatyar said if the surrender of the governor of Uruzgan Province, the brother of the cursed ruler of Kabul Siddiq Rahi and General Zarif, Guard Commander of Najib and member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, could be justifiable then why riot General Shah Nawaz Tani, a person who bombed the Presidential Palace and the headquarters of the Communist Party in 'Kabul, could not be acceptable. (NTN)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-.
 e-Islami Afghanistan, has said that the normal operation before the .major one on Kabul     city is set in motion
 and , the Kabul regime is greatly perturbed over it. However, he refuted the Kabul regime claim that a two-pronged attack has been launched under a joint military strategy by the mujaheddin. .He said that the major.
 operation would be launched at an appropriate time. (NWT)
 *   The daily Muslim writes in its editorial 14 October that the long-simmering cauldron of Afghanistan has come to the boil once a'gain with an apparently sustained and well-prepared onslaught on Kabul launched by the mujaheddin after protracted efforts made at various levels to restore unity of various mujaheddin factions. The initiative has now been wrested by such elements of the .broader Afghan resistance who not only represent the more effective military, muscle but, by the same measure, are fiercely independent of distant manipulation by external interests. Although th!e so-called moderates have a good reason to feel left out of the action at this crucial phase, the unpleasant reality has to be conceded is that moderation is hardly a trait relevant to armed struggle. Moreover, the emergence of the new alliance provides the so far missing opportunity for the Soviet Union in particular to attempt arrive at a viable solution of the Afghan tangle with the Resistance elements who really matter on the ground. (MLM)
 *   Senior mujaheddin commanders, including Ahmad Shah Masood, are meeting this weekend on „the Pakistan-Afghan border to devise a strategy to stop a full-scale offensive on Kabul by their rival Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, who has launched the most serious attack on Kabul since the withdrawal , of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. Ahmed Shah Masood* the principal commander in northern Afghanistan, who has been urged to block the strategic Salang Highway, connecting Kabul, to the Soviet, Union, has refused to do so. For the first time since the Afghan war began in 1978, Masood was reported to have arrived this week on the Pakistan-
247
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990 HlullHH UlIlHU                    VOL-4 NO-1
 Afghan border hear Chitral for a crucial meeting with other commanders.. The US Ambassador to the AIG, Peter Tomsen, has also been in Chitral recently. Mujaheddin sources said that Masood is being joined by Abdul Haq, a commander from the Kabul region and Jalaluddin Haqqani of Khost front. to formulate strategy to stop Hekmatyar. Sources said that Hekmatyar is planning to start moving on Kabul. However, he has little support from commanders in the Kabul region and any .offensive could iead to a bloody ciyil war in which Hezb-e-Islami would face resistance from both the Kabul regime and other mujaheddin groups. (NTN-)
 *  Forty commanders from all over Afghanistan have come together near the Pakistani border. One of them is Ahmed Shah Masood, the strongest commander of the resistance. forces who did not attend' to two , previous commanders' meetings. It is said that the commanders have , gathered this timd to specifically increase self-reliance and to remove ethnic, political and religious differences among’ them.
 (BBCFS)
 *  A group of armed men in Herat have killed Sayyed Ahmad, a high-ranking Kabul regime military officer, together with 17 of his. men. Prior to his joining the military forces Sayyed Ahmad was a famous mujaheddin commander pf Jamiat-e-Islami in Herat. The regime had promoted him to i the rank of general, and was considered one of the important militia commanders in Afghanistan. Jamiat-e-Islami mujaheddin have claimed responsibility for the killing. (BBCFS)
                   15
 *  Over 200,000 Afghan refugees in camps in Pakistan have .received a six-hour course in recognizing and avoiding mines under UNOCA's mines
 awareness program since its beginning in July 1989 to help them travel and live, in safety when they return to their homes in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  Addressing a graduation ceremony of cadets of Military Acadamy of Mujaheddin 11 October at Pabbi, the AIG Premier Abd Bab Rasool Sayyaf said that armed struggle was the only solution to the Afghanistan problem and empty hopes for political efforts were useless. ,(PT)
                  16
 *  Safdar Khan,, son-in-law of former Afghan President Babrak Karmal, has said in an interview in Peshawar it was upto the people of Afghanistan to determine their future government and the role of_different personalities in Afghanistan. Any personality, if imposed on Afghanistan, will have a negative effect on settlement efforts because it could flare up another civil war in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *   Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said that not a single commander inside Afghanistan was opposed t6 the joint military plan of attacking Kabul because all , of them feel th^t it was the only way to remove Najib. He said the joint military plan off the mujaheddin would eliminate Najib and he would not be given a chance to resist
 or survive this Combined attack. (MLM)
            1 ■■ - • : ‘
 *   The Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmed Shah Masood has arrived in Pakistan on his first ever visit abroad in the £ast 12 years of Afghan resistance. He will meet prominent Afghan leaders including AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. The BBC says that Commander Masood is visiting Pakistan at the invitation of President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Chief o-f Army
J
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
   Staff General Mirza Aslam - Baig and he will hold high level talks during his vl visit. (NWT)
   * Taking strong exception to the,false and fabricated propaganda campaign of the western agencies against the joint military plan of the mujaheddin to attack Kabul,        the    Chief of
   Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that this reveals the true faces of the US and its allies as to how much they are opposed to the self-determination of the Afghan nation. He vehemently condemned the false and concocted stories published by The Washington Post, aired^y VOA 14 October and added, America never wanted to see the establishment of mujaheddin' government in Afghanistan and instead it is interested in a coalition government. For that reason it has launched massive propaganda against the joint strategy of mujaheddin and trying to bring Zaher Shah* communists and other sorcalied mujaheddin in a coalition government in Afghanistan. He said only they will oppose a military uprising against Najib and their surrender to mujaheddin. He said, they want to maintain the present political- stalemate, prolong the rule of Najib, perpetuate war in Afghanistan and provide a chance to Moscow and j Washington to impose a government of their choice on Afghanistan; (MLM)
   * On 14 October, when Sayyed Ahmed, a Kabul government militia commander in Herat was killed, the mujaheddin also put fire to a large arms' depot at Deza in the Gozarah district, Herat. Thirty-five militiamen were killed and a number of others were injured. A number of militia residential quarters were also destroyed. Fighting' has continued v eversince in Gozarah, Enjeel, Kohsan and in areas related, to the security belt around Herat city. (BBCFS)
                  17
  * The Bush Administration is hopeful, says The New York Times 17 October, that the. new mujaheddin attack on Kabul will convince Najib to increase his efforts for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem. The paper adds that the US government was doubtful, however, that the attack may result in the downfall of the regime. (VOAPS)
  * Yusuf Wayezi Shahristani, member of the Central Council of the Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, has said in an interview with VOA in Peshawar that forces of , the party were actively fighting the Kabul regime forces in Ghazni, Maidan, Paghman, Balkh and Jouzjan. (VOADS)
       r
     A rocket attack on Kabul 16 October, wounded four person’s and caused extensive damage. (RA)
  ■ > !-
  * Kabul regime sources report that 120 persons were killed in an air raid on Zabul 18 October. However, a BBC correspondent in Kabul says the claim has not been confirmed by any independent source. (BBCPS)
                 18
  *  Quoting US officials. The New York Times reported 17 October that the Kabul regime's army was better entrenched around Kabul than anywhere else in * the country, with vast minefields, heavy artillery and overwhelming air power, including MI-24 helicopter gunships and an assortment of MIG fighter bombers and they doubt the Afghan mujaheddin will succeed in overthrowing Najibullah in their current offensive near Kabul. The Times correspondent,Clifford Krauss, quoted a US State Department' official^ as saying "I don't think Hekmatyar or anyone can
249
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 buldoze Kabul’s defenses but if this offensive demonstrates that Najibullah and the Soviets cannot simply hold on to political power by out weighing the resistance without making concessions, it could serve a useful purpose”. (PT)
                   19
        *
 * Mujaheddin in Badghis have attacked
 the newly established military posts of the regime and have captured 12 of them. One hundred troops have been killed during the ensuing battles and another 300 captured. Twenty one mujaheddin were also killed and 61 injured. 'One tank, three trucks and 285 arms were captured by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)                             '
 *  Mujaheddin leaders and commanders have ruled out the planned attack on Kabul during the winter as it was unpractical. The leaders are currently discussing how to reorganize the AIG and bring mujaheddin forces inside Afghanistan under a unified command. It is reported that there have been two important meetings between Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood on the one hand, and Hekmatyar and Mujaddedi on the other. The meetings were also attended by some other leaders and mujaheddin dignitories. (BBCFS)
 *  The Kabul regime forces attacked mujaheddin positions at Qala-e-Shahi, Surkhab and Qala-e-Dost Mohammad of Mohammad Aga, Logar, 23 September - 7 October. The mujaheddin, under the command of the Council of Commanders, in their counter-attacks destroyed five tanks and killed a number of troops. (VOAPS)
 *  Abdul Wakil, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, is reported to have said about the recent meeting of the commanders near the Pakistani border, "The meeting is an indication of the
 fact that the commanders are distancing themselves from the Peshawar leadership and are trying to adapt an independent stand". He added, "the farther they drift away from their leaders in Peshawar the more they will be welcomed by us". (BBCFS)
 * Afghan mujaheddin say that they have besieged Qalat, the capital of Zabul province, and negotiations are going-on with the government for its surrender. VOA reports that also the mujaheddin carried out] an attack on a Kabul regime Convoy 14 October while it was on its way from Kandahar to Qalat. Western diplomats say that the convoy consisted of 2,000 troops and militiamen, 13 tanks and 60 vehicles and was dispersed before its arrival in Qalat city. (PT) \
 *   The situation in the Gulf and Afghanistan was discussed at lengh in high level talks 18 October at the Aiwan-e-Sadr in Islamabad. Presided over by President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, the meeting was attended by Prime Minister Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi, Foreign Minister Sahabzada Yaqub Khan, Chairman Joint .Chiefs of Staff Committee Admiral Iftikhar Ahmed ,£irohi and Army Chief Mirza Aslam Beg.
 (MLM)
 *   Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has refuted charges, that in the World Muslim Conference held in Makkah recently, he
' justified the sending of US troops £o Saudi Arabia. In a statement. he clarified that from the very beginning he opposed the sending of American troops to Saudi Arabia and in future too he will oppose their presence in the Gulf. He- said the presence of US troops in the Gulf region is a great threat to the Muslim countries and Islamic ideology. The American troops, he added, have been despatched under *
250
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MllllMI JfHlID                   VOL-4 N0.1
     conspiracy to take full advantage of the internal differences of Muslims. "This is aimed at taking control of the oil reserves of the Gulf", he. added. (MLM)
                       20
     * The mujaheddin in Zabul captured 175 •militiamen 20 October and, in another battle, earlier totally destroyed a
  r complete military unit at Jaldak district. A high-ranking military •officer, belonging to Kandahar forces, was also killed during the skirmish. Also 14-15 October, the mujaheddin attacked regime' military posts \ at Pasawand, occupying\one and killing or injuring 35 niilitiamen. Five mujaheddin were also killed during the battle.
     (VOAPS)
     * The mujaheddin political leaders and military commanders have held meetings
   , in Islamabad regarding the election of a new leadership. They have also discussed plans for a major attack on Kabul city, in - which an important objection by the commanders was the lack of a reliable political coordination of the mujaheddin. (BBCFS)
     * The nation-wide commanders' Shoora of Afghan mujaheddin, held at the Badakshan border October 9 through 17, has decided to evolve unified and single military strategy for armed operations inside Afghanistan and has added that it was not right time to attack Kabul. Foreign and Pakistani newsmen were briefed by eight top
  . Afghan commanders about the 14-da,y long deliberations of the Shoora at a press conference jointly addressed by them in-Pakistan 19 October. The commanders, were:   Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, QaLri
     Baba, , General Saeed, Mawlawi Siddiqullah, Amin Wardak, Mohammad Anwar, Musa Khan and Mulla Malang. (PT) *
     * Addressing the passing out parade of,
 the military academy of AIG, the AIG Prime Minister Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, said that the solution of Afghan problem lied in continuation of Jehad and political efforts tantamounted to, a, wastage of time. About the Gulf, he said that the presence of US army in Saudi Arabia was a curse. He said Arab countries could seek military help from Pakistan and Afghan mujaheddin. The AIG Premier distributed Certificates and prizes to honor students of the Academy. (PT)
 *  The British journal Economist says both the US and the Soviet Union are discussing implementation of a Cambodia-type peace plan in Afghanistan which envisages exercise of power by Kabul regime till elections with mujaheddins participation. (JG)
 *  Addressing . a big gathering at
 Shamshatu refugee camp 20 October, the Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said that preparations are underway for launching a joint attack against Kabul regime under a united leadership and a plan to this effect is being sent to all ,the parties. (NWT)... •
   *  According to reports from Zabul,
   during their two-week operations in the province, the mujaheddin have captured one helicopter,     10  tanks    and have
   strengthened their hold upon important places in Qal.at city. The: Kabul regime is said to be trying to air drop food supplies to its' troops under siege. (RT)
      (■ •      \, . . ,
   *  Between September 29 and October. 8 mujaheddin launched heavy . attacks on security posts in Mohammad Aga, Logar, Khak-e-Jabar, Arghandeh and Maidan Shar in the vacinity of.Kabul. Nearly 1,000^
?5i
v
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 AFGHANJtHAO                      VOL.4 NO.1
 mujaheddin, including 20 corporals, have been killed or wounded by heavy mortar fire and aerial bombardment of the regime. (RA)
 *  In  an interview with the VOA
 regarding the meeting Jpetween Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood, Dr. Najibullah Lafrai, The AIG Minister of Information, is reported to have said that Masood had a number of meetings with Hekmatyar. He added no "Pakistani brother" attended these meetings. He added, "the meetings took place in friendly .atmosphere ahd they reached some understanding on ways to resolve current differences and conflicts between the mujaheddin". (VOADS)
 *  In a report to the General Assembly on the situation in Afghanistan, UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar has said that t*ime has come to define in a concrete manner "the emerging international consensus" on Afghanistan so as to give an impetus to settling the conflict in , that country. He said, the consensus should comprise, first and foremost, recognition of the right of Afghan pedple to determine their own future.. Secondly, it should provide for a "credible and impartial transition mechanism", with appropriate powers and authority, that would allow the Afghan people to participate in a free and fair election process, taking' into account Afghan traditions. The consensus, should f'urther indicate the need for a cessation of hostilities and a halt to arms supply to all sides. (PT)
 *   AAP sources say the Afghan mujaheddin have frustrated a government military offensive in Chah Aab, Takhar, and forced the invading troops to retreat with eight bodies. Twenty seven of them were injured. Two mujaheddin were also martyred and six
 others injured, during the resistance. Another report says that the mujaheddin
 attacked the security posts., in Yangi Qala and the Kabul regime troops fled away leaving behind a machine gun and 18 klashenkovs. (PT)-             ,
                                         * ,
 *  In a missile attack launched by the Afghan mujaheddin on Shindand, the second biggest airbase of ’Kabul regime; a MIG plane and two oil tankers were destroyed on the runway. Eight Kabul troops were also killed and injured and the runway was severely damaged. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin attacked 7 October a government mobile force near Chegcharan, the "center of Ghor. Five Kabul.troops, including commander Abdul Hamid, were killed on the spot. The mujaheddin also hit the security post near provincial headquarter as a'result of which two Kabul troops and an officer Fazel Khan were killed. A group of mujaheddin struck at the Chegcharan cantonment where four Kabul troops, including the .commander Abdul Qadir Khanaq, were killed on the spot. (PT)
 *  Afghan mujaheddin in an attack on Faizabad airport in Badakshan province have completely destroyed * eight helicopters. (NTN)
 * The Economist and The Far Eastern Economic Review have said in their reports that the US has made a one third    cut in its aid to . Afghan mujaheddin who will now receive 200 million dollars in aid from the US next year. The report -also quoted the Afghan field commanders as saying that 700 trucks loaded with 40 thousand rockets and other arms have been despatched to various places around .Kabul ; by. Hekmatyar group of the mujaheddin for a full-scale attack on Kabul before it starts snowing. Japan has also imposed restrictions on expenditure from its 50 million-dollars aid for Afghan mujaheddin. (JG)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin destroyed two transport planes 19 October, one at8
252
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 199Q HfllUflllJtHflD'                  VOL.4 NO. 1
 5:30 p.m. at newly constructed runway of Bagh-e-Sahra and the other at 11:30 p.m. while landing at the " Khost Airport. At Bagh-e-Sahra the pilot and the crew were killed on the spot. At Said Karam (Najibullhh’s native town) three Kabul troops were killed and five others arrested and 12 klashenkovs, one machine gun and one rocket launcher and a wireless set were captured by the mujaheddin. (NWT)
                   22
 *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader_ of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has termed as baseless a news item. aired~ by VOA saying that the proposal to attack Kabul has been- dropped. (MLM)
 * For. the first time, after the
 withdrawal of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) from the fold of AIG last year, leaders of the' seven mujaheddin parties rftet in. Peshawar at Hekmatyar1s residence to sink their internal differences and discuss the political stalemate of ’Afghanistan. The meeting, lasting more than three hours and held in a very fraternal ■ atmosphere, was attended by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf,    Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi
 Mohgjnmadi/ Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales,* Pir Syyed Ahmed Gaiiani and Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. (MLM)
* - A Kabul regime spokesman, Humayun Mukammel, said in Kabul, 20 October at least 80 mujaheddin guerrillas died in artillery and air attacks 18 and 19 October after Kabul reinforcements were rushed by helicopter to besieged Bala Hesar Fort located on a mountain overlooking the city, raising the death, toll to over 200 in a week-long battle for a strategic provincial capital. "We may have had a very few casualties because we are using heavy artillery and aircraft," the spokesman said. (MLM)
     Nearly 10,000 Afghan families, represienting some 50,000 people, have returned to their home areas inside
• Afghanistan till the end of' September 1990 through UNHCR, reports PPI special ,correspondent. (NTN)
  * Talking to ANA in Peshawar, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said "we can neither agree with anyone on delaying our Kabul operation nor can we drop the program at any cost and the offensive, joined by all the mujaheddin, will take place according to program and culjnin the elimination of the Najibullah regime." The AIG Defense. Minister and Amir of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, also told ANA that, the Kabul assault has not been cancelled. (JG).
                   23
            ' '   t
  * MIDIA says that the communist forces carrying fresh troops, arms and ammunition by helicopters to the besieged Qalat town, capital of Zabul province,19 October were repulsed by the Afghan mujaheddin anti-aircraft guns. The regime’s helicopters targetted Qalat killing for locals October 17. Another report says the mujaheddin captured three militiamen October 16 in their on security posts
1 in para-e-Kayan of Pul-e-Khurari district of Baghlan province. A huge quantity of ammunition, a machinegun and an R-105 wireless set fell to mujaheddin. Three mujaheddin also sustained injuries. The mujaheddin also targetted Shindand Airbase 17 October with heavy machineguns and long-range weapons, burning three communist regime's jet fighters which were about to taking off. Twenty-four servicemen of the airbase were also killed, 55 injured and several military barracks were destroyed during the attack. (PT)
  * The AIG President Sebghatullah
253
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 Mujaddedi in answer to the question by the BBC about remarks that the AIG mandate for holding the reign of government had expired, said, "this is not so becausej in the Islamic Shariat there is no such thing as the •provisional government' and, when a person is elected by scholars, national leaders and elderlies as the President, Amir or Kalif, he is not being elected provisionally. (BBCDS).
 *  The Council of internal commanders and various opposition political leaders has been convened in Shah Salam, on the Pakistani border. Nearly
 1,000  persons ,attended the meeting. During the sessions of the Council, held , between 9-12 Oqtober, it was decided tkat a center for a common and unified command should be established. Political observers consider this a dangerous development (RM)
                  24
 *  The Kabul regime parachuted 22 Octrober 400 reinforcement troops to Qalat. The mujaheddin were preparing for a major offensive on the city.
 (VOAPS)
 *   Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of , the Jamiat-e-Islami of Afghanistan, has said in an interview with the BBC that plans for an all out attack on Kabul was being studied by the mujaheddin leaders. Rabbani added that the attack should be carried out next spring but preparations for it will soon be undertaken. He said, "the mujaheddin will not permit Pakistan to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan". (BBCDS) *
*  In answer to a question by Radio Moscow correspondent in Kabul about Soviet - Afghan relations, the Kabul regime Prime Minister Fazl Haq Khaleqyar has said that at the present the Soviets were rendering help in
 Naghlu and Sarobi hydroelectric power stations and. were prospecting in the north of the country for natural gas. He added, a number of protocols for cooperation between a number of provinces and Soviet republics have already been signed and more will be signed. Khaleqyar also said that a conference will soon be held ' in Tashkent which will be attended representatives of Afghanistan and a number of Soviet Republics. He said, the conference will deal with further cooperation between these republics and Afghan provinces bordering the Soviet Union. (BBCFS)
                 25
 *    Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan - and Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan,, the two major parties that were fighting each other for the past year signed an agreement -25 October to forget their differences and establish joint local administrative councils in areas under their control and- secure supply lines for them. (BBCFS)
                 27
 *  The Kabul regime has suffered great losses during battles in Qalat and the mujaheddin have captured 45 military vehicles. (VOAPS)
'/ . •
 *  In Kandahar ' the mujaheddin have captured 170 Kabul regime malitiamen. The men, who were captured after heavy fights in Mizani mountains, have been placed on trial. (VOAPS)
 *  In an effort to cut-off Kabul regime supply routes, the mujaheddin have attacked their military positions at Maiwand. Leader of an 86-man strong malitia unit is reported to have defected to the mujaheddin in Kandahar, 21 October, together with his men and their arms. (BBCPS)
254
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 fllllllflM JtHAO
 *  A carbomb exploded 25 October nearly 100 meters away from Najib's office in Kabul wounding 6 persons. Two buildings and some nearby cars were. damaged in the blast. Tanks and armored cars took position in main cross-roads following the incident. Also 26 rockets hit Kabul 24 October which killed two persons. (VOADS)
 *  One - hundred and ° seventy militias of Kabul regime were captured and tried by mujaheddin in Mizani Hills, Kandahar, after heavy fightings. (VOAPS)
 *  The mujaheddin have started joint heavy raids on Kabul regime positipns in Maiwand district to block the Kabul regime supply route. Likewise, on 21 October, head of the Kandahar brigade together with 86 soldiers joined the mujaheddin. (BBCPS)
 *  In a statement, in Peshawar, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, congratulated 26 October the President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan and the people of Pakistan for the peaceful elections to the National Assembly 24 October. He hoped that the elections will prove a landmark for the progress and prosperity of Pakistan, the whole Muslim ummah in general and the Afghan cause in.particular. (PT) *
 * A car bomb has exploded in Kabul about one hundred yards from the Presidential palace, injuring at least 16 people, reports BBC. (PT)
 *  The bill of overseas spending approved by the US Congress would reduce the amount of US aid to Afghan mujaheddin from $280 million to $250 million this year, reports VOA. However, many Congressmen say the amount is more than adequate. (PT)
 *  vIn an exclusive interview to Nawa-i-Waqt, the newly elected MNA and the Secretary General of the defunct NAP, Ajmal Khattak, has said that the Afghanistan problem is going to be solved. (NWT)
VOL.4 NO-1
‘ * At Khost front in Paktia province the Afghan mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime plane 14 October while it was landing at Bagh-e-Sahra runway killing the pilot and the crew. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime planes are said to have bombed the rural areas killing and injuring many civilians, (NWT)
 * Speaking at a banquet hosted in Peshawar by AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the mujaheddin commander Ahmed Shah Masood has said that preparation of a joint plan for the
 elimination of Najibullah regime and the establishment of an Islamic order, peace and tranquillity in liberated areas of Afghanistan are the two objectives of the new strategy worked out by the Afghan mujaheddin commanders He said that the allegation of foreign intervention in the plan is totally wrong. (NWT)
                 28
 * In a recent interview to VOA the AIG
 President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said that the present alliance of the mujaheddin will be very successful and there is complete unity as well in the ranks of the field commanders inside Afghanistan. When asked if he had reached some sort of understanding with Hekmatyar on the proposed attack on Kabul, Mujaddedi said:   "I am still
 against the attack. The attack should not be confined to Kabul. Mujaheddin should step up their attacks throuogh-out Afghanistan.. Mujaheddin should confine their attacks to the military installations. I am opposed to the massacre of the innocent defenseless people". (PT)
                 29
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin, under Commander Dildar downed a Kabul regime jet fighter plane 27 October in Azra, Logar. The plane crashed in a
255
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 MUIIINJIHAD"                     VOL.4 N0.1
 mujaheddin controlled area. (PT)
 *  In an exclusive interview ' with The Nation the Afghan commander, Ahmed Shah Masood of the Jamiat-i-Islarhi has said, "we have created a comprehensive military plan for the entire' country. We will- have a joint and unified command and all of us united will march forward. This is very 'different from the past." On his meetings with the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,i Masood said "we have come to an agreement on a joint military strategy". About former King Zaher Shah, he said, as far as his age is and as far as the situation now is-concerned, I do not think he will be of any use to Afghanistan. Ih my view the interference of Zaher Shah in these issues will double our problems." About Najibullah, ' he said he is extremely weak. Politically speaking Najib,. who wanted to bring about unity among the. left, has not been able to do so. The National Reconciliation Policy of Najib has , failed and no one has responded to it". (NTN)
 *  Welcoming the end of difference among the Afghan mujaheddin organisations the daily Nawa-i-Waqt says in its editorial' 29 October that both the US and , the Soviet Union had not abandoned their endeavours aimed' at frustrating . the struggle of the oppressed people of the developing countries. Whenever any nation headed towards its decisive victory, both the super powers stepped forward either' with the proposal of holding elections or with the advice of being content with whatever has been achieved ... Therefore, instead of elections it will be most propeir for the Afghans to concentrate on eliminating first the Russian stooges from Afghanistan and retain their unity till that moment. (NWT) *
 *  In their rocket attack on the Shindand Airbase 25 October', the
 mujaheddin destroyed two aircraft and three helicopters. An ammunition dump also . caught fire in the attack. Twenty-one military personnel were killed and another 24 injured. Six civilian were also killed and 10 wounded. (VOADS)
                 30
 *    Fierce fighting between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces is reported from Maiwand, Kandahar. According to RA, 13 mujaheddin were killed during the skirmish. The report did not disclose casualities among the regime troops. (BBCFS)
                             i
 *  One hundred and 'sixteen kgs. of explosives’ and a magnetic mine,
 .planted i.n Kabul, were discovered and defused before the bomb went-off. (RA
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin captured three security posts in their attack 24 October near sub-divisional headquarters Qarghai in Laghman province. Twenty-two Kabul troops were also captured while nine others were killed and injured. The mujaheddin seized a sizeable quantity of arms from the security posts. The Kabul regime planes bombed the areas as a result of which one mujahed was martyred and 12 others sustained injuries. (PT)
 *  The daily Jang ijh its editorial 30 October says the US has reduced its aid to Afghan mujaheddin by one third. Japan has,also withheld its $50 million aid to the mujaheddin and imposed the condition that the . amount should be spent only on the rehabilitation of the' Afghan refugees who return to their homeland. The aid is being withheld because the Afghan mujaheddin are not willing to come to a compromise with . Najibullah and thus become part of the system against which they are in jehad for several years. This attitude of the western countries has proved that even
256
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 AfGHflN J[HAD
against oppression they fail to raise their voice if their interests are at stake and their aid is not motivated by any principles. So it is for the mujaheddin now to close their ranks and carry on the struggle they had launched ;in very hard conditions when America, Japan, Britain or France had not come to their rescue. (JG)
*  In an interview with the London-based Arabic Daily Asharq-Al-Awsat Commander Ahmed Shah Masood has said, "there are two main reasons which hinder the movement of my forces towards the Afghan capital, Kabul. The first is political in nature and is signified by the refusal of Afghan mujaheddin groups which , presently surround Kabul to coordinate military action with my forces. The second aspect is the military factor. Presently, the military capabilities of mujaheddin are very limited whereas regaining the Afghan capital needs heavy military equipments and more advanced weapons. He said, he would support an Islamic government in Kabul
 even if it were pro-Hekmatyar. Speaking of- Zaher Shah option, he said: Zaher Shah has the right, to live in Afghanistan likfe any other citizen, but his participation in 1 the Afghan political life is impossible due to his negative attitude towards the Afghan jehad. (MLM)
                 31
*  The mujaheddin have captured two security posts of the Kabul regime on. Koh-e-Negar near the Kandahar garrison. They also seized all the militiamen of the posts as well as with their arms. During another attack 27 October on Kandahar security posts, the mujaheddin captured four , of the posts together with their men,, arms and ammunition. Thirty, militiamen also defected,to the mujaheddin. Twelve mujaheddin were injured during the operation. In Herat
VOL.4 NO.1
 they captured two security posts 26 October at Guzarah district. (VOAPS),
 *  Three rockets hit Kabul 30 October injuring six persons. (RMDS)
 *  Commenting on the accords between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood, Radio Moscow says, "Their ultimate aim is, no doubt, to solve the Afghanistan problem by military means. The only difference being that, while Hekmatyar favors direct offensive on Kabul, Ahmad Shah, being an experienced commander, prefers to place Kabul under seige first. By an analysis of the forces of the two sides, we can tell with certainty, that the mujaheddin can hardly be in a position to solve all their problems by 'only one attack, but if they do manage to gain power, then a totally different system will emerge. Najibullah is even of the' opinion that Afghanistan, will become an unstable source for its neighbours, particularly the Soviet Union. Thus, this tactical alliance between Masood and Hekmatyar can, from a strategic point of view, have serious consequences. (RMPS)
 *  Seven ground-to-ground missiles hit Kabul 31 October killing one person and injuring nine. The missiles were fired from the westerly direction and tell on the districts of the city. (RA
 *  Mujaheddin sources report heavy fighting between their forces and the Kabul regime in Panjwai, Dand and Arghandab, Kandahar. A total of 40 government soldiers are reported to. have been killed in the battles.
 (BBCPS)
 *  The Paghman mujaheddin repulsed a Kabul regime attack.on their positions,* recaptured their lost posts and killed 30 regime, personnel and arrested 12 others in Paghman district, Kabul -province 29 October, reports ANA. On the same day, the mujaheddin attacked
25 7
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 the venue of a meeting organized by Farid Mazdak, First Secretary of the Kabul regime at the industrial area of Baghlan city and killed the city chief of Khad. A number of others were also killed and wounded. In Tangi Waghjan and Surkhab, Logar, also the mujaheddin repulsed regime attacks 29 October. The mujaheddin in an ambush 26 . October destroyed three Kabul regime tanks in Deh Nau, Logar. They also repulsed a regime attack on the Zarghoon Shar 26 October destroying two tanks and arresting 15 militia personnel. (PT)
 *  In an interview with the VOA, the US Ambassador for the Afghan resistance movement,. Peter Tomsen said, a number of trends are underway in which Afghans are coming together. The Shoora of commanders was reflective of such trends. He said the US welcomes whatever Afghans do for the Afghans. He thought these moves will be conducive for the establishment of peace and stability in Afghanistan. About two-pronged attack on Kabul by the troops of resistance movement leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the US Ambassador said that such ah operation would be harmful militarily as well as politically. When asked whether international developments would influence the prospects of a peaceful solution of the Afghan crisis or military solution is still stressed upon, Tomsen said, a political solution is much preferred. However, it is impossible to implement it unless Najib quits, transfers power and allows elections. The Afghan people by any way, militarily or politically, will manage to remove him from power one day, he added. (PT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin shot - down a MIG-21 aircraft 27 October near; Azrah, Logar. The pilot of the, plane was killed alongwith the crew. Meanwhile, in Paktia, seven Afghan soldiers defected to the mujaheddin from Khost cantonment with heavy quantity of arms and ammunition. (PT)
 *  Afghan' mujaheddin overran two Kabul regime security posts, in Kohe Nagar, Kandahar, 28 October and killed 10 militiamen, including three officers. They also . captured eight klashenkovs, two rocket launchers and a machine gun. In Baghlan province, the mujaheddin captured a regime security post between Pul-e-Khumri and new city of Baghlan 25 October. Two Khad officials were killed in the ambush while eight persons were arrested. Nine klashenkovs and one rocket launcher were also captured by the mujaheddin. (NTN)
 * Addressing a press conference in
 Peshawar during his first visit to Pakistan in the past 12 years, the Afghan mujaheddin commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, has said that the Afghan jehad will continue to the final victory with the help of Almighty Allah under any conditions. He said that he had come here to promote the strategy designed by the Afghan commanders. It was initiated from within and seeks the cooperation of others. On his accord with Hekmatyar, he said it will be implemented in 13 northern and central provinces where the supervisory, council is active. On the proposed operation on Kabul,, he said it had defects from the political and military points of view. In the future, operation on Kabul will be a small part of the overall strategy. On the new strategy designed .by the commanders, Masood said militarily, simultaneous and coordinated operations will begin on the weaker areas under the control of the      enemy.      Politically     new
 administrations based on shooras will be.set up in the liberated areas.
   About the question whether the expected accord between the US and USSR on Afghanistan issue had any impact on the commanders' decisions, Masood said the initiative came from within the country and the initiators were neither aware of nor concerned with outside agreements. About the possibility of
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL-4 NO■1
 the mujaheddin agreement on elections with PDPA and the communist party's removal by votes like in Nicaragua, the Afghan commander said the problem was that the regime was shameless and did not accept its defeat, otherwise it had already been voted out by the Afghan people. On the . possibility of mujaheddin's cooperation with PDPA, he said the puppet party had not done: anything in the past 12 years but committing crimes. Nontheless, the mujaheddin had announced a general amnesty. PDPA members could repent and join mujaheddin to serve their ndtion. Any power sharing is however, catagori-cally rejected.
      On the role of the former King Zaher Shah, Masood said, because of his age, his natural incompetence, his record during his reign and his record during the past 12 years he cannot play any positive role in bringing peace to Afghanistan. On the UN plan for the return of refugees, he said until the factor of their migration i.e. the puppet regime, was not removed, they would not return. (PT)
 * In a surprise attack on the militia
 posts in the Koh-ewNagar the mujaheddin captured two security posts and killed ten militiamen including three officers. They also captured 8 klashenkovs, two rocket launchers and a machine gun. In Baghlan, the mujaheddin captured a regime security post between Pul-e-Khumri and the new part of Baghlan   city   25 October.    Two Khad
 members were killed in the ambush and eight arrested. Nine klashenkovs and one rocket launcher were also captured by the mujaheddin. (NTN) *
 *  In Arghandi, Paghman of Kabul
 province, the mujaheddin repulsed a regime   attack  29 October,  recaptured
 their three    lost posts,     killed 30
 regime personnel-   and arrested 12
 others. Five mujaheddin were martyred and nine injured in this face-to-face
 battle. One mujahed was captured by the regime forces. On the same day» the mujaheddin attacked the venue of a meeting organized by Farid Mazdak, a high ranking party member of the Kabul regime in the industrial area of Baghlan city and killed the citj chief of Khad. A number of persons were also killed and wounded. In the Tangi Wakhjan and Surkhab, Logar, 'also the mujaheddin repulsed regime attacks 29 October. In an ambush 26 October, the mujaheddin destroyed three tanks of the Kabul regime in Deh Nau, Logar. They also repulsed a regime attack on the Zarghoon Shahr 28 October destroying two tanks and arresting 15 militia personnel. (PT)
                           NOVEMBER
               1
 * The mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime positions at Greshk of'Helmand province 27 October killing 15 soldiers. On the same day, Kabul regime forces attacked mujaheddin strongholds in Dehsabz near Kabul but were forced to retreat after sustaining heavy losses. Eight tanks and nine lorries were destroyed during the fighting and eight troops were taken prisoner by. the mujaheddifi. Nine mujaheddin were also killed and 12 wounded. (VOAPS)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has lamented the statement of ANP Chief Khan Abdul Wall Khan, in which he has been implicated for support in the elections to the JUI (F) candidate from,Charsada, Mawlana Hasan Jan in recent Pakistani elections. Hekmatyar said that it had always been his. endeavour not to indulge in the internal political affairs of Pakistan. Meanwhile, in an interview, the Hezb-e-Islami Chief said the elections in Pakistan had once again made it clear to the people of Afghanisatan that elections were
 259
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL-4 NO.1
the best way for transfer of power. (MLM)
*  The Afghan mujaheddin have inflicted heavy losses on the Kabul forces in their guerrilla operations in sub-divisional headquarters of Khenjan,. Baghlan and Pul-e-Khumri. They wiped out a security post in Pul-e-Khumri 27 October. (PT)
*  The Afghan mujaheddin destroyed 26 October two, Soviet-supplied jet bombers and three helicopters gunships in Farah province, reports MIDIA. (NTN)
                                                  2
*  In preparation for ah assault on the center of Maiwand district, Kandahar, approximately 3,000 mujaheddin were deployed outside the center 26 October. The force represented more than 400 commanders and all the major resistance parties. The city is defended by approximately 3,000 troops deployed in roughly 160 security posts.. Some 134 militia troops are reported to have defected to the mujaheddin since 26 October. The mujahe'ddin also launched attacks against Gereshk, Helmand and were poised to. stop a regime convoy headed for Kandahar. And in Kabul the Afghan mujaheddin have bombed the headquarters of the fifth directorate of Khad 19 October, destroying a tank and two trucks and
                      /
killing five Khad personnel. (PT)
*  On the invitation of the Iranian
government,     the     AIG President
Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, left for Tehran 1 November for holding talks with Irani leaders on the Afghan problem. (PT)
■* The mujaheddin in Herat attacked Kabul regime military post killing nine soldiers and capturing two vehicles and five klashenkovs. (TR)
*  The Kabul regime claims to have
seized a large mujaheddin dump of rockets and ammunition north of Kabul. It adds that more than 700 rockets and shells were recovered from the depot. .Analysts have expressed surprise at Kabul regime's admittance of the presence of arms so close to the capital. (VOADS)
                  3
*  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of
AIG,' left for Iran upon invitation of the Iranian government. The delegation he is heading include Burhanuddin Rabbani, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, Mawlawi Nasrull.ah Mansoor and Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzin, Observers believe that the . visit     to   Iran     of a
high-ranking delegation upon invitation of the Iranian government is a clear indication that a new political plan is in the offing. (VOADS)
*  A delegation of Soviet' military experts has reached Kabul to study present military and political situation in Afghanistan and to hold meetings with military personnel of Kabul regime. (PT)
                  4
*    The leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has expressed deep sense of shock over the desecration of Babri Mosque and. killing of Muslims by Hindu extremists. (PT)
*  The Afghan mujaheddin have killed a number of Kabul regime troops in Balkh province and captured a huge quantity of arms and ammunition. Two mujaheddin were killed and five injured during the
operations. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin
                                                                                 \ ■ • '
have fired a rocket on Shindand Airport and inflicted damages to it. In retaliation, a Kabul regime aircraft bombed mujaheddin's positions from high altitude. No casualties were reported, however. In Herat, a Kabul regime
260
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990_HIUlBHH JLtliUl                   VOL.4 N0.1
 commander, Sher vAhmad, was recently' killed by his rivals. (NTN)
 *   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, said in an interview after arrival in Tehran, "We : need to have consultation with friendly countries, particularly Iran and Pakistan, about our social and political affairs". (TR)
 * In battles between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces’, in Greshk, Helmand, 24 militiamen including a commander were killed and 12 others were wounded. Two mujaheddin ^ere also killed in the battles. In battles in Ragastan, Kandahar, 15 troops were killed. Two truck loads of food supplies were also captured' by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
                        • »
 *  The German Ministry for Economic
 Cooperation has undertaken various projects for training technical personnel for the reconstruction of. Afghanistan. Participants of these projects are mainly Afghan refugees residing in Germany. The •. projects include metal-works, electric power, carpentry, education of mid-wives, medicine, nursing and teacher training.
 (VOGDS)                            /
                    5
 *  Residents of Kabul witnessed 5
                                   i
 November heavy fighting between mujaheddin' and Kabul regime 'forces south-east of the city. Roar of guns and rifles could be heard in the city throughout the day. Kabul regime claims that 50 mujaheddin were killed and 50 injured in these battles. The report places the number of losses among the Kabul troops only at four. (BBCFS).
 * Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of Harakat-^-Islami Afghanistan, after arrival in Tehran said in an interview that Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami and other: Islamic parties as well as all those persons both inside and outside
' Afghanistan who are serving the cause of jehad, should participate in the future government of Afghanistan. (RT)
 *  The Afghan delegation, headed by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President met and held discussions with Ali Akbar Velayati, the Iranian Foreign Minister. Velayati, while expressing support for the Afghan mujaheddin,.said that present conditions differed from those of a few year's ago and only efforts- concurrent with the present conditions will yield positive results. (TR)
 *  The Presidential office of the Kabul regime has published a notice which sets aside 6 November for Najib's meetings with prominent social and national figures of the country. The notice says those wishing to have a private or collective meeting with Najib for discussing urgent social and economic issues of the country, may register with the office. (RA)
 *  Sixteen kgs. of explosives, meant for sabotage activities in Kabul, were discovered in the suburbs of the city.
 (RA) _
 *  The Shoora of the mujaheddin council in the northern Afghanistan says that free blue films were shown in the Kabul cinemas and the practice was named sexual education. The Kabul residents in a detailed representation have called the protection of youngmen from the onslaught of' immorality. They have urged, the closure of such movies now being pun under official supervision. (PT)
                    6
 *  On the eve of talks between the US Secretary of State James Baker,- and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze over the Afghanistan problem, in which the two sides may
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 consider to cut-off their assistance to" the two warring parties* Kabul leaders N^jibullah, r Fazl Haq Khaliqyar and Abdul Wakil have each sent a message to Soviet leaders. Gorbachev, Ryzhkov and Shevardnadze respectively telling them that the Kabul regime was in desparate need of help from the Soviet Union and Moscow should continue its assistance to the regime. (BBCFS).
 *  According to a reliable source, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, met a senior general of Najib administration' near Mohammad Agha, Logar, while he was touring the mujaheddin positions in the province. The meeting was arranged by Shah Nawaz Tani, who contacted the general and invited him to meet Hekmatyar. Tani was also present in the meeting. Details of the meeting and the name of the General were not known. (PT)
 *  Chief of the Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and Commander Mawlawi Mohammad Azim arrived in Tehran 5 November to hold talks with Iranian officials on the Afghan issue. According to Radio Tehran, on his arrival, Mansoor said that all Islamic forces and other groups would play a role in the formation ^ of future Afghan government. (PT)
 * Mawlana Mohammad Yaqoob Shariatyar,
 Political Assistant to Paktia General Commander          Mawlawi    Jalaluddin
 Haqqani (Khales) have in a press statement congratulated Nawaz Sharif, Ijazul Haq and Mawlana Ali Akbar on their success in the general elections. He said, their success was a step forward to the just solution of Afghan problem. (PT)
 * Talking to i?he Nation 5 November in Islamabad, an ANP leader, Haji Ghulam Ahmed Bilour, hoped that th>. new Pakistani government would hold direct talks with the Kabul regime and take a
                              ^practical step for the peaceful solution of the Afghan question. (NTN)
 *   Hundreds of Afghan civilians have ' migrated to the liberated areas of
 Paktia province and crossed the Pakistan-Afghan borders when the Kabul administration conducted indiscriminate bombing on the rural localities v of Logar province. Mujaheddin forces were intercepting the Kabul troops at Pul-e-Alam and Mohammad Agha, Logar, where they inflicted Heavy losses tc the Kabul, regime. (PT)    '
 *  The daily Jang in its editorial 6 November described as very encouraging the complete agreement on certair matters between the two mujaheddin leaders, GulHuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood and on holding elections in 13 provinces. The editorial says that complete unanimity in the ranks of the mujaheddin was imperative, for a success of the Afghan jehad as both US and the USSR are poised to undo the sacrifices of the Afghan mujaheddin. After achieving its interests from the Afghan jehad, the US has drastically cut its assistance to the mujaheddin. Therefore, the Afghan mujaheddin once again have to rely on their own resources for victory and this is possible only through complete harmony. and unanimity in their ranks. (JG) f
                  7         .     .
 * During battles raging between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces in Maiwand, Kandahar, four Kabul' regime security posts have been captured by the mujaheddin. Eighty-five militiamen have been killed and 35 captured. Three tanks and two military vehicles nave also been destroyed. Five mujaheddin were also killed and two of their tanks were destroyed. (VOADS)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin began another heavy rocket attack,, on Kabul Airport.
262
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 Kabul regime sources report that at least one person was killed and' 13 were injured. Flights to Kabul, were disrupted. Observers believe that the attacks were aimed at refuting Kabul regime claims of gaining an. upper harid over . the mujaheddin around Kabul. (RBCFS)
 *   A group of urban " guerrilla mujaheddin raided the Military Academy in Kabul 2 November killing four Kabul troops and damaging severely the main hall of the academy and other installations. (PT) ,
                    8
 *   Addressing the nation on TV and Radio 7 November, Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, has said Pakistan would continue to Support the realization of rights of Muslims all over the world including occupied Kashmir and Afghanistan. Pakistan, he said, had always opposed the aggression against the people of Afghanistan and
»would continue to !> strive for restoration of the democratic rights of the people of that country. (MLM)
                          *
 *   Hezb-re-Islami Afghanistan (Hek-matyar) sources have said that fierce fighting between Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul troops was in progress in Khost, Maidan 'and 'Chakaree. The mujaheddin killed 40 soldiers of the Afghan army in the fighting. Meanwhile, dozens of Afghan families, arriving in Parachinar, Pakistan, have said the Afghan aircraft bombed different areas of Logar 5 November killing three Afghan mujaheddin leaders and injuring three. Those killed were Sammey, Haneef and Agha Jan. At 'least 10 'other, civilians werh also killed in the bombings by the Afghan air force on Dinau, Zarghoon, Marghoon Khel and Niazi areas. (P,T)
 *   The mujaheddin in an offensive 5 November, captured Kabul regime five
 military posts of Qalat, Zabul. All the piilitiamen in the posts were taken prisoners and 27 pieces of arms were seized by the mujaheddin in the operation. Seven mujaheddin were killed and 20 injured. Following the attack, the Kabul regime fired three SCUD missiles on mujaheddin positions killing a shephered and some sheep.
 (VOADS)
       r                    •           i.
 * Thirteen persons were killed, and 53 wounded after four ground-to-ground
 rockets hit Herat city 7 November. Similarly, . i6 similar rockets * were f,ired on Kabul 8 November killing three persons and injuring six. The rockets were reportedly fired from north-easterly direction. (RA)
                    9
 *  Commenting on the UN resolution on Afghanistan, the BBC said that, despite tremendous pressures for the creation of a neutral political atmosphere necessary for a proper election, there are no signs of an accord between the parties. Both super powers reiterate that the key for the solution of the Afghanistan issue is in the hands of Afghans themselves
 *  Thirteen persons were killed and 58 injured in rocket attack .by the Afghan. mujaheddin, on Herat city. Their rocket attacks are* also continuing, on Kabul Airport in which three persons were killed and six, others were injured 7 November. No Soviet transport plane was seen flying with supplies 7 November which1is an unusual phenomenon. Despite government claims, of massive security operations, the mujaheddin attacks have intensified in the north-east. (NWT)
 * In a resolution1 adopted by consensus
 and without a1 debate 7 November the UN General      Assembly     called      for
 cessation of hostilities in Afghanistan so as to accomplish a political settlement acceptable to the people.. It
26 3
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGHflNJIHAU                     VOL.4 N0.1
 emphasizes, the need for an "early start" of an intra-Afghan dialogue for the.. establishment of a broad-based government     through     democratic
 procedures acceptable to the Afghan people, including free and' fair elections* The resolution reaffirmed the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and calls for the creation of the necessary conditions that would enable over five million Afghan refugees to return to their homeland. Under the resolution, the Assembly emphasized that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan were essential for the peaceful solution of the problem. The resolution renewed its appeal for humanitarian relief assistance for the Afghan refugees and for adequate financial and material resources for the coordinator of the humanitarian and economic assistance program relating to Afghanistan.. (PT)
                  10
 * The mujaheddin began a new offensive on the communist military' basis ir Greshk, Helmand, 5 November. During the attacks,. two tanks and a BM-41 rocket-pad were destroyed and a large number of militiamen w6re killed. From the mujaheddin side five persons were killed and' 16 injured. The mujaheddin also destroyed 13 fuel tankers and five trucks in Samangan and captured eight military posts. During these operations 23 troops and officers and two mujaheddin were also killed. (VOADS)
                 11
 * In a sweeping operation against the installations of the Kabul regime in the Shakardarah district, Kabul Province, the mujaheddin killed 30 soldiers and officers of the regime
 late last week. Three tanks and five army lorries were burned down and two heavy machine guns and a large quantity of ammunition wdre captured by them. In the besieged city of Qalat also the mujaheddin are     steadily' advancing
 despite reprisal air raids by the communist regime. The mujaheddin captured five outposts of the city's security belt 9 November killing 40 mercenaries with 13 soldiers reportedly defecting to the mujaheddin. During recent battles,    15 mujaheddin were
 killed and 50 injured. The mujaheddin killed 7 November Asif, a notorious militia commander and his 10 companions. They also captured machine guns, rockets and klashenkovs in the operation. Two mujaheddin Commanders, Mullah Faqir Ahmad and Qader Khan, were martyred in the operation. Meanwhile, a helicopter gunship of the. Kabul regime was shot down      by , the mujaheddin
 in Badamgir, Ghazni, 6 November. Seven ' spldiers of 'the regime defected to mujaheddin with their weapons in Arghandi Payan in Pagjiman Valley. (PT)
 *  For the third consecutive day, the mujaheddin fired missiles on the Kabul city killing five persons and injuring
 10.(PT)         •
                   12
                , /
 *   The Afghan refugees ' voluntary repariation pilot project, initiated by UNHCR in July this year, has not been much successful and1 in about four months only 12 thousand refugees families have got themselves registered for repatriation, say reliable sources. The term of the pilot project expiring on 15 October has been extended upto March next year, the sources added. (JG)
 *  The mujaheddin in a surprise attack captured a Kabul regime military base in Chaghcharan, Ghor, 7 November. Twenty two klashenkovs and 52 heavy
2 64
OCTOBER*?DECEMBER, 1990   ■. flfCIIAttJfHAD ..         VOL-4 N0.1
                                               14
 machine guns were also seized. The commander of the base and 11 of his men were taken prisoner. Two mujaheddin commanders were also killed. Meanwhile in an attack on the beseiged city of Qalat 9 November# the mujaheddin killed 40 militiamen and forced another 100 to surrender. Fifteen mujaheddin were also killed in the operations while another 50 were injured. (VOAPS)
 * Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami' Afghanistan has said in an. interview that general elections were a solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Regarding the security during elections he said that in the liberated areas this -could be managed by the local jehad commanders. "If this proved to be inadequate"# he said, "the two neighboring countries of Iran and Pakistan could be requested tc help, because the two countries are trusted by our people." (VOADS)
                  13
 *    The Kabul regime President Najibullah' has been meeting prominent Afghans to seek their views on ending the 12-year old civil war in the country# official press reports said in Kabul 11 November. Najibullah publicized his telephone number last week and issued a public invitation for propo-' sals to improve the country's shattered economy and to end the civil war. (PT)
 * Afghan leader and representative of Mawalawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, mujaheddin commander in Paktia, called on Pakistani Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad. The representative, Mohammad Yaqub Shariatyar, after the meeting with 'the Prime Minister, said that he conveyed a message from his commanders and felicitated him on his success as elected leader of Pakistan. Shariatyar presented a copy of the Holy Quran to the Prime Minister. (PT)
 *   The mujaheddin attacked security posts at Speen Jumat and chah Anjeer of Greshk 10 November killing 40 militiamen and injuring another 90. While a military vehicle was destroyed,
 35 militiamen were captur/ed tpgether with 40 light arms. Four)' mujaheddin were killed and 15 were wounded during the operation. Another report says that in an ambush on a military caravan at Raigeastan, Kandahar, 11 November, the mujaheddin seized 17 military vehicles, two trucks loaded, with ammunition and four tanks. At Maiwand, Kandahar, the mujaheddin captured two.important posts and destroyed a tank. Nine mujaheddin were killed in the attack and seven wounded. (VOAPS/)
 * The deposed head of the Kabul
 regime, Babrak Karmal, is under house arrest in the suburbs of Moscow and his movements are restricted within the compouned of the building, says the Subh-e-Pairuzee,   the organ of • AIG,
 adding that Karmal was not allowed even to see his ailing fathe.*. (PT)
 * The daily Jang said in an editorial
 14  November the UN General Assembly has urged for affording an opportunity to the Afghans to express - their will, for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem. But the Soviet Union desires Najibullah to remain in power     during      the     elections.
 Participation in such elections by the Afghans is obviously not possible; because the Afghans can’t accept a ruler and a system against which they have conducted a jehad over the years. (JG)           "
 *   The mujaheddin killed 20 militiamen, inflicted serious injuries to 23 and destroyed three tanks 11 November in their operation against Kabul regime security posts of Aqcha, Jauzjan. The same day a caravan of Kabul regime.
265
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990 flfGHANJIHAD                      VOL.4 N0.1
 heading for Kabul, was completely smashed in Raigistan, Kahdahar. Three tanks were destroyed and 18 trucks, loaded with ammunition, were captured. In . Jungle Bagh, Bagrami, Kabul province, the mujaheddin destroyed one tank and four military vehicles 9 November killing all on board.x They smashed the regime's positions in the' area and killed the troops. The same day, they destroyed one tank in Mohammad Agha, Logar. > One armed militiaman defected tp the mujaheddin. (PT)
                                                15
 *  A Kabul regime military transport plane was shot down 14 November by the Afghan mujaheddin while it was landing at the Khost Airport in Paktia. The pilot was killed on the spot. (PT)
 *  Talking to newsnieh on board his aircraft 14 November while returning home from Tokyo after attending the enthronement ceremony ' of Emperor Akihito of Japan, the President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan said that Najibullah continued to be the. main hurdle in resolving the Afghan issue and, unless the Soviets were to act in earnest and put pressure on Najib, prospects of resolution of this issue remained remote and uncertain. He wondered that the Soviet leadership, which accepted the idea of self-determination in East Europe, continues to deny the same principle inside Afghanistan. He pointed out that it was for the first time that now Afghan commanders,. and mujaheddin leaders had_ joined hands and this development will contribute to resolve the issue. (MLM) *
 * In an interview to VOA the Chief of
 Hezb-e-Islami,. Mawlawi Mohammad Younus
     , • : . , • /
 Khales, has said . that the AIG was betrayed by a number of friendly countries and they are not giving due
 importance tp it and have been opposing it during its formation. Also money and arms were directly provided to certain organizations by trespassing the AIG Defense Ministry. (NTN)
 *  After a month long siege around Qalat, the headquarter of Zabul province, the Afghan mujaheddin were able to break the security belt on Kabul-Kandahar highway. A spokesman of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), Mawlawi Abdul Wahab, told AAP that,, after capturing three posts of the security belt, the mujaheddin were now engaged in finalizing the strategy against Kabul troops who were besieged in the cantonment. (NTN)
 *  Abdul Aziz, a former army Brigadier who has recently become a refugee to •Pakistan, has saj.d in an interview with the VOA that the economic situation in Kabul has been , bad and that the people were frustrated with the regime to the extent that they wished it would topple. He added hospitals, were .under-staffed and medical care had
 virtually come , to standstill. Long
 lines are formed in front of bakeries
 and each person is offered three loaves
 of bread against ration-card. He said,
 continuation of the Kabul regime rule
                     *
 was because of the conflicts and disunity on the part of the mujaheddin.
 (VOAPS)
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, met CommaLnder Ismail Khan near his base in Herat. . The president promoted Ismail Khan to Brig. General and to.'. i him that regarding political and military •. problems they shared a common view and would fight the Kabul regime until its downfall. (BBCPS)
                   16
 *  Mujaheddin attacked a supply convoy of. the Kabul regime ’at Torghundi and Kushk, Herat, 16 Novemb.er, killing six troops and capturing one truck and two
266
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfllllflN JtHAU
 trailers. The mujaheddin also attacked 6 November Kabul regime security posts at Ghorian, Herat, killing 15 soldiers and wounding' another 24. Twenty-two different kind of arms fell in their hands. Meanwhile, at Jangalbagh of Bagrami district, near Kabul, the mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime forces 9 November destroying a tank, on the> same day, they attacked regime' posts at Mohammad Aga, Logar, and des'troyed one tank. In Jauzjan, the mujaheddin launched a surprise attack on Kabul, regime posts killing 20 militiamen, injuring another 23 and destroying three tanks. The Paktia mujaheddin shot down 14 November, a military transport aircraft at Khost. (VOAPS)
 *  AIG^ President- Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has called for further intensification of jehad to totally defeat communism in. Afghanistan. He told a MIDIA correspondent in Herat that mujaheddin have sue-ceded in establishing complete and desirable security and peace in all liberated vare&s of the province and have also implemented several projects pertaining to health and education. (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime i~ renewing its application to joirn the SAARC at its 5th summit beginning on 21 November in the Maldives capital Male;, says an official spokesman of the regime in Kabul 14 November. (PT) *
 * The UN .Secretary ' General’s personal. representative on Afghanistan Benon Sevan said in a press conference 14 November at. the UN that the Afghan leaders should start thinking.about the overall Afghan national interest and make the necessary personal sacrifices at least in the- transition period in order to make it possible to achieve a political solution. He called for the establishment of a broad-based government through free and fair elections. "The time is now and perhaps long overdue", he added. (PT)
 VOL-4 NO.1
                   17
 *  Addressing a meeting of h’is supporters from Badakhshan province in Kabul, the regime President Najibullah has vowed to defend Afghanistan against what he called the Pakistani aggression and interference. (JG)
 * One thousand families have migrated to Pakistanin as a result of - fierce fighting in Logar province says a MIDIA report. (NWT)
 *  In an interview in Peshawar, the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has emphasized the need of establishing an institution to hold elections after removal of Najibullah regime in Kabul and'transfer power to an elected government. (NWTJ •
 * Speaking at a dinner hosted in honor of the Sudahese President Gen. Omer Hassan Ahmed-el-Beshir in Islamabad 16 November, the President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan has praised the consistent and strong support extended by Sudan to the cause of the Afghan people and for the restoration of the independent and' Islamic character of Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin destroyed a transport plane of the Kabul regime which was landing at the airstrip of Bagh-e-Sehra, Khost, 14 November, Meanwhile, a report from Qalat, Zabul, said that . the mujaheddin were constantly attacking the Bala Hisar and the cantonment ,in that city after breaking government security"belt. (PT)
 * The mujaheddin captured ,five Kabul regime posts 14 November in Mir, Bacha Kot of Shakardara district, Kabul province. In Logar, they captured three security posts at Mughul Khel village of Surkh Deewal 11 November. The same day, they also attacked regime
                                                                                                 26 7,
\ ■
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO. 1
 positions in Pul-e-Alam and Mohammad Agha and captured a number of light weapons. -Two mujaheddin were also killed. Meanwhile*    the 50-day   joint
 operation    plan of  the Kabul  regime
 military and militia     forces   ended
 without breaking the ice. (PT)
 * The special representative of the UN
 Secretary    General has  said    in an
 interview at the UN Headquarters that none of the Afghan opposition leaders were willing to hold talks with Najib. "They will not accept to do so either directly or indirectly" he added. "The sufferings of the people have not ended and there is* practically, no place without unrest in Afghanistan". (RM)
 * The mujaheddin in an operation on
 Herat city* have captured 15 Kabul regime security posts in a single day. (VOAPS).     v
                   18
 *  In an operation at Mohammad Aga~* Logar, 13 November, mujaheddin captured 15, security posts, destroyed three tanks and killed 20 troops-. . Many soldiers were also wounded in the attack. On the same day* the Kandahar mujaheddin attacked a regime supply line near Mai wand destroying one tank and a military transport vehicle. In another attack* the mujaheddin seized a security post at a outskirt- of Maiwand. Twenty five mujaheddin were also killed or wounded in the attacks. (VO’APS)
 * The mujaheddin attacked 14 November
 a regime supply .convoy at Lashkargah killing 150 troops and putting in. fire four tanks. Twenty five mujaheddin were killed and 10 injured in the attack. (RP)              '          .. *
 *  Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami Afghanistan
 has opened offices in Germany* Denmark and Austria.     Hujat-ul-Islam  Sayyed
 Mohammad Ibrahim Baqeri said in; an
 interview in Vienna that his party's political activities are taking place alongside the intensification of the military jehad. He said that his party kept 17 different army detachments inside Afghanistan. (TR)
 *  The mujaheddin have killed and injured over 30 Kabul regime troops and captured 34, others during their raids on security posts in Balkh and Jauzjan provinces .. They also destroyed ' an armored vehicle, a tank and an ammunition depot. One mujahed was also killed. Near Shibbarghan they wiped out two security posts. Three mujaheddin were killed and seven injured. The mujaheddin also conducted mortar aftack .on security post near Maidan Shahr, the center' of Wardak province. Kabul regime, planes bombed the mujaheddin positions. (PT).
 * The mujaheddin- have inflicted heavy
 casualties on the Kabul regime. troops and captured Strategic parts and destroyed many vehicles and tanks in their strong resistance in Afghanistan. During, the second week of November the mujaheddin killed as many as 60 and wounded nearly 100 troops. They destroyed 10 tanks . and five vehicles and ambushed the regime convoy in Kandahar province which was moving towards Helmand in Regh area. Four mujaheddin were martyred during these encounters. (PT)                      f
 * In an interview with mujaheddin run
 weeklies* Mujahed and Shahadat the Chief of Jamiat, Burhanuddin Rabbani* has described the recent agreement between his party and Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) as a milestone for the success of Islamic revolution' in Afghanistan. He said that the Afghan problem was passing through a vary critical phase and was now at the verge of sucdess but such a success could be crowned only if the mujaheddin are united. (NTN)     ,           V '
0CT08ER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 met with Iranian authorities, is beyond our expectations", (BBCFS)
 *   The VOA has interviewed Shia mujaheddin in Iran in connection with' their meeting Najib. Eshaq Akhlaqi, member of the Central Council of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, strpngly denied such meeting. He said, there are circles that are intent to create discord among the mujaheddin, Nader Ali Mehdawi, speaker of the Coalition Council of Afghan Shias, said in Peshawar "We should never meet with Najib because it was he and his party that caused all this destructioh and misery and martyred between 1,5 .to 2 million of our people". Haji Hussain Jaafari, a member of the military section of Hezbullah-e-Afghanistan* while refuting the news and considering it a Kabul regime propaganda, added, the Hezbullah-e-Afghanistan will fight with other Islamic brethren until the Kabul regime was overthrown, (VOADS)
 *   One child was killed and four persons injured when three rockets hit Kabul city 28 November. (RA).
 *. A spokesman of the Iranian Embassy in Islamabad has denied press reports that the government of Iran intentionally invited Najib, head of the Kabul regime to Mashad, and that Iranian government pressured leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin ’ to hold talks with him. The spokesman clarified that Najib's stoppage at Mashad was exclusively to refueling purposes, (MLM)
 *  A peace-proposal by former Afghan Monarch, Zaher Shah, was presented to Najib, head of the Kabul regime by supporters of Zaher Shah for the restoration of peace in Afghanistan. Zaher Shah's spokesman, however, is reported to have said that no such proposal was presented to Najib directly. According to the BBC, the
 spokesman said that * the proposal had been sent to prominent Afghans throughout the world recently. (MLM)
 *   Najibullah, the head of Kabul regime, said 26 November that he would stop Soviet arm supplies and destroy all stockpiled weapons under a peace plan designed to end the country's 12r-year civil war. Speaking to a news conference, Najib declared that all parties to the Afghan dispute woulc have to abide by the peace plan before he agreed to arms cut-off. (MLM).
 *   The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said that he would soon meet Prime Minister Mian Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan to formally request him for Pakistan's recognition of the AIG. Addressing a crowded press conference in his 'office after a month-long tour of Iran and western and north-westerr Afghanistan, Mujaddedi said that the new government of Pakistan would be more helpful because the leaders and the ministers had been supporting the cause of the Afghan mujaheddin. He said "it is high time that they > should recognize our government". Meanwhile, he denied reports of meeting Najib and described the news as a communist propaganda tactic. He made, it also clear that under no circumstances the puppet regime in Kabul would be given share in the future government. (PT)
                29
 *   The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, speaking at a press conference in Peshawar 28 November, said, an AIG delegation visited Iran to exchange ideas, about the existing political and military situation, with the ‘ leaders of the Iran-based mujaheddin as well as the Iranian authorities. He added, we held talks with Ayatullah Khamenai, President Hashemi Rafsanjani and Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Valayati and achieved very
277
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 positive results. The Shia and Sunni' Afghan mujaheddin have agreed, to the formation of a joint political committee to study the political events and the question of holding elections in Afghanistan. He said, neither myself . nor my representative have met Najib in Geneva and also I have not received any proposals from Zaher Shah. But if I receive any reasonable suggestion, even proposed by our enemies, I will accept it. He said, in Afghanistan, at present, there are
 20,000     Russian troops and Russian bombers taking off from the Soviet soil and drop bombs on our villages and Russian advisers are fighting side by side with the Kabul army. If Najib really.wants to stop bloodshed through a political solution then he should step down. We have already announced general amnesty. I have received ‘ many letters from Najib, but the mujaheddin never take them seriously and know that . toajib is trying to deceive them. He said, a delegation of mujaheddin will visit the Soviet Union in the near future. (NWT)
 * Eight Afghans were killed and 10 injured when two SCUD missiles landed at Tari Mangal in Pakistan'/,'", reports ANA. Two long container trucks and a pick-up were also destroyed in the blast. It is believed that the missiles were fired from Kabul. (PT)
. * The Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, Victor Yakonin together with the Consul for Political . Affairs, called on the AIG President at his residence 28 November. Among other topics of interest, they discussed sending of a-delegation to Russia in response to the invitation from the Russian Federation President Boris Yeltsin. (PT)
 "The speaker of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) has said in an interview regarding Najib*s landing in Mashad that Iran's stand in the past, particularly viz-a-viz the talks in
 Geneva was a source of hope and pleasure for the mujaheddin. But this late move by Najib to1 stop in the Islamic Republic of Iran has caused concern among the Afghans. (VOADS)
                30
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has told the BBC during an interview that, after the revolt by the Kabul regime army, he had received messages from ' Najib through Abdul Wali Khan and through a member of Hezb-e-Islami. Wali Khan also wished to mediate between him and Najib, he added. "But my counter-demand was that ‘Najib and his party must step down". He said coalition with Najib is simply impossible. (BBCFS)
 *  Six ground.-to-groUnd missiles hit Kabul city 30 November, killing four persons and wounding another 14. (RM)
 *  Eleven persons were killed and 15 injured when a powerful SCUD missile fell on Pakistan territory some 500 meters near Pakistan-Afghan border, 28 November. The missiles, fired, from Kabul, according to the BBC, also destroyed five vehicles. Among those: killed were two Pakistanis. The others were Afghans. (NTN)
 *  Najibullah, head of the Kabul regime claimed 29- November that representar tives of Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) < was/ were among those who had contacted him in Afghanistan. Najib added that the contact was made shortly after an
 •abortive coup attempt last March. (MLM)
                               DECEMBER
                                          1
 *  Mohammad Agha a district of Logar,. south of Kabul, fell to mujaheddin. 30 November, according to ANA. Fierce fighting had continued between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in the area since 10 November. Huge
2 78
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 llflllllllliffill                 VOL-4 N0.1
 quantities of arms and ammunition have also been captured by the mujaheddin. The report adds that the road between Kunduz and Sher Khan a river port north of Afghanistan has also been
 I
 closed by the mujaheddin. (PT)
 * The AIG President has said that the false news about his meeting with Najib was aimed at defaming his reputation among the Afghan people. Meanwhile, in the southern province of Kandahar, the Mujaheddin have shot down a helicopter of the Kabul regime which was flying over their bases. They have also succeeded in their attacks on Kabul regime forces around the city. However, they suffered heavy losses at Maiwand, Kandahar where as many as 25 mujaheddin were reported to have been martyred and many others injured in an encounter with forces of the regime. (PT) •
 *   The' '■ AIG has1 ‘reactivated its
 elections plan and will send its supervisory teams inside Afghanistan after 2 December for holding elections: for the district councils, provincial: and     national     assemblies. The
 Supervisory teams will be despatched from Peshawar. According to election., rules, 10, persons from each district will be elected or selected for the district council who will also be members of the grand assembly (Loya Jirgah). Among them, one person will be inducted to the / National Assembly (Wulusi Jirgah). (PT)
 I
 * The mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime security posts in Logar, 1 December, and occupied nine of them. (VOAPS)
                   2
 * One hundred troops of the Kabul regime were captured and more than 30 killed when the mujaheddin took over the control of Mohammad Agha, Logar. ANA reports that seven tanks and armored vehicles were also captured by the mujaheddin in the same. area. (NTN)
 *  The mujaheddin fired last week rockets on eastern Kabul, destroying three ammunition depots of the' puppet regime. Two officers and six soldiers of the Kabul regime were killed aiid many injured. Fighting on the Jalalabad front has intensified resulting in heavy losses and many casualties to the Kabul regime military machine. Seven soldiers have joined the mujaheddin in the area. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin have closed down the Salang Highway since. 20 November. (NWT)
 *    The mujaheddin have attacked communist security posts in Jabl-e-Seraj, Parwan, 23 November in which 50 soldiers were killed, 25 tanks and armored vehicles and two BM-13 multi^barrel rocket launchars were destroyed. On the same day, the-mujaheddin attacked communist, regime: positions at Tangi Tashqurghan and Khulm, Samangan, capturing 13 army personnel and a large quantity of arms and ammunition. A regime supply caravan was also ambushed at Tangi Tashqurghan in which four servicemen were killed and a tank was. destroyed. Six trucks, loaded with food supplies, were also seized- by.the mujaheddin. According to reports, the Kabul-Parwan . and Parwan-Hairatan highways were closed as part of the newly adopted strategy of the mujaheddin. Following a single strategy adopted by field commanders, the mujaheddin have intensified their: operations across the country. In continuation of previous attacks, the: mujaheddih of Logar captured eight posts of the Kabul regime in Deh Nau and Mughal-Khail 25 November. Forty-five militiamen surrendered to the mujaheddin in Helmand and a large quantity of arms together with seven vehicles have been seized by them.. (NWT)
                  3
 * A protocol On direct cooperation between the Kabul regime and Qazaqistan
2 79
 AC;
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flffJIflN JfWIO
VOL.4 NO.1
 will assist the Kabul regime in the trade, construction, irrigation electric- power and banking, A similar protocol has been signed between the Alamata Republic of . the USSR and; Kandahar ProvinceConsumer goods worth
 360,000 rubbles will be placed at the disposal of the Kabul regime in Kandahar on the' basis of.this protocol. (RA)
 * A Burmese Muslim delegation met mujaheddin leaders inside Afghanistan and apprised them, of Muslim arms struggle in Burmah. The delegation, comprized of Hafiz Ziaul Haq Siddiqi and Commander Karim, met 'Engineer Faiz Mohammad Khan and. Mawlana Yaqub Shariatyar in Paktia Province and informed them of the conditions in the Boti Dong city of Arakaan province of Burmah where the armed forces pushed about 1,000 Muslims into' the jungle. (PK)
 .* The AIG Prime Minister Prof. Abdul Rab Rasool Sayyaf has called upon the UN to support the stance of, the Afghan mujaheddin instead of presenting impra-cticable solutions" that could not lessen pains of the Afghan people. He was addressing a press conference at the AIG Supreme Court office in Peshawar 2 December, according to ANA. Sayyaf at the same time called upon the ex-Afghan Monarch Zaher Shah to do away with his own proposals as such proposals could not       be     of any
 importance before the decisions of the Afghan mujaheddin. He at the • same time, in an indirect' expression, expressed concern over the contacts of some Afghan leaders with the Soviet Union, adding that any agreement between the parties without a• prior consensus of all the mujaheddin will never be acceptable to them. (PT)
* The AIG- formally launched 2 December its elections program by despatching 138 election supervisory teams from
 Peshawar to begin election process inside Afghanistan. In a meeting held on the occasion many Afghan leaders were present. However notable among those who d^d not attend the meeting was Mawlawi Younus Khales who is said to have boycotted the elections. Present were also a number of Shia leaders including Ayatullah Taqaddusi. According to -Dr. Farooq Azam the AIG Minister of Education, the AIG Elections Commission was sending the supervisory teams to .20 provinces of Afghanistan. (PT)      ,
 *  The AIG Prime. .Minister Abd Rab
 Rasool Sayyaf, commenting on the moves of AIG for holding elections inside Afghanistan, has said it was the only way for restoring peace in Afghanistan. He 'said that all the mujaheddin parties,     including     Hezb-e-Islami
 Afghanistan of Hekmatyar were united on the election issues. He claimed that the representatives of the Iran-based. Shia mujaheddin parties have also agreed on the elections plan . He .said the elections will be completed before March and the elected representatives of the loya. jirgah will have to report to the .election commission 18 March, 1991. The loya jirgah will then appoint the he^d of' the state of Afghanistan who will have to appoint the Prime Minister and the designated government will have to take' a vote of confidence from the National Assembly. (MlM)
 *  A Jamat-e-Islami leader. Dr. Yaqub Khan who is also deputy parliamentary leader of the IJI in NWFP Assembly, warned 2 December the ANP to change its policy towards India and Afghanistan otherwise it would not be difficult for the Jamaat to drive away the ANP from the IJI. He . regretted that ANP continued to have the same stance with, regard to India and Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  Georgi sarkanzov, a close assistant to USSR President Gorbachev has in an
2 80
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HIUUHII lUIIHU                   VOL.4 NO. 1
 interview said that the Soviet Union has not yet recovered from the economic and financial losses it suffered during the long war in Afghanistan and it is not in a position to involve its troops in the Gulf. (NWT)
 *  The UNHCR's program for providing veterinary facilities to the cattle brought by the Afghan refugees; is being stopped with effect from 1 January, 1991. (NWT)
                                                4
 * The Kabul regime is of the opinion
 that the mujaheddin plan for holding general elections in Afghanistan after the Loya Jirgah has been convened was only a show • and not enough for Afghanistan. The Kabul regime again urged the opposition to take part in a peace conference. Meanwhile, the daily Independent of London, quoting Pakistani circles, writer that in order to step down, Najibullah has offered three conditions:  (1) There should be
 no power-vaccum during the transition period, (2) Najib's followers, both in the party and in the army, should not be sued or victimized and (3) Najib and his close friends should be allowed to go to an unknown destination. Kabul regime authorities have denied these reports. (BBCFS)
 *  The Afghan government Charge d' Affaires was summoned 3. December to the Pakistani Foreign Office to receive a strong protest1 in regard to the firing of two SCUD missiles by Kabul regime troops which landed in Teri Mangal in Kurram. Agency 28 November. Eleven people, including three . Afghan refugees, were killed and 15 injured as a result of the attack. The protest note contained also A complaint about another firing of missile by Kabul troops in Khyber Agency. , The government of Pakistan also rejected the Kabul regime protest in which it was alleged that; 12 November two
 Pakistani j'et aircraft had. voilated the Afghan airspace. (PT)
 *  According to informed sources, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Gulbuddin . Hekmatyar had an important meeting with Prof. Abdul Rab Rasool Sayyaf the AIG Prime Minister at the latter's office in Pabbi. Prof. Sayyaf has reportedly ordered his senior field commanders around Kabul to coordinate their military activities with those of Hekmatyar. (PT)
 *  Qudratullah Ahmadi the Afghan
 Charge d' Affaires in Pakistan, while talking to newsmen in Islamabad, declared that the Kabul regime is prepared to accept any democratic process for the solution of the Afghan dispute and to arrange elections under UN supervision. (JG)                (
                   5
 *  The New York Times writes £hat/ the mujaheddin' election ,plan,. announced 2 November, has been criticized by a number of refugees both in Pakistan and . Iran for its limitations. (VOADSj
 *  The Amir of Jamaat-erlslami Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad said 4 December that ridding of Najib regime and installation of mujaheddin government in Afghanistan is essential to curb foreign manipulation of the issue and reaping of the fruits of 11 year long struggle of the Afghan people. In a press statement, he cautioned that any compromise with Najib or Zaher Shah will be betrayal of the Afghan cause. (PT)
 *  Fakhar Imam the Pakistani Minister for Education and Parliamentary Affairs said 4 December that any compromise formula which allowed both ' the mujaheddin representatives and Afghan commanders . to be accomodated could be acceptable to the Afghan people who continued to face ravages of the 11-year-old war. The Minister made
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 the remarks while opening a two days seminar on Afghanistan in Islamabad organized by the ' Konrad Adenauer Foundation in collaboration with the Institute of Strategic Studies (ISSI-) in Islamabad.
 (PT)
 * In an international conference, under the chairmanship of Mawlana Abdul Sattar Niazi, the Federal Minister for Municipal Affairs and Rural Development at Islamabad under the aegis of the United Ulema Council to commemorate the death anniversary- of Dr. Abdullah Ezam, the Afghan jehad martyr, a resolution was passed, asking the government of Pakistan to immediately recognize the AIG, and inter alia urged upon the Islamic world to extend their full support to the Afghan jehad. In another resolution, the Pakistan government- was asked to trace out the murderers of Dr. Ezam and stressed on unity among the Afghan leaders and also demanded from the AIG to rename the Dawah-e-Jehad University at Peshawar as Abdullah Ezam University. Mawlana Niazi said in his speech that the super powers have joined hands against the Muslims and, therefore, the Muslims should suppbrt the Islamic movements throughout the world. Senator Mawlana ■ Qa.zi Abdul Lateef, speaking on this occasion, also called upon the Pakistan government to recognize the AIG immediately. (NWT)
                   6
 * Sayed Rahmatullah Naqwi, speaker of Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, has stated in Tehran about the mujaheddin election plan that it was not comprehensive and, therefore, not acceptable to his party. He said as the plan did not include all mujaheddin and the independent jehad groups, it will not yield effective results. (VOADS) *
*  Two kgs. of high explosives and a mine, planted in Jalalabad city, have been discovered. (RA)
  *  President Najibullah of Afghanistan in an interview with the special correspondent of the British daily INDEPENDENT in Kabul, claimed that he has reached understanding with various groups of the Afghan mujaheddin, as a result of which the civile war , in Afghanitan can be stopped.. He added that a fqrtnight ago, he had asker1 representatives of the Afghan mujaheddin in Geneva to join the proposed interim council, after which the war will come to an end and later general elections will be held in Afghanistan under the UN supervision.
  (JG)                      ,
        ' . 1
  *  According to AAP, the Afghan Mujaheddin have occupied the Mahipar Dam after a fierce fight. Meanwhile five
 4 soldiers of the Kabul regime joined the mujaheddin and handed over to them a considerable quantity of arms and ammunition. (NWT)
 *  According to the BBC, the Kabul regime President Najibullah offered 5 December to give up his control of the array and deliver authority to a National Council which withhold elections in the country. The BBC said that Najib's offer was conditional on the elements of the various groups of Afghan resistance to.cooperate with the proposed council. Najib said arrangements made by the National Council for elections would be acceptable to him. He also announced his intention .to take part in the Presidential elections, the BBC said.
 (MLM)
 *  The Soviet government has denied Pakistani allegations that the Soviet Union was following a double standard policy in regard to the East European nations and Afghanistan. The statement made by V.I. Churkin, head of Soviet Foreign Affairs Ministry Information Department, and released to the press in Islamabad said, such a statement by
282
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfGlllllll
VOL -4 NO -1
 Pakistani leaders was ."absolutely baseless". He added, "our entire foreign policy, including our attitude towards the countries of Eastern Europe and Afghanistan, proceeds from the same principles. There are no double-standards there". (MLM)
                   7
 *  Reports reaching from Balkh state that the Kabul regime has launched extensive bombing raids on major areas under mujaheddin control and has cut off all supply routes and water supply to these areas. (BBCPS)
 *  Pazal-ur-Rehman President- of. the Afghan Refugee Commission in Peshawar has demanded the government of Pakistan of an ealy fulfilment of the demands of thousands of employees of the commission, whose jobs are threatened to be terminated. Addressing the striking employees, whose pen down strike has entered its eight days, he regretted that the Afghan Refugees Commission . employees had rendered services to the Afghan refugees in the farflung areas in camps where Afghan planes also dropped bombs* are not being heeded in their demand . He was of the view that employees, whose jobs were at stake, should be accomodated in the provincial government service to save them from uri-employment, (PT) *
*     A two-days seminar, titled "Afghanistan-1990", inaugurated in Islamabad, has been told that the Afghan mujaheddin face heavy odds .due to gulf crisis. The statement was made by Mushahid Hussain, former editor of the Pakistani newspaper Muslim, and a fr;ee-lance writer. Others who spoke in the seminar included Brig. Noor Hussain, Or. Shireen Mazari, Dr. R.B. . Raees, Heinz Schwarz, Sabahuddin: Kushkaki, Nasim Zehra, Van Rooyer, Martin Berber, Eng. Abdul Rahim, Fazl. Rahman, Profi Rasool Amin, Dr. Imtias Bukhari, Prof. Dr. Volkegf Nienhaus and
 Brig. (Retd) Mohammad Yousaf. The seminar was organized by the Institute of Strategic Studies and Konrad Adenauer Foundation. (MLM)
 *   The Jamiat-e-Ulama-e-Islami leader Maulana Fazl-ur^Rehman in a press conference in Quetta 5 December urged the government of Pakistan to continue its support of legitimate and heroic struggle of Afghan.mujaheddin to enable them to achieve their cherished goal of establishing their own government in Kabul. (MLM)
 *   The Hezb-e-Islajmi Afghanistan of Khales is a part of the seven-piarty alliance as well, as of the AIG, said Qari . Mohammad shah spokesman of the Hezb-e^-Islami of Khales. In an interview with ANA 6 December, he de-' nied a news report that the Khales party has dissociated itself from the senior leadership of the mujaheddin. (MLM)
 * According to BBC, people in Kabul are skeptical about a report saying that during his talks with the representatives of the opposition three weeks ago, the Kabul regime leader Najibullah had proposed to stepdown and leave the country. According to BBC, Najib had put three conditions for his resignation. There should be no government vaccum during the period of transfer of power, his supporters in the ruling party arid armed forces should not be victimized and he and his close associates should be allowed to leave for ah unknown place. The report said such a move would have very bad impact on the morale of the ruling party, armed forces and the population of Kabul city. Meanwhile, in its reaction .to the announcement of elections in Afghanistan by the AIG, the Kabul government has said that efforts of the opposition to hold elections would not yield any1 fruits. Observers say that both sides in the
283
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
  Afghan war have held their loya jirgahs and none of these have represented all the Afghans and were not capable to restore peace in Afghanistan. The Kabul regime has said approximately out of 12 million people of Afghanistan ■two-thirds are living in the government controlled areas and cities. Besides, as many as five millions Afghans are living in refugee camps in Pakistan and in Iran. Another feeling in .Kabul is that the Iran-based mujaheddin alliance may find it difficult like the. past to work with Pakistan-based Sunni groups of the mujaheddin. (NTN)
  * Amir Gulistan Janjua, Governor of NWFP, talking to the correspondent of' the daily Jang in Islamabad, disclosed that the Afghan Cell will meet shortly to deliberate upon important measures in connection with the Afghan issue and its repercussions. He said, "the government of Pakistan would not create any obstacle in the path of those Afghan refugees desiring to return to their homeland." The governor added that operation SALAM could not "take off" till now, due to lack of peace and security in Afghanistan. (JG) s * Qazi Hussain Ahmad, Chief of Jama1at-e-Islami of Pakistan, in a statement in Islamabad said, both super powers are forestalling the success of the, Afghan mujaheddin and hatching! other conspiracies.' He appealed to the Iranian leaders not to be trapped in the American net and support major mujaheddin organization to enable them establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He added, "it is a very meaningful matter that whenever Afghan problem enters a decisive stage, some or the other foreign power becomes active and frustrates the pbsitive efforts in this connection. (NWT)
                   8
  * Mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime positions in Kandahar, 4 November, and occupied /the regime revenue office
  south of the city. During the operation 12 soldiers were killed and another four were taken prisoner. (VOAPS)
 *  The AIG Interior Minister Mawlawi
 Mohammad Younus Khales inspected the front-line -positions of the mujaheddin at the eastern front of Jalalabad., According to resistance sources, Khales met with the mujaheddin commanders at Samar.Khel, Khewa and.Chapparhar areas where he was briefed about war situation. (PT)        .
 *    The leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has asked the Kabul ruler Najibullah to surrender to mujaheddin before final lash is struck on him, according tc ANA. He said that the offer of general amnesty is . still open for Najib if he steps down before mujaheddin and repents over his past misdeeds. In a statement, issued inside Afghanistan, Hekmatyar said that this is the final chance for Najib arid if he does not bow down before the mujaheddin, no one could save him from the wrath of Afghan mujaheddin. (PT)
 *  The Secretary General of the UN
 accepted the :    request of prince
 Sadruddin Aga Khan 7 December to re-
  r
 lieve him of his responsibilities as coordinator for UN humanitarian and economic assistance program for Afghanistan. Benon Sevan has been appointed the new coordinator from 1 . January. ' He is already Secretary Genefal’s personal representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan. (MLM)
 *   A tribal leader, Mawlawi Badshah , Hussain, has said in a press conference in ’ Para Chinar that the tribesmen of Kurram Agency will remove all Afghan refugees from the Agency if the government of Pakistan will not remove them from services in organizations working for the Afghan refugees. He said that the people of Kurrum Agency
                              ■ ■ '
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGHflHJIHAD                         V0L.4 N0.1
 have paid much cost of keeping the Afghan refugees in their land. (PT)
 * Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of
 the Jamiat-e-Islami and AIG Minister for Reconstruction, has appealed to friendly      countries     to      help
 Famine-stricken areas of Afghanistan. Rabbani, addressing a news conference 9 December, said, the famine was threatening northern Afghanistan and that Bacighis, Faryab, Jauzjan and Badakhshan provinces were in a critical condition. (BBCFS)
 * >Twelve rockets hit Kabul city 8 November five of them the Kabul Airport causing some damage* (RM)
 *  Six kgs. of explosives and a magnetic bomb expertly planted were discovered in Kabul city 9 December. (RA)
 *  The Afghan Employees Association in Abbotabad held an emergency meeting under the chairmanship of Liaqat Ali Khan, Area Administrator, urging the government to withdraw its decision to dismiss 2,000 , Pakistani employees looking after the Afghan refugee camps at Haripur. (NWT)
 *  The Kabul regime has claimed that followers of the renowned Commander Ahmed Shah Masood killed more than 20 mujaheddin, belonging to the Hekmatydr party in a recent skirmish. A secret agency in Afghanistan has issued a list of some people including the names of those killed in the conflict. (NWT)
*    The Kabul puppet regime has installed 75 long range missiles around the Defense Ministry. These missiles are powerful than the SCUD and the EGAN missiles. It is thought the missiles are targetted towards mujaheddin bases in Logar and Parwan. (NWT)
*  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani leader of
  the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and the AIG Minister for Re-construction has rejected the peace plan of Najibullah and once again demanded that he. should surrender himself, to the mujaheddin. He was addressing a press conference in Peshawar 8 December after his return from Iran. He said the recognition of Najib plan would mean to recognize the illegal v government of Afghan puppet ruller. (NTN)           /
                                               10
  *  Jalaluddin Haqqani, the mujaheddin commander in Paktia, has said in an interview in Peshawar that,- after the last commander's meeting in which Ahmad Shah Masood also took part, mujaheddin activities have intensified. He said, "After their return, fierce fights have taken place on the Salang Highway which was eventually closed down to traffic. Along the entire length of the highway 50 tanks and armored vehicles have either been destroyed or captured by the mujaheddin. He added attacks on the Bagram Airport have been staged and the mujaheddin front south of Kabul has become more active. In another operation, he said, the governor of Laghman, General Mahtabuddin Safi, was severely injured who later died. Another Kabul regime general was killed during operations in shakardarah".
  (VOADS)
  *  The Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union Eduard Shevardnadze and the American Secretary of State James Baker are meeting in Houston in the United States for talks on strategic arms reduction treaty, the Situation in Afghanistan, the Gulf, Middle East, Combodia and Central America, according to Radio Mpscow. (PT)
  *  According to AAP, the former Afghan monarch Zaher Shah has. established his secretariat in Rome anticipating his role o'n Afghanistan. The AAP says it
I has learned through its sources that 15
285
0CT0BER-DECEM8ER, 1990
VOL-4 NO-1
 millions dollars have been provided by' the Bush Administration for the secretariat. The Republican Party circles in American Congress have disclosed that the Bush Administration has asked Zaher Shah to start his activities for which he would be extended all help and assistance. (PT)
 *   Eminent Mujaheddin Commanders, affiliated with the National Council of Mujaheddin haye rejected the claims of Kabul ruler Najibullah that certain mujaheddin commanders have contacted him and were ready to accept him in the future^ structure of Afghanistan. Addressing a joint press conference at the office of the National Council of Mujaheddin commanders: 9 December,the commanders denied any kind of contact by the mujaheddin commanders with Najib. They dubbed Najib as cpnvert Muslim and vowed that they would not lay down their arms unless the puppet ruler was removed and an Islamic government established in Afghanistan. Fourteen mujaheddin commanders were present at the press conference and three of them spoke on the occasion. They were Mawlawi Arsala Khan, Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, and Commander Mohammad Anwar. (PT)
 *   Brig. General Mohammad Yousuf Salangi, the commander of 20th Division of the Kabul regime, who was injured by the mujaheddin in a battle in Kariz-e-Mir, has recently died in Kabul military hospital, MIDIA reported from the Afghan capital. (,NTN) *
*  Famous Afghan singer Dr. Nashnas has defected to Pakistan. Before leaving Afghanistan, Nashnas was serving as Director of Music and Culture Department of the State-owned Radio,and Television of the Kabul regime. Nashnas wanted to leave Afghanistan much earlier but he says he failed due to heavy restrictions. (MLM)
                   11
 * The Afghan resistance sources say that the Soviets, faced with international problems, have given an incentive to the Kabul administration that aid would be expanded to it if it provides more gas to the.Soviet Union. (PT)
 * Indian official^ have confirmed that President Najibullah's family arrived in New Delhi some weeks ago. They are staying at a secret place and have been kept well away from the foreign press corps in' Delhi. For several weeks, there have been unconfirmed reports that the President's family had left Kabul. Diplomatic sources also said that several of the ..regime's top officials, including a number of senior army generals have already sent their families out of Kabul, while others are making arrangements to do so. Reports from Moscow that some families have arrived there remain unconfirmed. (NTN)
 * The offensive of the mujaheddin are continuing against the Kabul regime and
• they have scored a number of victories in Logar, Baghlan, Laghman, Samangan and Maidan by capturing a number of posts and inflicting severe losses to the Kabul regime forces, according to ANA.           '
    Commandor Zabit Abbas has said from Logar that the mujaheddin unleashed a joint attack on the regime security posts in Taudoba 6 December. The operation was directed by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar himself. The mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and captured one peeca machine gun, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, one cannon, six klashenkovs and two wireless sets.. Six mujaheddin were injured after mines explosion.
     In Chughi, Samangon, the mujaheddin attacked the Kabul regime posts, 8 December and Captured one post. Five regime personal were killed and four
286
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990   WHIIIN JIHAD                    VOL-4 N0.1
injured.                             _
     Eight Kabul regime malitiamen were captured in Pul-e-Khuittri when the
mujaheddin attacked government posth in Qul-e-Qasabi 7 December. The mujaheddin captured one machine gun, one rocket and eight klashenkovs.           ,
     In Logar the mujaheddin attacked: regime.positions at Qala-e-Ahmadzai and killed 43 militiamen including a general. Three militiamen defected to the mujaheddin along with their klashenkovs. The mujaheddin also destroyed four tanks and one BM-41 and one BM-13 rocket launchers. Three mujaheddin were injured.
     The mujaheddin also captured one post in Geroz, Koh-e-Safi, when they attacked military posts of the regime in Abdara and Sarak-e-Jadeed and destroyed one tank 4 December. They also launched rocket attacks on the 15th Army Division.
     In^ Maidan Shahr of Wardak province, the mujaheddin captured two posts and killed 28 militiamen along with a major of Khad, Nooralam, 3 December. Three mujaheddin were killed and 13 injured.
The mujaheddin inflicted damages to a building belonging to the Khad and destroyed a BM-13 rocket launcher. (PT)
* Acting Head of the UNHCR in Pakistan said during an exclusive interview that, even after finding a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem, the return of all the Afghan refugees from Pakistan will take nearly two years. He added that the UNHCR office in Pakistan cannot continue helping the Afghan refugees indefinitely and long-lasting solution of the Afghan problem would be necessary.He said international aid for the Afghan refugees has been reduced considerably. He revealed that owing to the Gulf crisis, the required financial aid is not being received from the international community. He added that even after the expected understanding and signing of accord by both the super-powers for the Afghan reconstruction, the. repatriation of the
                                                                                                  287
 Afghan refugees , is not expected to begin immediately. (JG)
 *  Twelve-and-a-half kgs. of ' high explosives, planted in various parts of the city, were discovered in Kabul 11 December. (RA)
 *  Abu Khaled, the special envoy of Yasser Arafat, leader of the PLO, met Najib, the Kabul regime leader 11 December. During the meeting Najib was presented with a sword as a token from Yasser Arafat. (RA)
                                                12
 *  Mujaheddin occupied eight military posts south of Kabul 7 December. Twenty-seven Kabul regime personnel were killed during the attack. (TR)
 *  In an attack on Herat Hotel, the mujaheddin captured Farooq Kamizan, a militia commander and four of his guards. (VOADS)
 *  Dr. Ghani, an adviser to the US government on Afghanistan affairs, told the BBC is an interview regarding discussions between the super povlers on the Afghan issue and the return of Zaher Shah, "this is a very complicated matter and the super powers cannot impose anyone upon the people • of Afghanistan. Anyone coming to power in Afghanistan at this stage must be acceptable to all the people." He added that cooperation of the two super powers was not enough and Pakistan's cooperation was also required. (BBCFS)
 * Ayatullah Muhseni,leader of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said in an interview in Bonn, "We are in favor of peace, but if one talks of weak military position, the Russian terms place the freedom of Afghanistan in a precarious position. Therefore, before seeking political means, the mujaheddin must create harmony and coordination in
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990    / ' AFGHAN JEHAD -             VOL.4 N0.1
    the military field." He said, regarding"; Najib's claims of meeting some ———mujaheddin—representatives—in Geneva >— "I doubt it very much if the mujaheddiq would contaminate themselves after fighting the sacred war of jehad for 12 years by meeting with Najib, though there are some groups that are less reliable, but there is no clear evidence that it might have happened." He added that it was perhaps a KGB propaganda. (VOGDS)
    *  Fighting is reported to have taken, place between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Shakar Darah near Kabul in which two posts fell to the mujaheddin. The two posts were in the hands of the Kabul regime forces eversince the Soviet troops were in Afghanistan. (BBCPS)
    *  Ever since the beginning of .current Afghan calender year, 199 persons have been killed, 309 others injured and hundreds of transport vehicles have been ' destroyed because of mines. Thousands of acres of arable land cannot be cultivated on account of the presence,of mines. (RMDS)
    *  Rocket attack on Kandahar city killed 13 December one person and wounded another two. (RA) *
    * Abu Khaled,the representative of the PLO leader, has said in an interview in Kabul that Yasser Arafat in. his meeting in Islamabad told the mujaheddin, "Najib and his regime have been fighting you bravely and it is high time that you responded to his national peace policy." He added that the great Palastinean movement supported Najib and his party and hope to see him victorious all the time. (RA)
                       ■          i
         The Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze says the US and USSR are expected to reach an agreement; on Afghanistan during his talks with the
 US Secretary of State James Baker, according to VOA. Talking to reporters in Texas7 the SovietForeign Minister did not elaborate in this regard. Diplomats say the officials of the two countries have drafted a communique that would end the interference of the superpowers in Afghanistan. These sources say that under the agreement, (the Afghans would be left to decide themselves about the settlement of the. 12 years old conflict. The two sides will make it clear for the first time that the stoppage of - their foreign military aid is imminent. Sources said such a communique may deliberately be kept ambiguous and the delicate issue of formation of an interim government Ipef ore the elections is left for Afghans themselves, and a detailed explanation of the US-Soviet agreement on stoppage of military hardware will also not be made. (PT)
 *  According, to a report of the Jan-
 dullah Front in Paghman, the
 mujaheddin targetted the Presidential
 Palace of Kabul with Saccar-20
 longrange missiles 10 December. No
immediate report on the casualties have
 yet been available. In a seperate
 artillery attack by the mujaheddin on
 communists in Bagh-e-Daud, near
 Paghman,   the      mujaheddin destroyed
 several BM-41 rocket launchers 8
 December. An ammunition storage dump
 and a number of military barracks were
 destroyed in the attack. Meanwhile, the
 mujaheddin attacked the besieged city
 of Qalat   with     heavy machine guns 4
 December. Seven communist regime
 soldiers and militiamen were captured
 and large quantities of ammunition and
 food stuff fell to' the hands of the
 mujaheddin. About 30 regime soldiers,
 while camouflaging and intending to #                              , /
 gain the ammunition and foodstuff, were
 attacked   by        the mujaheddin, who
 captured seven militiamen and soldiers.
 (PT)
 *  A convoy of more than 100 oil
288
                                                                 OCTOBER-DECEMBER,- 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 tankers has arrived in Kabul from the Soviet Union. Prices of oil in Kabul increased four times during the last few weeks. Shortages of other commodities are also reported in Afghanistan. Meanwhile the Indian government has also agreed to supply
 50,000 tons of wheat to Afghanistan.
 (MLM)
                    13
 *   The Foreign Secretary of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry has said that Pakistan as well as the mujaheddin would not accept any move to allow continuity in the rule by Najib . In answer to a question, he said
, a statement by Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardadze 11 December was simply Soviet viewpoint in the matter". (PT)
                   14
 *  The mujaheddin blunted an attack by Kabul regime's forces in Alchi, Kunduz, 10 December. According.to MIDIA reports mujaheddin launched a counter attack and killed at least 26 militiamen and soldiers and burned two tanks and one military vehicle. About^ 22 mujaheds were killed and 18 injured. About 73 locals, including children and women, were killed and 200 residential houses were razed to the ground due to heavy machine gun and artillery fire by the enemy. The mujaheddin in another operation in Dasht-e-Archi destroyed two posts and killed several militiamen-and soldiers and captured four of them. They also seized one grenov and three klashenkovs and huge quantities of ammunition. .They also attacked the Kabul regime posts in Qurrah Gashi of Khawaja Ghar, Takhar, 3 December. According to MIDIA the mujaheddin also attacked the security posts of Kabul regime in Tira Pass, Paktia last week, killing six officers and soldiers and destroying one tank. The mujaheddin also launched a surprize attack on the
 Gardez army division, killing four officers and destroying one jeep and an ammunition storage dump 9 December. The mujaheddin in a commando attack in Gozarah,’ Herat, seized six Khad agents 7 December. They also captured 100 klashenkovs, two RPG-7 anti-armor rocket launchers, one grenade launcher and some grenov sub-machine guns. The mujaheddin also repulsed communist attacks on their strongholds near Sher Khan, Kunduz, highway 10 December. They killed 30 regime personnel and destroyed one tank and an army vehicle. Five mujaheddin were killed and 15 injured. (PT)
 *   The Central Majlis-e-Shoora of JamAat-e-Islami paid rich tributes to the Afghan mujaheddin who defeated a super power by their examplary struggle and great sacrifices and hoped, that the day is not far when the remaining parts of Afghanistan will be conquered by the mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *  In its editorial comments captioned "Zaher Shah, a. US solution of Afghan issue”, the daily Jang has vehemently criticized the decision for' return of Zaher Shah as head of state in Afghanistan and has expressed the opinion that many mujaheddin organizations might not accept the decision as they hold Zaher Shah responsible for the, miseries of the Afghan nation. (NWT)
 *   In its editorial of 14 December under the heading of "Afghan issue, a concern for Pakistan" the daily NWT expressed concern that, although Pakistan had remained involved in Afghan issue for 10 years, now it has been isqlated from the problem and even it is not being taken into confidence at a juncture when time has reached for the solution of Afghan problem. (NWT)
 *  Addressing a joint press conference in Texas, US, the Foreign Minister of
.the 'Soviet Union Shevardnadze and the
289
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990      flfGHflHiM                   VOL.4 N0.1
 US Secretary of State, James Baker have disclosed that a consensus h^ve been reached on the most important points concerning the • solution of Afghan problem. (NWT)
                   15
 *  The AIG Prime Minister Abd Rasool Sayyaf has lashed out at the western powers and US for cutting humanitarian assistance to Afghan refugees and mujaheddin, according to ANA. Addressing a big Juma prayer at Jamia Masjid in Pabbi 14 December, he said unlike the Soviet Union which fought against the Afghan mujaheddin for 10 years, Britain and the US have stabbed the mujaheddin in their back in the garb of friendship. Sayyaf expressed concern over aid sent , by Muslim countries to the USSR to overcome its economic crisis. He said that such assistanc was indirectly being used against the Afghan mujaheddin. (MLM)
 * Seventeen persons have been killed and another 23 wounded during the last two days because of rocket attacks on Laghman and Zabul provinces. (RMDS)
                  16
 * The mujaheddin attacked the Chakari and Khak-e-Jabbar areas near Kabul 8 December and occupied two Security posts and seized a large number of arms and ammunitions. (VOAPS)
, * The mujaheddin attacked the .Bagram Airbase killing or wounding 57 troops and seizing a large number of arms and ammunition. They also attacked military positions in Arghandeh of Paghman district destroying an ammunition dump. (RP)                               '
 *   Seerat Taloqani President of Shooray-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, which has been formed by the Turkish Community in Afghanistan, has said in an interview
 with the VOA that elections were not .practicable, under prevailing conditions in Afghanistan and will only result in widening the gap between the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 *  Sixteen persons have been killed and a ,large number injured because of rocket fire on Kandahar. (RA)
 *   An Afghan regime brigadier,       a
 Khad commander and a number of
      I         %
 soldiers were killed when the mujaheddin attacked the Kunduz Airport with heavy artilary and missiles 11 December, according to ANA. As a result of the heavy retaliatory shelling of the regime forces, 20 civilians and 18 mujaheddin were killed or wounded. (MLM)
 *  An official of the WFP has said distribution of foodstuff among the Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran will be affected due to the increasing need of food aid in other parts of the world. The BBC Eastern Service has said the World Food Program forecasts that the Afghan refugees living in Pakistan and Iran would need' 500,000 tons of food in 1991.(NTN)
                  17
 *  The mujaheddin killed 20 regime soldiers and repulsed regime offensive in Mohammad Agha, Logar, 15 December reports ANA. Five regime personnel were also killed in the Choomi Pushta of Bagram 14 December when they ran over mujaheddin planted land mines. Meanwhile, reports of heavy fighting between the mujaheddin and regime forces in Alchi, Kunduz, are received. Alchi came under heavy attack 10 December but the mujaheddinxdefended the area. Reports 15 December said the mujaheddin' repulsed a regime offensive also at Koneem village and inflicted heavy' human and material losses to the Kabul regime forces. Four
290
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 mujaheddin and nine civilians were killed. (PT)
 * The  jehad forces        will have to join
 hands  and   strengthen  the        AIG  to
 establish    peace, security •'         and
 tranquility in Afghanistan, says Nadir Ali Mehdavi, spokesman of the Coalition Council of Afghan Shias in an interview! with the MIDIA in Peshawar. (MLM)
                  18
 * In an interview with MIDIA, the new
 spokesman for Islamic Shoora Nader Ali Mehdavi urged in Peshawar 17 December that all struggling mujaheddin forces, should  join  hands         with the A.IG to
 restore peace in Afghanistan. He also stressed the need for the establishment of an Islamic Revolutionary Couhcil to prepare the grounds for toppling Najib regime. (PT)
 * A plot, master minded by -"KHAD" to
 destablize the new government in Pakistan, was unearthed with the arrest of two suspects who intended to blast bombs in front of GPO Islamabad 10' November. (PT)
 *  The Australian High Commissioner in Islamabad announced 17 December that his country will provide $ four million wheat shipment to the WFP to assist the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. (PT)
                  19
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar the Chairman of the Political Affairs Department of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Engineer Qutbuddin Helal claimed th^t. Najibullah, the head of Kabul puppet regime, was facing serious military threat a,nd, to escape the joint mujaheddin offensive, he had offered to relinquish power in favor of the Hezb-e-Islami. He added that Najib regime had twice contacted Gulbuddin Hekmatyar through the PLO leader Yasser
 “Arefat and a Turkish prominen politician but Hekmatyar did not agree on formation of a coalition government with the Communists. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin, in a joint sweep-up operation, reoccupied Kama in Nangarhar province 17 December reports ANA. (PT)
                  21
 *  Addressing a special * function on the Afghanistan issue' in Pakistan
 National Center, Islamabad, December
        / '
 20, a former Minister for Information, Raja Zafar ul Haq said Pakistan desires a peaceful and durable solution of the Afghan problem so that the Afghan brethren could return, to their' country in honor and dignity. He said.- the Afghans were capable enough to determine their>own fate. He urged the US and the. Persian Gulf states to extend economic assistance for the rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees.
 (NWT)
 * In an interview with ANA in Peshawar leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) disclosed December 21 that a joint representative of Najib and Zaher Shah conveyed him their message recently saying that the US and Soviet Union had agreed on replacing Najib with Zaher Shah for an interim period. Zaher will^ hold elections within a stipulated period after which neither he nor any member of his family will have any role in the government. In his message Najib ’ said his party will participate^ in the elections while Zaher Shah vowed he will accept all the conditions of Hezb-e-Islami if it accepts Zaher Shah for a temporary period. Hekmatyar in response has asked Najib to- surrender before the mujaheddin and apologize for his past deeds and he will be excused. (MLM)
291
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990
 *  Six hundred kgs. of explosives planted in Jalalabad city, were discovered 21 December. (RM)
                                              23
 *  Pakistani Prime Minister Mian Nawaz Sharif disclosed in Lahore 22 December that a dialogue between Pakistan and the Soviet Union would soon be held to chart out the future of Afghanistan. He reiterated the stand of Pakistan that Pakistan wanted a government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan so that a way is paved for the return of refugees to their homes. (PT)
      According to APP, Nawaz Sharif expressed the cpnfidence that a representative government friendly to Pakistan would be saddled into power in Afghanistan through a political coalition. He once again laid special emphasis on the solution of Afghan issue through political means according to the wishes of the people of that country. "It was not 'correct to say that Pakistan faced the danger of being isolated on this issue" he added. (PT)
 *  The deposed Afghan King Zaher Shah has proposed a peace plan for the formation a care-taker administration for which the Najib administration has’, shown its willingness. ■ The plan suggests the holding of a jirgah’ which will include members of the mujaheddin organizations, scholars and
 other effective groups acceptable to all concerned forces. Zaher Shah says the jirgah should be convened in
 Afghanistan or in neutral country like Turkey, Switzerland or Austria. He has suggested that the UN should assist in the implementation of his plan. (PT)
 * The mujaheddin in their operation in Shindand have killed or wounded 115 troops of the Kabul regime, destroyed two tanks and a military vehicle and! captured 250 arms. (VOIRA)
 VOL.4 NO.1
24                  ~
 ■ * Talking to a group of journalists at a reception hosted by the Baluchistan ANP General Secretary, Arbab Zahir Kh&n Kasi in Quetta December 23, the Kabul regime outgoing diplomat Mira Jan
 Gha*rwal has confirmed that the
                                  j
 representatives of Kabul regime and Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) had met twice in Baghdad through the PLO representative Abu Khalid. He claimed that the meetings were held at the request of Hezb-e-Islami (NTN)
 *  Five Kabul militiamen were killed
 and a number of others wounded by mujaheddin'   in      an attack on  the
 positions     of      Kabul troops   in
 Hussain Khel and Omar Khel, Kunar, December 20. In     the operation,  the
 mujaheddin also seized a huge quantity of arms and ammunition from the Kabul troops. (PT)
 *  In an interview with the VGA, the US
 special envoy for Afghan mujaheddin Peter Tomsen has said 80% Afghan territory    is  under   the mujaheddin
 control„which gives legal status to the elections    by   the     mujaheddin in
 Afghanistan.  He however stressed  that
 every step should have its legal status so that it can represent the people.
 (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference at the
 AIG Media office in Quetta December 22, the     AIG General  Secretary, for
 Elections, Sayyed Noorullah Emad disclosed the people of Afghanistan living
 in liberated areas would elect their 2,400 representatives 25 January. He Said people      would     choose their
 representatives from amongst the commanders, ulama and tribal chieftains Who would be termed as "men at the helm of affairs". He claimed that all the mujaheddin organizations, except Iran-based "Hezb-e-Wahdat", h'ave agreed to participate in the elections (MLM).
292
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HfGIlllNlIlHMI                    VOL.4 NO. 1
*  In a meeting with the JI leader Qazi Hussain Ahmad at his residence in Islamabad December 23, the US Ambassador to Pakistan Robert Oakley expressed satisfaction that the mujaheddin leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has shown consensus on the establishment of an interim government which does not include Najib and Zaher Shah.(JG)
*  Leader of Jamiat-e-Islami. - Afghanistan Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani has appealed to Muslim countries to concentrate their attention on the famine stricken areas in Afghanistan instead of arranging food supplies to the Soviet Union. According to the AIG Information Secretary, Rabbani recalled that there is . an acute shortage of foodstuff in northern Afghanistan. (NWT)
*  Two persons were killed and another 12 injured when nine rockets hit Kabul city 23 December. (RM)
                 25
*  Chief of the Middle East Department in the ~ Soviet Foreign Ministry, Yuri Alexeyev told Novosti that a new major step has been made towards a settlement in Afghanistan. He was commenting on the US-Soviet meeting at Foreign Minister level in Houston, Texas, US. He added, the Soviet Union and US have agreed on negative symmetry in the military deliveries to the . warring sides in Afghanistan.. Alexeyev said in this regard a joint statement of the two foreign Ministers will soon be released. (MLM) *
 *  Following the induction of a new elected government in Pakistan, the president of that country Ghulam Ishaq Khan has summoned in Islamabad December 26, the . session of Afghan cell .to-'look into :the important issues pertaining to the. Afghan problem. The meeting will be attended by Prime Minister Nawaz
 Sharif, Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee, Admiral Iftekhar Sarohi, Chief of Army staff General Mirza Aslam Beg, Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan, Adviser to the Prime Minister on Defense, Sayyed Ijlal Haider Zaidi and Foreign Secretary Shahryar Khan as well as Director General of ISI. According to responsible sources, i,n the meeting which is the highest national office competent . to take decisibns on the issue, moves for bringing about transitional arrangements in that country will be discussed. (JG)
 * Siddiq Noorzoy, Professor of Economy at Alberta University in Canada and visiting fellow at the Institute of International Studies an& the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of California at Berkley told the VOA, after returning from a seminar held in Islamabad bn the future of Afghan economy under the auspices of the Institute of Policy Studies of the CCAR, that the participants were Afghan scholars and economists. He said there was a very close affinity of views' between the economists and Islamic , scholars on ways to tackle Afghan economic issues. He added, if a true . Islamic economic system were applied in future Afghanistan, many of the economic difficulties of the country,will be solved. (VOADS)
                26
 *  Prof. Qayyum Noorzai of Berkley
 University of California (USA) in an interview   has  given     the following
 reasons for the Soviet support of the Kabul regime:
     The Soviet  ■ Union     wishes that
 agreements between the republics of the USSR and    the  Afghari , provinces are
 carried out so that the Soviet' Union may benefit from them.
    Monopolizing the control of the transit route of Afghanistan, to bring ■economic   and  political dividents
29 3
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1990
VOL.4 NO.1
 for Moscow.
     Afghanistan has abundant mineral wealth which is fully known only to the Russians and only they have the privilege of their exploitation on the basis of contracts concluded with the Kabul regime.
 - The purchase of hard currency by means of hundreds of millions of afghanis which the Russians print without backing- and support of any kind.
    Afghanistan is a ready market for Russian products which, because of' their inferior quality, cannot compete with good manufactured in industrial cpuntries, and have no market elsewhere. (VOADS)
 *  The mujaheddin attacked the .Kabul regime forces stationed at the Herat cement plant 20 and 21 December, killing 179 soldiers and capturing 16 officers. (RP)
                 27
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have stepped up their attacks against Kabul regime in at least two areas near Kabul, reports BBC. Correspondents say the sound of artillery fire and aerial: bombing could be heard from south of the capital. According to reports, fighting is taking place close to an important supply route.(PT).
 *  According to an AFP report, the
 Indian Commerce Minister Subramanium Swami will visit Kabul 30 December for talks with the government v of Najibullah. (PT)                     x
 *  In an interview with ANA in Logar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin H^kmatyar has vehemently condemned the Indian government atrocities on . the Muslims of that country. He called upon the Muslim vjprld to come out for the rescue of the Indian Muslims.(MLM)
 *  According to reliable sources,
 Pakistan has decided not to adhere to any agreement reached between Soviet Union and the US on. Afghan is£ue which is not accepted by the mujaheddin and the Afghan people. This stand of the Pakistan government was evaluated at the high     level meeting      in  the
 Presidency   presided    over   by  the
 President    Ghulam     Ishaq  Khan  26
 December. (NWT)
 *  A number of Kabul troops were
 wounded in clashes between the Kabul regime military        units in  Paktia
■province. The AAP reported that in an explosion of mine, planted        by the
 mujaheddin,  a Kabul   regime  jeep Was
 demolished as a result of which two military officers and their bodyguards were killed. (NWT)
                 28
 * The Revolutionary Association of the
 Women of Afghanistan (RAWA) staged a demonstration in Quetta 27 December on the eve     of the  anniversary  of the
 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The demonstrators were mostly women and children  carrying   playcards, banners
 and portraits of their leader Meena Kishwar Kamal and marched through the. streets of Quetta. A speaker on the occasion condemned the Kabul regime as Well as the AIG and other fundamentalist
■groups M in and outside Afghanistan.
1(MLM)
 * In a resolution adopted at the joint shoora of about 100 ulama and commanders in Pabbi, near Peshawar, the UN proposal for holding elections in Afghanistan under its supervision was condemned.’ The participants vowed to continue their struggle for the establishment • of a purely Islamic government in Afghanistan. The participants also critizised the UN for what they called becoming a to<?l in the hahds of the big five. (MLM)
2 94
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 flfllllflllllllflil                                                                                  VOL.4 NO.1
 *  Addressing a mammoth gathering in • Jalozai Camp, Peshawar, 27 December, the AIG Prime Minister, Abdul Rab Rasul Sayyaf emphasized the continuation of struggle by the Afghans and said Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, by extending $4,5 billion . aid to Russia have supported the enemies of Islam. Speaking on the occasion. Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani said inspiration from the Afghan jehad has revived the Palestinian struggle and has encouraged the Kashmiris to• wage struggle for their emancipation. On the conclusion of the gathering, a resolution was adopted which pledged to continue the jehad until the elimination of all signs of atheism and communism and - establishment of an Islamic order in Afghanistan. (MLMj
 * Analysing the Afghan jehad during
 the past year. The Pakistan Times has said Najib's invincibility was shattered by a coup attempt of Shahnawaz Tani and a large scale defections 1 in the Kabul army. During the year 1990,     8,218 Kabul . troops
 joined the mujaheddin while, 790 mujaheddin were martyred and more than 900 wounded. Despite the shortage of missiles, the mujaheddin shot down 77 aircraft and 14 helicopters during the year. (PT)
 *  Acute shortage of foodstuff and other edibles has emerged in various Afghan refugee camps in NWFP. ifue to reduction in foreign aid for the Afghan refugees, the administration of those camps is faced to serious difficulties.
 (JG)
     According to an, official report, more than 300,000 Afghan refugees have arrived in the NWFP m during the year 1990. They have not formally been registered in any camp. Pakistani sources have disclosed that a large number of Afghan refugees, who had gone to Afghanistan after receiving subsistence allowance from the UN, have once again
 returned to NWFP, Pakistan. (JG)
 * Ismail Khan the mujaheddin .commander in Herat in a message on the anniver-. sary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan says that the worldwide defeat of communism and the demolition of the Berlin Wall were direct results of the Afghan war and resistance. He has expressed dissatisfaction, however, that Islamic countries and friends of jehad have cut their aid to the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees. (BBCFS)
 * Najibullah, the leader of the Kabul regime, said in an interview 27 December that he was confident of the. Russian support of his regime and was not concerned about rumors that the Soviet assistance may stop, (BBCFS)
 * In a comment : on the occassion of the anniversary of Soviet Afghan war. Radio Moscow has said, "Sending Russian troops to Afghanistan was a false step through which the Soviet people have suffered greatly. Thi-s decision was condemned by the Second Congress of the People Representatives". Radio Moscow added that memorial services for the soldiers killed in Afghanistan were held on the occasion in ''the church of the Moscow community. (RMDS)
 *   Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus' Khales, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, who has recently returned from a review of the jehad fronts in Nangarhar, has said in an interview that his troops arrested Peer Mohammad, a KHAD agent who was.promised .Afs. five million for killing him. Khales added that Peer Mohammad was executed after being publicly tried in. (BBCPS)
               29
 * Two soldiers of the Kabul regime defected to Pakistan December. 27 via
 Chaman border, ' official sources, disclosed in Quetta. (MLM)
295
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 fflMJIMl)
 *    Afghan mujaheddin have achieved' further successes on the sputhern front in Afghanistan capturing 14 military posts from the Kabul troops between Muhammad Aga, Lo.gar, and Panama. The AAP sources have said that, during the attack's, the mujaheddin captured eight tanks, two military jeeps and four truck-loads of arms. (PT)
 *   The Writers Associations of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan has called, for setting up of a powerful and authoritative shoora to pave the way for restoration of peace and tranquillity inside Afghanistan. According to MIDIA the association adopted a resolution to this effect in a roundtable discussion oh "What should . be done for the ultimate success". The discussion was participated by Mawlawi Mir Hamza, Qazi Amin Waqad, Diljoe Hussaini, Sabahuddin Kushkaki, M. Amin Ferotan, Muhammad Nasim Faqiri,, Engineer Abdul Rahim, Dr. Abdul Hai andl Dr. Najibullah Lafrai. The resolution: unanimously adopted called for:
   ^ continuation of armed jehad until final victory ir> Afghanistan;
  -  consensus among all forces who fought in the past 13 years against . communism;
     Setting up of powerful authoritative shoora j
  -  promotion of Islamic education in Afghanistan;
  -  stopping foreign interference in Afghanistan;’
  -  unity among all ' the jehad forces.
      (PT)
 *   In a press release in Peshawar December 26,. The Afghanistan All. Mujaheds Great United National Islamic Jirgah has welcomed the peace proposal of King Zaher Shah for Afghanistan. Shahzada Masud, the spokesman for the Pro-Zaher Shah group ■ of mujaheddin criticized those opposing the return Of Zaher- Shah into Afghanistan and claimed that only the ex-King could patch up
VOL.4 NO,1
 the differences among the various Afghan groups. He claimed that during Zaher Shah rule, neither the US nor the Soviet Union had any influence in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *   In its editorial comments captioned "Afghan Jehad1 at a crucial stage"1. The Jang has pointed out /that, as a result of understanding between the US and the Soviet Union, many western countries have stopped taking interest in the Afghan dispute. The two super powers are once again hatching conspiracy to impose Zaher Shah on the Afghan people. As a matter of fact, the two super powers are badly afraid of the establishment of a government, of the "fundamentalist Muslims" in Afghanistan because the Iranian revolution has foiled the designs of the super powers. The two super powers are now endeavoring to create rift among the mujaheddin and the refugees so as to wash, away the gains of the Afghan jehad. For this purpose they are using Zaher Shah as a tool. Apparently, a majority of the Afghans are7not ready to accept Zaher Shah. Now it is upto the Afghan mujaheddin organizations and their leaders to comprehend the conspiracy and save their /long struggle 'from being rendered futile.' (JG)
                30
 *   A reported statement of the Kabul regime Consul General in Karachi 28 December- that a solution to the Afghanistan issue appears to be near has not been received in Islamabad in official and other relevant, quarters with $ any seriousness or enthusiasm. "There is yet no indication which may encourage such an optimism," an official source remarked ’ in Islamabad when asked to comment on the report.
 (MLM)
 *    Pakistan's Foreign Secretary .Shahryar Khan has said "no fresh Afghan
296
OCTOBEfl-DECEMBER, 1990 nfGHIINiftHJlII                       V0U4 NOJ
 tmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmam
 refugee has come to Pakistan. There was not even any mention in the Afghan cell meeting in this connection. Talking to NWT i 29 December, he said ration is being supplied to only a limited number, of Afghan refugees and it ' is not correct    to conclude   that  more
 refugees have reached Pakistan. "In this 1 connection a .report about the arrival of another 300,000 Afghan refugees in Pakistan is merely f.al.se,” Shahryar Khan remarked. (NWT)
 * It has been learnt that the Prime Minister of -Kabul regime Fazal Haq Khaliqyar has met the representatives from Uruzgan province and has stressed them for: the establlshement of contacts with the Afghan mujaheddin in tbat province. It may be recalled that the mujaheddin had captured the provincial capital Tirin Kot last October. According to reports, the Kabul regime is busy to weaken the unity of, the mujaheddin by ; securing ' favor of a. few of the mujaheddin in the province. Khaliqyar has said the. Kabul government intends to gain control of Tirin Kot as the area is very important for the " reigime. (NWT)
 I .
 * It has been learnt through reliable sources that the aid giving countries have been apprised of the serious shortage of foodstuff in all Afghan refugee camps in the four provinces of Pakistan. The difficulties arising out of reduction in. the aid will be discussed in meeting of the Ambassadors from the aid giving countries in Islamabad next January. (JG)
 * In its editorial 30 December the daily Jang has asked the Kabul administration and its diplomatic corps to abandon their intrigues - and accept the basic realities of the issue and do away with their designs to continue their imposed rule / on the Afghan people. It is the only way for ending bloodshed and restoration of peace and stability in the country. The puppets
  in Kabul should ultimately knee down before the will of the people. The sooner the Kabul regime decides in the matter,, the better it would be for them. (JG)
  * A 14-member delegation of the tribal chieftains from North waziristan Agency have announced to continue their Support of the ^Afghan mujaheddin until, the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. According to a joint press conference in Press Club Peshawar 29 December, the chieftains said only a handful of opportunists are trying to put at stake the sacrifices rendered by hundreds of thousands of Afghan mujaheddin, but their designs will be foiled. (JG)
  * Thirty kgs. of explosives, planted in Kabul city District Five, were discovered 30 December. (RA)
                 31
  * In its Observer's column The Nation
  remarked that "No local war in the. military history is known to have made such a profoundly devastating impact on the social and political order of a monolithic and seemingly invincible super power like the Soviet Union, as the Russo-Afghan war of 1979-88. The Soviet Union, which paraded as a paragon of socialist unity and with et-no-lingual and religious diversities, is today ah incredible chaos of separatist pull and conflicts being dragged apart piece by piece by the republics at local levels." (NTN)  .
  * The, Afghan mujaheddin have broken through the defense line around Kabul by making an advance into Panama from the south. Talking to AAP, Commander Attaullah Khan said the mujaheddin have been continuing their attacks against Najib administration even during the winter season. Ue added that in the battle for the fall of Kabul, the presence ,of Engineer Gulbuddin
97
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1990 HlUllfll! JIQHU                  VOL - NO. 1
Hekmatyar was of great encouragement for the mujaheddin. He urged leaders of other organizations also to join the battle front for the encouragement of the mujaheddin so that the Na,jib junta is eliminated at the , earliest. He invited the attention of Pakistanis and other international organizations to supply medicines for the treatment of wounded Afghan mujaheddin.. Commander -Attaiillah Khan, added that necessary measures should be adopted to■meet the urgent need of winter clothings and foodstuff for the mujaheddin. (NWT)
* The Afghan mujaheddin launched attacks on the Ghazni , Airport 27 December as a result 10 Kabul troops were killed and several others wounded. The mujaheddin, targetted the positions of Kabul trgops in Khawaja Ahnjad and Qala-e-Adam in the outskirts qf Ghazni causing heavy losses in men and material to Kabul troops. (NWT)
*    Addressing a grand gathering arranged by Nezam-e-Islam Party of Pakistan . in Rawalpindi 30,; December to ' mark "Afghan Jehad Determination Day'",,
a leader of IJI and Secretary- General of Nizam-e-Islam party ■ of Pakistan, Ayyaz Zahir Hashmi, said the mujaheddin have burried communism for 'ever. "Had-the mujaheddin      not obstructed   the,
Soviets in Afghanistan, their next step' forward would have been Pakistan," he. said. (NWT)
*   A large ^meeting of ulama' and
commanders was     held 24  December   in
Peshawar in which \ the        AIG’s   of
election plan     ' and the    right of ’
franchise, for women' were rejected. The meeting was attended by Mawlawi Abdullah Zakeri and Mawlawi Jalaluddin, Haqqani from Hezb-e-Islami (Khales), MaWlawi ■ Arsala Rahmani arid Mawlawi Hamid Khan from Hezb-e-Ettehad-e-Islami and Mawlawi Abdul • Ra)iim from Jamiat-e-Islami. (BBCPS)