  JEHAD ANNUAL_____________________ PRESS         JUNE-DEGEMBER      1985.'
  issue. Referring to his words, "It is the Soviet Union that matters in Afghanistan", t(he writer says he is sure Prime Minister by no stretch of imagination means that the people of Afghanistan may be bypassed.(MIM ).
  116.    Prime Minister Junejo of Pakistan today sounded a strong note of warning to Karmal regime that Pakistan will retaliate if its territory was attacked again (PT ).
  117.    Prime Minister Junejo has described as coward act last Saturday's artillery shelling from across the border on the peaceful and unarmed people of Cha-man which resulted in the death of 3 persons. He said interference by a super power in Afghanistan's internal affairs has added responsibility to Pakistan's defence. He said people in Afghanistan were struggling for their independence.
  118.    President Reagan has said a negotiated political settlement to Afghanistan issue remains the goal of the US policy. In an interview to an Arab journalist, he said we. fully support the strong resistance of the Pakistan government to cross border intimidation. (M ),
                                                           30
  119.    The Human Concern Relief Fund Society of Canada has raised 16000 dollars in one night at Ottawa mosque for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The Society sent more than 50,000 dollars for the Afghan refugees. (PT ).
 150.   A meaningful collaboration between the two Super powers can lead to a lasting settlement of Afghan issue. They should keep in view the norms of humanity and international peace and work jointly to end Afghanistan crisis.
 1-1. Mr. Rajiv Gandhi has said he was opposed to all foreign presence in Afghanistan and he looked forward to seeing an independent and non-alignment government in that country. Reagan Administration officials said it was for the first time since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 that an Indian leader was willing to ^become directly involved in a settlement of Afghanistan prisis.(MIM)*
                                                          July
                                    1 .
 122.   Soviet base in Shindand is only 400 mile? from Hormuz Strait. If Afghani-istan goes under permanait Soviet control, it will not only be a threat to Pakistan but to the entire region and Europe also-. It was stated by a conservative British MP lord Brown. (PT),
 123.  Karmal's wife Mahbooba Karmal Inaugurated a "Watan Nursery", an orphanage
39
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
 : where children of those killed in the war waged by Russians and their puppet administration, are looked after in the capital of Paktia province, C-ardez.(NWT ).
   1-4. Mujaheddin shot down five Soviet helicopters and one MIG fighter at Jaji war front. According to another report they stormed Band jail in Qandahar and secured release of 8 mujaheddin, killing 5 security guards,
   1-5. Babrak Karmal has said, "we offer the hand of friendship to Pakistan, Iran and China." He also warned these countries of unspecified consequences if they continue to help Afghan mujaheddin in fighting against the Soviet backed regime.
   He also repeated an amnesty to Afghan fighters, (MIM ).
                                        2
   1-6. The visiting Parliamentary delegation of Republic of Korea has condemned the expansionist policies of occupation forces in Afghanistan. The delegation also praised the Pakistani stand on Afghanistan issue
   1-7. The Commission for Afghan refugees has said that some Afghan refugees were found involved in smuggling and other crimes, but it was their individual act, they are not involved in any organised crimes. (MIM).
   128. Baluchistan Chief Minister, Jam Ghulam Qadir Khan has said Pakistan is fully capable of defending its borders. But the reason of our restraint is that we do not want to add to difficulties of Afghan people who are already under pressure. (JG), 1 ^9 • The head of the visiting Korean delegation has said that his country fully supports Pakistan on Afghanistan issue and the delegation will vi3it Afghan refugee camps. He praised Pakistani efforts to look after these refugees (NWT ).
                                       3
 130.  Mujaheddin shot down a Soviet helicopter in Islam Qala sub-division. It was making reconnaissance flight over- Mujaheddin strong holds. (NWT j.
 131.  A government spokesman said in Islamabad that there was no truth in the speculation that there has been any change in the government position on direct talks with Kabul regime on Afghanistan issue (PT ),.
 132.  Pakistan and Guinea Bissao have called for political settlement of Afghanistan issue on the basis of Soviet troops withdrawal from that country. It was said in a joint communique issued at the end of visit to Pakistan by President of Guinea Bissao. (NWT).
 JEHAD ANNUAL ______________________PRESS________JUNE-DECEMBER 1965.'
                                     4
 133* After five and a half years of warfare, the overall military-political situation in Afghanistan seems to have tilted in favour of Moscow and Kabul. The Soviets are in control of all major and most medium towns. The biggest Soviet-Afghan gain is the failure of resistance groups to set up an alternative government on Afghan territory or even outside Afghanistan. (MIM ).
 134. The leader of visiting delegation of Republic of Korea has supported the principled stand of Pakistan on Afghanistan crisis and said that the issue could only be solved politically (PT ).
                                     5
 135. The leader of the South Korean Parliamentary delegation has said his government fully supports Pakistan's principled stand and its policy on Afghanistan question (NWT ).
 136. Prime Minister Junejo has described latest round of.indirect talks on Afghanistan issue as hopeful. Addressing a press conference in Peshawar he said direct talks with Soviet Union would be mere fruitful. He said Pakistan would not hesitate to retaliate in case any violation of Karmal regime resulted in killing of human beings in Pakistan territory in future. (PT ).
 137. According to diplomatic circles in Teheran, fierce fighting between mujaheddin and Soviet-Karmal forces is continuing at various places in Afghanistan. According to another report, Soviet-Karmal troops shot and killed 70 innocent citizens in a mosque near Kabul. (JG ).
                                     6
 138. There have been clashes between mujaheddin and Afghan militia .jn the Afghan area near Pakistan border. Afghan Militia fired shells into Pakistani territory while retreating, but there was no loss of life and property. (JG ).
 139. A reader Nadir Khan from Peshawar in his letter to editor says The pro-Russian elements within and outside Pakistan are. working for the forcible repatriation of Afghan refugees. He says our policy of avoiding direct talks with the Kar-mal regime is not of our own, it is the decision of the OIC. (PT ).
 .40. Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said.there appears to be a new mood in Moscow for a jolitical settlement of Afghanistan issue. He was talking to The Washington Post — :orreapondent in New Delhi (IN ).
41
 JEHAD ANNUAL                       PRESS         JUNE-DECEMBER       19&s»_
                                     7
 • 141. A reader Y. Hedayat of Quetta in his letter to editor reviews the historic negotiations between Finland, USSR and Austria. Comparing Soviet interests in post-war Finland and Austria with those in Afghanistan, he says keeping in view Afghanistan's geographic position and its'economic situation, it seems that Soviet interests in Afghanistan are.Idas than 'cosirietic, atleast in term of their military prestige. .('EH ).
 14-. ON Secretary General Cuellar has echoed Pakistan's cautius optimism about resolving the Afghanistan question. At the same time Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has credited the new attitude of Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi as a positive factor in moving talks forward. (PT ).
                                     9
 143.   President Zia has said Pakistan has no intention to retaliate despite provocations from.Afghanistan .side. He said Pakistan's policy,is not to aggravate the situation with retaliatory measures.
 144.  Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani has said
 Pakistan is stick to its principled stand on Afghanistan issue. It wants to settle this issue peacefully and any military pressure cannot force us to deviate from this stand (PT).         ......
                                   10
 145.   In an article in The Jang' Mohahmad Ibrahim says Soviets had not invaded Afghanistan to achieve some temporary benefits. Their 3teps, taken so far, indicate that their real aim is to implement socialist system there, complete occupation of Afghanistan and access to Gulf waters. .
 146.   Reports from Parachinar say two Afghan jet fighters again violated Pakistan airspace and infiltrated five to six kilometre inside Pak territory in Kurram Agency. However they did not drop any bomb. (JG).
 147.   A US professor of Political Science Dr. William Richter has said there are mixed signals from the Pakistani intelligentsia regarding direct talks with Kabul and recognition of Karmal regime. He observed that reason for these signals could be the refugee problem and some other problems. (MIM ).
 148.   The Fbreipi Ministers of six ASEAN couhtries have called for total withdrawal of foreigp troops from Afghanistan. They also demanded restoration of inherent right of the Afghan people to freely determine their own future. (PT )•
                                      42
JEHAD ANNUAL
                                PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
1985.
  149. The Summary Military Court in Quetta awarded different terms of imprisonment' and fines to three persons resident of Afghanistan. 17 Kilo oharas had been recovered from them during a raid on August 13» last year. (PT ).
  150. The Federal German Parliament has demanded withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. The Parliament during debate on Afghan situation expressed concern over deteriorating social and political situation and killing of thousands of people in that country. The West.German Deputy Foreign Minister 3aid Russian policies in Afghanistan have deteriorated the international situation to a great extent.
                                     11
  151. According to two We3t German journalists who spent five weeks inside Afghanistan, five year old resistance movement of mujaheddin has now almost come down to zero level. All of Afghanistan is quiet except for a few activities in Mazaat-Sharif, Kunduz and Panjshir. According to journalists, Moscow seems to be doing fairly well on psychological grounds also. (MIM ).
  152. ASEAN Foreign Ministers in their meeting with their counterparts from Japan and Western countries in Kualalumpur have shared concern over continued presence of foreign forces and intensification of their actions in Afghanistan. On his part, the head of EEC delegation also highlighted forcefully the Afghanistan issue, (m ).
                                    12
  153.   The United States is immediately providing air-to-air Side Winder missiles to help Pakistan against Afghan and Soviet air raids. (JG ).
  154.   The NWFP Commissioner for Afghan Refugees has said Pakistan is committed to provide all possible facilities to Afghan refugees. He said this kind of help could continue until refugees returned to their homes with dignity and honour.
 155.   Pakistan has rejected Kabul authorities protest of 10th July 1985, alleging that border areas of Kandahar were subjected to heavy shelling from the Pakistani side on 3rd and 4th July. (PT ).
 156.  Sahibzada Xaqub Khan will hold talks with theUS officials in New York on
 international guarantees included in the draft of the proposed agreement on Afghanistan issue under UN auspices.   ’  '
                                    14
 157.   Two Afghan MI-24 helicopters landed at Miranshah in North Waziristan. The crew of the two helicopters who defected to Pakistan handed themselves over to Pakistan authorities. (MIM )•
                                       43
JEHAD ANNUAL              PRESS      JUN&-DECEMBER   1965. .
>■■■■" ————————————
 158. Kabul administration has demanded repatriation of its two MI--?4 helicopters with 7 crew members which reportedly landed at Miranshah in North Kaziristan Agency.
                           16
 159. Prime Minister June jo has reiterated Pakistan's stand that it wanted polar1 tical settlement of Afghanistan issue.
 160. Reports from Kabul say Ba'orak Kannal has been injured. There are also rp-mours that he has been killed. Radio Kabul has confirmed that he has been taken to Moscow and it said Karmal was ill. (JG ).
                           17
 161. Pakistan authorities have shifted the Afghan pilots who defected to Pakistan alonzwith two Soviet helicopters on July 13. Meanwhile Gulbadin Hekmatyar has accepted the responsibility for the defection of Afghan pilots, (PT ),
 162. The' defunct National Democratic Party of Pakistan has stressed on holding direct talks and to recognise Karmal regime to solve the Afghan issue. (NWT )•
 163. American senators have reiterated their support to Pakistan against Russian pressure. The senators also said war against Soviet occupation is continuing and Mujaheddin are fighting this war with very little foreign aid.
                           18
 164. Sixteenth Brigade of Afghan Army comprising two hundred troops and fifteen to twenty officers has joined the mujaheddin in Ahmad Khel area of Pektia province. They have also brought with them two tanks, 8 guns, 18 mortars, 10 heavy ma-. chine guns and over two hundred small weapons (NWT).
 165. Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said the United States has given a positive response to.the situation arising due to Pakistani airspace violations. Referring to supply of 100 ground-to-air and air-to-air missiles by the United States, he said with these new weapons Pakistan will be in a better position to defend itself and check the air raids. (JG )•
 166. Kabul Radio has reported that two persons who are described as diplomats have been arrested in Kabul. Both of them belong to Pakistan. In this connection,
 Pakistan has strongly protested to Afghan Charge d' Affaires. He was told that
                   /
 their arrest is violation-of Vienna convention on diplomatic relations and that Pakistan government demands their immediate release.
 167. Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has said Pakistan will not succunb to any military
                                          Uh
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEMBER
 1985.'
   or diplomatic pressure and will continue to strive for a settlement of Afghan issue based on Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. He categorically denied that the United States had ever done anything to hold Pakistan back from settling Afghan question. (PT).
   168.  The BBC Commentator Giordan Adam has said there is no match to Soviet MI-24 helicopters iri the world. Two MI-24 helicopters landed at Miranshah in North Wa-ziristan Agency. He said MI-24 which is often called "air tank" enjoys much importance, in the military hardware. (NWT ).
   169.  Soviet helicopters shot and killed atleast 100 civilians in three days of fighting with Mujaheddin in Herat city. (M1M).
                                      19
   170.  Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan has discussed Afghanistan situation with US Defence Secretary Casper Weinberger in Washington,
   171.  Pakistan has protested against illegal arrest of the two Pak embassy officials in Kabul. Afghan Charge d* Affaires was told that despite repeated demands for their immediate release, they are still being held. (PT ).
   172.  It is expected that US Congress would give approval to the proposal to provide humanitarian aid by United states to Afghan citizens within Afghanistan by its own. So far such aid was being provided only to Afghan refugees in Pakistan. According to US officials, US hopes Pakistan will approve this new US policy.
   173.  Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said direct aid from the US or any other country to Afghan mujaheddin is impracticable and unacceptable. He said they oppose such efforts because they are fighting a holy war for the defence of their faith. He said even if Pakistan and other world powers stop their aid, they will continue their war. (NWT ).
                                     20
   174.   oahibzada Yaqub Khan has described the arrest of two Pakistan embassy employees in Kabul a3 an attempt by the Afghan regime to pressurise Pakistan into returning its seven air force defectors and the two helicopters, they brought with them (EN ).
  175.   Mujaheddin have besieged a military post of Soviet-Karmal troops in Urgun town in Paktia province. (PT ).
  176.   Mujaheddin launched an attack with rockets on Kabul airport and inflicted heavy loss of life, according to Radio Teheran, mujaheddin captured a government post 15 miles from Khost city. (JG )•
                                          45
  JEHAD ANNUAL -                     PRESS          JUNE^DECEMDER
                                      21
  177.   About twenty lakh registered Afghan refugees are settled in various parts of NWFP and nearly two thousand refugees are crossing into Pakistani side daily. According to a highly placed personality, Russians have been defeated in Afghanistan and for the present eighty percent territory is under mujaheddin control.
  (NWT ).
  178.   The Information media Chief of Karmal administration defence ministry Col.
  Mir Hasamuddin and another high official of the Karmal administration have defected to mujaheddin. A source cloae to Col. Hasamuddin said the leaders of Iran's Tudeh Party were seen active with Soviet authorities in Kabul, exercising a lot of influence in publishing organisations of Defence Ministry.
  179.   Pakistan has refuted allegation of Karmal regime that problem of Afghan refugees has been created by activities of mujaheddin, Pakistani delegate to international women conference in Nairobi, Mrs. Munir Aslam said these people left their country because of the presence of foreign forces there. Chinese delegate denied allegation that camps have been set up in China for Afghan freedom fighters. (PT )
  180.   Pakistan Information Minister Hamid Nasir Chatha, replying to a question about arrest of two members of Pakistan mission in Kabul, has said there is no justification for this act of Kabul regime.
  181.   Indian Foreign Secretary Rajesh Bhandari has said he had taken some proposals from Washington to Moscow in connection with the Afghanistan problem, but he said his country is not playing any mediatory rola in the conflict. (NWT ).
  18i. Sahibzada Yaqub Khan while talking to senior editorial staff of "Washington Times'' stressed on political and peaceful settlement of Afghan issue and described it as basic condition for stability of world peace. One who thinks over Afghan issue in the back-ground of regional and international'situation, cannot oppose this analysis of Pakistan Foreign Minister. (JG ).
                                     22
  183* Pakistan has strongly protested,against levelling of baseless charges against Pakistan by Afghan authorities on 20th July. Pakistan government rejected the baseless allegations about interference and spying. (JG )•
  184.    Chinese news agency Xinhua says Afghan army suffered heavy losses both in ^casualties and desertions during the last week.
JEHAD ANNUAL
PRESS
JUNE-DECEM3ER
1985.
                                   24
   185. Mujaheddin fired fourteen to sixteen rockets into Kabul last week, which caused damage to vehicles. Most of the rockets fell inside or near the buildings of embassies of Russia, Pakistan, Iran. There are no details of the damage caused to these buildings, but one report says window panes of a shop near Pakistan embassy were smashed due to a rocket. (NWT).
   186. Afghan mujaheddin attacked a military post in Farah province and killed
   30 Soviet-Karmal troops. Mujaheddin also attacked district headquarters of Qala-i-Koh woleswali in Farah province and killed 89 Soviet-Karmal troops. (FT ).
                                   25
   187. BBC has reported heavy fighting is continuing in Panjsher valley between mujaheddin and Soviet-Karmal forces. According to another report mujaheddin killed e3 Soviet troops in an ambush. (JG )•
   188. Mujaheddin of Hizb-e-Islami are reported to have pounded the major government targets by using long-range rockets on July 17, and inflicted heavy losses on the Soviet-Karmal installations. According to another report production of coffin manufacturing factory in Kabul has been doubled. These coffins are used for the detachment of the dead bodies of Soviet troops killed during clashes with the mujaheddin. (PT ).
                                   26
   189. Radio Kabul has reported an armed clash between two factions of Afghan mujaheddin in Kurram Agency. In this clash 8 members of Abdul Rasul Sayyaf group were killed and 9 seriously injured. (PT ).
                                   28
   190.  Sahibzada Yaqub Khan has 3aid Pakistan's assistance to 3 million Afghan refugees was appreciated and United States reiterated its support for Pakistan's efforts to find a political solution of the Afghan problem. (MIM ).
  191.  One reason for the desertions of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan is the rampant racism prevalent in Soviet army, where the Central Asian conscripts are labelled as "blacks". Other reasons include low morale, unwillingness to kill civilians, officer-brutality and poor food (PT).
  192.  Afghan rebels claim to have taken control of a large part of Khost valley.
47
   JEHAD ANNUAL                    PRE3S        JUNE-DECEMBER 1985.
    south of Kabul, In the biggest offensive yet mounted in the six year war against Soviet occupation. (NWT ).
                                    30
    193.  for the first time in more than five years, Soviet TV showed 2g minute report on the un-declared war in Afghanistan. The report showed what appeared to be battlefield footage and heroic words from a group of Soviet soldiers. (EIJ )•
    194.  Radio Moscow and Kabul have admitted that fighting is continuing in five provinces of Afghanistan. Radio Kabul reported that government troops seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition during their actions to restore law and order in Ningarhar. (NWT ).
   195.  Mujaheddin have captured the Governor of Farah province in an ambush. Meanwhile an Afghan soldier who defected two weeks ago in Paktia province has said that at the behest of Russian masters, the soldiers are forced by the Kabul regime to get naked from 7pn\ to 5am in order to preclude their diesertions.
   196.  A number of civilians were killed and some houses damaged in bombardment by SovietrKarmal troops supported by Soviet helicopters on civil population of Darre ?ech in Kunar Province.
   197.  Mujaheddin killed or injured 50 Soviet-Karma! troops in an ambush on a military convoy heading towards Herat from Kandahar. (PT ).
                                   31
   198.  A 12 year old Afghan refugee was killed in a scuffle between the shopkeepers and some other people in Peshawar today.
   199* Heavy fighting has been reported around Kabul between Soviet troops and mujaheddin. The Soviet embassy was reported to have been hit for the third time this month, but details of damage are not known. (MIM).
                                                          August
                                    1
  200.   Indirect talks on Afghanistan for settlement of Afghanistan issue will be resulted on Ath August 1985. In this round question of Soviet troops withdrawal in particular will come under discussions. (NWT ).
  201.   Foreign Ministers of European Economic Community have expressed hope for a headway on the question of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan as a
                                    48