
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
;)l*jll
                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
 AFGHANISTAN IS LIBERATED
 All the personel and employees of the C.C.A.R. extend their heart £■) iest congratulations and good wishes on the success of jehad, liberation of Afghanistan and establishment of a representative Islamic government in the country, to Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Head of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, members of the Leadership Council and the Jehadic Council, the mujaheddin and the entire Muslim nation of Afghanistan. We also pray to Almighty Allah for the welfare of our beloved country and the glory of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
     *_...__________________________________________ ...   ,__________-M
      Thank God that as a result of good faith, strong will, unprecedented sacrifices by the Muslim and heroic nation of Afghanistan and boundless blessings of Allah, the historic, Muslim and exalted Afghanistan has regained its independence. The communist coup and consequently Russian aggression against Afghanistan for obliterating its Islamic identity, independence, national entity, non-alignment status and for turning Afghanistan into a communist country, failed miseiably and boomeranged in the shape of disintegration of the Soviet empire and the fall of communism.
      Our Muslim and committed nation waged the holy war persistantly for 14 years, sacrificed one and a half million sons and daughters of the soil, resulting in the devastation of 70% of the settled areas of the country. All this was done for the sake of protecting the freedom of religion and the homeland and ultimately attained its goal. On the very same day (14 years later-) on which the communists had staged a coup and usurped the Afghan independence, the communist rule in Afghanistan was ended and an independent and Islamic government was established in this country.
              was the cherished desire of the entire nation. Each and every warrior, widow, orphan and natives of the country were yearning for fVoodom and had pinned their faith and happiness over the culmination of the 14 years of sufferings and travails on,this auspicious day. But unfortunately immediately after the liberation
                                                                                              3
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
III
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 of the country, due to intensification of differences among the mujaheddin, a bloody war for power started and for this reason nobody could enjoy the fruits of victory. People were faced with new troubles and side by side with that, a new era of chaos and disorder began.
       During the entire long years of jehad, besides the communists and Russians, the other biggest enemy of the mujaheddin was, disunity. The              Muslim                 Afghans always cherished  the desire that
 this malignant disease be remedied particularly in the rank and file of the mujaheddin. But unf or tunately, not only this disease has not been healed but has become chronic too. Regretfully at last the Islamic Revolution has been put off the track and whatever the Muslim and sincere mujaheddin did not want to happen, has now come to pass.
       The worst and fatal result of mutual differences based bn personal interests of the mujaheddin is the fact that the extent of difference among them became so wide that it created a favorable ground for                             anti-re1igion , anti-state and anti-social
 elements like the Khalq and Parcham factions, to carry out their nefarious designs. One group of them sided with one group of the mujaheddin and the other with another group and fanned the dangerous flames of linguistic, racial and religious prejudices which added fuel to the fire of internal differences among the mujaheddin.
      The last demiand of the UN Plan was that the mujaheddin should sit with the communists around the table in order to negotiate transfer of power. But the mujaheddin regarded this condition insulting and said that the communists should relinquish power unconditionally and hand it over to them, thus leading to a derive to frustrate the UN plan. Anyhow, differences between the two major              jehadic parties automatically prepared               the ground
for not only negotiations with the        communists                         but a sort of
coalition also with them.               The most painful aspect of all these
happenings is, that though              the com'munists suffered an ignominous
defeat, they now demand a share in the government.
      In the    absence of a unified       and wel1-organized plan,
different provinces, divisions and centers of administration fell under different groups and organizations practically creating an atmosphere for feudalism and 'anarchy in 'the country. Therefore, on the one hand it paved the ground for nefarious activities of those elements who    had raised the sinister    and repugnant slogans of
Afghanistan's partition, and on the other provided an opportunity to those neighbors, who    have  historic malafides              and ill-will
against Afghanistan, to infiltrate into the                      unified and
indivisible provinces of our country and taking undue advantage of the economic    and social predicaments     of their administrators
conclude agreements, with them without the knowledge of the
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992          mam               VOL.  5 NO. 3
    capital. If, God forbid, these conditions persist it is quite possible that these countries may spur their political activities further and even establish their diplomatic missions.
        It is due to this disunity that the interim mujaheddin government, during its two months tenure, has not been able to take even one step towards ameliorating the lot of the people and u has not gained so much power to control the situation and arrest "   even on e of the violators of the law of the land.
        T h+e Muslim nation of Afghanistan supports the mujaheddin / government in the same manner as it supported then 14 years ago
    and ensured the victory of the Islamic revolution by dint of its limitless sacrifices. Their support is based on the condition that the mujaheddin may close their ranks and unify and centralize their government and administration and form a national army to establish law and order.
        The Afghan nation has rejected all sorts of dissident voices and devilish deeds based on linguistic, racial and religious considerations and calls for a united, indivisible and non-aligned Afghanistan blessed with the privileges of national unity, territorial integrity and' sovereignty.
        The entire nation expects that the mujaheddin will get united and restore law and order in the country in order to cement national unity, ensure complete independence of the country, preserve its non-aligned status, defend the frontiers of the country and establish a really Islamic government in Afghanistan which, on the one hand, may protect the Islamic identity of the country and on the other, for the sake of the pure bloodshed by 1.5 million martyrs, guarantee freedom and happiness for the Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
          REFUGEE REPATRIATION AND START OF RECONSTRUCTION
        From the day the Muslim people of Afghanistan have been compelled under the tyranny, despotism and terror of. the infidel, communist regime to migrate to the neighboring countries of " Pakistan and Iran, they have been constantly cherishing the desire to return to their beloved homeland after the establishment of an Islamic government there. Those heroic people, despite the ** destruction of their homes and devastation of their villages, have not lost faith, have not wavered in their determination, have not given up the resolve to challenge the enemy t and as a result of these sacrifices and resolute resistance, the. barbaric communist philosophy and its puppet regime fell apart like a house of cards.
                                                                5
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992              fllGlHO                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
    communism vanished into thin air, and Afghanistan got liberated.
         Simultaneously with the liberation of Afghanistan, repatriation of the refugees also started. They rolled their beds and the caravans longing tp return to the homeland for the last fourteen years, started their homebound journey. The process is continuing and the refugees are returning merrily to their ruined country.
         But two important factors of insecurity stand in their way:
    1. The existence of mines: According to universal data, there are 5 to 50 million mines spread all over Afghanistan. It was decided that repatriation of the refugees would be possible only after the clearance, of all the land mines.
    2. The disunity among the organizations and mutual hostilities:
    This is also a cause of concern, because there is no unified or single governing body of the mujaheddin in Afghanistan. In different provinces and even different divisions, various organizations hold sway and one organization or party is trying to drive out the other by the use of arms. For example in Helmand, such a confrontation exists between Rasool Akhundzada and the other mujaheddin. In other parts of the country too either such events happen   de facto or there is a     possibility of   such an
    eventuality by force.
        Besides,    another predicament of    the      refugees and the
   returnees is poverty and financial strain. World bodies and many countries of the world, despite promising financial aid during repatriation and rehabilitation of the refugees have not provided any assistance   and it   seems they have  forgotten their promises.
   Even the UN which had agreed to pay Rs. 3,300/- per Ration Card to the returnees, has paid the said amount to a limited number of refugees, but    has completely forgotten  the    promise to provide
   means of transport for them.
        Although the international community had promised millions of dollars of aid for reconstructing Afghanistan, but the promise has not been fulfilled yet and the returne e s have started the reconstruction   work pn self-help basis   and    with their limited
   resources. The   reason  is that the  Afghans have immense  love for
   their homeland   and for their Islamic      system. It was  for this
   reason that despite all the real or probable dangers and financial hardships, the   moment   they heard  the    news of their country's
   liberation, they started to return and to begin reconstructing their country with the available means.
        We wish 'that on the one hand, the mine-clearing organizations take an active part in clearing the land mines (fortunately a mine-clearing agency has now gone to Kabul and has started its
                                                           6
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992             flfliliANJIHAD                VOL. 5 NO. 3
      humanitarian project from     there to other parts of the country),
      and on the other hand we expect the jehadic forces to (lo away with mutual differences and give up rivalries and thus provide a guarantee and assurance of peace to their countrymen.
      .4                                        ■                         '
            In the meantime we     call upon the world organizations       and
      other countries of the       world to provide financial aid           to
f     Afghanistan, as promised,    so that this country may be able         to
■"    stand on its own feet and the people may be able to reconstruct
      their ruined villages and homes. Similarly they should provide r,    such financial assistance    for the general reconstruction of       the
■i    country that not only it may redeem the previous ruination but may
      also help reconstruct Afghanistan to commensurate with the exigencies of the present time.
                                                                                                                                                                             ¥
                                                                                                                                                              1 :
I                                                                                                                 C,
r                              .
 *
                                                                           )
                                                               7
| APRIL-JUNE. 1992 BICHIIHJIHM VOL. 5 MO. 71
Political Dimension :
           •DRAMATIC CHA NGES CA USED NEW EVENTS
•  Mujaheddin came to Power with Liberation of Afghanistan
•  Mujaheddin war against the Communists gave its place to Inter-Mujaheddin Conflicts
   An Afghan proverb says> "a good year starts with a good spring". The spring of the year 1992 was the harbinger of a good year. On the one hand, the promise of resignation by Najibullah, head of the Kabul regime, accelerated the global political developments and on the other spurred the political and military initiative and efforts of ■ the mujahedidn more than ever. Meanwhile satellites released from the communist regime iorbit emerged as independent forces. Hence dramatic developments took place one after the other in quick succession.
                                UN EFFORTS EXPEDITED
     The promise and announcement of resignation by Najibullah was a source of hope  and satisfaction to the special envoy        of the UN Secretary General for
Afghanistan. So he intensified his efforts and started his shuttle diplomacy to Kabul-Tehran-Islamabad. Subsequently most of the mujaheddin groups, including the  governments of Pakistan and Iran, assured Benon Sevan that        they would
support his peaceful efforts and implement the UN Plan for transferring power to the  Interim Afghan Government. That is why         Benon Sevan on his arrival  at
Islamabad on 2 April, 1992 said, "1 have never been more optimistic than today        '
regarding the Afghan problem. I will not give anyone an opportunity to create any obstacle in the path of this success". He added that during a week-long          «,
shuttle diplomacy between Kabul-Islamabad and Tehran, he had tried to promote         *
understanding among the groups involved and perform such a job for the interim        ,
administration that it may start functioning before the Intra-Afghan Conference.      ^
He was pleased that the Afghans and the            countries concerned  backed his
proposals. Benon Sevan said, "we are considering some details in this connection and will soon announce the data and venue of holding an Intra-Afghan Conference.
He said that in this conference 150 to 500 delegates would participate.
8
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                    mm                 VOL. 5 NO.  3
                    THE MUJAHEDDIN LEADERS' REACTION TO THE UN. PLAN NAJIB ON THE NAY OUT
       Since ten months when the UN Plan was presented, the mujaheddin severely objected to it and particularly to the holding of an Intra Afghan Conference for the purpose of gathering together the communists and the Muslims around the negotiating table. All the mujaheddin desired to be excluded from these talks. That is why the mujaheddin pressurized the UN to concede to their suggestion for holding an Intra-Afghan conference so that they may, on their part, accept the UN Plan. They meant to bring about disillusionment and frustration among the protagonists of Najib owing to his resignation so that the mujaheddin's military victory may materialize expeditiously, some of them considered Najib's chapter closed. For this reason Professor Say.yaf did not consider Najib's resignation as a new phenomenon and declared that it resembles a "tear on the eye-lashes which may drop any time". As they were sure about the' downfall of Najib, Engineer Hekmatyar, Prof. Rabbani, Mawlawi Khales and Engineer Ahmad Shah, representing Prof. Sayyaf; rejected the UN Plan and assumed that his time was over.
                 t-                   ■
       This conviction of the mujaheddin confronted them with a n w force and new challenges born out of the ashes of the decadent regime.
                                     EMERGENCE NEW MILITARY FORCES
       The Najib regime, since many years, focussed its attention on the formation of ethnic forces and militia, besides KHAD, police and former militia detachments. By such treacherous measures he wanted to instigate one ethnic militia against other ethnic militias- in order to sow the deeds of racial, linguistic and religious differences and follow the policy of divide-and-rule. But he never knew that in diversity, these very pet militias would pose the
 greatest threat to him.
      In Mazar-e-Sharif, Sayed Kayan and Rashid Dostum's Gelam Jam militias revolted against the regime and subsequently other government forces joined hands with them and brought into existence such an alliance which could strike a concordant note with the Supervisory’Council and the mujaheddin in the north. At the same time they drove a wedge between the Najib administration. Consequently some of the members of the hired Vatan Party joined with Rashid Dostum's Islamic National Movement which was endorsed by the Governor of Kabul while Najib was still in power. As an "off-shoot of this alliance. General Nabi Azeemi, one of the senior military officers of the. communist regime resorted to an abortive coup, on 24 March.
      The northern alliance gradually assumed a lingual and racial complexion. The Parchamies, who had lost every hope of survival, got an opportunity to avail this alliance in order to guarantee their last- chance for survival among ethnic differences. On the other hand due to the weakness of the regime, the tanks and ammunition recently supplied by the Soviets and for that quantity of arms and ammunition which was stored at Mazar-e-Sharif and other northern provinces, including hundreds of tanks, dozens of jet fighter planes and helicopters and
                                             9
 APRIL-dUNE, 1992                  HilIlHi                        yoL. 5 NO. 3
 various types of light and heavy weapons, were entirely at the disposal of Rashid Dostum. Various small groups of militia gained more, strength by acquiring considerable quantities of military hardware. It is worth mentioning that despite these developments, the UN continued its efforts vigorously and Benon Sevan was all the time thinking about finding a speedy solution for the problem.
                       15 MEMBER COUNCIL AS A QUICK SOLUTION
       In view of these speedy developments, Najib became so nervous that he invited Benon Sevan to visit Kabul as soon as possible and expedite his Peace Plan by shrinking the multi-stage meetings to one single stage. Therefore, Benon Sevan undertook the task of preparing a list of 15 neutral members for an emergency interim administration and called upon all the concerned Afghan parties and circles to provide a list of their own representatives so that he may prepare a final selected list of 15 members to form the required commission. Thus Najib would transfer power to this qualified and seasoned team and this council would stay in power so long as the Afghans-may agree to form an interim government and power may be transferred from the interim administration to this government.. In response to this proposal by Benon Sevan, most of the Afghan parties and groups submitted their lists for selection to the 15 member council. Professor Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales declined to supply their lists to the UN representative and did not agree to this idua. Engineer Hekmatyar's HIA forwarded its list to Benon Sevan on 4 April on the condition that the interim administration should be composed of such undisputed persons who might be acceptable to all the jehadic parties. The HIA pointed out that the purpose of these lists is that the mujaheddin should exchange these lists among themselves and after due discussion and consideration, may select those who are acceptable to all or the majority of the mujaheddin, so that they may be able to establish an interim administration. But when the situation took a new turn, Engineer Hekmatyar, the HIA leader, rejected the idea of such a 'council and said, "we do not agree with this plan".
      An interesting point in this connection is that when the proposed list of Benon Sevan was published in the press, there was a large number of disparity in the names in different lists. More interesting was the fact that after the publication of the UN proposed lists, most of the parties rejected it and Benon Sevan was forced to declare that the published lists were completely baseless. He said that his duty was to convey the messages of one group to another and to receive their lists and verify them.
      Failure of this measure, after Najib’s resignation, gave birth to such difficulties that once again caused concern among national circles and the people of the world at large. Consequently Pakistan put pressure on this country to gather together all the mujaheddin leaders to collectively find a solution to this problem.
                              COUP AND NAJIB*S ESCAPE
      On 16 April a number of Parchamies staged a- coup on racial considerations and deposed Najib who took refuge in the office of the United Nation's in Kabul'. Power was assumed by those four persons who had, of late, developed some
                                            10
APR IL-JUNE# 1992                      1111                         VOL.  5  NO. 3
 affiliation with the northern coalition. After the coup, the northern alliance, having an understanding with th# powerful jehad commanders, took control of Kabul and particularly the Kabul airport, radio and television and other important installations. This action caused a serious rivalry between the two main jehadic forces i.e. the HIA and the JIA. According to international news agencies' reports, the racist Parchamies joined hands with the northern alliance while the Khalqis too (both factions belonging to Watan Party) on racial considerations cooperated    with the HIA. In the                        same manner as the two
 factions of the communist party    separated on                  the basis of racial preferences,
 unfortunately the said Islamic     groups also confronted each other owing                         to
 political rivalry. In this struggle for power, on the one hand Engineer Hekmatyar warned,                             if the puppet regime did not surrender to the mujaheddin
 by 26 April, his mujaheddin would attack Kabul. On the other hand, the supervisory council and the northern forces were trying to reach Kabul.
      On 14 April the northern forces,led by Ahmad Shah Masood, conquered Jabul Seraj and Charikar and on the same day Hekmatyar's forces occupied Bagram Airport and other important military points. Meanwhile Abdul Wakil, the Kabul regime's Foreign Minister* went to Charikar and met with Ahmad Shah Masood and promised that the regime would hand over power to him.
      Ahmad Shah Masood adopted     a .realistic                    posture       and declared, in  an
 interview, "although we can assume power single-handedly but will not be able to maintain it".
      Hekmatyar stated, "we can enter Kabul but do not want to gain power through bloodshed".
                                            TWO PROPOSALS
      Ahmad Shah Masood suggested that the jehad leaders in Pakistan should decide about the formation of a government which may rule Afghanistan. Engineer Hekmatyar proposed that influential commanders of the surrounding areas of Kabul should get united and form a council to hold the reigns of power at Kabul. But the dilemma was, that both the parties considered themselves the conquerors and demanded special concessions. Prof. Rabbani declared that he was willing to let other share power with him. Therefore he demanded that important posts should be given to JIA. On the other hand, in the proposed list of 38 representatives forwarded by Hekmatyar, names of most of the HIA commanders were enlisted, whereas from other groups,- names of a few commanders were included. Therefore, both' the sides did not agree to the above proposals and other mujaheddin too did not see eye to eye with them.
                   EMERGENCY MEETING OF CHIEFS OF JEHAD PARTIES
      Since the beginning of the current year, chiefs of the mujaheddin organizations convened meetings to determine the framework of an administration, but to no avail. But On 16 April, 1992 when conditions became very serious and Najib went underground after the coup and due to the power vacuum in Kabul there was a danger of serious bloodshed, the jehad leaders, on the invitation of Pakistan government, once again sat round a table and decided that for
                                        11
    APR I Lt JUNE, 1992               . AFGHAN JfHflfl                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
    establishing an interim government, they should form a 28 member council. This meeting in which Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan Foreign Ministry's Secretary, Shaharyar Khan, Director General of ISI, Javed Nasser and head of Afghan Cell in Pakistan Foreign Ministry, Riaz Ahmad Khan participated, also did not reach a conclusion. In the meantime, Hekmatyar left for Afghanistan to organize his forces. In view of the gravity of the situation, the jehadic leaders convened an emergency meeting on 24 April to ensure transfer of power from the Kabul regime. They agreed to form a 51-members council under the leadership of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and decided that Ahmad Shah Masood be appointed Defense Minister. The meeting decided that Sebghatullah Mujaddedi should hand over power to the Leadership Council after two months. Later when chairmanship of the Leadership Council would be assigned to Prof, gabbani, the Prime Minister would be appointed by Engineer Hekmatyar. Although Hekmatyar did not attend this meeting, his party deputies were present.
         When the Leadership Council of Peshawar made arrangements to leave for Kabul, the mujaheddin entered Kabul from the North and the South.
                                 KABUL AND THE JEHADIC FORCES' INCURSIONS
         On 25 April, 1992 the HIA forces entered the city of Kabul. The Ministry of Interior possessed a part of the Royal Palace' and its surrounding areas and many ' other places. The army and other forces of the regime surrendered without resistance and the people too welcomed the freedom fighters. On the other side Rashid Dostum's militia occupied the airport and radio and television stations, Ahmad Shah Masood's forces also entered the city from the north and occupied different regions whereas the government departments surrendered without resistance. The day ended without any clashes, but the next day Dostum's militia attacked the HIA posts and started a bloody war-in Kabul. After severe fighting and many casualties, the HIA forces retreated and flames of the fight extinguished. The second day (27 April) Professor Mujaddedi leading a 50 member jehad council delegation■left for Kabul via Torkham,
                                 TRANSFER OF POWER AND THE DAY OF FREEDOM
         While the streets of Kabul were stained with blood due tb the struggle for power and in some parts and suburbs of the city shelling and firing continued,
  . Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi arrived in Kabul via the land route at the head of a 50-member delegation. The ex-regime's functionaries transferred power to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi amid summary formalities and assured biro ,of .-/their cooperation. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, on his part, declared general amnesty for the officials of the ex-regime. '            '
         With these ceremonies, apparently Afghanistan regained its independence and the puppet Kabul regime was practically deprived of power. But the people, owing , to the bloody incidents in the city, did not feel the happiness associated with , the day of freedom and the occasion was not favorable for a public celebration.
   On the contrary, due to the stationing of armed mujaheddin in various parts of the city, people faced insecurity and new threats. However this tension not only prevailed in Kabul city but with the coming into.power of various armed groups in the provinces, disorder and chaos gripped the length . and breadth of Afghanistan also and the central power collapsed. Subsequently pillage and
                                                12
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
      plunder of state and private properties started and insecurity and disorder engulfed the entire country. Thus the immense happiness of freedom gave way to grief, worry and depression.
           On the other hand, Pakistan having succeeded in the formation of the mujaheddin . government, was making arrangement for the visit of its prime Minister to Kabul in order to extend support to this government.
                              EMERGENCY VISIT AMD AID
           One day after the arrival of Prof. Mujaddedi in Kabul, on 29 April, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan visited Kabul at the head of a delegation and accompanied by Turkey Al-Faisal, the Saudi Arabian envoy and Hamed Al-Ghabed, the OIC Secretary General. At the conclusion of the visit, he presented a cheque for Rs. 250 million to Mujaddedi which was the first financial assistance to the newly founded Afghan government. Mohammad Nawaz Sharif declared that the purpose of hi»s- visit was to personally congratulate the Afghans on this victory of their revolution. He called the new government in Afghanistan, a prelude of the new era. He said that the chapter of agony is closed. He concluded his visit with the statement that establishment of peace in Afghanistan plays an important part in consolidating peace and stability in the region.
                           RETURN OF THE REFUGEES TO THEIR HOMELAND
           Following freedom apd assumption of power by the mujaheddin, repatriation of the Afghan refugees to their hearth and homes started. Although some of the residents of Kabul migrated to Nangarhar and Peshawar due to unfavorable, circumstances, the refugees of all the provinces rolled their luggage to return to their country. Refugee camps became desolate and refugee caravans started to move. The UN and other countries of the world had decided earlier to take steps 1 for demining.the entire country, in the first instance, prior to the return of the refugees to their homeland and then reconstruct their homes, villages and cities. Similarly they had resolved to give cash assistance to the refugees on their return journey and to provide means of transport to them in this connection. But when the time came for such an arrangement, we saw that all these promises were nothing- but lies. Despite these bogus promises, the Afghan refugees imbued with deep love for their homeland started their journey back to Afghanistan without waisting time and did not wait for others' assistance. Their-return journey continues still, in full force. Meanwhile, reconstruction of devastated, cities and villages in Afghanistan has begun with the return of the refugees.
       .                  '                            -i          .
                 RETURN OF THE JEHAD LEADERS TO KABUL AND ITS REPERCUSSIONS
                          On 24 April, the mujaheddin leaders held a meeting at Peshawar and agreed upon the formation' of Jehad Council and Leadership Council. The Jehad Council 'will hold the reigns of power for two months and the Leadership. Council for four months. After 28 April when Prof. Mujaddedi had arrived in Kabul, members of the Leadership Council, apparently to make preparations for the next term, left for Kabul on 4 May. But political observers believed that they were afraid lest
                                                   13
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992                          MUM                     VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Prof. Mujaddedi may prefer to stay in power beyond the limited period and hence they undertook this journey. However Prof. Mujaddedi’s remarks are a pointer to this possibility, because in a statement, he indicated that two months would not be sufficient for his presidentship. He made this remark also that people have asked him to extend the period t;o two yqars. He said that the ethnic chiefs believed that he was the only person who cirnld do away with ethnic and regional differences.
                                                                                                       A
       Members of the Leadership Council, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi ' Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Ayatullah Sheikh Mohammad Assef Mohseni, Ayatullah Taqaddusi, Prof. Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Saminullah     left Peshawar   *
 for Kabul. No sooner did they reach Kabul than Prof. Mujaddedi       announced his   v
 38-member cabinet. Prof. Sayyaf left for Paghman under protest because he thought that Mujaddedi was not authorized to form a cabinet. Prof. Rabbani too objected to this action. Hekmatyar declared that only the leadership council had the;authority to form the cabinet.
       On the other hand, Prof. Mujaddedi indicated in his reaction to these protests that he would not hand over the premiership to Hekmatyar because he had continued the war contrary to the Islamic Code. Hekmatyar responded that he is merely opposed to the presence of the militia because they had cooperated with the Najib regime. He said about the militia, "I will pardon the militia but will not share power with them".
       Subsequent to the return of the members of the Leadership      Council,  Pir
 Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Moazzin and Mawlawi Khales went        to Kabul  one
 after the other. Thus all the jehadic leaders gathered at Kabul and its suburbs. After the arrival of all the mujaheddin leaders at Kabul, the Leadership Council inaugurated it's first meeting on 12 May in which the communist watan Party was declared illegal and orders were issued to confiscate its assets. Similarly the Council held a meeting on 31 May at Chehelstoon, Kabul and Engineer Hekmatyar too participated in it. But Prof. Mujaddedi was the only leader who did not attend the meeting. The Leadership Council in this meeting banned the activities of all other parties except the mujaheddin parties and considered the prevailing situation in the country. However Prof. Mujaddedi criticized the activities of the Leadership Council and declared that Prof. Rabbani violated the Peshawar Accords by setting up another government within his government and issued orders contrary to his orders.
                              RESUMPTION OF BLOODSHED
      After the establishment of the Islamic government, many a time clashes oc cur ed between the Hekmatyar mu jaheddin and Dostum militia in east and south of Kabul. Then with the signing of the ceasefire agreement by Engineer Hekmatyar^ * and Ahmad Shah Masood, these conflicts came to an end. But unfortunately on 2 June in the west of the Kabul city, bloody skirmishes occured between IIA and HWIA leaving behind death and destruction on both the sides. The world news           *
 agencies termed these conflicts as foreign intervention and described them as a conflict between pro-Iran and pro-Saudi groups. Prof. Mujaddedi too called these conflicts as alien and enemy interferences. King Fahd of Saudi Arabia called upon both the warring sides tp put an end to the fighting and for the sake pf
                                            14
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                                      SIGH JIHAD
vol. 5 wo. 3
  Masood and Hekmatyar
        With the help of God Almighty, we have agreed on the following points:
   1.   To permanently avoid armed conflict and to ensure withdrawal of armed detachments of the northern regions from Kabul. The Leadership Council and the Conciliation Committee will take the final decision about permanently stopping the conflict as well as the time and modality of withdrawal of armed detachments, with necessary guarantees.
   2.   For the sake of determining the position and the modality of elections and
        to fix a date for folding the elections, the joint commission is assigned the    duty tp declare its final decision at the end of one week.
   3.   Both the  parties are apriously making   efforts to hpld elections before the
        expiry of the interim period. Postponement or delay in elections will take place in case of any unexpected incident or unfavorable circumstances, with mutual consent.
   4.   The interim      government would perform   its duties in consonance with the
        earlier accords.
   5.   The    term of  power transfer, according  to the previous agreement, was two
        months and cannot be extended.
   6.   Security of Kabul city by the mujaheddin of all Islamic parties would be ensured within the framework of the Interior Ministry.
   7.   Talks between the two parties regarding all aspects of the issues would continue in future.
   8.   To hold elections in the shortest time in such a manner that on the conclusion of the interim period, our country may not remain in a vacuum.
                         IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL, THE MOST GRACIOUS
                                                         17
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                            VOL * 5 NO. 3
 Resolution of All Commanders
               Council
          EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the above-cited Declaration issued after the revelation of the facts related to the recent developments and manifestation of the stands taken by Brother Ahmad Shah Masood, as published in the 2 April, 1992 issue of the journal "Mtijahedm.
                     IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL, THE MOST BENEFICENT
 Dear Mujaheddin, Refugees and Countrymen,
      As you know, recently with the Divine blessing and with the courage of our mujahed brothers and with the good wishes of our countryman, a series of extensive and determining conquests in different sectors, particularly in northern Afghanistan, took place. This success ultimately culminated in the downfall of the Kabul regime and preparing the ground for the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
      Although on the one hand, these conquests paved the way for giving a' practical shape to the ideals of the martyrs and the noble objectives of our Islamic jehad, yet unfortunately due to certain ambiguities, a number of suspicions and concerns grew in the minds of the people of Afghanistan and some! other circles.
      The main reason behind these worries was the fact that most of the people were not taken into confidence about the developments. Therefore jehad commanders in Afghanistan resolved that for the sake of a correct comprehension of the facts and latest events, a team should be formed and assigned the task to directly communicate, through wireless, with brother commander Ahmad Shah Masood and seek information from him. Hence we, the following commanders:
 1.   General Abdul RahimVardak, Military Assistant of NIFA.
 2.   Commander Akhtar Mohammad Talwak, IIA commander in Paktika.
 3.   Commander Mohammad Anwar, JIA commander at Sarobi, Kabul.
 4.   Engineer Mohammad Afzal Ahmadzai,. Controller of Towheed Brigade, IIA.
 5.   Sayed Hussain Anwari, Incharge of Kabul Provincial Shoora of HIA.
 6.   Commander Moosa Khan of IIA in Maidan Province.
 APR IL-JUNE * 1992
ill
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 7. Malek Suleman, representative of (Sayed Jagran) General Sayed, Commander HWIA.                                                             '  '
                                                                              • - J
      In the afternoon of 18 March, 1992 contacted Brother Ahmad Shah on wireless and posed a number of principal questions, vexing the minds of most of; the' commanders and refugees, to..him clearly and unambiguously.
 He asked Brother Masood the following questions:
 1.
 2.
 3.
 Is it true that you have formed an Islamic National cooperation of Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Mansoor Kayan?
 Council with the
 Is this right that you would form a coalition government with officers of K.halq and Parcham factions in future Afghanistan?
 Are you planning not to accommodate all the other jehadic parties in future Afghan government?
      Brother Ahmad Shah Masood listened to pur queries patiently and then answered these questions. In order to make the issues very clear, he explained everything in detail on that our minds were cleared of all doubts and we were fully satisfied'that aj.1 actions taken were completely motivated by jehad in the interest >of Islam and the entire Muslim nation of Afghanistan yithout any negative influence of language, group, ethnic, regional and religious considerations.
      The salient points of Brother Masood explanations are as under:
 1. All these conquests, by the grace of Allah, are indebted to the travails and struggles of all the Afghan mujaheddin as well as to the well-wishing prayers of our dear countrytoien.
 2.   In the recent jehadic actions, no linguistic, partisan or regional considerations exist and we consider all sorts of linguistic, ethnic, regional and religious discriminations contrary to Islamic principles and national interests of Afghanistan and strongly condemn and reject them.
 3.   We do not recognize and do not acknowledge the rumour of the so-called formation of Islamic. National1 Movement in northern areas and do not agree .to any such idea.
 4. We reject all sorts of coalition1 or formation of a coalition government including Vatan Party and other columnists and are strongly opposed to it.
 5. We tips ire the formation of an Islamic government by safeguarding the < territorial integrity of the country and national unity of all the jehadic forces in Afghanistan.
 6';*: While. as. a result of the recent conquests, we have gained a strong and
                            decisive position and can enter Kabul, with the help of Allah, without any
19
 APRIL-JUNE* 1992                '   flfGilANJIH/IO                   ypjL- 5 NO. 3
       difficulty, and are capable of declaring the establishment of an Islamic government, yet in order to avoid creating any misunderstanding, we fiaye till now preferred not to enter Kabul and to wait for the forjnjation of a really Islamic government by the leaders of th.e jehadic organizations so that after the establishment of such a government the mujaheddin may stage a victory march into Kabul.
 7.    If any particular party may feel disposed# unilaterally agd singly, to 'take
       undue advantage of the present achievements of the mujaheddin by creating hurdles in the path of the formation of a jonfc jehs.d.ic gpvernmejnt, tb,®?1 ¥9 will not remain indifferent and will have no alternative but to' mobilize the jehadic  forces to put an end to this  sort of trouble.
 8.    We request  all the jehad leaders to form an       Islamic government at the
       earliest opportunity with complete unanimity among themselve® and officially declare the establishment of such a government ig the Afghan territory.
 9.    in case our respected leaders are unable  feo form such a government, • w<e will
       have to invite our jehad commanders and     ethnic  leaders tp fprm an Islamic
       government by mutual consultation,
 10.   I declare unequivocally that as a soldier of Islam I am at the service .of Islam and the people of Afghanistan and do not desire any post Of positon for myself.
 Dear countrymen.
       While congratulating each one of you and the entire Muslim Ummah on this glorious victory, we would like to state that we are satisfied with the process of jehadic activities and consider it in the best interests of jehad and the Muslim Afghan nation and extend our unwavering support to it.
       The Council of All jehadic commanders and other principal jehadic commanders of Afghanistan urge upon all the commanders of the Holy War in Afghanistan, that:
 1.    Keeping in view the'national unity of Afghanistan, they should seriously . stop and forestall all malafide propaganda based on linguistic, ethnic,
      regional and religious considerations.
 2.    If the enemy forces offer to surrender to you, please take the local commanders' council into confidence and take a joint decision in order to circumvent any difference of opinion. -
      Wishing for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
                                                      20
 APRIL-JUNE# 1992
                                                                                 VOL# 5 NO. 3
         EDITOR'S fflTEt The following communique issued by the Cultural AssddiatiOh of Afghanistan> published in the April-May issue of the magazine "Sapedee*» is reproduced below. It contains many specific proposalsi
      Afghanistan is the only country in the history of the world which has the pride and h0.fl0£ of independence and sovereignty. This privilege is indebted to' the courage of sUch a nation which is composed of various ethnic groups and throughout the past glorious history these ethnic groups have been living together like brothers and have fought shoulder ,to shoulder to safeguard the freedom'and independence of their homeland. Their first and foremost obligation has been the independence, sovereignty and interests of the nation. Hence Whenever any side of the country has ever been exposed to aggression, they have resisted firmly and driven away the aggressor.
      One of the historical and cultural characteristics of the Afghan nation is that in the event of foreign aggression they have not been in doubt about the identity of the aggressor. An aggressor is an aggressor, no matter who. So they have always put up a brave resistance          and by sacrificing  their  lives and
 shedding their blood saved the freedom         of their country.. Various foreign
 aggressions, throughout the history, by       the Chengiz hordes, Mogul  rulers in
 Indian, Saffavids and Qajars of Iran, Sikhs, Britons and ultimately by the Soviets have been repulsed by this very valorous nation.
      The Russian and communist invasion, too, was one of those aggressions which aimed to annihilate the national independence, and Islamic identity of Afghanistan., They wanted to subjugate Afghanistan by terror, tyranny and cruelty and then to march towards the Indian sub-continent. The entire Afghan nation rose to resist this encrouc,hment and put up resistance fronts throughout . the country. The youngmen -Of all ethnic groups, followers of all religions and creeds and residents • of all provinces took up arms and fearlessly plunged into the fourteen-year-long jehad, laying 1.5 million      martyrs and an   equal  number of
 disabled and wounded' at the altar of freedom without giving, it ,a second thought.
      Of coufse, it was due to these sacrifices and as a resylt of the coordinated efforts that our beloved countfy, Afghanistan, regained its freedom. The former USSR, which had invaded our country on 27 December 1979, disappeared from the map of the world on 27 December 1991. The I?halq party which staged a coup on 27 April 1978, was ignominously overthrown and defeated on 27 April 1992 and Afghanistan was liberated by the joint efforts of the Islamic forces. But at
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  WUNJM                          VOL.  5 NO. 3
 this delicate juncture, the ugly and undesirable germs' of ethnic leadership, party superiority and sectarian demands for a share in the government infected the body politic of our newly liberated country and converted our Holy War to an unsavory struggle for power. This unbecoming conflict was very tragic and painful for all the Muslims and heroic Afghans who had sacrificed 1.5 million of their sons for the freedom of the homeland.
     Chaos, disorder, claims of ethnic superiority, sectarian prejudices, struggle for power, feudalism and ultimately this sort of repulsive indiscipline is not acceptable to any Afghan and ho one can afford to remain indifferent. The Afghan Cultural Association, which is a part of the Afghan society and has struggled for political, social, economic and cultural freedom of the homeland and has a sincere desire to serve the country, calls upon all the Afghans at this crucial stage to join hands and put an end to this unhappy episode.
     The Afghan Cultural Society has some specific suggestions and demands at, this historical juncture, and desires the participation of all the countrymen in this connection. It considers itself in line with those individuals, groups and parties who endorse these demands:                                            '
     It calls for the establishment of a legitimate representative government in the country, at the earliest.
     It rejects the continuation of a coalition government in league with communists and criminals.
    .It calls for strengthening a powerful and central government in Afghanistan and is opposed to all sorts of separatist tendencies, federalism, division of the country on linguistic or ethnical or sectarian basis.
     It calls for the convening of Loya Jirgah to approve the constitution and asks from the pre-election government to draft the constitution, implement the articles related to elections, press and political parties.
     It regards any interference in the existing civil and administrative set-up, prior to elections in Afghanistan, illegal and calls for census before elections. Because by this means the percentage of ethnic groups, followers of religious sects and language groups can be determined and the ground can be prepared for a fair representation of the nation.
     We consider it a,government obligation to rediscover the plundered assets, punish the plunderers and be answerable to the people.
     Protection of the common, cultural heritage of Afghanistan is the common duty of both the people and the government. The government should take serious steps to preserve historic monuments, public libraries, movable and immovable museums, national archives and all cultural assets. In future, the people will question the authorities concerned regarding these assets.
     At this delicate historical juncture, the authorities concerned should
                                             22
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                       JflillllNJtmiO                        VOL.  5  NO.  3
       devote serious attention to ensure immunity of men of letters, sciences’ and cultural experts and assign them the related duties in their own fields of expertise and invite all expatriate professional persons as well as experts and specialists in science and culture to return to the homeland for reconstructing it.
      We condemn all kinds of foreign interference in our country and call upon all the countries, far and near, to desist from interfering in the affairs of Afghanistan and, by learning a lesson from the fate of the 'Soviets, abstain from making any attempt to install or support their puppets.
      As the liberation of Afghanistan is indebted to the sacrifices of the faithful and heroic Afghan nation, therefore the people's will has absolute priority over all other considerations.
  We congratulate the faithful and heroic nation of Afghanistan over the liberation of Afghanistan and wish the people's will to prevail.
     Announcement about the dissolution of Watan Party
        EDITOR'S NOTE: The first meeting of the Leadership Council headed by Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani was held at at the Gulkhana Palace. In this meeting, attended by Hazrat Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Ayatullah Asef Mohseni, Engineer Ahmad Shah and Haji Abdul Qayyum, representing their respective parties, the dissolution of the Watan Party and the following resolutions were approved. The text is reproduced from the daily Hewad of 16 May, 1992.
      The Leadership Council unanimously approved the following decisions: Dissolution of the previous reginje' s\c.abinet.
      Annulment qf all laws and regulation#, Repugnant to the Islamic Legal Code. Dissolution of the National Assembly and.the Senate (Wolusi Jirgah). Dissolution of the State Security Ministry ,(WAD) and all its agencies.
      Setting up of Special Courts to try traitors and violators of law as well as to safeguard public security.
     Dissolution of the Watan Party,
     Declaration of 28 April as the Day of victory of the Muslim Afghan nation.
                                              23
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992                 HIM JUMP ____________________ VOL. 5 NO. 3
      Declaration of (4 May) as the Day of Arrival of the Leaders of jehad organizations and the day of commemorating the martyrs and the disabled in the Holy War.
      The Leadership Council endorses the general amnesty declared by the jehad parties and the Islamic government for violators of the Divine Rights.
      Similarly the Leadership Council has resolved that ahy foreign government desiring to help Afghanistan, should do so through the proper channels Of the Central government in Afghanistan.
HI A Declaration regarding current Afghanistan situation
         EDITOR'S NOTE: The text of Hezb-e-Islami communique, published in the 4 June, 1992 issue of the daily "Shahadat", concerning accords and commitments as well as breach of accord and non—implementation of decisions % is reproduced as under:
       Our heroic mujaheddin and Muslim nation, after long years of jehad, defeat of the aggressive Russians and disintegration of the remnants of the alien aggressors, struggled for the establishment of an Islamic government. In the meantime the j.ehadic forces in Peshawar agreed on a number of points to form an interim government. But unfortunately, till now that more than one month has passed since the above accords and agreement, none of its decisions has been implemented. This situation has disappointed our Muslim nation. The HIA has been adhering sincerely to all these agreements. But it cannot remain a silent spectator of disorder, disturbance, insecurity, civil war, disintegration of the country and breach of faith and cannot shirk its historic responsibility. Therefore, once more it deems essential to take the nation and the mujaheddin in confidence and leave the judgement to the crusading and Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
  . It was agreed that complete power would be transferred to the mujaheddin, and communists and traitors to the nation and the religion should be driven out of the1 political and administrative set-up of the country.
 2.   According to the decision of the conciliation team and as agreed upon by the HIA and the JIA, the militia should have evacuated Kabul city. Yet so far they have not only refrained from leaving Kabul, but are also trying to prolong their stay in the city.
 3.   Duties 'of the interim administration had been confined within the framework
V
 >
b
w
*
 »!•*
                                              24
of the Council for transfer of power, but contrary to commitments and' beyond the authority of the government, steps have been taken in the absence of the prime minister to form a cabinet and appoint ministers.
 4.   The ceasefire agreement has many a time been breached yet the HIA has patiently tolerated it.
 5.   Although the HIA has introduced its representatives for participation in the Interim Council, but so far no arrangement has been made in this connection.
 6.   It was decided to form a joint election commission which should announce its plan within a week, but so far the other party has not introducedPits representatives.
 7.   Ground should have been prepared for the arrival of the Prime Minister in Kabul and after his arrival, the ministers should have been alloted various portfolios.
 8-.  Inspite of the fact      that the State        Security Ministry was declared
      dissolved, the previous personnel concerned resumed their duties, as usual.
 9.   Those who had committed  crimes during the rule of the past regime and now
      taking undue advantage   of the present      disorder, have joined hands with
     ■ undisciplined and ambitious groups              in creating troubles for the
      establishment, are not   included in the     general amnesty and hence should
      expect severe punishment.
 10.  Unclean hands are acting freely to divide the country and pave the ground for feudal system and establishment of a number of independent governments in Afghanistan.
      We proposed the formation of a joint army under the Defence Ministry but others did not agree. We wanted to guarantee security, in Kabul under the Interior Ministry but the others did not agree.
      Non-observance of the above accords led to armed conflicts among members of the interim government and the number of dissidents and general difficulties has increased gradually.
       We had to take certain appropriate decisions for the sake of territorial integrity* national unity and in order to rip the evil in- the bud. Responsibility of all the future incidents and consequences will fall squarely on t^he shoulders of the interim administration and the forces involved in the resultant disorder and disturbances.
                                              25
Afghan Islamic Government Foreign Ministry Declaration
 Y
      Press Information Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Islamic government of Afghanistan, has declared that this government respects all the demands of the Amnesty International and has responded to them positively.
      The instances referred to by this organization recently, are mostly violations committed by stray armed groups contrary to the. policy of the Islamic government of Afghanistan.
      The Islamic government has declared general amnesty and adheres to its declaration. HenCe no arrest, torture or execution has been ordered by the said government on the basis of political consideration and we definitely condemn all sorts of tyranny against individuals or groups.
      The Islamic government of Afghanistan believes strongly in the "human rights" and is committed .to support and protect the same. Its efforts are all directed towards ensuring security of the people of Afghanistan because this is its prime responsibility. The Islamic government completely endorses the principles of the Amnesty International          against torture and political
 persecution and strongly condemns all kinds of torture and violation'of human rights. The reason being that the Afghans have suffered torture and tyranny at the hands of the communist regime and this has been one of the principal causes of its struggle against the communist regime.

 EDITOR'S NOTE: Here is the text of the communique issued by the Foreign Ministry of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan in response to the allegation of the Amnesty International concerning violation of the human rights in Afghanistan, as earlier published in the 1 June. 1992 issue of the daily "Hewad
“I
 S
      As regards Amnesty International's report based on the hurling of hand grenades on the houses of Hindus and Sikhs, it. must be stated that we are unaware of any such incident but in case these may have happened, we seriously condemn it because religious minorities in Afghanistan enjoy the same civil rights as the rest of the Afghan people'.      ,                  '■
                                                     26
APR IL-JUNE, 1992
1IH0
  l
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Appeal by the students and school-boys of Afghanistan to the mujaheddin leadership
 1.   Despite numerous conspiracies by the infidels and paucity of means, an Islamic government can be established by continuing the jehad, trusting in God Almighty.
 2.   In these sensitive moments when the enemies of jehad are imposing their own pawns on our nation, in order to forestall the establishment of an Islamic government, the crusading nation has only one serious demand and that is the formation of one single jehad organization.
 3.   It  is the prerogative of the jehad     parties to protect   all        the jehadic
      institutions especially the academic centers against the conspiracies of the enemies of Islam. They should form a permanent joint committee and bring to book the conspirators particularly the terrorists involved in the martyrdom of the late Professor Ahmadzai.
 4.   We  reject all such plans and designs    which are  contrary to         our jehadic
      interests and consider the only way to liberate our country, is’ to intensify military activities.
 5.   Any individual or group which seeks     help from  the West  or         the aliens,
      ceases to represent our nation and is a stranger to the ca se of jehad and will face the wrath and damnation of the people.
 6.   To talk about the division of Afghanistan is a shameful act and none has the right to think of such a conspiracy. We consider revival of Islamic Caliphate as an article of our faith.
 7.   The present pitiable conditions of      the refugees -and    the ignominous
      conspiracies of the espionage agenfcies of charitable (or evil) funds, aiming at sowing the seeds of dissent among the well-knit ranks of jehad activists at the behest of the enemies of Islam, should be seriously noticed and a positive and effective step should bfe taken in this regard.
8.    We are out of patience with the disunity and continuous differences among
                                             27
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
      the jehad leaders and think that -only through unity they can do away with all conspiracies.
  9. We are sure that a tottering regime has no hope of survival. Therefore, we sincerely demand from the jehad leadership to take necessary decisions to ensure security and complete immunity at the center of the country in order to be able to fill the power vacuum in an appropriate manner and in the shortest possible time, which is a sine qua non of the Islamic government.
      This is the message of all the Muslim and committed youth, devoted to the cause of jehad, with the sincere desire that Allah may grant you success.
 Joint Russo-Afghan Statement
         The Islamic government of Afghanistan and the Russian .Federation respect the right of self-determination of every nation and recognize its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Both the governments approve the efforts towards the expansion of mutual and beneficial relations, in the interest of friendship and cooperation between Russia and Afghanistan and express their desire to strengthen peace and stability in the region.
         The Russian Federation appreciates the peaceful transfer of power to an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Russia is prepared to cooperate with the efforts of all other members of the world community, UNO and OIC for consolidating the economic stability of Afghanistan.
         The Islamic government of Afghanistan and the Russian Federation strongly condemn the imperialist policy of the former Soviet Union arid' in view of the similarity of historical fate of both the nations, sacrificed at thei alter of totalitarian communism, resolve to make efforts to create an atmosphere of trust and confidence between the Russian and the Afghan people.
        Russia once again expresses its readiness to cooperate with joint efforts of the world community for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
        Jhe Islamic government of Afghanistan and the Russian Federation believe that under the present conditions, certain possibilities exist to turn a new leaf in the history of mutual relations.
        The Islamic government of Afghanistan and the Russian Federation express their readiness, in principle, to consider the issue of the POWs and the missing persons on the grounds of purely human compassion and will not spare any effort to arrange for the unconditional release of the POWs and the missing ones as well as for their expeditious return to their relative countries.
APRIL-JUNE. 1992 HUD           VOL. 5 NO. 3
Statement by Central Council of Harakat-e-lslami Afghanistan
Honorable and heroic Afghan nation.
         Now that with the boundless blessing of God, our Islamic Revolution has succeeded, we extend our best greetings to ' all the sections of our Muslim nation.
    Dear countrymen,
         You have witnessed that the global imperialism did not leave any stone unturned to mislead and detrack our Islamic Revolution. But our glorious victory has simply flabbergasted them. Therefore the HIA Central shoora, keeping in view the general situation in Afghanistan, particularly the city of Kabul, declares its views regarding different problems, as under:
     1,   In-fighting among jehadic forces, intermixed with non-jehadic forces, is a cause of concern. HIA with its active presence in Kabul and preserving its strict neutrality, is prepared to mediate between the rival parties so that as soon as possible, normalcy may return to the country and the nation may march ahead towards its real objectives.
                                                                        «
     2.   HIA reserves its opinion expressed during all decision making group
     ■    meetings of the Leadership Council and will make them public on a proper
          occasion.
     3.   We agree to the appointment of five members from each group in a 51 member
           shoora for administration and peaceful transfer of power.     *'
We want to have purely Islamic government in future Afghanistan and do not accept any coalition with the non-jehadic forces because we regard such a coalition contrary to the aims of our revolution and the ideals of our Muslim nation.
We demand speedy formation of 51 member shoora at Kabul so that it may bring the conditions under control on the basis of mutual consultation.
       6.   The Leadership Council has to continue its meetings and take basic
                                                    29
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                ' flfGII/lN JIHAfl               VOL.  5 NO.  3
      decisions. This shoora should be shifted to kabul in the shortest possible time so that it may supervise the implementation of the. objectives of the Islamic Revolution.
 7.   We expect all friendly governments not to interfere in our domestic-affairs and to extend their moral and material ^upport as far as possible.
 8.   Our Muslim people should, in the first instance, take care of general security and cooperate with the mujaheddin in this connection. Secondly they should always be alert so that the genuine goals of the revolution may not be impaired and the ground may be prepared for the formation of the , Islamic government, as soon as possible.
 9.   We desire an all-embracing sincerity and cooperation among all the jehadic forces at the present delicate juncture in order to forestall probable emergence of reactionary and opportunist forces, once for all.
 10.  We regard Afghanistan, which was the front line state of the Islamic world till yesterday, as a house of all the Muslims of the world today. Similarly we thank our yesterday's sincere friends who rushed sincerely to help our combatant nation.
 11.  About the decisions taken by six jehad groups on 24 April 1992 in the absence of the HIA, we reserve our opinion and will express it at an opportune moment.
           Statement by the
 Consulate - General of Iran
 EDITOR'S NOTE:    Below you will read the statement made by the
 Iranian, Consulate-General in Peshawar, Addressing the Muslim nation of Afghanistan, it recounts the glory of their Holy jehad and at the same time, offers some recommendations. The statement was first published in the 28 April, 1992 issue of the *Arman-e Mujahed* journal,
                IN THE NAME OP ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, THE MOST MERCIFUL
      The Muslim and maytyr-loving ummah of Afghanistan, mujaheddin and refugees,
      Now that another leaf of the history of your briliant jehad is to be turned over; now that the eyes of the freedom-loving peoples of the world have turned in your direction; now that for the second time during the past two decades, the glory of Islam is being witnessed by all; now that the mothers and sisters of
                                               30
     - APR IL-JUNE, 1992                  flfGllfl/l J[HAO                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
      the martyrs are preparing for the big celebrations; now that the prayers of the holders of the bunkers have bean answered and God Almighty has been kind to you, your Muslim and revolutionary brethren in Iran have some solid advice and proposals to offer for your future welbeing:
      1,   As God Almighty has mentioned in the Holy Quran, we must remember that our victories are all the result of God's mercy, otherwise we would never have been able to discharge our Islamic responsibilities. False pride, at this moment of victory, should not make us forget our Creator, thus misleading us extremes.
     -2. A Muslim can only be "superior" to another Muslim through his piety as the Qranic verse says:      "The most honored of you in the sight of God is (he who is)
     the most righteous amongs you". Surah Al-Hujarat, Verse - 13.'
           We should not be mis-guided, through ignorance, by taking a pride in our color, tribal hegemony, abundance of assets, position, language or geographical situation and be faced with the punishment of God.
     3.   The behavior of Prophet Mohammad iPBUH), during his lifetime, should form
     the basis of our daily life if we wish to become praisworthy of Allah. The Prophet (PBUH) was the humblest and most merciful living person on earth. Upon conquering Makkah -his force still being strong and powerful - he pardoned his enemies.
           Mujahed brothers and valorous lions of the Islamic World,
           The enemies of Islam are lieing in ambush awaiting the opportunity to cast their final and decisive blow. Their mercenaries, armed with the gift of sowing seeds of dissension and discord, will not hesitate to use this effective weapon any time. You, the aides of God's Apostle (Mohammad) during the present•times, Wipe out your jehadic ranks off this contamination caused by discord, and rest assured that the harmony and unity created inside your ranks will break the hearts of your enemies. This and only this is the way to final victor.
> ■ ♦
i
                                                    31
APRIL-JUNE.
1992
VOL. 5 no. 3
 Message from Prof.
 Rabbarti, Chairman of the Afghan
             Leadership Council
 EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the radio message of Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, Chairman Leadership Council and Chief of JIAt broadcast on 26 April from Radio Kabul and published in the 27 April issue of the daily "Mujahed".
 IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL, THE MOST GRACIOUSS
        Faithful country, heroic commanders, epic-inspirating mujaheddin, bereaved families of noble martyrs, dear disabled and expatriates, Salam-o-Alaikum; ■ may God bless you all.
        I congratulate all of you on the glorious victory of the Islamic Revolution. At long last, the gory jehad of the tormented Afghan nation, after pasoing through blood and fire, has reached the goal of victory and the fate of. Najib and his hirelings, the dirtiest pawns of infidelity and despotism, has been sealed once and for all.
        My dear and faithful countrymen,
        Your righteous jehad has changed the geography and history of the world. By dint of your sons' courage and faith in Allah, the communist empire has disintegrated. Now once again the sinister conspiracies of the extremist communist adventurers, who wanted to give Kabul a blood-bath and .to take back our country to the despotic, suffocating and infidel communist rule, have been^thwarted by your heroic sons. This sinister conspiracy is hatched at a time when the mujaheddin leaders, after lengthy discussions, have at last announced the formation of their Islamic government. This conspiracy crystallizes at a time when the mujaheddin Leadership Council decided to send a 50 member delegation,         *
  headed by Professor Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, to Kabul. Undoubtedly those who do not want that our tormented nation should enjoy the fruits of jehad, are            *
  hatching such despicable conspiracies, but fortunately all their schemes have         <•
  dashed to .the ground. The timely action taken by the brave soldiers of Islam under the command of the popular commander Ahmad Shah Masood frustrated this        *
  plot. Once agian I congratulate you on the victory of right over wrong and the supremacy of light over darkness.
  Dear countrymen,                    ,
        Your glorious revolution has reached its final destination, today. Res
                                                  32
    APRIL-JUNE* 1992               . IffljWJBlll                   VOL.  5 NO. 3
    assured that henceforth the trouble-makers are doomed for ever, God willing.
                                                       I
          Dear countrymen.
          Our nation is a single and well-knit one. All classes of our society and all our people have bravely taken part in the Islamic revolution of our country.' We will never allow any unholy hand to sow the seeds of color, race, tribe and clan among our nation. We will never be separated from each other. Islam gaurantees our unity and unanimity.
     Dear Countrymen,
          Although you have suffered all sorts of travails in the revolutionary process, yet the Islamic countries, Muslim peoples and freedom loving nations did not leave us alone during our troubled days. Now that we are at the thresholdof a new Islamic national and historical life, we sincerely express our thanks and appreciation to all friendly countries particularly, to our neighboring countries, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Iran, Saudi Arabia and others.
         Afghanistan is an Islamic country and an Islamic government formed by the Leadership Council will be shortly established in Afghanistan. This great phenomenon in the world history and in the history of our nation, will be a very big turning point. An Islamic Afghar.•*«tan will be the epicenter of peace and tranquility in the world.
         We assure all neighboring countries and other nations that the Islamic revolution will emerge as a nucleus of peace and tranquility in the region and the world.
        The Afghan nation expresses its appreciation and thanks to all international bodies, OIC, UNO and other humanitarian organizations who helped us during our jehad and migration.,
        We call upon them all to cooperate with our oppressed but heroic nation in their task of reconstruction. We are sure that our friends will extend their cooperation and assistance for reconstruction in the same way as they did during the jehad and the revolution. However, we reiterate the point that after the return of normalcy in our country, we declare general amnesty to all those who had gone astray in the past. We assure that under the mujaheddin government, the life and property and honor of all the people will be safe. I call upon all mujahed brothers and commanders to seriously restore law and order everywhere.
        In the end, once again I appreciate the role of all the armed forces and the citizens of Kabul for their cooperation to their mujahed brothers and am positively sure that henceforth, the conspirators cannot do anything. I expect that the army, the security forces and all the government functionaries would cooperate with their mujahed brothers to frustrate all sinister designs of the enemies.
                                             33
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992            mmiim VOL. 5 NO. 3
      Resolution passed at the end of the CCAR Education Seminar
Dear Jehad Leaders,
       Assalam-o-Alaikum;
       A number of your brothers taking part in the seminar unanimously issued at its conclusion the undermentioned resolution, addressed to you, regarding the pitiable conditions in the country.
       We demand, in the spirit of brotherhood, from all you brothers and leaders of jehad organizations, to pay attention to your great Islamic and historic responsibilities of today and tomorrow and see that indecision and mutual differences, which are contrary to the noble Islamic values, may not hamper the establishment and stability of the Islamic government under which Afghanistan has to develop and progress. Please do not disappoint the refugees, the disabled, the religious scholars, the intellectuals and all the people of Afghanistan arid do not cause agony to the souls of the martyrs, and follow the Quranic teachings of unity and brotherhood.
    Declaration of the ethnic leader of Nangarhar, Laghman and Kunar
                 provinces
      On 16 May 1992 religious scholars, elders, intellectuals and mujaheddin of the three eastern provinces of Afghanistan held a large meeting which inaugurated with recitation of some verses from the Holy Quran. A large number of ulama delivered speeches and drew the attention of the participants to their
  serious duties in regard with the present delicate conditions. At the end of the meeting, they passed the following resolution:



                                               34
APRIL-JUNE. 1992             AFGHANJtHAO               VOL. 5 NO.  3
     1.  We condemn foreign interference in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan as well as all sorts of conspiracies against our national unity and territorial integrity and are going to counter it, by continuance of our jehad.
     2.  The Afghan nation waged a holy war for 14 years with unparalleled bravery and by now recognizes its friends and foes very well. Hence it is not inclined to share power with the Gelam Jam Militia and does not permit anyone to concede any share to them in the Islamic government. We strongly reject a coalition government with this infidel militia and cannot give them any share in the Islamic government.
     3.  The jehadic forces which have been united throughout the history, will, never be disunited. But if anyone tries to drive a wedge between them, we would strongly counter it, and treat such people as the enemies of the-Islamic Revolution.
          We suggest that the future political system in Afghanistan, representing the will of the Afghan people should be based on free elections,. As this is a 99% Muslim nation, it will not agree to anything else but a purely Islamic government.
  Decisions held at the joint council of seven Mujaheddin organizations in Kandahar

 EDITOR'S NOTE: This resolutionf approved by the Ulama, mujaheddin and office-bearers of the jehadic parties. has been published in the 16 Junet 1992 issue of the daily 'Shahadat*.
I
    1,   First of all we congratulate Hazrat Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of all jehadic parties and the crusading nation on the liberation of the beloved homeland.
    2.   We demand from the Afghan Islamic government to administer the country on the Islamic lines, because the main goal of our 14 years of jehad has been the introduction of a pure Islamic system in the country.
    3.   All the civil and military departments should be headed by pious and religious minded mujaheddin. There is no room for the infidel communists in our administration.
    4.   All the personnel of the Interior and Defesce Ministries should be composed of pious mujaheddin.
    5.   Religious scholars and mujaheddin should be employed in the education departments in the capital as well as in the provinces.
35
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
    6.   As regards present arrangements, the mujaheddin and Muslim people of the South-Western region insist that they should be given proportionate quota in employment in the ministries and other important posts.
                                                                        I
    7.   Female education should be on Islamic principles.
    8.   Radio and Television programs be changed and instead of music and other unbecoming programs, jehadic and Islamic programs be broadcast.
    9.   Mujaheddin should jointly control the security arrangements in Kabul and other provinces.
    10.  We call upon all the respected leaders to put a stop to mutual differences and devote their energies to forge unity among their ranks, which would be in the larger interest of the nation who have already suffered horribly.
  Verdict of distinguished Saudi Arabian ulama regarding the situation in Afghanistan
           EDITOR'S NOTE: The Fatwa (Verdict) issued by prominent religious scholars of Saudi Arabia in regard with the current situation in Afghanistan. The text of the Fatwa is reproduced from the 24 May 1992, issue of the daily *Shahadat
        Mujahed Nation of Afghanistan,
        We the sons of Saudi Arabia and the Arab Peninsula are very happy over your final victory against the communists. We congratulate you on this victory and pray to God Almighty that this success may become the harbinger of an Islamic government based on the.precepts of the Holy Quran. ,
        Afghan mujaheddin.
        While congratulating you on this victory, we would like to draw your attention to the danger of subversion by the internal or external hypocritical elements, because we smell a dangerous conspiracy and are certain that internal and external impostors have a hand in a sinister conspiracy. If you allow these conspiracies to succeed, you will have no excuse and neither the Muslims will consider your behavior excusable, because for 13 years they have been waiting for .the result of your jehad.
        0,       the real leaders of jehad, Younus Khal'es, Burhanuddin Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, we feel that the hireling militia and the heretic Shias,
                                                36
   APR1L-JUNE, 1992                   MCPIJUMfl                       VOL.  5 NO. 3
   receiving foreign aid, have hatched a dangerous conspiracy to frustrate the cherished desire of the world Muslims by undoing the Afghan jehad,
        0, Leaders of the jehad,
        During the course of jehad you often spoke about some of the misled elements and described them very dangerous to jehad. They are the agents of the West in Afghanistan. So how are you allowing them today to enter Kabul as representatives of the victors. How do you permit the Dostum militia to have a share in the destiny of Afghanistan - this same militia which sucked the mujaheddin blood to the last drop, we are afraid that some mujaheddin may be behaving in this manner out of goodwill. On the other hand your internal rivalries do not allow you to have a coalition with the aforesaid militia.
        Please do not assign any role to the heretic Shias and be aware that they cannot tolerate a Sunni government in Afghanistan. Once again we draw your attention to these dangers and to the fact that if you join hands with the enemies in a conspiracy against the HIA, there would be no justification for it in the light of the Islamic Code.
        There is no harm in your having a difference of opinion with them. But it is not permissible to join hands with the enemies. Your enemies would be happy over the weakening of the HIA because the true mujaheddin will have lesser influence in the government. The attitude of the west towards those mujaheddin whom they call the "fundamentalist” reminds one of this Arabic proverb, that:-
        "I will be eaten, the day my white cow is eaten". If this party remains powerful, it means that, no one can cast a shadow on the fruit of jehad and its consequence.
        0, Mujahed Leaders,
        Is it not surprising that this government was recognized internationally at the earliest opportunity? Is it not surprising that countries like India and Russia, which had very close relations with the Najib regime and the preceeding governments, have extended official recognition to this government? Have you not noticed that the aim of international and local efforts is to weaken the role of the HIA and to help those, described as •'moderates', play a bigger role? Do you want to be a pawn in their hands to play the game as they wish and thus do such a job for the enemies which they have not been able to do for the last 13 years?
        We request you, on behalf of- millions of Muslims, not to give way to the impostors, be they heretics or puppets. If you stand by the HIA, and Mr. Hekmatyar to adopt a soft attitude towards his brothers so that your enemieo, the infidels and impostors of the world, may not take undue advantage of this opportunity.
                                                37
APRIL-JUNE, 1992             IfGUIlfMO                 VOL. 5 NO- 3
 Decree No. (01) issued by the Defense
   Ministry of Afghanistan
      ♦V
          EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is an order of the Defense Ministry* Islamic government of Afghanistan* pertaining to rules and v! regulations governing the non-commissioned officers and soldiers* •l\ published in the 24 May* 1992 issue of the daily mAnis".
       As regards release of leave grant to the non-commissioned personnel and soldiers of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, who have completed the military service during summer season of 1992, according to the instruction of jehad council and in view of the restoration of peaceful conditions in Afghanistan and to ensure social justice, it is ordered that:
  A) Those non-commissioned, personnel and soldiers who have completed the fixed period of military service, according to Article 12 of Military Rules, on 22 June 1992, will be released two months after the above date.
  1.   Release of those soldiers and non-commissioned contingents from service who have fulfilled their obligation, according to article 12 of Military Rules, should take effect instantly.
  2.   Those soldiers and non-commissioned personnel who have performed less than one year's service, during emergency, should certify the same through their relative units and should get release from service.
  3.   Release of those non-commissioned personnel and soldiers from service whose period of service has been completed, as per article 12 of Military Rules, should be implemented.
  4.   Release of soldiers and non-commissioned units of the army from service,
       should be registered in their personal files and vetted and stamped-by the
       relevant commissariats.
  5,. Henceforth red cards will not be issued for release from service and red
       cards stand cancelled,
  B) All commanders and controllers should send personal records and biodata of the soldiers and officers for necessary record and registration to the relevant commissariats.
                                                         (Sd/-)
                                                   Commander-in-Chief Ahmad Shah Masood i                 Defense Minister,   Islamic  Government of
                                                       Afghanistan
                                                38
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
         AFGHAN
     RECONSTRUCTION,
     REHABILITATION
      REPORT ON CCAR SIXTH SEMINAR, "BASIC RULES OF AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT          56
 GUIDELINES FOR AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECTS
 AFGHANISTAN'S IMMEDIATE RECONSTRUCTION PROBLEMS                               110
 AFGHAN PROVINCES: BAMIAN AND WARDAK 140
 REPORT ON CCAR 7TH SEMINAR, "COMPENSATING EDUCATIONAL LOSSES IN FUTURE 154
39
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 SUMMARY 0F(NAC) SEMINAR
             REPORT
• •««•«•••••••• • • • • • • » • * »•.
                                                                                                                  • • V.
                                                                                                                  v«
 EDITOR'S NOTE:  Following  is   the summary  of  a report on  the
 Seminar "From Aid During Times of war to aid for Reconstruction and Development* held in Islamabad 5—7 December $    1991  by  the
 Norwegian Afghanistan Committee• The report< edited by Elisabeth Eide and Terje Skaufjord, was first published in a booklet by the organizers of the seminar (NAC) in February• 1992.
                                 INTRODUCTION
     The seminar was arranged by the Norwegian Afghanistan Committee. Sixty per cent of the participants were Afghans, the rest being expatriates working with assistance and scholars from abroad. Women, both Afghan and foreign made up one quarter of the participants. The number of Afghan women participants was small, but they played a significant role at the seminar and had a wide range of suggestions for the improvement of their situation. It is hoped that some of the proposals, that are not applicable today because of the current situation in Afghanistan, will prove constructive when there is peace in the country.
                            WELCOMING ADDRESSES
     Dr. Najibullah Mujaddedi Minister for Health in the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) in his address of welcome told the seminar, "the health plan prepared by AIG had been accepted by WHO. It is not a plan to build big hospitals in big cities, but it covers 80% of the people".
      The Director of the Norwegian Afghanistan Committee, Mr. Kristian Berg, in his address said the purpose of the seminar is to point out some directions for reconstruction and development of Afghanistan.
      The Norwegian Charge. d"’Affaires, Mr. Sjur Torgessen, in his address said the international community realizes the magnitude of resources and hardwork needed to bring Afghanistan back to its prewar situation. He said, NGOs should be given basic freedom to operate reconstruction work. The Norwegian government has spent more than $100 million on humanitarian assistance to the Afghans.
      Mr. Martin Barber, Chief of Mission UNOCA pointed to the need to develop a strategy for rehabilitation and reconstruction of Afghanistan with the help of UNDP and the support of the NGOs, He was particularly delighted to register the increased growth in number and quality of the NGOs.
                                             40
        APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 MM*11(11111                   VOL. 5 NO. 3
                                           PART ONE
        CHANGES DURING 13 YEAR OF WAR, POSSIBILITIES AND CONSTRAINTS FOR RECONSTRUCTION
             The subject was introduced by Dr. Ijaz Shafi Gailani, Chairman of Committee for Research and Analysis, Prime Minister's Secretariat, Islamabad. He said the past twelve or thirteen years have been a period of great change within Afghanistan, throughout the region and the change which is emerging on the international scene. To some of these changes the Afghan crisis itself has contributed in one way or another. For Afghanistan these changes have been much more dramatic and  immediate in four areas. First of all Afghanistan today does
        not            exist as one country. Its population exists both inside and outside the
        country. It is divided amongst many political orders and perhaps divided even by geographical approach to each other.
             The second change is in the social structure. It has been transformed at a pace far more rapid than a natural evolution would have permitted it to be.
             Thirdly the   political system,    the balance between various political
        forces. The control and authority of various social forces of the state has also been transformed very dramatically.
             And fourthly the international system in which Afghanistan existed in 1978 has also collapsed. Inspite  of a I’  these changes there is the hope and the
        determination to somehow create what was changed once again and afresh.
             First of all we must ask the question whether efforts for reconstruction mean political control by an Afghan authority or will it mean political penetration of Afghanistan by a best of other authorities. The recreation of an Afghan state would require political consensus among the Afghan nation. In the absence of that political consensus foreign influence may continue to play the same role as it did during the war. If internal assistance does not help in the re-establishment of an Afghan state, such assistance would be neither productive nor functional. There is worldwide switching over to NGOs from that of state controlled foreign assistance. But if NGOs were to follow the same rules and the same policies, which state institutions in the past had to, it would not be conceptual departure but enlarging the roles of the donor states. The role of foreign support during the years of jehad has been both helpful and in many ways not unpleasent. This was because the foreign assistance was not able to bend the Afghans from whatever they wanted to achieve for their own ends. This attitude of foreign countries may not continue in future. Under the changed circumstances of the last decade any attempt to restore order by means of authoritarian structures will never bring a united and independent Afghanistan. It will only ensure deeper penetration by foreign forces.
            On , the regional and international structure Afghanistan is no longer a buffer state. Its international role will be dramatically different from what it has been in the past. Afghans have very tenacious personality. They have tremendous self confidence which remains key asset for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. If they can retain the tenacity which enabled them to win a war their reconstruction will not be a major issue.
                                                        41
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 111 MO_______________________  VOL.  5 NO. 3
                                    ETHNICAL AND TRIBAL RELATIONS
          The subject of 'Ethnical and Tribal Relations After 13 years of war' was introduced by Professor Rasool Amin, Director of Writers Union for a Free Afghanistan (WUFA). He said, "the traditional Afghan communities in rural areas were generally isolated, inward looking, self sufficient and relatively self-governing. The social units were tribes down to the household, ethnic groups and sectarian sects. Whenever the central authority forced the incorporation of the people of rural areas into the central government's sphere of influence, it faced strong opposition from various communities. The state organs in the rural areas were run by administrators with full cooperation from the tribal leaders, called the elders. Four major behavioral characteristics mark Afghan social structure and psychology.
     1.   Islam has been the major unifying factor. It transcends tribal, ethnic ■linguistic social, cultural and economic divisions.
     2.   The egalitarian Afghans give full respect to elders, leaders and rulers, but despise and resist dictatorship in any form.
     3.   Internal Xenophobia keeps every individual, family; household and ethnic group on constant guard against the tresspassers. Whenever threatened, all internal feuds are put aside and all are united against common enemy.
     4.   Afghans have never accepted foreign interference in their internal affairs and do not submit to intruders or alien domination. During the communist rule in Afghanistan the government, KHAD, KGB and some internal sectarian parties made their best effort to create rifts but all tribes and ethnic groups stood firm against the common enemy.
          As a result of massive refugee influx inside and outside the inward-looking communities have become outgoing. A major consequence of the war has been the increased economic dependency of tribes and ethnic groups inside and outside Afghanistan upon foreign governments and agencies. The Afghan communities will not be able to manage without foreign aid for a long time.
          The people of Afghanistan have bitter experience of PDPA, the dogmatic communist party. The present political parties have recruited on the basis of pre-existing regional, linguistic, tribal, ethnic, cultural and religious ties. This has fragmented tribes and ethnic groups into different factions. For the future set-up some favor a unitary form of government, some insist on loose federation while others call for a balanced relationship between the center and the province. In Afghanistan different tribes, ethnic groups and sects live mingled throughout the country.' A diversion of power on an ethnic or cultural basis is not possible. Tribes and ethnic groups of Afghanistan share culture, language and ethnic identity with those who live across the national borders.
         No future government will be able to bring peace, stability and prosperity' to Afghanistan without having cordial relations with Pakistan, Iran, Central Asian republics, the Muslim countries in the region and the worljJ at large. A peaceful Afghanistan, being a cross-road, will help establish stability in the region.
                                                  42
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992                IMHJtHflfl                     VOL.  5 NO. 3
                                             DISCUSSION
           A number of questions were raised in the discussion that followed. The first one was about people's local identity and national identity. These two could be contrary to each other. No. one in the group opposed elections but there was difference of opinion about the role of traditional bodies like Jirgah and Shoora. Some participants called for giving more authority to the people in their local affairs. About Islamization .it was felt that two approaches are possible. One can create a state based on Islamic ideology or one can support a pluralic society in an Islamic framework. It was also emphasized that the government should take into consideration the gap between the rich and poor provinces and give the latter a larger share.
                   ,A POLITICIZED AND DESTRUCTURED SOCIETY IN AFGHANISTAN
           This was the subject of an introduction by Dr. Amin Saikal, visiting professor at Princeton University, New Jersey read out at the seminar. Following ■is the summary of his introduction.
                  , - ' ■ ' / / ' *
           Afghanistan today is highly politicized, fragmented and unstructured country. The damage done to the country is most likely to take decades of time and the skills of several generations to redress. In t;he meantime changes in regional and world politics may not favor the Afghan process of reconstruction. This makes incOmbent on the entire strata of the Afghan people to' handle the present transition prudently. International community and Afghanistan's neighbors in particular have an obligation to ease the process of transition to a new political order in Afghanistan.
          Two factors have been most instrumental in shaping Afghanistan's course of political development. One is the heterogenious nature of the country with many strong micro-socities and the other is dominance of Islam which has served as the central binding force. The interaction between these factors has historically impeded the growth of a strong state. By the same token it has largely limited the ability of the central government to bring the behavior of individuals within the state's sphere of control. As a result, state interventions were confined mainly to major urban centers and even there largely to the intelligentia. When communists came into power, they sought to politicize the Afghan population by terrorising them into submission to an alien ideological rule. This jolted the rural dwellers out of their micro-societies and in defense of their local as well as wider national Islamic values.
          The resulting crisis has brought about several developments. It has changed the boundries and composition of micro-societies. The crisis has given rise to a different set of references for defining powers in micro-societies. It has given salience to the culture of war for generations of Afghanistan.
          The most central question to be asked iss Should the reconstruction of Afghanistan aim at pursuing the past goal of creating a sovereign state with strong central authority, or should it aim at achieving an alternative course of development? With the establishment of a legitimate regime in Kabul three major
                                                                             43
VOL. 5 NO. 3
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992             flfGilflN JtHflfl
      objectives are to be realized. To carry out efficiently post-war reconstruction, "to play a mediating and healing role in working out differences and'tensions between various groups, and to handle Afghanistan’s foreign relations in conformity with the Islamic character apd national needs of the country.
           The post-communist state cannot be strong, but even a weak state with decentralized structures can play constructive role in Afghanistan. Under the' prevailing circumstances the prospects of ' a constitutional democratic regime emerging in the short run are not bright. In a severely divided society such as Afghanistan, majority democracy is unlikely to provide the basis for a Stable , political order. The alternative may be a democracy which can find roots in Islam and in the traditions of Afghanistan. This model has four major elements. Government by a grand coalition of the political leaders of all significant segments of plural society, mutual veto as additional protection of vital minority interests, proportional representation, and a high degree of autonomy for each regment. The Loya Jirgah has served as a device of concensus building and regime-legitimation, while the Afghans have some familiarity with proportional representation in the employment of Dari speakers and Pashtu speakers in the pre-1978 governments.
           The bottom line question ought to be not so much whether the Afghans can achieve national unity, but rather how to help them to rebuild their lives and society with a recognition of their intra-communal differences.
                                            DISCUSSION
                *
           The following points emerged during the discussion:
           A future with a strong society and a week central Government could lead to anarchy. The local communities will continue to be the basis for the rehabilitation of Afghanistan. Increased cooperation among NGOs would help implementing democratic institutions. The politicization of the society would help increase participation of Afghans in decision-making and building up democratic institutions. The twelve years of war have changed strained relations and sharp divisions between the city and the countryside. Local demand for education has grown all over the country, but lack of funding was the main constraint.
                    SOCIO-TECHNOLOG I CAL APPROACHES TO FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
           This subject was introduced by Architect Sayyed N. Sibtain of Integrated Development Group, Afghanistan. He said that millions of dollars, rials, pounds, marks and kroners have been poured into Afghanistan as humanitarian aid with very little result. The, vast majority of population in the countryside has remained without basic food and primary amenities. This is not a new phenomenon. The rural sector has always been relegated to secondary position and the war has increased the polarization of town and country.
          The strategy for future development must stand on the basis of Holy War for ■ Reconstruction. ■This requires total mobilization of communities, both rural and I urban and depolarization of the urban professional elite and the rural poor.
          Many stop-gap solutions have been attempted in Afghanistan without
44
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  mm                              VOL.  5 NO. 3
      producing long-term relief for the target groups. For Afghanistan today 'the solution must lie in self-reliance through self-help. The Afghans must calrve their own path to development. Mistakes will surely be made, but it is hoped that lessons will be learnt. And this 'path to development must be without political, cultural and language bias.
                                        DISCUSSION
           During the general discussion there was complaint that educated Afghans are in Pakistan on fat salaries. They must come to their own country to serve their people. Another complaint was that Afghan NGOs do not want community participation because ,they find village people uneducated'and ignorant. It must be stressed that one has to listen to the village people. The villagers are aware of their problems but they do not have the solution. We have to use traditional available technology and improve it to modern standards. Support should not be given as individual benefits; it should benefit the community. i The education system needs a structural change where rural needs and realities are included in the curriculums. Contrary to Pakistan, there is total lack of coordination between NGOs in Afghanistan.
           The subject of 'Change in Economy and Trade Patternswas introduced by Mr. Fateh Niaz, working for cooperative control for construction. He said that a new government will have to rely on external inputs for some years. It must focus-attention on building of roads, improved seed for agriculture, monetary reforms and at a later stage export of agricultural production. It will take years to reach the pre-war production level. Transit trade through Pakistan, the Central Asian republics, and to some extent Iran, will be important in future; also trade routes further west through Turkey to Europe. Traditional trade routes to the Indian sub-continent should be developed.
           During the discussion the group did not agree whether short term or long term objectives should be the topic of discussion. The exports could not be discussed at present when agriculture was in shambles. Roads should be constructed not only for exports but also for transportation linked to rebuilding. Most educated people are abroad. We need to educate people inside Afghanistan. Other conclusions were as follows:
           Main concentration should be on internal trade and thereafter the external trade. The basis should be the family and village economy. A central office is needed for guiding and harmonizing the development.
                          The Role of Islam was the subject’ introduced by Dr. Raja Ehsan Aziz, Professor of International Relations at the Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad.
      He observed that in Afghanistan mushrooming of left and Marxist sponsored groups and the Islamic groups happened almost simultaneously.'The emergence of Islamic youth in Kabul University provided the hard core of the Islamic resistance. The nature of Islam in war in response to the Soviet invasion is qualitatively different from what had been the traditional Islamic response to British intruders into Afghanistan or Amanullah's secular reforms. The linkages established between Afghans and Muslim governments and npn-governmental groups across the Muslim world and also the Afghan's linkages with the non-Muslim world supportive of the Afghan struggle, clearly constitute a departure from any
                                                         45
       APRIL-JUNEr 1992                 1111                           VOL. 5  NO.     3
       earlier Islamic experience in Afghanistan. During the thirteen years of war the Afghans have come significantly closer to the Muslim world. Muslims around the world have taken interest in the Afghan struggle as Jehad. Islam in the future will be a far more important and unifying force'for the ethnic diversity of Afghanistan and in trying to establish its national identity. Future Afghanistan will become a very dynamic state in the Muslim world, playing a leading role inspite of its relatively small population or economic problems. At a time when Islam   or so-called Islamic fundamentalism had been controversial
       in the Western media,   Afghanistan was a place where the western world was work-
       ing with the Muslim in what the Afghans percieved as. Jehad. On the side of constraints there is possibility of tension between those who want a change of order in Afghanistan and those who. are interested in restoring the old order. Some of the. international linkages are also tension-ridden. The Iranian influence   in Hazarajat is the best example. However, the agenda for
       opportunities definitely overwhelms the aspect of constraints.
           Some of the points which emerged after discussion are:
           There must be an understanding of what Islam means in Afghanistan for the Afghan people, but it has to be the result of a debate. All NGOs and donors ar'e not neutral. Some of them have un-Islamic motives. Afghanistan can never adopt Pakistan's political system. Islam is against fundamentalism and extremism. NGOs should have more   respect for Islamic teaching. Many  foreign organizations
       have learnt about Islam.. This has reduced their fear of    Islam which one finds
       in the west. Refugees have seen the better living standard of people in Iran, and they have also been exposed to the modern side of Pakistani society. This has influenced them and also their Islamic values.
                THE EFFECTS OF WAR ON WOMEN AND THEIR ROLE,IN THE AFGHAN JEHAD
            The subject was introduced by Mrs. Amina Afzali, incharge of Muslim sisters' organisation of Afghanistan in the Western areas. She observed that the war in Afghanistan had positive as well as negative effects on Afghan women. Negative  effects  include large scale martyrdom of women and children during
       bombing raids on residential areas. Thousands of children becoming fatherless and women left only with children and no means of earning for their living, and deprivation from access to medical, educational and cultural facilities.
            The  positive impacts are promotion of political and military training    to
      women, revival of   Islamic practices like Islamic Hejab, active participation  of
      educated women in promotion of education, increased opportunities for an active role in Jehad and revival of production and handicraft1.
            Dr. Najibullah Mujaddedi took part in the discussion. He said that it will take some time befor^ women can take central positions in the government. He said, men and women working together in the same premises is ho problem as long as they    are not  alone.  Other points emerging from the discussion are       as
      follows:
            Educated women have left the country and may not be willing to return. Refugee children do not want to be Afghans. Because of this many families will
       not return to Afghanistan. Land inheritance to widows is a central issue. Many families depend on the income of women. This is a product of war and has given women more respect. If literacy compaign is related to the Holy Quran it is more easily approved and accepted. It should also be related to health, hygiene, nutrition and handicaraft. Adult literacy is only effective if it is followed up. ,
                                         PLENARY SESSION,
        CHANGES DURING 12 YEARS OF WAR, POSSIBILITIES AND1 CONSTRAINTS FOR. RECONSTRUCTION!
           The debate which followed the sum-up from the six groups was short and only a few people took part. Here is a synopsis of the debate:
           Development has to start, from rural areas. Emergency programs must be turned into development programs and must let the communities participate as much as possible. Rural society must be included in educational programs. Experts must be able to work with uneducated farmers.
           Muslims often assume too much unanimity, unity is an ideal but has never occurred. Disagreement is a grace of God. It is important to be tolerant and not discredit others of being heretical or un-Islamic. Refugees cannot go back before the ulama agree that the Islamic obligations have been fulfilled. Islam can also help solve drug problem.
           The situation for Afghan women is at the moment very hard. But women have contributed a lot to the Jehad. Education of women should be stressed in future.
                                               PART TWO
                   FUTURE AID AND INDEPENDENCE: WIAT AID ON WHOSE TERMS?
           The subject was introduced by Mr. Hedayat Amin Arsala, Minister of Finance in the Afghan Interim Government (AIG). He observed that substantial changes that have taken place in the world would not have been possible without foreign aid. The Afghan experience with aid has been mixed. We have our share of white elephants like the Kandahar airport and the Helmand valley irrigation scheme. Many of those who fear aid in Afghanistan point to Soviet aid as the basic cause of the Afghan catastrophe. They say the Soviets used, their aid as t;heir Trojan horse for the ultimate take-over of Afghanistan. People's experiences with aid during the war have, also strengthened some of these fears. They feel that the way much of the aid has been administered has 'encouraiged political fragmentation and centrifugal tendencies.  But aid has made substantial contribution to the
      development of Afghanistan.  During the   war also aid has made substantial
      contributions. Because of    experience  with Soviet aid many Afghans have
      developed the feelings that we should accept aid only from Islamic countries. We can safely accept aid if the projects being financed through it can successfully be implemented. We should accept terms and conditions which aim at enhancing the effectiveness of aid-financed   projects. We should ensure that aid is
      politically neutral. Aid should be channelized through a central authority. We should consider aid as temporary arrangement. Above all we should ensure that
  47
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                      VOL. 5 NO. 3 rwBnBni
aid supports an overall strategy for reconstruction and development. We should not attempt return to the status quo of pre 1978 but should explore ways and means of moving on to a faster development track. The concerns raised about aid are well justified but positive contribution of aid far outweighs its negative aspects. Without aid we will not be able to do much about our people.
      ; Dr. Philippe Truze, Director of Afghan vaccination and Immunization center spoke on the same subject. He said reconstruction and development will require three pre-conditions:  freedom of travel and transportation, full participation
 of the society and technical expertise. . .Emergency programs can be run without these pre-conditions, but you cannot reconstruct or develop without them. Even when in dire needs the Afghans refuse to let the war be used as a pretext for being given low quality products or technical assistance. A quality-based assistance could produce amazing consequences. One of the exceptional resources of Aeghanistan which could become a decisive factor toward prosperity and independence is water. One big infra-structural project which has been discussed by Afghans for nearly a century is the railway. It could not be implemented in the past for strategic reasons which are no more valid. Women are instrumental in education and health. Full implementation of the spirit of Islam vis-'a-vis women could be an efficient step in utilizing women as vehicle of development.
                      THE CONCEPT OF AID IN AFGHAN CONTEXT AND THE ROLE OF NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL BODIES
      The subject was introduced by Engineer Abdul Rahim. He observed that the future political set-up in Afghanistan is likely to be a coalition government and would be under political pressure from all sides. The Afghans instead of. encouraging individual    countries   would prefer   to have    assistance from
 representative international organisations like UN, EEC,,OIC, World Bank and the Asian Bank. We need   the kind  of projects that can help  the wheel of the;
 economy to gain speed. It must be the task of the central government to make sure the assistance is    correctly  implemented. It would be   good if various
 individuals and groups could channel their energies and resources towards construction and development. Appropriate exploitation of mineral wealth could help us become self reliant.
      Participants in the debate observed that with their bitter experience of the past the Afghans would - be reluctant to have too many strings attached to foreign aid. Examples from Pakistan (mainly Jamaat-e-Islami) were used by participants both to show the usefulness and the dangers of political parties receiving foreign money. The . majority were of the opinion that political parties should not play any significant role in attracting the or implementation of foreign assistance. Some in the group were of the opinion that self-reliance was easier to maintain when one balances between various donors and is- not dependent on one or two sources.
      From Emergency to Reconstruction: How and when to change the Track?
 Introducing the subject Mr. Ghulam Jailani Popal, Director of Afghan Development Association said, the immediate relief operations for refugees and spending of billions of dollars for military, political and humanitarian
 lA
 \
4
1»
 4»
48
01675516
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992               JfCIllJH                      VOL.  5 NO. 3
  purposes has resulted in the emergence of a new power structure. Loss of dignity and pride due to distribution of rations to refugees, people's passimism about , the future and large-scale death or immigration of educated Afghans to.other countries, charity or emergency approach always lead the community to dependence. For a program to have a development aspect the community must participate. Development,, reconstruction and emergency aids have to go hand in hand. NGOs work on the village level without coordination because of the lack of a central government. Many NGOs just want to build up something without having expertise or authority.
       The discussion dwelt much' on a general frustration over the lack of coordination both fron NGOs and from the Afghans themselves.
                         SECURING A'MINIMUM QUALITY IIIRECONSTRUCTION:
                                   PROGRAMS NOW AND IN FUTURE
       The subject was introduced by Mr. Jan Egil Mosand, Coordinator with the Agricultural Department of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan. He suggested that after fixing the. basic goal we should, hammer out a working plan capable of being the tool for the coming projects. He should not spread all over but to go more deeply ipto a .few geographical areas. We must plan our activities in areas where some basic structures exist or can be identified. He can succeed only when local interest and capacity are raised and used.
       During the discussion it wa<- pointed out that in the third world countries people are producing inessentials. They are neglecting the basics like food, and then they are obliged to import this with hard currency and thus fall into, debt traps. The worst of technologies, including most polluting technolqgy, is exported to the third world.
       Afghanistan does not deserve to become a laboratory for experiments by. development organisations. NGOs have not been able to employ educated Afghans. There are many examples as to international expertise failing to give the fight kind, of assistance. Still this should not be totally discouraged. The NGOs are a complex mixture of interests, some of them with clearcut political goals.
                 AFGHANISTAN'S NATURAL RESOURCES - A KEY TO INDEPENDENCE
      Introducing the subject Engineer Nasir A. Bakhshi, .'Director Bo Ali Seena Science Center said the Soviets have‘been exploiting natural gas of Afghanistan until they gained full control of our country. Beside natural gas oil is one of the main resources, other resources include coal, copper, iron and precious Stones. ■
      During the discussion the group agreed that while exploiting natural -resources taking care of the environment was a matter of major importance..Gas should be used as fuel to save forests. Kunar has potential for hydro-electric power. High value crops can be grown in the climate of Afghanistan and it needs small rather, than large scale projects. Training of Afghans should aim at serving small scale societies.
       URBAN OR RURAL DEVELOPMENT. AGRICULTURE AND/ OR INDUSTRY?
      The subject was introduced by Dr. Abdullah Ali, Consultant Swedish Committee for Afghanistan. He said restoration of roads and villages should be'
                                                       49
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                     KHIJII                    VOL. 5 NO. 3
 given top priority to ensure resettlement of refugees, otherwise huge population will concentrate in cities and create environmental problems. Our population should take part in economic development of rural areas. For this purpose small committees should be set up by people of every locality, people must release themselves from dependency and must participate in the .decisions that effect them. Under the present circumstances development of agriculture should get first priority. At the same time mineral resources should be explored and produce sold to improve national economy. For revival of stagnant economy a master plan should be prepared.
      During the discussion it was pointed out that you have to make life in Afghanistan better than in the camps in Iran and Pakistan before people will return. The professional elites should start to living according to salaries and living conditions in Afghanistan. But they should be given a decent living.
      There must be industries to take care of electrification and better roofing techniques. Goods must be available at local markets. We should not import foreign technology but should develop local ones instead. Training and education in the basic skills of how to sustain and improve the living has to start now. Income generating activities for widows, orphans and disabled people should be arranged.
                                IS THERE A FUNDAMENT FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS IN AFGHANISTAN? '
      The subject was introduced by Kari Vogt, Assistant Professor at the University of Oslo. He admitted that it is very difficult for an outsider to talk about women's rights in Islam. But there is no doubt that Islam promotes education for women. We must prepare ourselves for the arguments needed to put forward in defence of Women's rights.
      The points that emerged during discussion were: There are conflicts between Islam and Cultural Traditions. In practical life men use. Islamic regulations when they suit them and cultural regulations when they are suitable. This is.not right, women's rights are stated in many places in Islam. There should be promotion of research regarding these issues. If you wait till all women are educated it will be too late. This mistake *has been done all over the world.I The teaching of Islam in the schools must be improved. It is not good enough. Women must be accepted as professionals in all fields - not only as teachers. All development projects have an impact on women. They must be given a chance to impress their views.
                              PLENARY SESSION FUTURE AID AND INDEPENDENCE: WHAT AID AND ON WHOSE TERMS?
     Plenary debate followed introductions by Mr. Hidayat Amin Arsala and Dr. Philippe Truze. Most of the questions were put to Mr. Amin Arsala since he represented the Afghan Interim Government. The women's position in Afghanistan/ Pakistan drew particular attention.
     About foreign aid it was stated that 90% of it was politically motivated
50
  APR IL-JUNE* 1992                mimiW                      VOL . 5 NO. 3
  and foreign governments pushed their ideologies through aid; The argument was rebutted on the ground that the world has become unipolar and now there is now no reason for one country to provide aid against another. We should also seek more assistance from international organizations rather than bilateral aid. It was estimated that 5 to 6 billion dollars will be needed within the next years for rebuilding Afghanistan. There is no certainty that this amount will be available. The longer it takes to start aid programs the more difficult the aid situation becomes.
      Islam does not preach separation of men and women the way we witness here. Islam does not deny the education and freedom of women. Islamic parties should state their position in this respect and sponsor programs to educate women. To keep women as captive has never been part of our history, but during the war this has occurred due to outside influences.
                                           PART THREE
             HUMAN RESOURCES AND RECONSTRUCTION; THE ROLE OF THE AFGHAN WOMEN
       The subject was introduced by Hanne Christensen, Cultural Sociologist. She observed that Afghan Culture under-rates women's work and female education outside their homes. In official statistics Afghan women have been represented as poorly educated and contributing little to the national income. In the refugee camps in Pakistan any Afghan women have become very productive workers and they are planning to continue working after repatriation to Afghanistan.
   1 Women's work takes the form of self employment inside the compound, mostly as tailoresses, carpet weavers and embroiderers. They do not have viable market outlet. Some of the women have started to raise live-stock in the camps or established kitchen gardens and small orchards in the compounds or in nearby areas.
     Experience shows that refugee women are willing to learn, the more so if it is related to. their daily life or to the resettlement in Afghanistan. Many women are aware that it would be to their advantage to be able to read and write and to have broader knowledge of home economics and they are willing to acquire such skills.
     In Afghanistan implementing reconstruction programs in such a way that the entire population will benefit directly from it will not . be an easy task. Programs for improvement of women's condition are likely to be ignored or declined. One possibility could be to ensure that women are not left behind in the development of the community. There are various groups of women who can contribute significantly in the reconstruction of communities. While planning rehabilitation, extremely poor women and their families would be an obvious first targets Efforts should be made to initiate programs in horticulture targeting women for production inside the compound or in areas wherever acceptable to cultural nofms. Small scale interprise and cottage industry in agriculture could be directed towards widows and households with only able-bodied women.
                             HUMAN RESOURCES AND RECONSTRUCTION
     The subject was introduced by Mr. Sardar Roshan, Minister of Education in
                                             51
  the AIG. He said the process of reconstruction should include rehabilitation of all political   and administrative. institutions, reintegration of  the population
  into a single   nation, rebuilding of all demolished facilities     and social and
  economic infra-structure and maintenance of a rapid rate of economic growth after initial stage of reconstruction. Scarcity of trained and experienced Afghan technical and managerial personnel will make it difficult to launch extensive reconstruction and development schemes. The quality of education at primary and secondary levels in Afghanistan and at refugee camps is poor. The situation of    higher education is even more disappointing.        All  vocational
  schools are closed. The Minister recommended better coordination between organizations   working in the areas of educational and human           resources'
  development, use of standardized curriculum and identical teaching program in primary and secondary schools, adoption of appropriate technology to each region of the country and to allocate most of the resources to technical and vocational training, teachers training and opportunities for selective Afghans to study science and technology in foreign countries.
                FROM REFUGEE TO RESIDENT: EFFECTS OF AID ON REPATRIATION
      Introducing the subject Burnt Glatzer, Social anthropologist working for Danish Committee for Aid to Afghan Refugees said, the returning refugees have to struggle with specific conditions which are not the same in different provinces and districts. Giving the example of Kunar he said UN has declared Kunar as zone of tranquility but repatriation has not yet taken place. Most of the refugees say Kunar is not a safe place. The other example is Khost where refugees have returned and started to clean canals. In Kunar mujaheddin have taken over control of the area but they are not in a position to provide security. In Khost the local tribal organizations and institutions remained more or less intact. Not all NGOs have done a careful analysis of the political and social situation in Kunar in order to prevent aid reaching the wrong hands. Later a coordinating group was set up to mark out technical guidelines.
       A number of arguments emerged: during the discussion. Important among them were as follows: Continuous foreign interference is creating tension and armed
  clashes. Afghans have , better standard of living in the camps than they will have back home. NGOs have influence on repatriation issue. They can .play important role by furnishing Afghans in the camps true information about what is going on inside the country. We must discourage NGOs from supporting local commanders. NGOs should restrict their activities to reconstruction program.
                      A WAR GENERATION'S INVOLVEMENT IN RECONSTRUCTION
     The subject was introduced by Dr. Abdul Aziz Majidi, Lecturer at the Medical College, Jehad University. He said the Afghans today are a divided nation. They have different experiences. The influence of foreign funds creates problems, especially when the funds alre cut off. The skills of farming and raising livestock, which were passed from one generation to the next, are-missing. He raised a number of questions for debate. Some of these are:
     How to persuade people to drop their weapons and participate in reconstruction? How to provide necessary training in various fields? How to encourage the return of expatriated Afghans?
                                                                                                                                                                      j
                                                          52
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                              KBIIIJfHII!)       VOL. 5 NO. 3
      During the discussion different arguments were put forward. These are: We should learn from the experience of other countries which have passed through the war situation. Mujaheddin have acquired different experiences which can be used for rebuilding of Afghanistan. A majority of war generation living abroad will go back if basic facilities are provided. The international community will not give aid unless there is free and democratic atmosphere. In the rebuilding emphasis should be on income generating projects.
      CHANGES AND CONTINUITIES IN LEADERSHIP IN RURAL AFGHANISTAN
      The subject was introduced by Asger Christensen, Social Anthropologist. He said the principal new leadership role created by the war is that of the resistance leader - the Commander. In pre-war rural Afghanistan leadership was personal. It required continuous effort to maintain and compete with rival leaders on the local level. Before the war local leaders were larger landowners within a particular area. The leadership role is intensely contested because it confers a highly coveted status on the leader. While local leaders will resist any intervention by the central government, which is likely to limit their influence, the intense competition for local dominance makes the state a useful ally and a resource in the context of local political rivalry.
      The resistance has entailed profound changes in the patterns of local leadership. Now leaders have emerged on the basis of their performance in the resistance struggle. They are mujaheddin commanders. They control resources in the form of arms, medical assistance, money etc. In' order to establish control over resources which is independent of internal donors, commanders in some areas have taken over land vacated by refugees or by people claimed to be supporters of the Kabul regime. The commander who succeeds in establishing himself as middleman in relation to international aid agencies strengthens his position in relation to   his               local rivals. The importance of humanitarian assistance, as
 political resource, is likely to become more pronounced in the future. Care should be taken to implement the reconstruction program in such a way that it does not create new inequalities and new patterns of dominance or strengthen existing ones.
      During   the               discussion it was argued that the War economy has created
 artificial new powers which will also be present during reconstruction. There may be struggle between new powers and traditional powers for some times. For reconstruction the traditional system is more feasible than the new power. The future will hopefully not rely upon Khans and Maliks. The direct NGO support to commanders has had a lot of negative impact. Most NGOs do not understand the power structures they themselves have helped create. Shooras and Jirgahs are   not administrative bodies. They                 take decision mainly to solve
 conflicts. The minute the decision has been taken they dissolve.
      Afghans  know better what to do bn their                 own soil than foreigners. For
 reconstruction we will need financial and human capital. NGOs can play a vital role, in transforming Mujaheddin into construction workers,
      THE KNOWLEDGE BANK AND THE EROSION OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
      Introducing the subject Dr. Mohammad Fazel, Professor at Jehad University
53
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  Pabbi, said that during the communist rule over Afghanistan.1our children were de-educated, and deprived of a good system of education in Afghanistan and in the camps in Pakistan and Iran. They got good education in USA and European countries but were deprived of the values of their own culture. Now we cannot carry the heavy load of reconstruction and education without-the help of the Afghan professionals living abroad. He should consider how to educate those who have grown up with guns, and how to bridge the gap between generations. Who will adopt those Afghan children and youth who have been taken to Russia for brain-washing. Highly educated Afghans, living abroad- are badly needed for reconstruction. But who will persuade them xto return.
      During the discussion it was argued that the whole system of education should be revolutionized. School education and religious education should go parallel, but kept slightly apart. 'One of the bad results of the Russian influence is people's fear of education. But a change has taken place and demands for education has replaced scepticism. The first step should be to train teachers, then a properly organized system of basic education, and decentralization of education. Girls' schools need special assistance. Education should be free of cost for Afghans and it should be compulsory upto 6th grade. Technical education linked to local industries should be established,
                           WOMEN'S ROLE IN THE RECONSTRUCTION PROCESS
      The subject was introduced by Nancy Hatch Dupree, senior consultant at Afghan Research and Information Center, She suggested that women's projects should not be put as a separate sector as roles of men and women are completely inter-related. The Afghan society will haye to struggle with the problem of large number of widows. He will have to find a way in which they could contribute financially. Eighty-five per cent of agencies have women programs but they lack coordination.
      During the discussion it was pointed out that women are more secluded. We should involve them in planning and evaluation in Urban setting. Given the problem of lack of access to women all programs for women must include men. We must go to the grass roots, enter the villages and homes and find out what women want. Women are not represented in the AIG. There should be a national women's body. If there is an Islamic government in Afghanistan, there will be no -doubt about women's rights. The women are the best sppkeswomen for themselves. But the first vpice may not be heard by itself.
                    THE ROLE OF HOHEN IN THE RECONSTRUCTION OF AFGHANISTAN
     The introduction was written by Mrs. Fatima Umm-e-Abdullah, leader of Islamic Womens Organization of Afghanistan. She suggested that schools should not only be a place for reading and writing, but should also provide vocational training for girls. Women can play important role by keeping poultry and animals. They should also be encouraged to plant fruit trees and vegetables. Women should be trained in the traditional skills of spinning of wool .and producing knitwear. In the field of public health women can play important role While preserving their Islamic Hijab. We have to establish hospitals with only female staff.
     In 1991 the United Nations spent more then one million dollars in the name
                                                        54
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  HiUllflHUltlnli                 VOL.  5  NO.  3
 of reconstruction of Afghanistan, but the funds were not used for the benefit of the poor. The mistake should not be repeated in future.
      During the discussion it was suggested that we cannot afford to develop separate hospitals for women. Emphasis should be on education of women. Women must be able to work in all fields and be active in the reconstruction of our country. It will not be possible for women for some time to go out for work in the field. Family teams can be a solution. The assistance is very unevenly distributed in Afghanistan, with NGOs working only in selected areas. Reconstruction support must be given to all parts of our country, bocal communities must be allowed to decide and be responsible for the development of-their areas.
      Some of the recommendations presented to the plenary session were as follows:
     . The government must' accept from the very beginning the participation of women in all levels and sectors of society. There should be centers for training in all fields. Field services could be created by using mobile teams of couples, brothers and ;sisters and mother and son.
                                PLENARY SESSION HUNAN RESOURCES AND RECONSTRUCTION
      During the plenary discussion the Minister for Education in the AIG, Mr. Sardar Roshan, received and answered a number of questions. He said that a special department will be set up to deal with problems of women's education. In the summary of the women's group the need was expressed for experts to teach about women's rights. It was felt that women's rights in Islam should be clearly defined. Our educational system needs to be changed. Students can be literate, but still of no service to their communities. We need a rehabilitation program for those who have been trained under the communist system. Education must get out of politics and cater to our actual needs. We must give priority to teacher's training especially for women.
     There is widespread misunderstanding about NGOs as people tend to think NGOs only exist to help in a situation- where there is no government. They are organized on village, town, district and national levels and play a complimentary role to that of the government.
| APRIL-JUNE, 1992     MUHIN      VOL. 5 NO. 3 1 
THE fi R A         D CIVTU C     IFMIMAR 1       
■ nt UiviHi        lii OlA rfl v ICIVI1 li All i 
   FUNDAMENTAL RULES OF ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT IN FUTURE SOCIETY OF AFGHANISTAN
         EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is a report on the seminar ”Basic Rules of an Islamic Government in Future Afghan Society* which was held in Islamabad - 27 - 30 January, 1992 by the CCAR Institute of Afghan Policy Studies. Names of participants who had submitted papers to the seminar* together with their brief biographies* will be published at the end of this report.
                 INAUGURAL SPEECH BY SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL,THE MOST GRACIOUS,
      I am grateful to God Almighty for granting an opportunity to the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies of the CQAR to open its sixth seminar since 1990, under the title of "Fundamentals of the Islamic Government in Afghanistan",
      This seminar,, being inaugurated today, consists of articles and discourses, discussing briefly the basic establishment and the objectives of the future system of government.                             -
      First of all, allow me to state that for introducing the Islamic system in Afghanistan, we should delegate the fundamental affairs of the country to such committed Muslim personalities who should possess professional and educational background and expertise in Islamic justice and in giving it a practical shape in the society. In case such an Islamic cadre does not come into power, I do not think we would be able to introduce the Islamic system in our country and safeguard it.
      It is the religious duty of our jehadic leaders to remove, at the earliest, all the existing obstacles 'in the country that ,are obstructing the path of establishment of an Islamic government. But the main difficulty in this regard is the disunity among the mujaheddin leaders. At this delicate historic juncture of jehad, it is not appropriate to cover one's short-comings and defects under the pretext of the so-called manipulations and conspiracies of the
\
V
K
    »>
                                                          56
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  Ml JIB                          VOL. 5 NO. 3
  enemies. The reason is that be it today or tomorrow, the enemy i.e. the enemies of Islam and the enemies of peace and tranquility in Afghanistan, will definitely conspire against us.
       As your brother, I ask you to focus your attention to the following points in this valuable seminar:
       "For over My servants no authority shalt thou have, except such as put themselves in the wrong and follow thee. (Surah Al-Hijr: Verse -42)
      , "Mo authority has he over those who believe and put their trust in their Lord." (Surah Nahl: Verse 99)
       "As for My servants, no authority shalt thou have over them." Enough is thy Lord for a Disposer of affairs. (Surah Bani Isra'il: Verse -65)
       I say that Islam is not such a religion which may seek competition with other religious or political and economic principles. This is a Divine Religion and whatever Allah has commanded in this verse, is the right definition of Islam:
       "When those come to thee who believe in Our ‘Signs, say: Peace be on you: Your Lord hath inscribed, for Himself (the rule of) mercy: verily, if any of you did evil in Ignorance, and thereafter." (Sura Al-An'am: Verse - 54).
            It is not necessary thao these commands should definitely have a democratic color or should be in accordance with the present exigencies.
      Under Divine guidance, Islam has the undermentioned characteristics:
  1.  Man has been appointed as vice-gerent of God on earth and this right of vice-gerency is a common right. If there be any exceptions to this rule, Islam has made it clear.
  2.  In order to enable man to fulfil this obligation, he should be given some freedom of action and some rights.
  3.  Allah, has commanded His servants to settle their problems by consultation.
  4. God has given these rights to everyone, including men and women, and if there are any variations in their rights and obligations, it has been duly pointed out.
  5.  God has blessed man with honor and dignity.
  6.  God in His mercy has assigned this duty to His servants i.e. human beings to make effort and try to find lawful means to earn a living for themselves
     -for their families and to provide material benefit to their neighbors and their society.
                                                                               ‘2
      At the end, I want to stress' this point that if we chalk out a reasonable framework or mechanism, on paper, for the establishment of an Islamic society but may not possess the will and power and capability to give it a practical•,
                                                          57
 aprIl-june. 1992              'IfHMMO                  vol. 5 no. 3
 shape* we would have failed. Therefore* I wish that in this seminar* side by side with discussions about the formation of an Islamic government, we ought to pay attention to this point as to how we can help materialize this system.
 OPENING STATEMENT BY MOHAMMAD HASHEM MUJADDEDI. CHAIRMAN OF THE
                                                  SEMINAR
 Dear brothers and respected scholars,
      I am grateful to God Almighty for enabling the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance to continue the series of seminars. Today we have assembled here to discuss the infra-structure of the future Islamic government in Afghanistan. I am sure, God will enable the Muslim nation to establish a genuine Islamic government in Afghanistan.
 Dear Scholars,
      Today after the victory of the Islamic jehad all the eyes are focussed on Afghanistan to see, whether in the same manner that they overpowered a superpower, destroying communism and disintegrating a communist empire, can they overpower another super power and other enemies of Islam? Can they establish a genuine Islamic government in Afghanistan or they cannot do so and will be themselves overpowered? Continuance of Najib's rule in Kabul, rumors of Zaher Shah's return and pressures exerted by friendly states, are all a series of efforts to forestall the establishment of an Islamic government in this country.
 I sincerely suggest to all those who have taken part in the hply war, to read this sacred verse in the Holy Quran, to understand and to act upon it:
      "O ye who believe. Profane not Allah's monuments nor the Sacred Month nor the offerings nor the garlands, nor those repairing to the Sacred House, seeking the grace and pleasure of Allah. But when you have left the sacred territory, then go hunting (if you will). And let not your hatred of a folk who (once) stopped your going to the Inviolable Place of Worship seduce you to transgress; but help ye one another unto righteousness and pious duty. Help not one another unto sin and transgression, but keep your duty to Allah. Lo; Allah is severe in punishment. (Surah Al-Ma'idah: Verse-2).
      If the party leaders and those who have taken part in jehad, eschew selfishness, ambitions and self-aggrandisement, and cooperate with each.other for giving a practical shape to the ideals and aspirations of the martyrs and the Ghazis and the Afghan nation, most of their existing problems will be solved.
      This seminar and the previous seminars of the CCAR are efforts for providing the fundamentals of an Islamic government, so far as possible. It may be emphasized that this step of the CCAR is in pursuance of the above-cited Quranic verse.
      In conclusion, allow me to express my thanks and appreciation to my dear . brother Mr. Kushkaki, founder member of the CCAR and org'anizer of the seminars for his efforts and hard work. Similarly I thank Mr. Ghaleb, founder member of the CCAR and Mr. Habibullah Rafi and all the' colleagues and brothers contribu-
                                                        58
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 APR IL-JUNE* 1992
 ting to the CCAR and promoting its cause. I pray to Almighty Allah to shower His blessings on them all and to grant us more strength to sincerely work for our cause in an effective and positive manner.
                                               ARTICLES
                    GUIDELINES FOR AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: NOOR AHMAD TAQADUSSI
      One of the primary and obvious necessities in a country, big or small, is the establishment of an authority to undertake the management and administration of the country by putting a stop to chaos and disorder, so that all the government departments may function under its close supervision.
      This authority should rest with one individual. The nation has to elect one person as its leader, who should take a decision after due consultation and exchange of views with his consultants. An assembly would be helpful for overall supervision of the affairs of state, consideration of problems as well as finding ways and means for solving various complicated issues.
      Besides, serious and urgent problems may occasionally crop up suddenly, leaving very little or no time for convening a session of the assembly. Therefore, a resourceful person is needed at the helm of affairs who should be able to take an instant decision.. It goes without saying that the only way to select an authoritative leader or head of state is through holding general elections to ascertain public opinion.
      According to Allama Halli, a ruler should have the following qualifications:
 a)   He should be a mature, sensible and responsible man otherwise he would not be able to guide the destiny of a nation.
 b)   He should    be a Muslim in order to safeguard the interests, of the Muslims
      and should have credibility.
 c)   He should  be just because obedience to an unjust person is prohibited.
 d)   He should  be a man so that he may be able to wield power and associate with
      political leaders and statesmen.
e)    He should      be well-versed in religious jurisprudence, aware of political
      problems and capable of administration.
f)    He should        be courageous so that he may face the enemy and take a firm
     decision and if necessary, mobilize the army.
g)    He should be physically fit and efficient and intelligent.
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  1110                           VOL. 5   NO. 3
      About the duties of a Muslim ruler, Maverdi has generally categorized them into ten principles, which are briefly stated as Under:
 1.   To protect religion thoroughly with the consensus of the religious scholars.
 2.   To enforce law and order.
 3.   To ensure security in the state.
 4.   To implement Islamic injunctions.
 5.   To protect the borders of the country.
 6.   To declare jehad (Holy War) against infidels (i.e. preliminary jehad).
 7.   To collect Islamic taxes and revenues.
 8. , To give reasonable grants, to fix salaries and to control Bait-ul-mal
      (Public Treasury).
 9.   To appoint efficient, capable, trustworthy and well-wishing persons in public administration.
 10.  He should physically participate in the affairs of state and personally supervise and control all the important political and national affairs.
      As regards the qualifications of ministers and other functionaries of the Islamic government, the following characteristics are required:
      1.       Maturity of thought, 2. Faith in Islamic religion so that he may abstain from corruption, 3. Trustworthiness and abstention from greed, 4. Truthfulness so that his word may be trusted, 5. Expertise and skill in his duties, 6. Power of decision and implementation of his decisions.
    INFRA-STRUCTURE OF THE FUTURE ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT IN AFGHANISTAN BY DR. ABDUL HAI PANJSHERI
 POLITICS: It  has many connotations and  different meanings. But its real meaning
 is the art of statecraft according to certain specific regulations.
                                                                     \
 ISLAMIC POLITICS: In  other words it is politics based on Islamic law. It means
 management of social affairs according to the Divine Law and with the approval' of the Head of Islamic state (of Imam) within certain limits.
 POLITICAL POWER:  It is the art of governing a society. It is an amalgam of
 various potentials and capabilities delegating administrative power to a group, an individual or a social body to act according to the divine law of 'doing the Right and abstaining from the Wrong.'
                                            60
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  Illlil                         VOL-   5 WO / 3
 RBLIGIO-POLITICAL POWER: It is a legitimate power which enables the government to look after the religious and wordly affairs of the Muslims' in a proper manner. In other words this is a political power in the light of the Divine Law.
 SOURCE OP POLITICAL POWER: Political power grows not from one specific source but possibly from different sources. The sources of political power, from the theoretical and practical viewpoints, are not always identical. In practice, a government may perhaps ensure its political power through different sources.
 SOURCES OP POLITICAL POWER IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT: Islamic governments are the most powerful governments so far experienced by the people of the world because the leader of an Islamic society not only enjoys political power officially but wields moral influence deep inside the hearts of each and every individual among the nation, from the spiritual point of view as well.          1
 MANIFESTATION OF POLITICAL POWER:     The highest authority representing the
 political power, is the office of the head of state. This office or post is composed of the head of state and his associates. Governors, commissioners and cabinet ministers. are also part and parcel of political power. The ,actual political power is represented by an administration which deals with general public affairs on the national level or on a unitary level. Some of the .ministries cannot represent political power on their own. Therefore the office of the head of state and trilateral executive, legislative and judicial powers altogether constitute sovereignty and political power.
 PRE-REQUISITES OF THE APPOINTMENT OF HEAD OF STATE AND ESTABLISHMENT OF GOVERNMENT IN ISLAM: It is quite obvious that the Muslims, according to the requirements of human nature and the Divine Law, have to live in society and social life is dependant on rules and regulations governing a society. These regulations correlate the bonds between individuals, groups and institutions in such a manner which may guarantee equality, fraternity, fairplay and cooperation in the society and forestall , high handedness, tyranny, despotism, aggression, insult, exploitation and other evils. This regulation is called Shariat in Islam. Hence an Islamic society is obliged by this Divine Law to abide by the commands of the Divine Religion. Consequently Muslim men and women are morally and legally obliged to form a righteous and virtuous government. Therefore the establishment of an Islamic government and appointment of Imam is the legal obligation of Muslims, according to the Islamic jurisprudence. Imam here means, a religious and political leader of a society.
 DESCRIPTION OF AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT: An Islamic government means an establishment composed of a number of officials and functionaries who are mainly Muslims having specific qualifications and elected and appointed according to the religious laws and who govern a people in a region according to the Laws of Islam and look after their individual, social, moral and material needs in the light of Islamic rules and regulations in an efficient manner.
 SELECTION, ALLEGIANCE AND APPOINTMENT OF AN IMAM IN THE EARLY ISLAMIC BRA: Swearing, allegiance is the basic prime'requirement for the selection of a leader of the society. Any ruler who assumes political power without acquiring or without qualifying for public allegiance, is considered a usurper and ought to be
                                             61
APR IL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                   VOL. 5 NO. 3
  deposed under relevant and appropriate rules in order to restore the mandate once again to the nation.
        The ceremony of swearing allegiance is a process by which the Caliph or Head of State is elected and .the nation gives a political mandate to the leader. of an Islamic society. Thus when an Imam (religio-political leader) is elected in this manner, it is as if the political mandate is given to him by proxy.
  ELECTION OP THE RIGHTEOUS CALIPHS IN THE PAST:   The early Righteous Caliphs of
  Islam did not assume power through the 'Nass' (declaration of the successor to the Imam), neither by the use of force nor through inheritance. Actually the Caliphs were elected by the majority of the.people who then swore allegiance to him.
                QUALIFICATIONS OF THE HEAD OF AN ISLAMIC STATE BY: SAKHIDAD FAYEZ
                             DESCRIPTION OF THE HEAD OF ISLAMIC STATE
       After studying the books on Islamic thought and jurisprudence we reach the conclusion that the terms:   Amirul Momenin, Khalifa, Imam, Malek and Head of
  Islamic State are synonymous.
                                TITLES OF THE HEAD OF ISLAMIC STATE
  1.  KHALIFA:   This is a derivative word of the term "Khalf" meaning descendant
  of a person: The Arabs use this term when someone succeeds another person.
  2. AMIRUL MOMENIN; The first personage addressed with this title was Omar Ben Khattab. One of the Muslims addressed him as 'Amirul Momenin* and he liked the title. After him three other Caliphs were also addressed with this title. After the four Caliphs none else assumed this title.
  3.  IMAM: Imam is a person followed and obeyed by others. He leads the daily
  prayer congregations and acts as a counsellor and ai religious and moral leader of the people whereas all the people follow his line of action and his footsteps religiously.
  4.  MALEK:  Malek means King and head of state and Mulk means Kingdom.
                         PERSONAL CHARACTER OF THE HEAD OF ISLAMIC STATE
       In the book 'Al Amratu Wal Amir* written by Saeed Hawi in a Chapter entitled "Personal Character of the Heads of State" (Pages 16 to 87), thirty qualities have been ascribed to a Head of Islamic State which may be considered a prerequisite     for a Khalifa, Imam, Amir and Malek under the present
 circumstances, .as detailed below:
                    . /;
       1.       Wisdom, 2. Learning, 3. Bravery, 4. Piety, 5. Benevolence and generosity, 6. Patience, 7. Coolmindedness, 8. Magnanimity, 9. Softness and efficiency, 10. Tactful handling of a situation, 11. Abstention from hasty
                                              62
18368110
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO..3
 decision and tendency to take action after due consideration, 12. Fulfilment of promise and being true to one's word. 13. Truthfulness, 14. Safeguard of state secrets, 15. Careful assessment of a situation before taking any action, 16. To 'take action at the appropriate time and abstain from doing anything useless as well as to feign incognizance, 17. Humility, 18. Abstention from jealousy and vindictiveness, 19. Tolerance, 20. Being grateful to the blessinigs of God,    21. Avoiding selfishness, 22. Courteously supporting the right and
 rejecting   the wrong, 23. Non-acceptance of calumny, vicious                      reports and
 negative    and harmful efforts, 24.  Keeping distance                  from the infidels, 25.
 Insight      into daily matters  of  the state and                       occasional and direct
 participation in state affairs, 26. Acceptance of others' advice and advising others, 27. Adoption of precise and strong measures, 28. Keeping an eye on the environs    and surroundings, 29. Rewarding the senior                        and  experienced
 personalities of good repute, 30. To maintain law and order and to disdain disorder.
           RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE HEAD OF ISLAMIC STATE BY: ABDUL AHAD ASHRATI
       A head of state elected by the people, is accountable to the people and is considered answerable   for his  actions and personal                   affairs like any other
 citizen. Besides he may be accountable for the execution of his powers and the influence   of his status and may be impeached   by the nation.               The right of the
 people to   impeach the head of state has been   ensured by the teachings of, the
 Holy Book and the Traditions of the Holy Prophet, including the primary injunction of "Doing the Right and Abstaining from the Wrong". In case the head of state deviates from his promises to the nation, the latter reserves the right to disobey and to seek his impeachment and to depose him.
 DEPOSITION OF THE HEAD OF STATE: The most important causes necessitating the deposition of a head of^ state are:
 1. MENTAL WEAKNESS: When a head of state is afflicted with a mental disease. .
 2. - LOSS OF SENSES: When he loses his sense of perception and understanding.
 3.   PHYSICAL DEFECT:   If he loses both hands or both feet, he ought to be
 deposed gracefully otherwise he may face insulting behavior from the people at large and would not Le acceptable to them.
 4.  ARREST AND DETENTION: In case a head of state is made a prisoner,the people are obliged to rescue him, but if he is , not rescued, he has to be deposed. The reason is that a promise or undertaking of a head of state would be trustworthy onl-y if he has an independent opinion and not influenced by any compulsion circumbscribing his authority.
 5.  INFIDELITY OR REFUTATION:    If he  becomes  infidel or refutes the Divine
 Commands or interprets the Holy Quran in a fraudulent manner, he loses his credibility and has to be deposed.
                                            63
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                -. AffiKAN Jfllflfl              VOL. 5  NO.  3
 6.  MORAL CORRUPTION: If he disobeys the Divine Order and goes astray from the
 path of righteousness and propriety and commits unworthy and indecent acts, he is liable to be deposed.
       One of the conditions for the legibility of presidentship is justice. Therefore, the head of state must be just and fair because justice demands that the post of the head of Islamic state be occupied by a virtuous person.
 METHODS OP APPOINTING A HEAD OF STATE: Some of these methods currently in vogue or principally proposed, are briefly mentioned as under:
 1.  ’Naas' (Original Text):   As  generally known, our Shia brothers consider
 the subject of leadership of the entire Muslim Community as exclusively a religious matter. Therefore in their view, the appointment of an Imam or Leader is subject to the ’Nass*. In this connection, ’Nass’ means, from their point of view, a clear and unambiguous declaration of the previous Imam and leader regarding his successor. However, the noteworthy point in this regard, is that the actual Imamate, in their eyes, is the monopoly of the 12 innocent Imams.
 2.  SELECTION/ELECTION: It means  selecting one of the eligible candidates for
 presidency, by the people, either directly or indirectly (by sagacious elected deputies or by a group of wise men). Such an election would be in consonance with the Tradition of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and on the basis of the principles governing the appointment of the Righteous Caliphs and according to the spirit of the Islamic teachings and the Divine Law pertaining to the modality of Caliphate and presidentship.
                                  DISCUSSIONS
 KAMAL SHINWARI: Mr. Taqaddusi, you have considered it necessary to fix a tenure for a head of state or a caliph, whereas in the Islamic history no fixed term has been specified for a caliph. But the reasons for his deposal were described. Will you please throw some light on this point?
 AYATULLAH TAQADDUSI:  As regards non-fixation of a certain term for a Muslim
 caliph in the history of Islam, it may be pointed out that during the early period Of Islam, this issue was settled, because at that time the most pious, the most capable and the most virtuous man was elected for this post and hence the risk of autocracy was not involved. But in this age, such risk does exist to a great extent.
 USTAD AHMADZAI: As regards the right of woman to vote in elections, it must be said that had this right been conceded to women, the Esteemed wives of he Holy Prophet, who were the most devoted persons to the Islamic Legal Code, would have enjoyed this right.
 AYATULLAH TAQADDUSI: With reference to the point that in the history of Islam, women did not vote in the election of thte Righteous Caliphs and were not asked to pay allegiance to the caliph, I think that the Tradition of our Holy Prophet
64
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
                                                                                    vol. 5 no; 3
     (PBUH) is superior to the tradition of the caliphs. The reason is that at the' time of Hudaibia Peace Treaty and after the victory of Makkah, he called on the women to come forward. They came and paid allegiance.
     DR. ABDUL HAI:   In connection  with the right of vote for women, I endorse Mr.
     Taqaddusi1s views. As an instance of women's participation in politics, I must submit that Hazrat Aysha Siddiqah (May Allah Bless her Soul) opposed the caliphate of Hazrat Ali (May Allah Bless Him) and organized a regular force for active opposition, yet none of the companions of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) condemned this action.
     USTAD AHMADZAI:    As Dr.  Abdul  Hai remarked, if a woman has the authority to
     appoint someone on her behalf for taking part in elections or to pay allegiance, then allegiance on the part of a woman is not a merely an obligation but her right.
     DR. ABDUL HAI:   Taking into consideration the wisdom of the Islamic Legal Code
     regarding appointment of the head of state, we find that an Islamic society is obliged to enforce the Islamic Law but such a thing is not possible without the establishment of a government. Therefore, in accordance with the principle of Islamic jurisprudence, the establishment of a government too is an obligation to provide an opportunity for the fulfilment of the first obligation i.e. the enforcement of the Islamic Law.
                                                                               •
     KAMAL SHINWARX:   Dr.  Abdul Hai  considers the formation of a government, one of
     the duties of the organizations, whereas, organizations have no place in the Islamic Legal Code.
     DR. ABDUL HAI:   If a  group of people? is active enough to justify being called as
     "efficient" and  which is capable of upholding     a rule  of justice,  in that case
     for others to    partake in determining the head of       a just government is a
     "collective obligation". But, if it is proved otherwise, then this obligation automatically changes to "individual obligation" .
    NAHZAT FARAHI: When we look at elections in the early Islamic period and study the election procedure of the Righteous Caliphs, we find that each one of them was elected in a different way as the Caliph of the Muslims. Our deduction from past histpry is that no hard and fast rule exists for the election of a caliph. Imam or head of an Islamic state. However this issue is subject to certain conditions prevailing at a . certain time and is related to contemporary circumsta’nces.
    KAMAL SHINWARI: Mr. Ishrati said that the Abbassids used to say that King is the shadow of God.    I reckon, perhaps Mr. Ishrati     thinks that it is     not so. But
    Hadith (Sayings   of Prophet Mohammad PBUH) says   that "A just ruler   is'the shadpw
    of God".
    ABDUL AHAD ASHRATI:   Most of the  religious scholars endorse this view that King
    is the shadow pf God on earth. While supporting the above view, I may point out that a ruler should be just and justice-loving otherwise he has no right to call himself as the shadow of God.
                                                  65
   APR IL-JUNE, 1992                KM JfHflfl                VOL . 5 NO . 3
                  POLITICAL PARTIES IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY PROF. ABU ABDUR RAHMAN MOHAMMAD JAN AHMADZAI
         One of the characteristics of the Islamic society is the common faith and solidarity of the Muslim community. God Almighty in the Holy Quran or the Holy Prophet in his sayings has persistently and emphatically called upon the Muslims. to preserve their unity and solidarity and to shun discord.
         "And hold fast,' all of you together, to the Cord of Allah, and do not separate. And remember Allah's favor unto you; how ye were enemies and He made friendship between your hearts so that ye became as brothers by His grace: and (how) ye were upon the brink of an abyss of fire, and He did save you from it..." (Surah Al-Imran: Verse 103).
         The Holy Quran has divided the parties in two large groups i.e. Party of God and Party of Satan or Divine Party and Satanic Party. About the Divine Party (Hezbullah) it says:
         "And whoso.taketh Allah and His messenger and those who believe, for friend (will know that), lo. The party of Allah, they a*e the victorious". (Surah Al-Maedah: Verse-56)
         "Thou wilt not find any people, who believe in God and the Last Day, loving those who resist God and His Apostle, even though they were their fathers or their sons, or their brothers, or their kindred. For such He has written Faith In their hearts, and strengthened them with a spirit, from Himself. And He will admit them to Gardens beneath which Rivers flow, to dwell therein (for ever). God will be well pleased with them, and they with Him. They are the Party of God. Truly it is the Party of God that will achieve Felicity". (Surah Al-Mujadelah; Verse 22).
         About the Satanic Party, the Holy Quran reads:
          "The devil hath' engrossed them and so hath caused them to forget remembrance of Allah. They are the devil's party.N Lo^ Is it not the devil's party who will be the losers ?" (Surah Al-Mujadelah; Verse 19).
         Therefore I propose that in an Islamic country, there should be one party and that should be the Party of Allah possessing all the qualifications expounded in the Quran. All Muslims should be its members and any distinction or privilege given to anyone should be based on his character and piety. In every Islamic country there ought to be one Islamic party called Allah's Party which should strive for the establishment of an Islamic government and Islamic Caliphate. All these parties of Islamic states should cooperate with each other and have a symmetrical way of thinking and encourage each other to follow the sublime goal of Islam and avoid dissent. They should take advantage of each other's experience, knowledge, scientific thought, economic expertise and human qualities and share each other's joys and sorrows. It would be very advisable if they selected a single leader at the international level and paved the way for a universal Caliphate.                                                     .
                                             66
   apr i l-june, 1992 _____________nan m
               CONSULTATIVE ASSEMBLY IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: AL-MUJADDEDI
        Before going into a discussion about the Shoorft (Assembly) it would be better to study the philosophy of the assembly's legitimacy.
        As God Almighty has created all human beings equal and respectable, therefore, he has not given anyone the right of absolute sovereignty over individuals or groups. Islam is a complete and comprehensive system of life for the human welfare in this world and the hereafter, provided it is implemented in to to.
VOL. 5 NO. 3 Mummumummm
         It is a fact that man cannot live alone and is a member of the society. This society which is, in other words a nation, needs law and order. Maintenance of law and order entails credible personnel who can fulfil this responsibility which is delegated to them by the people after due consultation. God Almighty commands the Holy Prophet (PBUH) to consult, in these words:
         "It was by the mercy of Allah that thou wert lenient with them (0 Mohammad) for if thou hadst been stern and fierce of heart they would have dispersed from round about thee. So pardon them and ask forgiveness for them and consult with them upon the conduct of affairs. And when thou art resolved, then put thy trust in Allah..."(Surah Al-Imran: Verse-159)
         The point to note is that the command to consult has been given after the advice to seek pardon and forgiveness. Obviously obedience to Divine Command is beneficial in this world and will be rewarded in the hereafter, because Islam has trained the Muslim's mind in such a way that he cannot regard religion as something separate from the affairs of the world.
         Qualifications of members of assembly have .been determined by Islam because all human beings are not similar and belong to different categories of piety, intelligence, farsightedness and courage as created by the Creator of the Universe.
         Electors of these members should possess the following qualifications:
    (1) Should be literate (educated in theology and some of the contemporary sciences),
    (2)  Should be pious and virtuous,
    (3)  Should have moral courage,
    (4) Should not be less than 25 years of age and independent mind.
    (5)  Should have an independent mind.
        Some of the religious scholars prohibit women's participation in elections, although Islamic teachings are addressed to both men and women alike. According to the Islamic Legal Code, the following qualificatipns have been specified for members of the Consultative Assembly:
                                                67
    APRIL-JUNE# 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
     1.   Piety, virtue and fear of Allah. He should be a Muslim,
     2.   He should have a sound knowledge of the Holy Quran and the Traditions and Sayings of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and His Companions.
     3.   He should be well-informed regarding the character and life-style of the Holy Prophet (PBUH), the Righteous Caliphs, the religious scholars, the revered companions of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and the narrators of His Sayings and Traditions as well as those of His blessed compensions,
     4.   Courage and fearlessness,
     5.   Should not be less than 30 years old, possessing good common sense and maturity of mind,
     6.   Should always be considerate of the welfare of the Islamic Ummah and
     7.   Should be well-versed in contemporary international affairs.
          God has commanded all the human beings and particularly the religious scholars and intellectuals not to accept anything which is not known to them or which they cannot understand.
          "If any do wish for the transitory things (of this life). We readily grant them - such things as We will, to such persons as We will: in the end have We provided Hell for them: they will burn therein, disgraced and rejected".
          In conclusion I must state that all jurists agree on one point that the original text of legislation covers all the rules and the elementary laws. Therefore, a jurist has to do nothing else but to interpret and explain each and every one of the original texts. If he is unable to do- so, he should know that there is no fault in the text but he himself is unable to draw a conclusion from the text of the rule.
          Religious scholars have said that three factors corrupt consultation and these are:
     1.   Participation of more consultants than necessary,
     2.   Jeolousy and rivalry among the participants and
     3.   Absence of seasoned and experienced members from the assembly.
          Hassan Basri (May Allah Bless his Soul) says:
          "There are three categories of people. Man, half-man and unmanly. A man is one, who has ideas and plans and consults. Half-man is one, who has ideas and plans but does not consult. Unmanly is the one, who has neither ideas nor does he consult.
                                                                         6ti
     APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 -KMIffli                     VOL.  5 NO- 3
                  ADMINISTRATIVE SET-UP IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: DR. MOHAMMAD KASEM FAZELI
         Coordination between administration, political system and popular beliefs is of prime importance. There exists a close link between administration and political system on the one hand and political system and institutional beliefs on.the other. Administration is an offshoot of political system and the latter is based on the general beliefs of a society and adopts itself to its changes, accordingly.
         Now that the Afghan society stands in need of re-discovering its original beliefs and convictions, the question of Islamization of administration has assumed a new dimension. It is believed that stronger influence of Islam in society could ward off external threats.
         Tomorrow when the introduction of Islamic system comes under consideration, again the question of interlinking political system with administration as well as the administrative set-up in such a system would come to mind. There is no doubt that the establishment of a political system in the form of theocracy would necessitate creating harmony between administration and modality of office procedures and aims of the system concerned. New expectations would require new suggestions in administration. The question of independent action or performance of administration vis-a-vis a political system would come into sharper focus. But as the final shape of the Islamic system is not known, any comment on the nature of connection between the political system and administration and the degree of independence of official performance would be a difficult exercise.
         In any case, metamorphosis in the nature and essence of an administration is not an easy task. Administration is a means of organizing social life. If it fails, the structure of social life falls apart. Before taking any decision, it would be advisable to study historical precedents and the development of different forms of administration in the Islamic countries.
         There is a great distance between theory and practice. Our society’s intellectual and material resources are limited. Prosperous and mature nations always prefer gradual change and consider this change as.the. secret of survival. Revolutions are achieved at a great cost and our country cannot afford any more damages.
                  THE ROLE OF SHOORA IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: SHEIKH MOHAMMAD ASEF MOHSENI
         There are two specific verses in the Holy Quran about Shoora and consultation, which are:
     (1) ”... and consult with them upon the conduct of affairs..."
         (Surah Al-Imran: Verse-159)
     (2) ”... and whose affairs are a matter of counsel and who spend of what We
         have bestowed on them..." (Surah Al-Shoora: Verse-38)
69
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                   VOL. 5 MO. 3
    a)   The second verse does not indicate clearly that consultation with each other is obligatory but with reference to its context, only its virtue and advantage is proved beyond doubt. It connotes that the Faithful consult each other in the conduct of affairs. Even in the first verse, where the Holy Prophet (PBUH) is commanded to consult, one cannot deduce that consultation has been made obligatory. A closer look at the wording of the verse, brings one to the conclusion that consultation has been deemed as something commendable but not obligatory. So if consultation is regarded commendable for a prophet receiving the Divine Revelation, then for us, it would be supremely useful and profitable.
    b)   Consultation should not be confined to the National Assembly, but provinces and districts should also have assemblies so that provincial and . local problems can also be resolved through mutual consultation,. In this way the government's popular base will be strengthened and a spirit of fellow-feeling and goodwill would develop between the people and the government on the basis of the first verse quoted from the Holy Quran in the beginning of the article.
    c)   The rights and privileges of the assembly members should not be so lavish and extravagent as to tempt greedy people to infiltrate the national assembly. They should be treated at par with the government functionaries.
    d)   The public representatives should have the same legal immunity or otherwise as enjoyed by all the citizens because from the Islamic viewpoint there does not exist any difference in the legal rights of the public deputies and the people themselves and the civil servants.
                      CONSULTATION ACCORDING TO THE TRADITIONS Of THE HOLY PROPHET (PBUH)
         There are many narratives regarding consultation and th.e Holy Prophet (PBUH) on many occasions consulted his compan4-ons • As an example, we fluote here some of these narratives:
    1.   The Holy Prophet (PBUH) has said: "When your leaders ate pious and virtuous, your wealthy' people are generous and when you conduct your affairs through mutual consultation, life on earth will be better than beneeth the earth, i.e. life would be better than.death, (Sunan-e-Termezi)
    2.   No support is stronger than consultation. (Vassa'elt Vol, VIII).
                                   SHOORA IN CONTEMPORARY AGE
         Most countries today have two houses of parliament. Members of one of the houses are entirely elected by the people where members of the other house are either selected or nominated. One is called the National Assembly, House of Representatives, House of Commons and Congress while the other is called the Senate or the House of Lords. These two houses on the pne hand shoulder the responsibility of legislation and approval of bills and plans and on the other, check the performance of the government and the executive so that they may not
      APR I JUNE. 1992                                         flfCllflN    JEHAD                                      VOL.    5     NO.   3
violate the law. The members of the assembly can seek an explanation from the government and can cast a vote of no-confidence against the government or have the power to dissolve a cabinet or some of the ministers.
         The main defect in the procedure is, that perhaps most of the representatives are not qualified for the job because they are elected by the masses for
    other considerations rather than for their ability, piety, social stature and intelligence. Sometimes representatives of some of the countries, including Afghanistan might have been illiterate.
         When representatives of the people may not have sound knowledge of the religious laws, medicine, economics, agriculture, technical know-how, engineering, politics and other subjects like social or industrial affairs, how can one expect them to formulate a law or to check the performance of the government or to lead the executive machinery to a better goal... On the other hand, in the absence of the Shoora, the executive power would become more autocratic and egocentric causing a lot of misery and misfortunes to the people.
         Usually on attaining power, ordinary people change their way of thinking and unconsciously become corrupt. Hence a system of check and balance is essential to ascertain to keep justice on the right track. For this purpose we need a House of Representatives, even under present conditions, and should ask our representatives to ensure better performance throgh consultation.
         However, the Shoora should, on the one hand, consist of intelligent, well-informed, capable and religious-minded representatives and on the other, should have the right constitutional power in order to control any tendency towards autocracy and transgression py the government functionaries and also to supervise all the official programs and their political, industrial, economic, agricultural, educational and productive dimensions.
                                      DISCUSSIONS
    HAMED AZIZI-: Mr. Ahmad zai pointed out that there is no need for a multi-party system. . I agree with his view. But he has not thrown any light on the dissolution of the parties which should have been taken into consideration, earlier.
    USTAD AHMADZAI: Multiple parties have no room in an Islamic state because they are a source of trouble and dissension and whatever is the cause of trouble, is in itself a trouble.
         Dissolution of parties will be faced with many difficulties in future and hence Mr. Azizi has made an apt remark in this connection. In my opinion when all the parties are able tp form an Islamic government In Afghanistan and an assembly of pious and sagacious representatives and religious scholars succeed in legislation and supervising the functions of the government, they will in effect become like members of one single party. In this way, the multiplicity of parties will automatically come to an end.
                                                 71
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
     ARSHAD ZRSHAD: Most of the Muslim intellectuals and religious scholars are of the opinion that Islam is a religion of enlightenment and broad dimension. It has never stood in the .way of reasoning, analytical thinking, finding ways and means to achieve the desired end and also solving problems according to the requirements of time and prevailing conditions. That is why different sects have emerged in Islam. Hence if any party or organization in an Islamic society do^s not clash with Islamic principles, it cannot be rejected.
     USTAD AHMADZAI:  Mr.  Arshad  Irshad by referring to the existence of religious
     sects, has implied as if religious sects were political parties and so we can deduce the legitimacy of political parties on this ground. I would like to point out to him that the sects fall under the category of Islamic jurisprudence whereas parties have a political dimension and political parties are the topic of our discussion. Our saints and jurisconsults have never expressed the desire to become rulers or administrators.
     NAHZAT FARAHI:  Single-party  system is the sign of dictatorship and multiparty
     system is a blessing of God. For example, Daud established a party called, Milli Ghorzang (National Movement), thus initiating a single-party system which led to the highest degree of despotism and political strangulation. If at that time multi-party system had been introduced, the communists could never come to power because the Islamic parties would have exposed the communists.
     QAZI MOHAMMAD HAKEEM: Mr. Ahmadzai has not explained in his article as to what would be the future of the existing parties in, tomorrow's Afghanistan and how Could the multi-party system be avoided. Similarly he has not elaborated the point, whether the members of the satanic party would be called infidels or sinners? Another question worth consideration is, the definition of neutral or moderate parties.
     USTAD AHMADZAI: In my opinion, the satanic party is a party of the infidels i.e. it is an organization of the followers of satan. But even if a Muslim sins or is accused Of polytheism, we cannot treat him as follower of satan. Religious scholars are of the view that if a Muslim commits a major sin, he cannot be dubbed an infidel and remains a member of the Muslim community and when he belongs to the Muslim society, naturally he belongs to the party of Allah. All the Muslims automatically belong to the party of Allah and the presence of*evildoers among them cannot be ruled out.
          As regards averting multiplicity of parties in future, it must be said that it is the duty of an Islamic government to discourage multiplicity and dissensions and all kinds of disputes and differences.
     SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI:  We  should not merely provide an answer to this question,
     whether we ought to have many parties in the future Afghan society or not, but we should also look into this question that our Islamic society may not be faced with such a situation that the government in power may create some dissensions and use it as a means to limit and curtail the freedom of expression. The reason is that whatever government may come into power, it patronizes some of the religious scholars so that they may support the same ruling party or government. On the other hand the same government may gag or suppress other religious leaders who do not see eye to eye with the administration.
                                                 72
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
         Such a formula should be proposed that if there are no political parties in an Islamic .society, which would not be in the fitness of things, what sort of arrangement be made so that the freedom of expression, which has been granted by Almighty Allah for the well-being of manking, may not be jeopardized and may be safeguarded.
                                        ARTICLES
                 LOCAL ADMINISTRATION UNDER ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: ARSHAD IRSHAD
         There is no doubt that Islam does not consider the establishment of government as its summum bonum but regards this institution as a means to an end i.e. giving practical shape to the high ideals of religion.
         Of course, administration of residential sectors and society cannot be treated as something separate from the.objects of an Islamic government. Therefore the aims and objects of an Islamic government ought to be discussed on a general and extensive scale so that its role in the local or regional administration, which forms the main body of this government, should be explicitly determined.
         The question is what are these aims? Generally speaking, four noteworthy aims are as follows:
     1.  Creating awareness among human beings and members of the society.
     2.  Moral training and revival of ethical values.
     3.  Implementation of social justice.
     4.  Rescuing human beings from the bonds of slavery.
         In an Islamic government, pious and mature and knowledgeable persons should be appointed as administrators in each and every sector of the city who should form the nucleus of Islamic character and proper administration in order to ensure Islamic norms and teachings and fulfil their responsibilities in the best possible manner.
         In any community these elements have close relationship with each other:
         Individual, family, mosque, school, market and office and administrative centers.
         Islam has chalked out special programs for the healthy upkeep and usefulness of each of these institutions and has formulated special principles and methods for their correct coordination.
                                                 73
 APR IL-JUNE, 1992                    Mi  JIB                     VOL.  5 NO. 3
       The Holy Prophet (PBUH) established a model Islamic society and government at Medina and first of all arranged for the construction of a mosque because at that time, the mosque was the axis of civil and military administration. Thus school and religious institutions play a very delicate and valuable role in fostering human relations between all segments of society.
       Similarly Islam has devoted sufficient attention to markets and bazaars which form the hub of daily commercial activities and consumer sales and transactions.
                                  FUNCTIONS OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATION
       The most important factor in this regard is the qualitative and quantitative change in human relations so that the residents of a locality and its establishments may coordinate with each other on the Islamic pattern and in consonance with the teachings of Islam. If we could introduce Islamic relations in place of bureaucratic dealings and injustice and discrimination in the existing regions and localities within the framework of Islamic government, we may be able to organize regional establishments in an Islamic style.
                 .                                     i
       Islam covers all the aspects of human relations and not a part of it without ignoring the smallest and most minute facets of individual and social relations.
       There is no room for personal, ethnic, racial, geographic and class distinction in Islam because this religion is free from all such prejudices and always adopts a balanced attitude and follows the path of righteousness. Therefore, the appointment of a commander, a governor or a director should be based on principles and from the Islam view point all government functionaries should possess the following qualifications:
      Religious faith, piety, sound education, administrative talent, honesty, courage, good reputation and experience. They should perform their duties in the best manner and ensure proper and healthy administration in order to fulfil their Islamic mission. Therefore, a local authority or a civilian officer of a locality should consider himself responsible to the ordinary men in the street. The glorious Islamic history is full of such instances and examples.
      Islam lays down general principles for local as well as regional administrative procedures. An abstract of these principles is given below:
 1.   Organization work including planning, specifying targets and fair distribution of work.
 2.   Sense of commitment and accountability to God and the people.
 3.   Positive approach in public dealing.
 4.   Maintenance of social and administrative justice.
 5.   Assessment of the govdrnrtent functionaries' performance and supervision of work.
                                             74
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992                BNJfHflfl                        VOL. 5 NO- 3
    6.  Keeping in view religious and Islamic standards (faith, piety and character etc.) while selecting officials at every level.
    7.  Admonishment of violators of law and anti-social elements and encouragement of sympathetic and capable persons because such a healthy and positive Islamic attitude in official dealings, fosters the spirit of cooperation and brotherhood among the people and' the government officers and.a sense of . mutual responsibility is established.
                 ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT VERSUS DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM BY: ABDUL HAFEEZ HAMED
                         GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF GOVERNMENT
    A) LITERAL MEANING OF GOVERNMENT:  Government means  literally to govern or to
    rule. It is, in other words, the ability to issue an order and to enforce it. Of course there is a difference between the government and the state although apparently one finds a resemblance between the two.
    B) DESCRIPTION OF GOVERNMENT:   It is an institution composed of a man-made
    organisation and establishment having different grades and levels which coordinates and functions for the betterment of society and common weal. The fountain-head of its power and influence is the constitution.
    C) GOVERNMENT AND STATE: Legal experts and statesmen find a distinct difference of meaning between .government and state. A. state consists of a country's territory, nation and administrative machinery, whereas the executive and administration is called the government.
    D) COMPONENTS OF GOVERNMENT: The following factors, briefly stated, lead to the
    formation of a government:
    (1) NATURAL FACTORS: Man is by nature a social animal, whereas social life necessitates the existence of a ruling body. This ruling body or government provides a framework of law and order in the society to enable the people live in a civilized mariner.
    (2) RATIONAL AND RELIGIO-LEGAL NECESSITY: In view of the requirements of social life, the protection and safeguard of individual and social interests of mankind entail a decent and proper government to be able to protect the rights of the individual and the society and to forestall any injustice or violation of individual or collective'rights.
    (3) POLITICAL AND REVOLUTIONARY RIGHTS: Sometimes a nation resorts to jehad or revolution to topple an undesired regime and to establish a government of its own liking. In this case, a nation in order to organize its revolutionary affairs on the one hand, and on the other tp gain the confidence of international agencies and forces and to enjoy the privilege of being a state, attempts to form a government.
                                               75
    APRIL-JUNE. 1992                      fltMJM                     VOL.  5 NO. 3
         In short, the following points determine the role of government:
         a)  In the absence of a government, a society falls prey to disorder and finally collapses.
         b)  Implementation of religious laws is practicable only through a government.
         c)  A government guarantees peace, security, progress, social welfare and personal dignity and honor.
                                     SOVEREIGNTY AND ITS CONNOTATION
         Sovereignty is the highest pre-requisite of a state. In democracies, the right of sovereignty belongs to the people, whereas a democratic government derives its power and authority from, the nation and elected national representatives. On the contrary, in despotic regimes, a King or a President, without taking into consideration the will and consent of. the majority of his people (probably in the name of the people or with the excuse that he represents the will of the people) imposes ,his view on them and enforces it. But from the Islamic viewpoint, total sovereignty belongs to God Almighty and man is the vice-regvnt of God'on earth.
                      ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT AND ITS FUNDAMENTALS
       The Islamic society came into existence with the advent of Islam under the guidance of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and gained political strength after the
                       »                  ■                   I
   Migration. Then it acquired the form of a government. This Islamic government is endowed with a special characteristic which.makes it distinct from any other system Of government.
       The premier fundamental rtile of an Islamic government is, that sovereignty belongs solely to Allah and a government of the Faithful is in fact in the nature of vice-regency of God which has no right to be autocratic. A Caliph should perform his duties according to the Divine Law guided by the Quran and the Traditions Qf the Holy Prophet.(PBUH)
       "...The decision rests with Allah only, who hath commanded you that ye
       worship none save Him. This is the right religion but most men know not".
       (Surah Yousuf: Verse-40)
       For further information, please refer to verses 59,    64,65,80  and 105 of
  Surah Al-Nessa; verses 44, 45, 47 of Surah Al-Ma'edah; verses 54 and 55 of Surah Al-Noor; Verse 26 of Surah Al-Ahzab and verse 7 of Surah Al-Hashr, wherein the Divine sovereignty has been explained.
       The Holy Prophet of Islam (PBUH) too has explicitly stated this criterion on many occasions, thus:
       "You are dutybound to follow the Book of God and do whatever has been
       declared lawful and abstain from whatever has been declared forbidden".
76
VOL. 5 NO. 3
APRIL-JUNE, 1992               flfGIMH
                                             DEMOCRACY
       In political terminology it means superiority of the national will and government by the people. In political science, this terminology is most in vogue and is a Greek word composed of "demos" i.e. the people and "cracy" i.e. the rule of, which means the "rule of people".             (
       The first country to experiment, with democracy was France but this experiment culminated in such tragedies and massacres that ultimately the people found no other alternative but to restore the system of monarchy. Among other European countries, Belgium is the oldest experimenter of democracy. Its first democratic constitution was passed in 1831 guaranteeing the freedoms of expression, ■ statement and association. The Swiss too based their first ' constitution on democratic principles envisaging people's participation and their freedom to determine their future.
                         CRITICAL APPRECIATION OF DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM
       The idea  of democracy (of which at present the West is the torch-bearer)
  rests on the   principle of sovereignty of the people or sovereignty      of the
  republic whereas the Islamic system is based on the principle of "Caliphate". In democracy the people are the sovereign but in Islam sovereignty belongs to God Almighty and man is the vice-regent of Allah on earth. In democracy, religious law   and civil law are administered by the monarch and are enacted by the people
  but   in Islam, God is the law-maker and the masses of people are obliged to act
  according to His Commands and abide by the rules enunciated by Him.
    ADMINISTRATIVE SET-UP OF JUDICIARY AND ITS ORGANIZATION IN THE FUTURE ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN BY: ABDUL WAHED NAHZAT FARAHI
      There is no doubt that the Soviet tyrants, by staging the communist and atheistic coup of 27 April 1978 and taking advantage of the weak-kneed policies and inefficiency of the past un-Islamic regimes, made frantic attempts and intensive efforts to transform our sublime Islamic Afghan culture to an alien and unacceptable Russian culture. The unsavory and unpleasant after-effects of this culture are still visible in different fields of our social life. One of these changes was the Russification of our judicial system. During their hold on our country, they attempted twice to change the administrative set-up, the legislative structure and the judicial texture of our country and implemented the basic tenets of the Russian judiciary.
      Separating the three powers of statecraft and ensuring the independence of the judiciary is an accepted Islamic principle. The future judicial system of the country should be based on this principle arid ought to perform its duties alongside the other two powers of the state with honesty, integrity and without any interference by the others. Copying others' laws and judicial system and imitating others' culture tantamounts to giving up our own magnificent Islamic values. Although accommodating good points from others' cultures enriches one's .own culture but imitating others subserviently goes against one's grain. We
                                             77
  APR IL- JUNE, 1992                  MMlfflD                      VOL. 5 NO. 3
  desire that according to the Islamic constitution, judiciary should be recognized an independent organ of the state and the number of judg'es in the Supreme Court should be determined in consonance with the requirements of our society. The      competence  and jurisdiction of the future Islamic judiciary
  should be outlined in the light of the aims and achievements of our jehad and ought to be treated as an independent and separate institution to implement the articles of the constitution and to safeguard it.
      However, it may be pointed out that the verdict of the lower court, though, issued after due consideration for justice and fairplay, can be referred to the higher court for revision and reconsideration.
                  JUDICIARY AND ITS JURISDICTION IN ISLAM BY: KAMAL SHINWARI
      As human life is not possible without- bread, water and breathing, a society devoid of justice and fairplay and deprived of security, will always be faced with unexpected dangers. Therefore justice and the rule of law guarantee a calm, peaceful and progressive society» Judiciary is the only institution which ensures justice. Equity and impartiality in the judicial system is the corner stone of law and order and cements the infrastructure of the government.
      Hazrat Ali (May Allah Bless His Countenance) has said, "a country can survive despite infidelity but cannot survive without justice".
      Judiciary is an institution which blocks the path of the wrongdoer, deters the usurper and relieves the oppressed from the clutches of the oppressor and punishes the criminal.
      "As for the thief, both male and female, cut off their hands. It is the reward of their own deeds and exemplary punishment from Allah..." (Surah Al-Ma'edah: Verse-38)
      Not only Islam but other religions too attach great importance to justice and fairplay. God Almighty commanded Hazrat Daud (PBCJH) to judge rightly;
      "...O David. We have set thee as a viceroy in the earth; therefore judge aright between mankind and follow not desire that it beguile thee from the way of Allah..." (Surah Swad: Verse-26)
      Besides, all the prophets have been ordained with this great mission:
      "We verily sent Our messengers with clear proofs and revealed with them the Scripture and the Balance, that mankind may observe right measure; and He revealed iron, wherein is mighty power and (many) uses for mankind and that Allah may know him who helpeth Him and His messengers, though unseen..." (Surah Al-Hadid: Verse - 25)
     The value and the importance of the judiciary is amply illustrated by the fact that the Divine messengers themselves assumed the responsibility to dispense justice. Islam regards administration of justice as an act of worship.
                                      78
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
AMD
 It is a sort of worship which does not benefit the worshipper only but is Source of well-being for. the entire human race. It is like- rain whica favors all. It is mentioned in the Sayings of the Holy Prophet, that:
      "The land where the Divine Commands are enforced, is purer than the land which has received continuous rain for forty days."
      All sects of our religion agree that dispensation of justice, according to the Islamic Legal Code, is a utalitarian duty. If it so happens that the Caliph, due to his engagements, could not personally perform the judicial duty, he is duty bound to appoint a pious and wise man as a judge.
      Islam is a religion of justice and ordains all the Muslims to be fair and just in their dealings:
      "And if ye fear a breach between them twain (the man and wife), appoint two arbiters, one from his family and the other trom her folk. If they desire for peace, Allah will cause their reconciliation... (Sura-Messa: Verse-35).
      According to the Sayings of the Holy Prophet:
      "One day of justice is superior to 60 years of worship".
             OFFICE OF THE OMBUDSMAN IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: BAHAUDDIN BAHA:
      Office of the Ombudsman is the highest institution of justice in an Islamic government dealing with complaints against the crimes and injustices committed by the state functionaries against the common man or violations of law and proceedings leading to situations going against the national interests and requirements of state security. It is treated as the paramount court of justice in an Islamic State and considered as more distinct than all the other courts in the country.
      The first and foremost thing that the mind of man grasped in the light of his sense and reasoning, since his inception, was personal freedom and natural rights. Later on he realized his individual status through the struggle for survival and discerned his social status through human existence and the secret of social texture. Then he came to know his individual and collective rights and obligations gradually through the passage of time.
      The duty of this office is to check injustice and to forestall any violation of justice by the powerful authorities, taking undue advantage of their official position or using their influence for personal motives or defrauding or cheating resourceless and weaker people. It is quite possible that such an injustice or harm might have been committed against the moral rights and personal dignity and/or physical health of a per'son. On the other hand it is quite possible that such an action may harm the interests and security of a society, disrupting the social order;
                                            79
APR IL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
      The troubles and travails imposed on Afghanistan and its Muslim nation during the past 13 years, are so evident t.hat it would be redundant to rephrase it. I think it would be sufficient to briefly paraphrase the feelings of my conscience that after the final victory, we deem it necessary to establish justice and to adhere completely to the fundamentals of the Divine Law and the Holy Religion of Islam and the most valuable Quranic teachings, for the sake of restructuring Afghanistan on proper Islamic lines. Simultaneously with the establishment of governments in order to create trust and confidence in the leadership, the office of the Ombudsman should come into force to redress the wrongs and to restore the rights of the common man, as ordained by the Holy Quran:
      "And there is life for you in retaliation, 0 men of understanding, that ye > may ward off (evil).'1 (Surah Al-Baqarah: Verse No. 179).
      Actually the term "retaliation" mearis punishment for crime and restoration of the lost rights which should be treated as top priority in the governmental set-up. Thus once again with the help of fairplay and justice and piety, the glory of early period of Islam would be revived as a present and gift for our people.
                                             DISCUSSIONS
 HABIBULLAH GHALEB:  Mr.   Arshad  Irshad has described the general pattern of
 administration and its organizational aspects, but has not discussed the setup of the administration and relationship of local administration with central administration and its format etc. Similarly he has discussed the distinctive features of administration in the framework of Islam, stating that Islamic administration has such and such distinctions and an un-Islamic one has such and such defects, but has not cited any example in this connection.
 ARSHAD IRSHAD:   When the   Islamic system  was evolved, the regional or local
 departments formed the organs of the central administration. If we may describe an administration in a generally understandable manner, we can say that in the same way as a father or an elderly person is responsible for the control and management of the family affairs, in av country a caliph looks after the affairs of the state. In the Islamic system, administration starts from the family level beause family is a tiny unit of society.
      As regards Islamic administration, I have stated that it should have such characteristics that serious attention should be paid to the modality of appointment of administrators, balanced treatment with the personnel be ensured and rule of law and justice be guaranteed. However, I have mentioned certain points to authenticate my arguments. Further details may be studied in different books on this subject.
DR. ABDUL HAI: So far as I know, democracy has numerous meanings which vary in different societies. Anyhow mainly democracy has two well-known meanings..One is a government of the people, by the people and for the people which is in other words, the absolute supremacy of the people. This idea is repugnant to Islam
                                          80
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                       mniU                    VOL. 5 NO. 3
  because according to Islam absolute sovereignty belongs • to Allah. But if democracy is construed as participation of the' people in the process of self-determination, respect for public opinion, giving , an opportunity to the people to have a say in the affairs of the state and providing equal opportunities to all, then in my opinion, it would be consonant with Islam. What I mean to say is that democracy is not totally repugnant to Islam but has a conditional variance.
  HAMED AZIZI:  I agree with Dr. Abdul Hai that democracy has a conditional
  variance with Islam. But there is a certain difference in its application and compliance. For example, democracy is called a government of the people, for the people. In such a condition, obviously the head of state or Vhe King is the legislator, whereas in the Islamic system, God Almighty is the law-maker and sovereignty belongs to God.
  DR. ABDUL HAI: During the lifetime of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) the embryo of an Islamic government was formed. But the triple powers form the nucleaus of an Islamic government. The Holy Prophet had appointed one person for one assignment.    During the rule of the Righteous           Caliphs, that one person assumed
  the shape of one department and in the reign of the Ommayeds and the Abbasids,
  these departments were transformed into ministries. The book "Al-Tartib Al-Idariyah     Fi Hukumat-al-Nabaviyah" proves            beyond doubt    that during the
  lifetime of    the Holy Prophet (PBUH), a true           specimen of a genuine government
did exist in the real sense of the term,
NAHZAT FARAHI: -The Holy Prophet \rBUH) performed all these three functions himself. But whenever he could not do so, he would appoint someone else to do the job.
HAMED AZIZI: Who appoints the Ombudsman? What are his powers? Can the president dismiss him? Can the Ombudsman dismiss the president?
BAHAUDDIN BAHA: It has been written in the books, that the Islamic Caliph or the President of an Islamic state himself is the Ombudsman and ombudsmanship is one of his prime duties. But he can delegate these powers to someone else too'. Hence when he has the power to delegate authority, he can withdraw the authority, too.
                                               ARTICLES
               COORDINATION BETWEEN ORGANS OF THE GOVERNMENT BY: JAUHER SIDDIQI
     Absolute supremacy of the Divine Law (Shariat) in the Islamic society, never makes the Muslims feel the need of adopting any other system especially democracy. The Islamic teachings play a positive role in the formation of the political system for the Muslims. A close comparison of the fundamentals of Islamic democracy with other democracies, prove that the .contemporary democracies are, on many counts, close to the fundamental Islamic system. So much so that it can be stated that while drafting the constitutions of most of the countries, maximum advantage has been taken from the Islamic political system.
               According to the Islamic Law, there are four organs of state, as follows:
                                           81
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992                   flfGllflNJEHAO                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
 1.   Legislative Power, as explained in the Holy Quran:
      " And those who answer the call of their Lord and establish worship and whose affairs are a matter of counsel, and who spend of what we have bestowed on then". (Surah Al-Shoora: Verse-38)
 2.   Executive Power, as elucidated in this Quranic verse:
      "O ye who believe, obey Allah and obey the messenger and those of you who are in authority? and if ye have a dispute concerning any matter, refer it to Allah and the messenger if ye are (in' truth) believers in Allah and the Last Day. That is better and more seemly in the end". (Surah Al-Nessa: Verse-59)
 3.   Judiciary, as s.tated in the Holy Quran:
      "Lp. Allah commandeth you that ye restore deposits to their owners, and, if ye judge between mankind, that ye judge justly..." (Surah Al-Nessa: Verse-58)
 4* Accountability: Most pf the jurisprudents consider its competence as part of the special powers of the judiciary and it can be treated as a noteworthy organ of the Islamic government. Its religious principle is based on this verse of the Holy Quran:
      ” And there may spring from you a nation who invite to goodness and enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency. Such are they who are successful". (Surah Al-Imran:   Verse-104).
                                   JUDICIARY AND EXECUTIVE POWER
      Separation of the triple powers has been • a subject of legal discussion since long*. Some of the legal experts believe in their complete independence. Some others stress the spirit of cooperation and coordination among the said organs of the state in such a way that they become a part in the whole and not a part attached to the whole. The Islamic legal code instead of? stressing the independence of these government organs, emphasizes on the moderation and balance between their relations to each other which may be discerned from the ■following points:                    •
 1.   In the Islamic system, appointment of judges is a prerogative of the head of state. But the Islamic jurisprudents explain that as a result of the death of a Caliph, their judicial powers are not suspended till the issuance of new orders of appointment. In their opinion, the judges get their mandate and competency to dispense justice from the original source of sovereignty i.e. the nation, whereas the head of state issues the order of appointment on behalf of the people.
 2.   The head of state, in case of committing a crime or violating civil laws, is liable to be.tried in a court of law like any other citizen, because the Islamic le£al code applies to the entire Islamic 'community without any
82
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                    VOL. 5 NO. 3
      exception. This in itself is an example of the independence of judiciary, which is an absolute .prerequisite of an Islamic state, and the executive cannot in anyway alter the course of justice.
 3.   In case the head of state or an assemblyduly elected by the people, enforce a law repugnant to Shariat, the judge has the right to refuse its implementation and to inform the competent authorities about the mistake or the miscarriage of law.
 4.   In view of the fact that judiciary is an organ of the state and its proper and infallible function adds to the moral credibility of the government among the people, the government ought, to provide them with adequate salaries to ensure their1 economic immunity and to be self-reliant. Otherwise economic necessities may mislead them from the path of justice and may deprive them of the independence of judgement.
                                  EXECUTIVE POWER AND ASSEMBLY
      The government, before taking any action concerning an important matter having an extraordinary impact on the future of Islamic society, like declaring war etc., should seek the consent of the elected representatives of the people because it is not only the right of public representatives to express their opinion in such matters but is part of their obligation also to guide the government by giving useful advice.
      Although the Holy Quran, Traditions and Saying's of the Holy Prophet (PBUH),. methodology of the Righteous Caliphs and consensus of the Muslim community explicitly point to the importance of assembly, yet the question arises whether the head of state is required to accept the opinion of the assembly? A glance at the way of life of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and other Righteous Caliphs (May Allah be Pleased with Them) shows that well-intentioned proposals of the advisers in general and their suggestions regarding important matters in particular, were given due consideration except in /some cases when such suggestion? were not accepted owing to peculiar circumstances. For example, Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq (May Allah be Pleased with Him) wanted to declare war against the apostates but Hazrat Omar (May Allah be Pleased with Him) and some other companions of the Holy Prophet opposed him. Hazrat Abu Bakr, having taken this decision on stronger rules of the Islamic Legal Code, did not agree to their points of view. Later events and developments proved that his action and decision were completely correct.
             SUPERVISION OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT
     As pointed out earlier, follow-up of governmental actions ensures their positiveness and effectiveness to a large extent. But is it possible to formulate the.basic rules of supervision in the light of the Islamic Legal Code?
     The first Caliph, Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq, in his premier address to the peopLe, said: "If I do the right thing, please help me to carry out my duty but if I go astray, lead me to the right path." These short remarks of Abu Bakr Siddiq clearly indicate that each and every individual of the Islamic society
                                                 f
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                    flfdjflMJ[H/IO                   VOL.   5 NO.  3
  has the right to check and supervise the actions taken by the government functionaries and to criticize it as and when required, in, order to exert public opinion on the official proceedings.                    v-
       Given the legal obligation of supervising governmental actions, the question is how .is it possible in our contemporary life?.
       In our contemporary life, our problems have become more complicated.. Now the question arises, .are the counsellors or the assembly competent enough to interfere and block the enforcement of a decision before the head of state takes any action? Similarly in case the head of state issues an order for action but this order may be repugnant to the Islamic Legal Code, would his order be considered null and void and ..if it is already enforced, how it may be annulled? Is the assembly competent to do this job on its own or is it obliged to refer it to a capable judicial authority so that the judliciary may issue its verdict on the legality or otherwise of the said order and instruct about its compensation'
      Looking back at the historical perspective, one cannot find a proper answer but one can dedude from the general principles of public rights consonant with the . spirit of Islamic Legal Code,' a suitable solutio'n. In the contemporary parliamentary system framework, the president can use his executive powers through the cabinet answerable to the parliament. As the people, have the right to check the 'actions of the' government, it means that the cabinet is held accountable to the public. Is it possible to accommodate this system in the Islamic system of governments?              .
      One has to go into some detail, to answer this, question, in the Islamic system, the Caliph can delegate a part of his powers to the senior minister. Similarly the Caliph can appoint a number of ministers for financial, administrative, cultural, political and military affairs etc. Al-Mavardi writes: "All these ministers have to coordinate with each other to carry out the duties assigned to them".
      If we concede that the Islamic system agrees to the formation of cabinet prevalent in the contemporary political systems, still two basic points of dispute remain to be settled.                                                     ^
      Firstly, in the Islamic system the cabinet is only answerable to the Caliph and has ^no responsibility toward^ the parliament or the legislature. Whereas in the parliamentary system, the cabinet is responsible to the parliament. Hence the complete separation of the triple powers of the state, as envisaged in parliamentary system, does not exist in*the Islamic system. Therefore- it' may•be said that the Islamic system resembles the constitutional presidential system of the United States.
      Secondly, delegation of power by the Caliph to the ministers does not mean that the Caliph himself is incapable of carrying out these functions. The same principle is observed in the contemporary presidential system, too.
      The nation has the right to check the actions of the government and the president. The head of state is not immune to the criticism^ and objections of the people as well as trial by court of law, for any culpable action. This is a
                                        ■ ■ (.
  84
 \
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3.
 distinction of the Islamic Legal Code compared to either the democratic or the presidential system.
      As a result of this discussion, we come to the conclusion that in most of the' Islamic countries, this principle has been accepted .that ministers should perform their responsibilities according to the spirit of the Islamic Legal Code.
              ISLAMIC MEASURES FOR SOME OF THE ECONOMIC ISSUES BY: OR. ABDUR RAHMAN ULFAT
      The economic system of Islam is historically more time-honored than any other system and this historic antiquity guarantees its independence and self-sufficiency compared with the other two sysrtems. As according to Islam, man is vice-gerent of God, authoritarian, and despotic rule is simply not possible. Governance in Islam is related to the individual and the state, both, whereas in the other two systems, it goes to the extremes. In one form of government, all power belongs to one individual but in another, all power belongs to the state. Economic freedom, from the Islamic viewpoint, has its own framework. It is neither absolutely free like capitalism, nor incapacitated like communism. This economic  moderation reflects the general              trend of moderation and
 middle-of-the-road nature of Islam. Islam, looks into the individual conscience as well as obliges the ruler to fulfil his duty of material welfare of ’ the populace. Due to this reason, an individual becomes the pivot of economic activity so - that he may benefit from his personal enterprises and in the meantime be a source of contribution-to the social welfare.
      People have different talents and abilities. Existence of the poor is inevitable in every society. But the ruler has a major responsibility in this connection, because he has to fulfil the needs qf the poor and to raise "their standard of living in order to ensure social balance.
      The hollowness of Western and communist ideology and thought has been exposed to all and sundry owing to the Afghan jehad and hence does not need any discussion. .
      Now let us compare capitailism and liberalism with Islam and focus our attention to usury and Zakat (title) from different angles.
      Zakat has the same role in Islamic society as usury has in the capitalist society- In this connection, the Holy Quran reads as follows:
      "That which - Ye give in usury in order that it may ^increase on (other) people's property hath no increase with Allah; but that "Which ye give in charity, seeking Allah's countenance, hath increase manifold". (Surah Al-Rome: Verse-39).                              ,     ^
      If usury gives materialistic pleasure to man, charity or Zakat .gives spiritual pleasure. Usury is miserliness, but charity is generosity. Usury.is hatred whereas charity is magnificence. Usury is selfishness and charity is
                                                         85
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992                   mum                 VOL. 5 NO.  3
 'altruism. Usury is . a refusal of the unseen and charity is faith in the "unseen' Usury is consumable in this world but charity is the asset for the hereafter. Usury, if' apparently adds to the wealth of tomorrow, charity guarantees the stabilty Of the society. Usury is instrumental to hoarding and charity counters hoarding. Usury enhances the wealth of the rich? charity is a sort of tax paid for the benefit of the poor.
      In order to implement Islamic economic policy, the under-mentioned three conditions, which are complementary to each other, should be observed:
      (1)  Understanding the basic teachings df Islam?
      (2)  Careful consideration of the problems?
      (3)  Good intentions and firm faith in Allah.
      A country's economic freedom is ensured by its respect for labor. Economic independence is the fountainhead of all other freedoms. In case we do not have economic independence, all our other policies would inevitably be influenced by ■ the foreign powers.
      Now we have an unprecedented suitable opportunity to implement the fundamentals of Islamic economy in Afghanistan. This job needs wisdom and wise assessment of the pros and cons. Of course, the result of this action would become visible gradually. The greatest hazard in this path, would be                                   an
 imbalanced economic policy and that means taking a decision today and cancelling it tomorrow. In the political affairs of Afghanistan, if multi-party system jLs introduced then each party coming into power would nullify the other party's economic policies.
                                         SOCIAL LIFE SYSTEM
 BY: MAWLAWI ABDUL MAJEED
      The  social                             system in Islam, though apparently has a connection with the
 government (or the caliphate), is divided in two parts. One part is concerned directly  with Caliphate and the second    part has an indirect link     with                         the
 caliphate through the behavior of the people. The part having direct connection with the caliphate includes the following subjects:
      (1) Establishment of a Public Fund, (2) Regulations regarding real estate, (3) Central over collection of revenue.
      The second part having indirect connection with the government through the people is as under:                    '
      (1)  Making                             chayity obligatory, (2) Prohibiting, stock-piling of consumer
items or foodgrains, (3) Earning livelihood through legitimate means.
      Now we come to the economic aspects of the social life, in the following order:
SECTION ONBs
      Establishment of Fublic Fund, 2. Management of accounts, 3. As.iOnm.nt.
86
 APR IL-JUNE> ,1992                 flfGllilH JtH/10               VOL.  5  NO. 3
       of duties; 4. Enhancement of the' means of income; 5. Determining limits of personal possessions or- ownership; 6. Guidelines for maintaining a balance between capital and labor; 7. Special instructions' regarding landed property.
   SECTION TWO:
 1.   Voluntary charity; 2. Religious endowments; 3. Alms and Charities; 4. Preparing the last will; 5. Goodwill loan; 6. Short term loan; 7. Trust.
       Sayed Alizadah Hanafi, while discussing the duties of a head of state in his book, "Sharah-e-Shar'atul Islam" (commentary on the Islamic Legal Code), writes:
       "The Head of state should see-to it that there is no one poor, no one in debt, no one < weak or helpless, no one oppressed or unable to get justice done, no one dares to assume the role of tyrant in the country under his rule and he has to provide clothes to the bare-skinned".
       The head of state has the authority to replenish the deficit of one district or division by granting loan from the resources of another district to enable the financially deficit area to meet its expenses. Hence various kinds of taxes, land revenues, tithe, toll tax, custoiri duty etc. can have a good effect on the state revenue income.
   ' The head of state is only a trustee or a custodian of Ushr and Zakat (taxes and charities) which may be used for the benefit of the needy in consultation with the shoora or at the discretion of the caliph.
                     ARMED FORCES IN ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN BY: GENERAL YAHYA NOWROZ
      In the Afghan Army during the monarcy, the general education and training had limited dimensions and included general knowledge and religious instructions, emphasizing national unity and the aims and objects of safeguarding the independence and sovereignty of the state. Yet the royal regime and later the republican regime, while revising the organization of the army,
 modernized the Afghan Army on the lines of the erstwhile Soviet Army But did not accommbdate the formation of a political institution. It was only after the Marxist coup that the political wing with a number of branches was established on a vast basis. Thus the teachings and theory of Marxism replaced the limited general education, with greater vigour and on an expanded scale.
      All the countries of the world have armies, basically proportionate to their manpower and economic vitality. Actually one cannot imagine a state devoid of well organized and equipped and disciplined armed forces in this troubled world, because the existence and survival of states hangs on the might of armed forces. Since many centuries Afghanistan has had regular armies which have performed their duties according to the orders and instructions of different
                                                        87
                                                                               \
                                                                                           I
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                    MM1 Jlfl________             VOL. 5 NO. 3
 administrations in a satisfactory manner. Even now after the 12 years of jehad, it retains its original shape and existence.
                                         • ( ■ , •
      The army under the command of the Kabul regime is composed of young soldiers recruited from towns and cities of Afghanistan who are undoubtedly sons of Muslims and Afghan citizens and from this point of view, are not different from the mujaheddin who are fighting them. The only difference that exists is the control and policy of the government which has led them to the battlefield. In future if political conditions- are such that the same army is assigned a different duty to perform, as witnessed by history during the past years, it will play another role. There is no doubt that in the army,, particularly in the deployment and administrative cadres, officers and soldiers having specific and sometimes contradictory political ideas, have always existed and at present also exist in sufficient numbers. So in an altered political system, it is quite possible that they may not be able to give up their beliefs and convictions and may turn into dissident elements harming the military discipline. Under these circumstances, a clean-up operation for purging such elements from the military badres, which has many historic and contemporary examples, may be undertaken, as a matter of principle, subsequent to the establishment of a new political system and specification of future objectives.
      Reorganization of a modern army in any sort of geographical and social conditions is not an easy job. Only such persons can think it an easy task, who have not taken into consideration the difficulties entailed in such a process and the challenges faced for creating such a big and complex machine, or those wh'o may not have enough experience to assess the extent of economic, material, scientific and technical investment required for such a gigantic mechanism and more important than that, who have not visualized the area and the center of establishment of such an army and its political repercussions.
      However if it is desired to organize a new army or to reorganize the . existing structure of the Afghan army in a shorter period, keeping in view the above arguments, then the following essential points should be borne in mind to solve the future problems in this connection:
 1.   Determine the ideological, Islamic, social and political aim and duty of the army.
 2.   The stand and duties of the army , should be determined by the constitution and the relevant laws, and then the nature of relationship of the army with the government and the state, keeping in view the exigencies of time and the type of the government in power, should be determined.
 3.   The government should determine the size of the armed forces, taking into consideration the geographical and strategical situation and political conditions of the world and neighboring states1 domestic economy, shape of industry and communication lines of the country.
4.    Another important task is the deployment of the units and detachments of the armed forces in different parts of the country, which is also related to the contemporary conditions, position of the neighboring countries.
88
VOL. 5 NO.-' 3
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                HI Jill
     potential threats to independence and territorial integrity of the country, geographical facilities or difficulties and economical and social conditions of the different regions.
                                                         i
 5.   For a purposeful and coordinated progress of the combat and educative
     activities of well-organized armed forces, implementation of military doctrine i.e. the scientific and professional technique of its activity is an essential factor.
 6.   In view of the fact that since the beginning of the Afghan jehad, deep and speedy developments took place in the region, disrupting the pattern of old relationships between the interested countries, an assessment of the situation and establishment of military links with countries, deemed necessary by the requirements of the Islamic government's foreign policy, ought to be taken into consideration.
 7.   More attention should be paid to the intellectual development and general knowledge of the institutions related to the armed forces.
 8.   Compulsory recruitment should be replaced with voluntary recruitment in the army which will add to the professional efficiency and capability of the army in a positive manner.
                              SECURITY FORCES AND AN ISLAMIC STATE
 BY: LT. GEN. MOHAMMAD' AYUB ASEEL
                        • •
     Establishment of peace and law and order in a society is one of the basic factors of the society's composition without which one cannot even imagine its existence:  Simultaneous with the organized governmental set-up, security also
 attains the same importance, because protection of this set-up and its activity , depends entirely on the condition of law and order.
     The existence of law and order in a society can be discussed only when the individual rights of the members of such a society are respected through the rules and regulations prevalent in that society and necessary steps are taken to protect them, in the eyes of law, every individual has a series ’of rights and every right has its limits. Any violation of these limits is considered a crime and the violator is penalized. The institution which has the authority to enforce t;hese rules and shoulders the delicate and onerous responsibility to ensure maintenance of law and order, is called the police department.
     Prior to 1936 a number of government officials were•assigned with the duty of maintaining law and order in the country. Later a Police Training Academy-was set up at Mahtab Qala which trained literate recruits under compulsory recruitment scheme. In the year 1944 this training center was named'Gendarmerie , and Police Academy and in 1958 it was raised to the level of College of Police Training and ultimately in 1963 it was called the Police Academy.                ,
     Generally speaking, after the graduation and appointment of police officers in the capital, provinces, divisions, districts and sub-districts, a noticeable change was observed in the security arrangement and despite shortcomings^ which
                                                        89
 APRIL-JUNE* 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 are common to any system, the educated and trained Afghan police played a worthwhile role in the maintenance of law and order. The police had established good relations with the people and a reciprocal trust and confidence was created between the two. Thus, the people never hesitated to help or cooperate with the police.
      But this ideal tranquility did riot last long and with the direct Soviet military intervention on 27 April, 1978 a dark period of tragedy set in and Khalq and Parcham mercenary gangs plundered and massacred thq people and resorted to unprecedented crimes in the annals of criminal history.
      The Soviet 'advisers' assumed the responsibility of security directly according to their own lights and transformed the entire Afghaq set-up and insensibly introduced the Soviet set-up which was unacceptable to our social system.                                                     -j
      As mentioned earlier, after the tragedy of 27 April, 1978 the police departmerit was completely sovietized and hence was not commensurate with the requirements of the future Islamic government in Afghanistan. Therefore, it would now be necessary to lay the foundation of a new police organization.
      In order to totally revise the police force of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, committees of seasoned and experienced military officers, who have fought shoulder to shoulder with their mujahed brothers throughout the long years of the Holy War, should be formed. These committees should organize state security forces, crime-control police force and border police and coupled with that, ought to take necessary steps for framing relevant rules and regulations.
      Members of the state security service should be equipped with the weapon of religious faith and wisdom and should be able to fulfil the precarious obligation of guarding the security of the state. It ought to ensure law and order in the capital and the provinces without giving any opportunity whatsoever to the criminals to disturb the peaceful environment to the detriment of their countrymen.               -
      The Crime "Control Police should give a practical chapter to the anti-crime measures and ought to be educated in chemistry, photography, ballistics, forensic science, x-ray and forensic laboratory procedures.
     " The Border Guards should patrol the frontiers to maintain constant vigilance and should knqw that this country has long borders and need a great deal of hardwork and sacrifice. Therefore, they must resolve to carry out their assigned duties seriously and faithfully.
90
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
HUH
                                        DISCUSSION
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  HAMED AZIZI: In a section of Mr. Jauhar's article it i? stated: "A comparison of the performance of Islamic democracy with other democracies, proves the point that contemporary democracies, from many points of view, are close to the basic principles of Islamic system". Will you please throw light on it?
  JAUHAR SIDDIQI:   From the historical angle, the western countries, in the dark
  ages, sought guidance from Islamic principles, for the first time, for many of their human problems. All such rules, like equality before law and accountability etc, which are today on top of the international laws, have been introduced by Islam for the welfare of mankind. All the positive and humanitarian aspects of the present day rules and regulations throughout the world are indebted to the teachings of Islam.
  DR. ABDUL HAI: Messr3 Siddiqi and Arshad Irshad have referred to the relationship between the institutions and the local administration. The question is, whether in Islam, the power of administration is centralized or not?
  JAUHAR SIDDIQI: Permit me to answer this question. In Islam, the caliph heads the government, and all the government institutions perform their duties in their own jurisdictions, under the leadership and guidance of the caliph.
  SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI:   General Yahya Nowroz has stated in his article, that in
  the Afghan Army prior to the April coup, 1978 political indoctrination did not exist. I would like to know that if such a thing did not exist in the Afghan Army, how could the communist elements in the forces take part in political activities and had networks of their own, and why did the government not stop their activities?
  GEN. YAHYA NOWROZ:    As  regards political indoctrination, it must be said that
  during the monarchy, such a thing did not. exist in the Army. But communist indoctrination was carried on underground. The reason was that underground communist and non-communist networks existed all over the country. However, some activities were observed in the Army at that time which were stopped under military regulations, particularly during the last years of Daud's reign. But unfortunately such activities were so much wide-spread that required a revolutionary movement to forestall it. But the then democratic regime did not have the stamina to bring about such a revolution.
  USTAD AHMADZAI: If Dr. Ulfat has any information about the wealth of the church, would he be so good as to throw some light on it?
  DR. ULFAT: Twenty years back the wealth of the Roman Church amounted to approximately 40 million dollars. So by now it could have reached a huge
 proportion. But at the moment I do not possess my latest statistics.
                                                           91
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  MMJO                           VOL. 5 NO. 3
  FAZLOM-MENALLAH FAZLI: Gen. Yahya Nowroz referred to the republican and ’ the Marxist systems many times during his discourse. His analysis leads one to the conclusion that he considers the Daud regime, in a way, a legitimate one whereas it was not based on elections but was imposed by a coup and hence lacked legitimacy.
  GEN. YAHYA NOWROZ:   I have not written anything in my article which may be
  construed as conceding legitimacy to the Daud regime. Actually this regime had no legitimacy, because a system not backed by the nation, is logically' devoid of legitimacy.
  DR. ABDUL HAI: I would like to know the view of Dr. Ulfat about this question that what would be the impact of population control on the success or otherwise of big economic programs in Afghanistan?
  DR. OLFAT:   Actually population control or family planning is a political issue
  which has been labelled as a scientific one. The west feels insecure that probably in the distant future, other races may dominate them quantitatively. The western population has reached a saturation point or a stage of equilibrium. The number of deaths and births have become proportionate in the western countries. As they do not like to tell this point frankly to the world, they have euphemistically called it the issue of population explosion and have claimed that if populatibn is not controlled, the world would become poor and miserable.                                                                 .
  MOHAMMAD HASHEM AL-MUJADDEDI:  Birth  control is actually a.Zionist policy. The
  western countries have started a propaganda campaign in favor of population ■qrowth and offer special concessions to families producing more issues but on .the contrary they promote the idea of birth control among other nations.
  BAHAUDDIN BAHA: We all know that after the communist take over in Afghanistan, a serious and perplexing inflation has gripped this country. For instance by the last days, of  the monarchy,  the total circulation of the banknotes  amounted to
  eight billion  afghanis. By  the end of Daud's reign, it amounted to  160 billion
  afghanis. Now  according to  the report of the economists, it amounts to over 200
  bill.ion.
      Now, the question is, that after the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, how could this inflation be controlled?
  DR. OLFAT:   The figures quoted above, show a tremendous inflation, but
  fortunately with the change of political system in Afghanistan and coming into power of a new administration, the new government can put new banknotes in circulation cancelling the o'ld ones and declaring the previous transactions null and void.
 ARSHAD IRSHAD: Qazi Hakeem spoke about accountability. The question is, whether: accountability encompasses the functioning of the Ombudsman or vice-versa? Whether accountability has an executive aspect and if so, how wou.ld it be described?
                                           92
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992           AFGHANJEHAO                  VOL . 5 NO. 3
 QAZI MOHAMMAD HAKEEM: Obviously the Ombudsman being appointed by the head of state,. has executive powers and his decision has to be carried out and implemented .
                                          ARTICLES
        A COMPARISON BETWEEN THE COMPOSITION AND DUTIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES BY: HABIBULLAH GHALEB
      In view of the Seminar's recommendation, I would like to express my opinion regarding comparison between the composition and duties of Surveillance Authority, Judiciary, office of the Ombudsman and Check and Control Department with reference to their historic and legal background in the Afghan society and the need for their organization in the future government, as follows:
                          A. SURVELLIANCE AUTHORITY
      It is a new phenomenon of democracy. It supervises the legality of police procedures concerning investigation and looks into judicial processes, checks the criminal investigation, ensures collection of sufficient evidence regarding an allegation, pursues the case of the accused violating the Divine Rights, arranges the enforcement of the court decrees, looks after the protection of human rights of the accused during detention or imprisonment according to the rules of the Penal Code and the relevant laws. •
      It must be said that previously this was exclusively a police duty and the judge would’ look after the violations of Divine Rights or yrould depute someone else to do the job. If we compare these duties with the duties of accountability in the Islamic law-history, we find that this organization is more broad-based and gives a practical shape to the relevant theory.
                               B,  JUDICIARY.
      This department had established itself more squarely and more independently in the pre-war system as compared to the present and had an Islamic character. It had, to some extent, regained its credibility and competence relatively better than the past in Afghanistan in the era. of the 1964 constitution and dealt with all those issues which were referred to the courts of law. Only the military sector was outside the jurisdiction of the judicial authority. Although the judicial competence was confined, within • the framework of law, it had the authority to issue proper orders within the confines of the Hanafi sect jurisprudence in regard to those cases where the current Legal Coda was silent. Thus we observe that judiciary encompasses certain areas of the office of the Ombudsman, too, because these powers had been delegated to the special courts in the provinces, ' the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court, for the maintenance of law and order and for ensuring public, welfare. The constitution, in one of its'articles, gave this right to any individual who might have been harmed by the government or the relevant authorities and the public institutions, to appeal to the court of law,
93
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                             AMMO
OFFICE OF THE OMBUDSMAN
VOL. 5 NO. 3
      As evident from the past record of this' office in the Islamic system of government, this office besides the areas mentioned earlier, dealt with courts of law, security matters and public welfare, also.
      It was authorized to deal with complaints against the caliph or the head of state or the high authorities, to look into complaints against enactment of laws repugnant to the spirit of Islam as well as violation of the fundamental rules of the Islamic Legal Code through some government ordinances. Its authority was higher than the general judicial courts. But. generally speaking, its performance was not outside the judicial jurisdiction. Therefore its functions are not comparable to other departments.
                                    D. CHECK AND CONTROL DEPARTMENT
      This department was authorized to deal with all the aspects of the Penal Code. Hence we may say that its competence can be studied in the department of police. Surveillance Authority,judiciary, municipality, personnel record office and social and individual life of the people. . It covers accountability, religious beliefs, prayers, and general affairs of life,
      As it encompasses judiciary, military courts, special tribunals, high-ranking officers, members of cabinet, members of assembly and other public organizations as well as supervises conformation of by-laws with constitution
 and compliance of all regulations with the fundamental principles of the Islamic Legal Code, it is advisable that this department be independent and outside the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice so that it could perform its duties with complete freedom and without any fear of interference by influential elements. For this purpose the personnel of this department be appointed and/or relieved from service on the recommendation of the public representatives and the approval of the head of Islamic state, the above aim will be achieved.
              CATEGORIAL CLASSIFICATION OF POLITICAL SYSTEMS IN RELATION WITH INDIVIDUAL AND SOCIETY
 BY: ZAMAN MOZAMMEL
      Human life, generally speaking, has two aspects which have divided human rights and obligations in two parts. These are the individual and social aspects which are quite naturally complementary to each other.
      Throughout history, success and downfall of all the systems have depended on the balanced relationship between these two dimensions of man's life.
      In this century, two systems exist, which arei
 1.   Capitalist regimes-, 2. Communist regimes.
                                          94
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                    (IfCIlflNJEHAD                    VOL.  5 NO. 3
       Capitalist regimes are usually based on the freedom rights of an individual allowing more than necessary rights- to an individual, so much so that he can possess his own radio station, aeroplane and airport.
       In communist regimes human freedom and rights are based on the commune system. Hence individual freedoms have been limited to such an extent that a man cannot posses a private radioset.
       Soviet defeat and survival of the United States and other capitalist countries does not necessarily mean that the structure of capitalist regimes is reasonable and sensible. The rea.son is that in future there is a strong likelihood that after the defeat of communist countries, probably the capitalist countries may also face a scandalous defeat.
       As Islam is not a product of human thought, it is different from any other man-made system. In the Islamic system such a logical balance has been arranged between the rights of the individual and the society by the Creator of the Universe Who is fully aware of the human life and at the same time has no special interest of His own and is completely objective and fair.
       Islam has determined the rights and freedoms of an individual in a balanced manner with due respect to human dignity. Hence neither the individual suffers any disadvantage nor the society is disturbed due to unnecessary freedom of the individual.
       The duty of election of a government and its functionaries has been assigned to the Ummah and this is a social contract. The Muslims have been made responsible to entrust this trust to capable hands Without taking into consideration any tribal or partisan affiliations.
                     INDIVIDUALS AND GOVERNMENT
      An Islamic government is formed on the basis of Islamic and humanitarian objectives, according to the principles of the Islamic Legal Code and in consequence of a voluntary agreement among individuals, one party to this agreement is composed of committed and wise persons well aware of the demands of politics and the requirements of the Islamic Legal Code; representing the people, and the other party is the Caliph or the head of state. Then in view of such an agreement between an Islamic government and the Islamic Ummah, both parties shoulder different responsibilities and are obliged to enforce the Islamic Legal Code (Shariat) 'in letter and spirit. So if one party drags its fact or moves slowly towards the enforcement of the Islamic Legal Code, the other party is bound to draw their attention to the commitment.
      The religious precepts related to this system, are as,followst
      1.  OBEDIENCE.
      The first and foremost duty is obedience to the Divine Law and Commands.
                                           95
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 2. MILITARY SERVICE.
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
      In an Islamic government, all persons, except the physically disabled, are
 considered de facto soldiers. As such during an emergency nobody has the right to disobey military orders or refuse to cooperate with the army.
      3.  SAFEGUARD OF SECRETS.
      All persons under an Islamic government are duty-bound not to reveal any secret or information which may prove harmful to Islam and the Muslims.
                             INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
      In an Islamic government, individual rights include those rights which the deserving persons, in the society, have over the others, in this connection a brief mention has been made about the duties of individuals and the issues related to them. When we talk about individual rights, it means the duties and obligations of an Islamic government towards the welfare and betterment of the lot of common man.
      Therefore, if a government does not enforce Divine Laws and Command;, it is' considered an unjust and autocratic government.
      "...Whoso judgeth not by that which Allah hath revealed:       .such  are
      wrong-doors". (Surah: A1 Ma'idah: Verse-45).
                         INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS IN REGARD TO SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITV
      As mentioned earlier, physically disabled and poor persons have some rights and need to be helped. Similarly the government.has a heavier responsibility of ensuring the well-being of the poor and disabled, persons and raising their standard of living. On the other hand, the, government is responsible to provide financial help to the widows and the orphans.
      Under an Islamic Government, all persons are equal in the eyes of law. As a matter of fact the law of the land should apply to each and everyone equally and without any exception. Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) responding to one of his revered companions, who had recommended leniency to a culprit, declared:
      "By God, if Fatema, my daughter, had committed a theft, I would have ordered for cutting off her hand".
      Application of Islamic justice is a Divine Command as well as the undeniable right of an individual and hence must be ensured by an Islamic government. But in case a government fails to do so or deviates from the right path, then the people have the .right to change the government in a peaceful manner without causing further injustice to others.

                                           96
ia
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                       VOL. 5 NO. 3 wmmmmmmmmm
               ACCOUNTABILITY IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: QAZI MOHAMMAD HAKEEM HAKEEM
          Accountability literally means:   to   give account or be responsible for
     one's actions or behavior and to explain for one's decisions. This is in harmony with the Islamic injunction of "inviting to goodness, enjoining right . conduct and forbidding indecency." Islamic jurisconsults describe accountability in the above sense, provided the ultimate aim of the claimant is the attainment of God's pleasure and getting spiritual reward in the hereafter.
          In fact the Holy Quran commands for accountability in various ways and different modes. In one place, it orders the necessity of accountability and in another place it describes the same as an essential characteristic of the Muslims and a likeable trait for all the Islamic community. For example, here are some verses of the Holy Quran, which elucidate the subject in question in an explicit manner:
     1.   "And there may spring from you a nation who invite to goodness and enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency. Such are they who are successful". (Surah Al-e-Imran: Verse-104)
     2.   "Ye are the best community that hath been raised up for mankind. Ye enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency..." (Surah Al-e-Imran: Verse-110)
     3.   "And the believers, men and women, are protecting friends one of another;
          they enjoin the right and forbid the wrong and they establish worship and they ,pay the poor......."(Surah Al-Toubah: Verse-71)
          Accountability entails the existence of someone authorized to do so and he is called the ombudsman. The fear of accountability helps restrain and discourage violation of the norms of administration as well as irresponsible behavior.
                       PUBLIC WELFARE IN AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT
     BY: FAZLI
          The subject of public welfare and duties and responsibilities of the future Afghan government,which will soon be established with the blessings of Almighty Allah as a result of the epoch-making and heroic struggles of the Muslim and God-fearing Afghan nation and valiant mujaheddin as well as by. dint of the farsighted and sagacious planning of our combatant leaders, is a vital and serious matter.to be put under minute consideration.
          Allah said to Abraham (PBUH):  "I have appointed thee a leader for mankind.
          (Abraham) said: And of my offspring (will there be leaders)? He said: My covenant includeth not wrongdoers." (Surah Baqarah: Verse-124).
          It means that the wrongdoers and those who violate the Divine Law of "Doing the Right and avoiding the Wrong", are considered transgressors and unfit for
                                                  97
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
leadership.
       From the Islamic viewpoint, the term welfare includes moral and material welfare, both. This point has been seriously noted by the Islamic scholars as duties of an Islamic government. A summary of these duties is as follows:
  1.   Protection of religion.
  2.   Enforcement of Divine commands and putting an end to hostilities in a fair and just manner.
  3.   Protecting Islamic territorial integrity and maintaining law and order inside the country.
  4.   Fortifying the frontiers to stop enemy infiltration.
  5.   Safeguarding the Islamic injunctions in    order to forestall any insult to
       our sanctities and providing a protective umbrella to the human rights.
  6.   To wage a Holy War against the enemies of Islam after they reject the invitation to Islam.
  7.   Collection of war spoils, charities and    other state revenues judiciously
       and without high-handedness.
      I
  8.   To solve economic problems of the destitute by paying fixed salaries from the Public Treasury or other legal sources.
  9.   Appointing honest and capable persons to government posts and keeping them under constant observation.
  10.  Being constantly aware of the condition    of the people at first hand and
       keeping vigil on the officials of          the government for efficient
       administration.
       It may be pointed out that these are the top-most obligations of an Islamic State. Keeping in view the changes in time and new developments, other duties too may be added to the above, in the framework of the Shariat (religious code) so as to ensure the moral and material welfare of the people in an appropriate manner.                        .
       Allah advises in the Holy Quran:
       "Allah commandeth you that ye restore deposits to their owners, and, if ye judge between mankind, that ye judqe justly..." (Surah Al-Nessa: Verse-58).
                   REVENUE INCOME OF AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT BY: ABDUL BARI GHAIRAT
                      Islam has ordained Zakat (tithe or religious aim) as the fourth of the five obligations for a Muslim. A follower of Islam has to pay Zakat on his
                                            98
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992 ,              mm________________VOL. 5 NO. 3
    ■■■■■BaBHHnBBBHHBnBBBHBnBMHBaHKaHHBBMi
    possessions of Gold,silver, agricultural products and trade-goods, after the passage of full one year. Zakat. applies -to such material possessions which exceed the prescribed limits. Hence Zakat is not to' be paid on foodstuff, clothes, household goods, weapons in use, beasts of 'burden, occupational -implements and books* Similarly payment of Zakat. is not obligatory on things fished out of river ■ or sea or extricated from the earth like ruby, saphire and turquoise provided these things are not used for commercial purposes.
       In the time of the Holy Prophet (PBUH), Zakat collected from the people was distributed among the needy, During the reign of the Second Caliph, Hazrat Umar Parooq (May Allah be Pleased with him), when countries were conquered the government ordered the establishment of a Public Treasury to collect zakat and to maintain it. W,hen Hazrat Usman became the Third Caliph, the Islamic state was quite wealthy and there was no need to deposit the zakat money in the treasury. The public were ordered to pay their zakat to the deserving persons. Hence zakat was omitted from government revenue. In the time of the Holy Prophet, Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddiq and Hazrat Umar, zakat money was collected by the government officials and distributed among the needy.
       The Islamic state .has collect and distribute the Zakat money at its own pious discretion.
       Other sources of income of an Islamic government, at present, are as follows:
       1.     Sales tax» 2. Property Tax; 3. Agreement Tax; 4. Tax on land and possessions; 5. Gas and electricity charges; 6. Fin.es; 7. Vehicle Tax;
    8. Tax on minerals.                .   !
      LEGISLATION FROM THE ISLAMIC VJEW-POINT: NEED FOR A LEGISLATURE BY: HABIBULLAH GHALEB
                                 THE BASIS OF LAW
       Every law‘is based on some fundamental principles which form the backbone of a legal code and care is taken to ensure these guiding principles. This formula determines the ultimate aim and object of the law.
       Law can be resembled to a.living being in the sense that words and meanings and contents of the law give shape to its body and its influence among the people, constitute its soul. ^
       Generally speaking, laws may be divided intp three following categories as regards their influence:
   1.  Those laws the influence of which rests' on both spiritual and material elements, enjoy the utmost weight and strength among the people and their validity and vitality is better guaranteed because on the" one hand, due to religious beliefs and revered holy, traditions, it governs the intrinsic and inner behavior of the people and on the other, by formulating penal code and physical regulations, it controls their outward attitude. The Islamic Legal Code is the best model of such laws and regulations.
                                              99
                                                                       APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
   2.   The second category consists of laws resting .only on the physical aspects . or in other words those laws which do not take intp consideration religious beliefs, spiritual considerations and moral and nobid human characteristics and have no connection with these dimensions. Such laws fall under a lowe'r category* The reason is that it affects only the outer behavior of man without caring for the voice of the conscience and hence is not considered respectable by the people concerned1
    3.  Those laws which rest merely on physical elements and are basically opposed to the Beliefs of the people and the governing religion in the society, are not only.devoid of any influence among the people but injure the sentiments of the people also due to their violation of the common convictions and transgression of the respected traditions and sacrosanct beliefs' in a particular social system. Thus it challenges the conscience of the people and instigates them to rise and fight against such laws to the bitter end.
         The Islamic Shariat has stated the general rules and particular regulations regarding all aspects of the law. In some cases where special social conditions and changes and transformations in time and place are discernable, the Islamic Legal Code elaborates the injunctions for the benefit of* the common man. Islamic jurisconsults and innovators (mujtaheddin) keeping in view different civilizations and varying customs of the conquered lands, have issued orders and instructions in the best and most acceptable form of the Islamic Legal Code based'on the original text of Shariat.
                         THE IMPACT OF RELIGION ON LEGISLATION
            sr Jthe middle of the 7th century (Hijri) when Ijtehad (innovation based on I0gj.,6ai 'deduction of the Islamic Legal Code) faced a stalemate, the need for practical instructions of Islamic jurisprudence for the sake of solving newly eroergihgi -issues arising out of internal,social and economic changes and external relations dtie to the close contact of the then governments in small Muslim states. With the colonial powers, posed new questions to the Islamic jurisconsults for finding a solution to the complicated problems. This situation opened new vistas in Islamic legislation and the contemporary jurisconsults were constrained to compare new issues'with the old ones in the religious framework and answer the questions asked from them and also to formulate judicial procedures.; Such, books on "fiqha" (Islamic jurisprudence) are regarded as the preliminary form of the existing new laws. Out of these compilations, called ."Fatawa", the following books may be introduced:
        Fatawa Al-Tatarkhania, Fatawa Al-Bazazia, Fatawa Al-Hamedia and Fatawa Al-Hindia.                              .
                                            DISCUSSION
   ARSHAD IRSHADs In Islamic discussions and seminars it is#usually emphasized that we should.enforce Islamic equality in our society. As a matter of fact, equality has been ordained in social life and in human relations but not in economic affairs.•Islam has propounded a 'balanced view of equality which has not been fairly discerned For example, if we want to give equal rights to an intellectual and a common layman, it would not be Islamic equality..
100
    APRIL-JUNE* 1992 V                 flfCHflNJIHAD                    VOL.                     5 NO. 3
    FAZLUM MENALLAH FAZLI: By equality, Islam means equality before the Law and fair dealing.
    HAMED AZIZI: Mr. Ghairat has mentioned Zakat (charity), Ushr (tithe), Jazia, Kheraj (tribute) and Ghanimat (war spoils) in connection with financial resources in the early Islamic period but has not said anything about the Kefarat (atonement or redemption of sins). But atonement or redemption can also be a source of revenue and has been explained in the books of religious jurisprudence.
    ABDUL BARI GHAIRAT: I have touched the main points in my article. However the caliph or the head of state can take a fair decision, keeping in view the financial position of the society and the prevailing circumstances at a particular juncture.
    NAHZAT FARAHI:   Kefarat (redemption of sin) as mentioned by Mr. Azizi in his
    article on                             the revenue -resources of an Islamic government, has an entirely
    personal dimension and has nothing to do with public treasury or government revenue.
    USTAD AHMADZAI: Mr. Ghairat has stated in' his article that commercial taxes, excise duties, surcharges, bond stamps, property taxes, electricity rates, gas charges and cash fines etc. contribute to the state exchequer. These have been prevalent in Afghanistan till now. I think these subjects should be considered in the light of jurisprudential orders, to find out which of these sources of revenue are religiously permissible.
    ABDUL BARI                             GHAIRAT: In the past,  during the early Islamic period, gas and
    electricity did not exist and hence there was no problem regarding the payment of their consumption charges. But when a society develops and expands, such issues crop up in due course of time.
    MAWLAWI NAFEH: Mr. Ahmadzai has referred to cash fine payment. I want to know whether any religious order exists in this connection or not?
    ABDUL BARI GHAIRAT: In our law courts, in certain oases, like violating traffic rules' or accident etc.,   cash fines  were imppsed and                       collected. As in the old
    days, thsre were no means of modern communication,                             therefore there were no
    laws about traffic violation's. But as the society develops gradually, the problems also increase and become complex. Hence there are no religious commands regarding traffic rules. Such problems can be solved by Ijtehad (or innovative deduction of'religious jurisprudence).
    ARSHAD XRSHAD: In my opinion, atonement of sin (kefarat) can be included in state revenues because in an Islamic state, such a situation may arise when there may be no one to deserve the payment of the redemption money. During the reign of Omar ben Abdul Aziz, there was no one to receive the redemption money. In such a case that sum of money can be deposited in the! public treasury in an Islamic government.
   HABXBULLAH GHALEB:    Trade transaction is not one of the government's duties.
                                                    101
VOL. 5 NO. 3
   Commercial transactions are personal or private matters.' But in order to restrain double dealing and fraud as well as to ensure the safety of the people's assets and properties and to streamline the. business dealings, the government has to interfere and impose registration fees on authorized and legal commercial transactions.
   HAMZDUDDIN SIDDIQI: Hr. Ghairat has pointed out certain subjects regarding state revenues but has not mentioned anything about income tax which is the main source of income for the exchequer. Had he discussed income tax from the Shariat point of view , it would have been much better.
   ABDUL BARI GHAIRAT> As regards tax on immovable property, the interests of the society are taken into consideration and income tax on salaries is imposed in the light of justice and fairplay.
         LIST OF PARTICIPANTS OF CCAR SEMINAR ON FUTURE GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION HELD IN ISLAMABAD 27-30 JANUARY, 1992."
     LIST OF PARTICIPANTS OF CCAR SEMINAR • ON FUTURE GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
                                  HELD IN ISLAMABAD 27-30 JANUARY, 1992.
   1.  Ayatullah Noor Ahmad - Taqaddusi:   Member fi Speaker of Afghan mujaheddin
       Coalition Council!
   2.  Dr. Abdul Hai Panjsheri: Former Deputy to Commander Ahmad Shah Masoog; now President.of JlA Education Department.
   3.  Sakhidad Fayez: Former Director of Scrutiny Department, Baihaqi Publishing Organization; now member of the Council of Jehadic Encyclopaedia of Contemporary Afghanistan.
   4.  Abdul Ahad Ashrati: Former member of Legislation Department, Ministry of Justice; now member of the Council of Jehadic Encyclopaedia of Contemporary Afghanistan.
   5.  Mohkmmad Jan Ahmiadzai: Former Lecturer at College of.Religious Laws, Kabul University; now lecturer *t Da'wat 6. Jehad University; member of JIA Executive Council.
   6.  Mohammad Hashem Mujaddedii Former senator; now Founder Member of the CCAR.
   7.  Dr. Mohammad Qasem Fazeli; Former leo.tufer College of Political Sciences, Kabul University; now a resident of Paris - France.
   8.  Ayatullah Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni: Former lecturer at various educational institutions; now Leader of Harakat*e-Islami Afghanistan. ‘
   9.  Arshad Irshads Masters Degree in Religious Laws; now member of the Council. Of Jehadic Encyclopaedia of Contemporary Afghanistan.
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992

  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                          nm\U                      VOL . 5 NO. 3
  10.  Abdul Hafeez Hamed Azizi: Master's degree in Islamic Economics; nOw member of Scientific Research Association, Peshawar.
  11.  Abdul Wahed Nahzat Farahi:   Former   Educational Deputy of Islamic Research
       University, Kabul; now lecturer Afghan Islamic University, Peshawar.
  12.  Sayyed Hakeem Kamal Shinwari:   Former  President  of Auqaf and Haj Affairs;
       now Adviser to NIFA.
                         - ♦ . / '
                                                                                   *
  13.  Bahauddin Baha: Former President of the Commercial Court; now Legal Adviser to NIFA.
  14.  Abdul Malek Jauhar Siddiqi:     Former  President  of the Civil Court; now
       lecturer ai_ Al-Da'wat Academy.
  15.  Dr. Abdur Rahman Ulfat: Member of Saudi Arabian Academy.
  16.  Abdul Majeed Kudikhail:   Former 'lecturer at Namul Madares; now Adviser to
       the AIG Interior Ministry.
                                      ♦ . '
  17   Gen. Mohammad Yahya Nowroz: Military Adviser to GIA.
  18. Gen. Mohammad Ayoub Aseel: Former lecturer at Police Academy, Kabul; now President of the NIFA Cultural Committee.
  19.  Habibullah Ghalebr Former President of the Dept, for Civil fi Commercial Laws, Institute of Legislation fi Scientiffic Research, Ministry of Justice; now Member of CCAR,
  20.  Mohammad Zaman Mozammel; Former member of HIA Executive Council;
  21.  Qazi Mohammad Hakeem Hakeem: Former judge of the Criminal Court of Justice in Kandahar; how President of the Da'wat and Irshad Center,
  22.  Fazlum Menallah Fazli: Former President of Religious Madrasas, Ministry of Education; now member of the Scientific Research Association, Peshawar,
23.
Abdul Bari Ghairat: Former justi'de of the Kabul Family Court; now member of the Syllabus Department, AlG Ministry of Education. .
103
                                                                        APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
             GUIDELINES
     FOR PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION OF AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION
               PROJECTS
         ■EDITOR'S NOTE:    Following   is a review (Second Edition) of
         guidelines for the planning and implementation of agricultural rehabilitation projects in Afghanistan which was first published by Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief (ACBAR) in January, 1992.
  INTRODUCTION: The agricultural rehabilitation of Afghanistan in a 'total' sense lies somewhere in the future. Enabling the land and its people to produce again, at pre-war levels is an enormous task. This process is, however in motion and , is gaining momentum. However, there is no comprehensive blueprint for the rehabilitation as there is great diversity in the physical conditions in Afghanistan and war has not equally distributed its destruction.
       Agricultural rehabilitation is requisite to the return of the Afghan people, and its undertaking will require assistance from great variety of sources and coordination among these sources. Agency Coordinating Body For Afghan Relief (ACBAR) Sub-Committee has provided opportunity to agencies working in this field to exchange ideas and share experience.
       The guidelines represent only those ' sub-sectors on which there was concensus regarding priority in reconstruction of agriculture in Afghanistan.
  GENERAL PRINCIPLES IN THE AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION OF .AFGHAN I STAN
  1.   The use of indigenous social system, when and where possible, should be encouraged.
  2,   Planning should reflect the need to develop district level and provincially organized agricultural structure.
  3.   Concentration should be on rehabilitation of Afghanistan to its pre-war condition with simultaneous introduction of technology that raises production per unit.
  4.   When and where possible, priority should be rehabilitation of existing . resources and practices.
                                              104
                                                                        APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
    5.   Due consideration should be given to the short and long term effect of a practice on environment.
    6.   Local population should be employed for both professional and nonprofessional positions.
    7.   Training should be considered ait essential part of rehabilitation.
    8.   Cash and food-for-work program should be encouraged.
    9.   Free distribution of inputs should be discouraged as a general principle.
    10.  There should be fair distribution of inputs to farmers in a given areal
    11.  There should be uniform policy lines in district, provincial and zonal planning.
                                     TRAINING RECOMMENDATIONS
    1.   Training of Afghan personnel for agricultural projects should be given highest priority.
    2.   Small local Agricultural Training Centers father than one large academic institute should be developed.
    3.   These centers should start in Pakistan and be later extended or transferred to' Afghanistan.
    4.   The first candidates should consist of Afghan agriculturists.
    5.   The centers should impart training two to three times a year in the form of in-service training.
    6.   The training proceeding in Pakistan in agriculturally related fields should be expanded.
                                                                N
    7.   Trainees should be so selected that all regions of Afghanistan are represented.
    8.   Before initiating training dpnor agencies should look for employment
         opportunities after training.
          < ...
   9.    There should be continuous on-the-job training.
                               RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FARM TRACTION
    1.   Both bullocks and tractors should be brought in.
    2.   Bullocks should be brought from the area where climate is similar to that in Afghanistan.
                                              105
3. The same brand of tractors which have traditionally been used, should be
         used- at this stage.
    4.   In addition to large tractors small tillers should also be introduced.
    5.   Sufficient training of operators should take place before introduction of tractors.
    6.   Mechanism should be provided for sale of tractors to individuals at favorable terms.
    7.   Provision of certain credit facilities should take priority.
    8.   Other machines such as threshers and reapers should'also be introduced.
    9.   Training in the manufacture of farm tools should also be arranged.
                                    RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SEED
    1.  Small scale multiplication of early generation seeds to be carried on in Pakistan.
    2.  Large scale multiplication program to be moved into Afghanistan,
    3.  Maintenance of appropriate security stock of seed for rehabilitation purposes.
    4.  Field workers of agencies should supervise seed distribution, method of culture and harvesting.
    5.  In-service training of NGO personnel in crop management and production, including seed multiplication, should be arranged in collaboration with Pakistani seed institutions.
    6.  Field workers sent by NGOs to an. area should be qualified and well
        acquainted with the area.                                               >
    7.  Involvement of progressive farmers in specialist seed multiplication should be encouraged.
    8.  All seeds distributed for multiplication should be treated, colored and identified by a label.
    9.  Allocation of inputs for emergency rehabilitation may be free but later distribution should be on cash.
                                RECOMMENDATIONS FOR WHEAT SEED
    1.  Winter wheat resistant to freezing will be required for the irrigated
                                              106
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992__________mm JtHB                              VOL. 5 NO. 3
        higher elevation. Autumn sown seed for the irrigated lower elevasions and facultative types for the rain-fed areas.
    2.   Pak 81 and Seri 82 can be recommended for the irrigated areas at lower elevations. Under same condition Pir Sabak-85 should be multiplied for future distribution.
    3.   In case of doubt Pir Sabak-85 and Pak-81 should be used in the areas Maxi-Pak was used previously.
    4. ' Blue Silver is available for the higher and lower elevations for the
        rain-fed areas.
    5.   There ..is need to identify new variaties for the rain-fed and higher elevation conditions.
    6.   Procurement, processing and distribution of seed must be timed for autumn sowing.
    7.   For wheat seed multiplication each former should be given at least 7KG of seed.
                                 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FERTILIZERS
   1.    Farmers should be encouraged to include legume crops and apply animal and green manure.
   2.    Fertilizer can be carried over from one season to another if stored appropriately under cover.
   3.    World attention and support must be gained to secure seed and fertilizer through UN and other agencies.
   4.    Attention should be paid in purchasing and delivery of highly concentrated fertilizers such as DAP and Urea in view of farmers familiarity and high transportation costs.
                                            IRRIGATION
       Irrigation systems in Afghanistan have been rendered out of work or operate with reduced capacity because of effects of the war.
       Karez water transport technology is particularly suited to arid regions where water is scarce and can be moved to great distance with minimal loss through evaporation and seepage. Karez which is an underground tunnel has for centuries met irrigation water needs in southern Afghanistan. Before the war Karezes were normally 'cleaned each year or every other year by their share holders. Due to war many karazes have not been cleaned for the period of about ten years
                                             107
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992    flfGHflHVOL. 5 NO. 3
     Costs' of Karez cleaning, excavation of new tunnels and excavation of wells has been worked out by Agriculture Committee of Agency' Coordinating Body for. Afghan Relief.
                      AGROCHEMICALS
      - Pests and diseases cause considerable losses to crops. To control them is the major task of the. plant protection activities.
        Priority should be given to methods other than the use of pesticides.
                                          RECOMMENDATIONS
   1.   Pesticides are dangerous chemicals.. They should only be used when there is urgent need.
   2. ' Preference should be given to the powder form Of the pesticides.
   3.   All pesticides sent into Afghanistan should have label of information in Pashtu or Dari.
   4.   Graduates of plant protection should supervise plant protection activities.
   5;:  Personnel dealing with peGticide application should be'trained.
   6.   The use of pesticides should not be encouraged in kitchen gardening.-
   7.   Seeds ^sreated with pesticides must have clear warning to be used only for planting.
   8.   For the diagnosis of the pests and diseases a well equipped plant-protection laboratory is needed.
  9.    Agrochemical working groups should continue to exist.
                            RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREES AND FORESTRY
        Afghans have traditionally a tree-loving culture,and like to have trees on their property.
                                          RECOMMENDATIONS
  1.    Care must be taken that only suitable species and Varieties are planted.
  2.    The issue of low cost housing which reduces or replaces the use of .wood
       must be addressed soon.                      .   .   -
  3.    Fruit tree nurseries should be established.in the areas where enough demand exists.
  4.    Local tree varieties should be preferred until more suitable varieties are found.
                                              108
  I
APRIL-JUNE» 1992             MAIMJIMO                  VOL.  5 NO. 3
 5. The UN should be encouraged to address to the need of reaforestation projects.
 6. In reafforestation projects alternative fuel sources should be, pursued.
                             LIVESTOCK AND VETERINARY SERVICES GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS
 1.   An administrative structure for veterinary vices should be established * < )
      at the provincial, district and sub-district ..evels,
 2.   Trained personnel should always work in the field as part of structured organization.
 3.   Training courses must be undertaken at all levels within the veterinary structure.
 4.   Veterinary training should give specified attention to the nutrition of animals.
 5.   There should be recording of all animals vaccinated or otherwise treated,
 6.   For each district plan should be developed for vaccination and veterinary care.
                                     TRANSPORT OF ANIMALS
 1.   Whether within a country or between countries should only be done if
      animals are protected against major infectious diseases and have been treated against interanal and external parasites.                        j
 2.   Should not take place for 7 days after vaccination in order to allow their immunity to build up.
 3.   Should allow for a mini-var of 10 hours rest in every 24 hours, the rest period being divided into two periods.
 4.   Should be done in well-ventilated vehicles with sufficient room for each animal, they should be transported in such a way that physical damage is not done.
                                            109
[
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
    IMMEDIATE RECONSTRUCTION PROBLEMS IN AFGHANISTAN
EDITOR'S NOTE: In pursuance of academic seminars held by CCAR Institute of Afghan Policy Studies during 1990, 1991 1992, a seminar entitled "Urgent Problems of Reconstruction in Afghanistan* was due to be held on 19 December* 1991 under the auspices of this center,            with the participation of the
contributing and assisting agencies for the development and reconstruction of the country, but unfortunately owing to certain unavoidable circumstances, it could not be arranged. Therefore* it was proposed that suggestions and opinions of scholars and officials of this section on the above subject should be published in the "Afghan Jehad* Quarterly. Some of these articles were printed in the previous issue of Afghan jehad whereas the remaining articles are published in this issue.
     IMMEDIATE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDUCATION MINISTRY
BY: PROF. MOHAMMAD FAZEL:
     As we all know, Afghanistan had a well-organized educational system prior to the sinister communist coup in 1978. It had primary, middle and secondary schools. French, German and American teacherj and Professors taught in modern colleges viz:  Isteqlal, Amani and  Habibia. Kabul and Nangarhar Universities had
professional and technical faculties for educating young students according to their aptitudes.
     'Although schools and educational institutions were established throughout the country,- no noteworthy steps were taken for social uplift. A large gap existed between the graduates and the requirements of the people.- Intermediate college diploma holders or university graduates never returned to their villages, towns or even cities and as far as possible settled down in the capital, Kabul. Their education was of no use to the common man in the society. Thus social distances and misunderstandings were created. Actually the curriculums of the higher secondary schools were not such as to enable the graduates to get re^absorbed in their provinces, and villages or to bring about
1 in
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992 ___________________mm                        VOL.  5  NO. 3
  the required changes in the social life of the' people or to change the people's mentality in a useful and constructive manner or to raise,the standard of life of the people, from the social, economic, political, professional and hygienic point of view.
      Similarly we are aware of the fact that as a result of the onslaught of the Red Army, not only our educational system, despite its deficiencies, suffered an irreparable loss, but our school and college buildings also with all their equipments were completely destroyed. They set on fire text books including the Holy Quran and imprisoned or martyred the religious-minded teachers and professors. *The 14 years of communist rule decimated the entire .educational structure. So we will have to start from scratch and to re-build our educational system on the basis of Islamic principles and the requirements of our society.
       Observers of the system of education and political upheaval of the last decade of monarchy in Afghanistan, are of the opinion that religipus education was just marginal, whereas the emphasis was on educating the students in such a manner as to produce loyal and completely obedient servants and officials for the King and the Royal Family. Whoever was found lacking in loyalty to the throne, in any department or in any government service, was deprived of promotion and was ultimately dismissed. So much so that even the Ministers and the Prime Minister could not take any initiative for the welfare of the country without the consent of the King and/or the Royal Family. People's will was of no consequence and hence there was no question of representing it. This situation was lamented by the then Prime Ministers openly.
       Educational institutions faced indiscipline due to the obvious interference of the pro-communist elements. Discipline and academic decorum were overwhelmed by demonstrations and insubordinations caused by the machinations of the Royal Family. Communist activists had infiltrated into the Royal court and the corridors of power as' sycophants, flatterers and yes-men.; They were apparently obedient and loyal to the crown but covertly instigated the youth to create trouble. The authorities were nonchalant and if anyone had any knowledge about, their activities, they were so influential and resourceful that he could not do anything against them. Ultimately, owing to the free reins given to the communists, things came to such an unpleasant pass that during the past 14 years everyone   suffered the bitterness of large-scale massacres, downfall of
government and , devastation of the country. Even now remnants of the corrupt elements are in power in Kabul.
     The unsavory effects of the communist system after the successive coups and the invasion by the Red Army resulting in the destruction of our educational system are so obvious that it does not need any elaboration. Brainwashing programs, causing s'evare damage to Islamic beliefs and the noble Islamic and Afghan culture are irreparable losses to the nation. Here it would suffice to throw light on some-of the conspicuous incidents:
1.    The first target of communist attack was our Islamic educational system..
     They brought about such changes in our syllabi, to replace Islam with
     communist views.
                                                     Ill
   APR I L-JUNE, 1992                mm                              VOL . 5 NO. 3
  2.  They formed children and youth associations in order to acquaint the students of primary schools and the young students of colleges and universities with communist ideas and beliefs and to root out the faith in God and Islam and to do away with our Islamic and national values.
  3.  ThSy introduced new subjects in our educational curriculum which were nothing but Marxist teachings.
  4.  They destroyed self-confidence, mutual respect and trust among the younger generation, eliminated fundamental moral sensibilities and the people were made so untrustworthy and unfaithful that in Kabul even friqnds could not trust each other and would never confide in each other. This was a common feature of all the communist states as an offshoot of tyranny, despotism and fifth column network.
  5.  Party members were automatically promoted from one class to another. Those who spied for the party or fought on the front against the mujaheddin, were, promoted to higher classes and were allowed to enter the colleges without appearing in concours or admission tests and worst of all, they received honorary degrees.
 6.   Adjacent to the offices of the ministers were the offices of the Russian advisers. They issued orders and the Minister of Education implemented them. Hence the school and university syllabi were revised without the participation or collaboration of the Afghans in general and the university professors in particular.
 7.   Nearly all the students were deprived of education. The war and bombardment spread to the entire length and breadth of the country. Schools and . colleges were not only closed but were also levelled to the ground. The students passed their days, attending meetings and taking part in, military parades. The party organizations■indulged in all kinds of debaucheries. In the provinces, children were martyred or disabled or migrated with their parents and were thus deprived of education.
 8.   At present a greater gulf has been created not only between two generations but among many generations. The younger generation has been accustomed to the smell of gunpowder and the sound of aerial bombings and gun-fire but are unacquainted with education and schooling. Those who were studying in schools, had to run for their lives.
 9.   Children and youngmen/were transferred to Russia for brainwashing so that on the one hand Marxist views could be imprinted on their young brains and on the other, they could get military training to replace the Red Army.
 10.  As mentioned earlier, as a result of indiscriminate aerial bombing, educational institutions, throughout the chantry were razed to the gropnd. Now you can imagine, under such pitiful circumstances who can make and implement expeditious and comprehensive plans for reconstruction of educational - institutions and for rewriting and compiling new syllabi? This' is a very difficult task and cannot be performed by a single
   '■ / ’
                                           112
 APRIL-JUNE# 1992                  AfGMHAO                         vol.  5 N0.  3
      individual. It would be more advisable to form a committee of technical specialists and experienced teachers       and      academicians to put the
      educational system on the right track.            ,
      ' s    '                                  I   1 ' ■
      Anyhow, while planning for the revival of educational system, some questions crop up in one's mind as to what should be done in the face of all these difficulties? Froth what point, the project should be started? It is indeed very difficult for the future Islamic government in Afghanistan to plan everything in haste. It would be better to do the job gradually and to assign this duty to capable arid competent persons. Here I would like to offer some suggestions for a speedy establishment of the Ministry of Education and reactivating the educational institutions for a sympathetic consideration:
 1.   First of all we should focus our attention on the selection of qualified and professional personnel in the field of education so that they may take necessary measures to activate educational process and to appoint professional persons for doing professional jobs. Thus they can go ahead with the task of establishing the Ministry and compiling standard.Islamic syllabi so that on the one hand they may actively pursue the goal of revitalizing the concerned departments and'on the other, remedy the chronic ailments and concentrate on the composition of curriculum and removal of past defects, and by this means train and educate Muslim and patriotic persons for the betterment and development of the country.
2.    These professional academicians should form a committee to guarantee the achievement of the goals of education so that after preparing the scheme, they may be able to obtain the consent of the Supreme Council of the Education Ministry for taking a final decision.
3.    This group of specialists ^and administrators of professional education should be composed of experts and should have sufficient funds.
4.    Before taking a step in this direction, it is deemed necessary to study the
     existing system of education in Afghanistan and assess the1 existing educational process in Kabul and other provinces of the country. For this purpose a comprehensive survey of the main educational resources throughout the country is essential, viz:                                      *
     a) Preparing a statistical survey of primary, middle and secondary schools in Kabul and all over the country.
     b) Data of schools existing outside Afghanistan e.g. in Pakistan.and Iran.
     c) A survey of school-going children, number of teachers with their qualifications, number of buildings and the number of teachers■needed.
     d) An assessment of means of education at various levels, text books, school and college buildings and equipment.
     e) A survey of the number of religious schools and institutions for memorizing the Holy Quran. •
                                         113
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
      f)  A survey of the professional institutions and their buildings.
  5.  Appointing professional persons to compile an academic curriculum in the light of new Islamic and Afghan educational ideals.
 6.   Commissioning a team to survey and study the syllabi, publishing material and their distribution.
      Keeping in view,the above functions, I would like to offer the following suggestions for the establishment of an Education .Ministry in future:
                      EMERGENCY ESTABLISHMENT OF EDUCATION MINISTRY
      For the establishment of Education Ministry, on an emergency basis, it is proposed to determine its future requirements and to appoint professional and experienced persons at the head of the education department. Minister, secretaries and heads of professional and administrative seqtions should .be' selected from amongst professional and properly trained persons. It must be added that in the field of education, non-professional and inexperienced persons can rarely do justice to their heavy responsibilities.
                                                                 * •
      In my opinion, the future Ministry of Education in our country should have1 the following departments:
                        Supreme Council of Education Ministry
                                    Minister
                    *Board of Advisers and Ministerial Council First Secretary             Secretariat       Second     Secretary
                 TEACHING AND ADMINISTRATIVE BRANCHES
 1.   Directorate of Primary Education.
 2.   Directorate of Middle and Secondary Education.
 3.   Directorate of Professional Education.
 4.   Directorate of Islamic Education.
 5.   Directorate of Teachers' Training Institutes.
 6.   Directorate of Children, Youth, Adult and War Disabled Education.
 7.   Directorate of Women Welfare Institutions.
 8.   Directorate of Compiling syllabi and Revision  and  writing of test Books.
 9.   Directorate of Printing for publishing books   and teaching material.
 10.  Directorate of Planning, Survey and Budget.
 11.  Directorate of Administration.
 12.  Establishment Division for officials. Teachers, Professors and other Employees.
 13.  Directorate of Cultural Relations and UNESCO.
 14.  Directorate of Audio-visual Education and Scientific Center.
 15.  Directorate of Construction.
 16.  Directorate of Investigation and Supervision.
                                            114
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  miM                            VOL. 5 NO. 3*
      A description of the components and functions of these departments is .as under:
 1.  SUPREME COUNCIL OF EDUCATION MINISTRY
      Its main duties are to formulate and approve educational aims and policies; to assign duties to the Secretaries; to ascertain competence of the advisors; to approve various duties of the directorates of, education; to draft the annual budget and to approve development plans and master plans.
      This Council consists of the following personnel:
 1.  Minister as Chairman; 2. Two Secretaries; 3. Advisers; 4. Minister of Justice'or one of the highranking and experienced members of the judiciary; 5. Minister for Planning or one of the highranking and experienced members of the Planning’ Department; 6. Two highranking and experienced representatives' of the Supreme Court. 7. Two senior representatives of the National Assembly and the Eiders Council; 11 8. Governor of Kabul; 9. Mayor Of Kabul; 10. Two professors of the Faculty of Education, Kabul University; 11. Two senior female teachers of schools.
      Thus the total number of personnel would be 15 or 17 persons. The council would hold a meeting as and when required by the Education Minister.
                                                                             *
 2.  MINISTERIAL BOARD
                                        I                         '
      This board has to discuss all aspects of educational and administrative problems and find solutions for them. All executable decisions will have to be signed by the Minister. Appointment of committees, too, is under the jurisdiction of the Minister and one of the duties of this Board. Decisions of the committees are submitted to the Ministerial Board and if there is any important subject, it would be referred to the supreme council. Educational policy for women, after being approved, by the Ministerial Board, would be submitted;to the Supreme Council for final approval.
      This Board comprises a Minister, advisers. Secretaries and all educational and administrative heads of departments of the Ministry. In the absence of the Minister, one of the secretaries would officiate- on his behalf. It will hold a. meeting at a specified time, once a week. Secretary of the Board would bei selected from among the members of the Board.
 3.  PRIMARY EDUCATION DIRECTORATE
      Primary education includes different 'kinds of basic education programs.. Children . between the ages of 5 to 7 years, will be eligible for admission in Class I. Primary education will cover class I to VI1 I prefer that from class I to IV, the teaching should be devoted to learning the language only. Different linguistic skills like speaking, correct reading.and writing should be acquired during the first four years. Besides arithmatic, natural sciences and social affairs should also be taught but the emphasis Should be on the language and the related skills. When a child reaches the 5th class, he/she should possess a sound knowledge of reading and writing.
                                          115
 APR IL-JUNE, 1992               flfGIMN  JIHflO                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
      There are 321 administrative units throughout Afghanistan. If in each unit; at least 5 primary schools are opened, the total number would be 1605 schools. So if there were 10 teachers in one school, the total number of teachers would touch the figure 16050.
      In the preface to this article, I had recommended a comprehensive survey. But one cannot wait till the completion of such a survey to prepare the ground for the education of the younger generation. However at different levels, different schools may be established and later on some arrangement may be made to ensure coordination in accordance with the survey. Another noteworthy requirement is to keep in view the interests of male and female students in such schools.
 4.  MIDDLE AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS
 A- MIDDLE SCHOOLS: In this case the pattern should be, to have two middle schools in each administrative unit. Thus the total number of such schools would be 32l X 2 = 642. The question that middle schools should have primary classes too, is related to the population of the locality and the situation of the^ school concerned.
 B. SECONDARY SCHOOL:  We visualize two secondary schools for each administrative
 unit so that there is one each for the girls and the boys. However girls' secondary schools would be subject to suitability of environment, availability of female teachers and the means of education. Of course, the girl students would observe the Islamic veil. Having a secondary school affiliated with a college, would depend on the locality and its population.
 5.  PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS
      As discussed earlier, we should have professional schools to fulfil the requirements of our society.' In each of the provinces where the number of local bodies is between 10 to 20, one professional school with different sections, consonant with the requirements of the province concerned, may. be established. As a result of precise calculation and in accordance with the proposed formula, the total number of professional schools in the country would reach to 19 to satisfy the needs o'f the society.                 '
 6.  TEACHERS1 TRAINING COLLEGES
      According to the proposed plan, in those provinces where the number of local bodies is five to ten, at least one teachers’ training college needs to be established.- If the number ov local administrative units exceeds 10, then they need two such colleges. In this manner, the total number of teachers’ training institutes would reach 42. However, these colleges will have male and female trainees, but of course the classes of men and women will be separate and the women will observe the Islamic veil..Similarly the prevalent Social norms will always be observed.
      Teachers Training Institutes would be divided in three categories:
 (1) For primary schools, teachers who have passed class IX to XII will be given extra training.
                                          116
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                nXJlfl                 VOL. 5 NO.  3
(2) For middle schools/ teachers who have passed class XII examination, will be selected and will have to undergo further two years' training in various disciplines at the teachers training college.
  (3) For higher secondary schools, teachers who have passed class XII examination will be selected and after passing the required admission test will get training in teachers training college. These colleges have various faculties plus arrangement for professional teaching and the trainees will study for four years upto the B.A. level.
      Teachers training institutes will perform two main duties. One is the training of future teachers and the other is the raising of the professional and academic standard of the existing teachers according to the in-service teaching program.              ■
      This scheme stands in need of an experimental school for putting into practice the art of teaching. The above-mentioned multi-phased arrangement for training teachers of primary, secondary and higher secondary levels will prepare them to perform their jobs according to the recognized teaching practices.
 7.  ISLAMIC TEACHING'S INSTITUTE
      This institute is being established for two purposes:        (1) training of
 theology teachers for different schools and (2) training religious and moral preachers.
      This group of students is selected from among the students who have cleared the sixth standard examination. Then they will' study science and theology for further six years. Side by side with the religious subjects, some of the current modern subjects will also be taught to them. The number of these institutes would be in proportion to the teachers training colleges, totalling 42.
      Similarly a class for memorizing the Holy Quran should also be opened to train the teachers for teaching the recitation of the Holy Quran and also to train Qaris for reciting. Quran in the suitable manner and with correct pronounciation.
 8.  ADULT EDUCATION CENTER FOR YOUNGMEN, THE ELDERLY AND THE DISABLED
     This center performs various duties. It primarily teaches the livelihood pursuits, which means training them in the essential skills of life according to their intelligence, talent and physical capabilities.
     Another function of this center is categorization of youngmen, adults and disabled persons according to’their age groups, sex and talent, because some of them may have special talent for some of the professional skills. Such courses should be held, keeping in view the requirements of the students and the needs, of the society. Similarly this center should start special evening courses for uentally retarded students. The disabled should be taught those skills which may suit their mental and ph/s'cal abilities.
                                          117
  APR IL-JUNE# 1992                      KHIJBI                      VOL.  5 NO.  3
       One of the main duties of. this center is the teaching of religious and ideological subjects to those who have been influenced by communist beliefs or have been deprived of Islamic teachings. Some of them may need to study prolonged courses.
  9.  WOMEN WELFARE INSTITUTE                                           V
       In the absence of precise statistics da*- it is estimated that there are about 90 thousand widows throughout the            y because their husbands have
  sacrificed their lives during the Holy War. reat majority of them need help. They should learn useful skills of handicraft so that they may be able to earn their living and lead a respectable life. This institute should, as a first step, ,select such crafts which may have a good market. Later, younger widows should be given an opportunity to select one of these crafts and to learn the required skill alongwith reading and writing.
                                                        ■ »
       However they will be taught reading, writing, arithmetic, civics and natural sciences, too. But first of all, they should learn theology and recitation of the Holy Quran.
       It is recommended that, if possible, some of them should be helped materially and financially. Similarly ways and means of providing the essentials of'' life to them. Specially those widows and women should be helped who havp no support whatever and are in dire need of assistance, or those who may be so disabled that they may not be able to perform any function.
  10. TEXT BOOK BOARD
      The syllabi should be revised and re-arranged according to Islamic teachings. I would marely mentipn the objectives of education and discuss their detail on another occasion. The objectives of education can be divided in the following three categories:
 1.   Basic objectives are inculcation of Godlines, faith in Allah, human love, respect for national values and moral principles consonant with Islamic principles as well as patriotism which is an offshoot of religious faith.
I
 2.   General objectives are that God Almighty has created human beings free and has' given them the right to. act freely. Therefore a student should be trained to think and act independently and freely and to know his responsibilities. He/she should be taught linguistics at a high standard.
 3.   Special objectives: The syllabus should be prepared in such a manner that students may be able to fully understand the academic contents of the text and to put into practice the prevalent sciences and to take due advantage of their knowledge for peaceful co-existence and for reaching their desired goals.
      In view of these objectives, the future syllabi and 'text books should be standardized so that our students could continue their studies in any part of the world and to pass their tests successfully. We should no more play with the .
                                         118
 APR IL-JUNE, 1992               MClMffl                   VOL. 5 NO.  3
 lives of the future generations as the communist rulers or their predecessors did in the past.
      I would emphasize that our educational' institutions, at various levels, may be affiliated with one of the universities of advanced Western countries while preserving their . Islamic identity and human and national values and characteristics so that our children may get higher education suited to their talents and intelligence quotient. As you are aware, the graduates of Isteqlal College, Kabul, were directly admitted in French Universities and studied along-with French students at degree and post-graduate and doctorate levels and some of them' even surpassed the French students, and excelled in their relevant subjects of study.
      Let us not allow anymore that our national talent, intelligence, life, energy,'resources and moral and material wealth may go waste. It would be better to form a committee of intellectuals, scholars, .professionals in the educational field and our helping friends assign it the duty of compiling a standard ’ syllabus for our academic courses. If we fail to do the job today, we will have . to do it tomorrow. Therefore we should; not lose time and should not play with the lives of the future generations arid strive to standardize our text books accordinglyi
 11.  BOOKS AND TEACHING MATERIAL BRANCH
      Printing books and teaching material is one of the prime responsibilities of the Education Ministry. Therefore it should have a well equipped printing press with necessary technical hands because educational process cannot be carried on without text books and academic material.
 12.  PLANNING, STATISTICS AND BUDGET
      This branch has to perform the planning duty because without precise data it would not be possible to make a plan and the plan cannot be implemented without a proper budget. Hence even though a plan may be good and simple, it cannot be authentic without proper data and cannot be put into practice without monetary support. For making a good plan; it is essential to have experienced personnel, substantial knowledge of things based on trustworthy statistics and last, but not the least, to have necessary funds for implementing it.
 13.  CQNTROLLING AUTHORITY
     This department has to provide facilities for implementing the plans and for performing all the functions of the Education Ministry. It is a means for attaining the high ideals of education. Hence this department provides all the required educational material to the professional branches. It plays a vital role in distributing text books and putting them i'n the hands of the students.
It should deliver the books and teaching material to the farthest corners of the country. Provision of funds, salaries and expenses, according to the budget, would be its obligation.
     Administrators of education, from the minister to the directors of adminis-
119
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992                flfGIUMJMlllI                      VOL. 5 NO. 3
 trative and professional branches# should have the follpwing fundamental qualifications:
      Firstly, they should be professionals so that they may have correct awareness of the importance of education.
      Secondly from the technical point of view, they should be good administrators so that instead of creating difficulties, they ought to provide necessary facilities for the promotion of education, and control the expenditure according to the funds available.
 14.  OFFICIALS, TEACHERS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES
      This is also one of the service branches and goes in quest of expertise and is on the look out for talented persons. Generally speaking, we have a habit of creating a job for a man rather than finding a qualified and experienced man for a job. That is why we do not make any progress. Therefore this branch is responsible for finding suitable, professional and competent persons for the required jobs and recommends their appointment. Graduates of training institutes for administrative and professional affairs should be appointed for these jobs. Officials of the Ministry of Education should at least be Honors Graduates, i.e. should possess academic certificates of B.A. (Honors). Besides, this branch shall have the authority to promote and retire officials and teachers. This branch is also duty-bound to protect the rights of all employees.
 15.  INVESTIGATION AND SUPERVISION
      One of the main duties of this section is to help and assist teachers in. better performance of their duties and to appreciate their performance. It will look into the assignments of the teachers so that they may do their duties in an orderly manner. These persons should be well educated, experienced and professional so that they may guide the teachers on the proper lines of education and should be capable of solving their problems.
      .Another duty of this section is the assessment of employees and the training institute so that their errors or shortcomings may be remedied. The investigator or inspector should have good command of his job and should possess academic and administrative experience. Secondly he should be cool-minded and thirdly he should be a sobre and honest man. Fourthly he should be able to control his sentiments and feelings so that he may approach an issue logically and sensibly without getting easily provoked or without injuring the feelings of the other party. However these inspectors, have the right to occasionally advise,, reproach or warp and if necessary, take action against defaulters. But all these procedures should take place in a fair manner to put a person on the right track and to streamline administration.
 16.  CULTURAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT AND COOPERATION WITH UNESCO
      This department has the following duties:
       To make efforts for securing foreign aid and projects.
120
      APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  IBM A!                          VOL.  5  NO. 3
             To send teachers overseas for higher studies.
             To secure long term and short term scholarships and fellowships for deserving students.
             To find opportunities of affiliating schools and colleges with foreign academic institutions, as required.
if                                    .                       '
           To establish close contact with UNESCO.
      - To arrange participation in UNESCO's annual conferences.
           To arrange UNESCO's participation in various educational programs.
           It may be pointed out that'these points have been mentioned' just as general guidelines. However, the director and members of this department would find better ways and means under the guidance of the Education Minister and secretaries of Education Ministry.
      17.  CONSTRUCTION AND ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
           Today this department has assumed great importance in teaching ways. It has to provide all sorts of equipment for audio-visual education eig. films, projectors, slides, movie auditoriums and preparing charts and schedules and pictures etc. Besides, construction of schools and colleges according to new. models and plans require thorough study. As you are aware, schools and colleges in the provinces and other places have been completely destroyed due to barbaric attacks and bombings by the Russians and their communist remnants. These devastated institutions have to be re-constructed. This problem can be solved in the following manner, as observed by me and in the light of my experience:
    ' . - *
      A.   Under the AID Program, buildings were constructed throughout the country, but now only their four walls remain standing. Hence they can be reconstructed at a lesser cost.
      B.   In some parts of the country, people have reconstructed some schools for
           their children on self-help basis, with the       local, material like water,
           stone and clay, according to a design or without design. Senior and seasoned commanders helped them in fixing doors and windows. So these
           buildings can be checked and if necessary, repaired.
»■ . ■
      C.   Similarly crudely constructed buildings can be re-built with more aid, .
i’         according to the architectural plan, on emergency basis.
      D.   The Construction Department can supply simple and proper and healthy design-s of construction to the people concerned and can supervise its construction with required financial aid.
      E.   The Ministry of Education should draft a master plan for building schools at different levels and try to implement the same.
                                                 121
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992                       mi:                        VOL.  5  NO. 3
         Education Directorates in each province can elicit more public cooperation, as far as possible, with the help of financial assistance. This can be done provided professional, experienced and sympathetic persons are appointed in these directorates.
    "I-8* MOSQUE SCHOOLS
         My last proposal in this connection is the reinforcement of mosque schools. Here are some of the suggestions:
    i)    Classes I to IV i.e. four' standards of the first primary level may be held in the mosques.
    ii)   For achieving this, end with public consultation,, construction of some rooms in the neighborhood of the mosque is necessary.
    iii)  The Mosque Imam, who teaches the children, should receive a fixed salary.
    iv)   It is also essential to appoint one or two teachers in the mosque for classes I to IV.
    v)    In the first primary level classes, theology, recitation of Quran, arithmetic, science and sociology may be taught according to the syllabus.
    vi)   Those who have passed the class IV examination, can be educated in appropriate schools upto class VI or more.
         It may not go without, saying that physical training, health and . hygiene are the principal subjects of schooling and education which should be taken into consideration.
         The, most important point is, whether ,the Education Ministry of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan undertake the implementation of such a ponderous plan? Or can it do so, without outside help? The answer is, negative. Then what should be done?                                                    ’
         These are the proposals:
    1.  . First of all, all the educated Afghans are, obliged to take part in the
         implementation of this main arid grave duty provided the Education Ministry may give them the chance and seek their help. This could be possible in a proper • manner only, whrin professional and highly educated persons are appointed as heads of various departments in the Ministry. There is an Arabic saying that every job needs seasoned and skilled persons. It is a Divine command that:   "A trust should be entrusted to trustworthy persons".
         Expertise and professional skill is the sine qua non of good performance.
    2.  Although procurement of aid is undoubtedly the responsibility of those who are at present taking active part in public education, but this aid should be without any strings attached, within the framework of Is^.am and Hanafi jurisprudence, and according to our healthy, traditions and national values so that there should not be any shadow of doubt about it.
                                             122
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992            flffillflUJfWflfl         VOL. 5 NO. 3
    3.   Muslim countries can help us in this field without any pre-conditions or without wielding their influence.
    4.   International agencies such as UNESCO and related bodies should take an active part in this connection.
    5.   War reparations by the Russians can also be helpful for this purpose.
         In short, without the financial assistance of these sources, professional and skilled persons cannot perform this onerous task. Besides without the above-mentioned help, it would not be possible to recompense the tremendous losses suffered by the Afghan nation due to the imposed devastating war.
           RURAL REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION
    BY ENG. A AZIM BAHRAMI
                        I.  INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
         Tasks related to rural reconstruction and rehabilitation are linked with one another. The main components are: public- facilities such as mosques, basic health units, schools, irrigation systems, roads, bridges, private houses, etc., to be rehabilitated and reconstructed at least to a pre-war level or condition but with introduction of suitable technology.
         As indicated by the estimated scale of the destruction accumulated over so many years, reconstruction and rehabilitation will be very difficult, costly, and entail many years of hard work. Every aspect of the work needs to be studied and evaluated carefully, and then implemented, so that skilled manpower, construction materials, and allocated fund will be utilized effectively. This will require establishment of a number of operating centers at different locations to provide better and efficient professional management, coordination, and supervision services for the areas to be rehabilitated, in consultation with local community.         .
        It is obvious that the limited professional and skilled manpower, very little (or may be none) available funds, lack of adequate construction material and security will add to the problems. In order to overcome these problems, participation of the international community on a much bigger scale than present will be needed. Also we need to coordinate the work in order to avoid duplication and offer fair distribution of limited resources.
        In regard to technical manpower shortage, extensive training program in vocational and higher levels, has to be offered to provide services for reconstruction of rural infrastrures.
                                               123
APRIL-JUNE; 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3 .
                                         A. HOUSING SECTOR
           As residents were forced out. the villages remained vaeaht, deteriorating more and more which would eventually ' turn into archeological sites, since shelter is a basic need of life and a basic step for achieving any development,, serious thought must be paid how to resettle over five million refugees from neighboring countries and elsewhere, and two to three million internally displaced persons back in their original homes, towns or villages.
           Some might think it is rather early to discuss matters about the application of technical aspects of reconstruction. But due to the lack of some of- the construction material which need to be imported or produced internally, there is no harm, and indeed it is not early to study the methods and required types of material for reconstruction of private houses and public buildings in advance.
           Traditionally, rural houses are made of locally available material such as stone, mud, bricks, and wood. The use of locally available materials is most economical and efficient and should be continued for construction in rural areas.'Details of the rural housing components could be stated as below:
      1. FOUNDATION AND NALLS: In rural areas, the foundations of private houses were
      made of either stone with mud or improved and properly cured mud. Bricks, stones, and mud were used for ‘the construction of walls. The selection of material to be used varies with the availability of materials at site and location. In reconstruction programs the same material could be used but in better, improved form (e.g. mechanically compressed-bricks could be used instead-of ordinary sun dried brick, changing the sand/clay ratio of mud for obtaining better strength).                           ""
      2. ROOFING: Traditionally wooden beams were mostly used for covering roofs at the eastern half of the country, which has been subjected to strong earthquakes. At the western half, roofs were mostly made of domes called "gonbads". "Gonbads" can be constructed only in low intensity earthquake zone^s.
           During the one decade of war, forests which were the major source of roofing materials and a major national asset, have been mostly destroyed, cut, or burned. Wooden beams have now become very scarce.At the same time practically there is no other local alternate material to- be used as a substitute, for the roofs. Therefore, the following types of roofing components whidh tiave to
      be imported or produced locally cquld be used for building structures.
       ' • /
                                                   f
       a. Pre-stressed girders, .lintels and pre-cost slabs, which are extensively used in Pakistan and elsewhere. They have,to be accepted widely as roofing components in almost all types of single or double story buildings, such as mosques, private houses, schools, basic health units, and ware-houses. Due to the heavy weight of these roofing components, they should .be used in relatively flat areas and in low-intensity earthquake zones.
       b. Hollow block roofing with pre-stressed inverted T-beams used in a shorter
          transverse span. This type of roofing might be more expensive than the previous one.                                                      ^
                                                    124
     APR IL-JUNE* 1992                   Ann  UO                     VOL.  5  NO. 3
      •c. Pre-stressed concrete or steel I-beams, T'-type steel stringers with baked bricks. These are recommended in low intensity earthquake.zones.
      d. Pre-stressed concrete or steel I-beams, bamboos with mat and bushes. These are recommended in high intensity earthquake zones.
      e. Dome type roofing:    (i) bakecj bricks with cement mortar, (ii) baked
         bricks with lime-cement mortar, (iii) sun dried bricks with mud.
         Dome type roofing structures are common in western part of the country where qualified skilled personnel are available, and where the intensity of earthquake is almost negligible. This type of roofing should not be recommended in high-intensity earthquake zones, especially the type made of mud and sun-dried brick, which cannot stand earthquake due the lack of tensile strength, heavy weight, lack of bending strength, low capability of shear strength.                                   #
         Also due to a high maintenance cost and structural unreliability^ the construction of kacha domes (domes made of sun 'dried bricks and mud) is not recommendable in any part of Afghanistan.
                                        B. IRRIGATION SECTOR
         Since Afghanistan's agricultural products in most parts of the country are. heavily dependent on surface irrigation and ground water, primary attention should be paid to the rehabilitation of surface, irrigation1 systems, including related structures. The related structure involves intakes, retaining walls, diversion structures, flumes, flood-control structures, karezes, springs and agricultural wells. Due to’ the engineering implications projects must be surveyed, designed, estimated and implemented properly to facilitate rural e'conomic growth in a most effective manner.
                                    C.  ROAD SECTOR
        Since the 1978 coup, the poor condition of secondary and tertiary roads in rural areas, had an impact on farm; production. Furthermore, the condition of the roads deteriorated greatly due to destruction caused by war as well as lack of maintenance, lack of qualified manpower, and security measures. Most rural roads cannot be used, specially during winter and rainy seasons.
        It is impossible at this stage to provide a detailed and precise picture of damages and destruction caused to rural roads by war. But it is well known that physical damage and destruction reduce the production capacity of the rural’ areas significantly.
        Therefore urgent attention has to be paid to repair work, upgrading, and reconstruction of rural roads, including related structures such as culverts, side ditches, retaining walls, and settled bridges to provide access to agricultural areas and to make possible the shifting of surplus farm products to markets.
                                                      125
       APRIL-JUNE, 1992                   flfCIl/lNJ(HAD                 VOL. 5 NO.. 3
                                            COMMENTS
       1.  Priority should                          be given   to reconstruction and rehabilitation of rural
           areas as compared                        to urban areas for the following reasons:
           a.   The scale of destruction in rural areas is greater than urban areas.
           b.  1 The majority of Afghans live in the rural areas.
                                                                 i
           c.   Jobs can be provided in rural areas and more people will be encouraged to settle there, rather than to rush to the cities.
       2.  Sites for rehabilitation and reconstruction should be selected by operation
           centers with the consultation of local community.      The primary               map of the
           selected site to                         show the planimetric view should be prepared. This could
           be used as a base map*for planning according to the particular conditions.
     3.    Locals should be encouraged to maximize the use of construction materials locally available for building houses. Free consultation services have to be provided in regard to construction work as well as for the improvement of traditional construction material locally available.
     4.    Utilization of appropriate technology for low cost housing schould be encouraged.
     5.    Factories should be established on regional . basis to produce roofing components to be used as a substitute for wooden beams.
     6.    Roofing components should be provided at a      reduced price (comparatively
          lower than wooden beams at present prices).
     7.    To support poor people, income generation projects should be encouraged and extended among villages.
                                                                              I
     8.    Rehabilitation and reconstruction programs,     such as irrigation                       systems,
          roads, public buildings, and public facilities should be undertaken and local population should be hired as laborers t > provide them funds to build their houses.
     9.    Food-for-work projects (50% cash and 50% food)  should be extended.                      This, by
          the way, will have a positive impact on prices    as well.
                                               126

p
127
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  aUU                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
         PAKISTAN'S ROLE IN THE IMMEDIATE RECONSTRUCTION OF AFGHANISTAN
                   BY FAZAL-UR-RAHHAN RESEARCH FELLOW INSTITUTE OF STRATEGIC STUDIES
      The paper aims at tackling the immediate problems and issues broadly, following the establishment .of an acceptable government in Kabul. It is important to note that the process of reconstruction would largely depend on the out look of future government in Kabul. The emerging political structure within Afghanistan will determine the principle parameters for international and bilateral assistance. Political stability in the country, the degree of centralization and institutions created by the new state will condition the delivery of aid and pace of reconstruction. At the same time the massive relief requirements and economic realities of post-war Afghanistan, including its available natural and human resources, are expected to act as policy constraints for any government regardless of its outlook. With the collapse of Soviet empire and emergence of independent central Asian republics, Afghanistan has assumed importance as a gateway to and from central Asia to South and West Asia. In view of this changed regional scenario, it is important for Afghanistan to find a new definition for its role in the region- and for its relations with the neighboring countries.
     Regarding the role of Pakistan in the immediate reconstruction process, it would be determined by three basic factors:
 1. Political will on the part of Pakistan to assist Afghans in the process of
     reconstruction of their country.
 2.  The potential of Pakistan to provide assistance.
 3.  The acceptability of Pakistan's participation by the future Afghan
     government.
     Dealing with these issues one by one, Pakistan will be interested to participate in the process of reconstruction. Pakistan has been giving allout help to the Afghan people in every possible way during the last 13 years. Pakistan has the honor of hosting, with the assistance of other countries; more than 3.5 million Afghan people. Pakistan has also paid a heavy price in termp of men and material for its sustained support to the Afghan nation. I see no reason why Pakistan will not support its neighbor and a Muslim country in the process of1 its rebuilding. Giving aid is essentially a politiaal decision. Pakistan would certainly be inclined to take this decision to help Afghans. Particularly in view of the changed global conditions where Pakistan needs to consolidate its relations with West Asian and"central Asian Muslim states.
                                                                /\
                                        128
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992                   Hiullllllutnflil                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
       The second issue is the potential of giving assistance.
            i             .          '
       Pakistan is a third world developing country,and heavily depends on foreign aid. Therefore its ability to contribute in cash is very limited. Pakistan has an ability to contribute agricultural, small Industrial and' services, inputs in the process of reconstruction that will be covered subsequently.
       The third issue is the acceptance of Pakistan's role in the process of reconstruction.
       There will be three kinds of groups influencing Afghan decision making 'on the acceptance of Pakistan's role:
                                        > '
  1.   The influence of Afghan refugees and mujaheddin, who lived in Pakistan and
       have the experience of dealing with authorities here. Their feelings towards Pakistan are mixed. Some view Pakistan as a neighboring; Islamic country which fully backed the Afghan cause. They would prefer to have assistance from Pakistan. The others view Pakistan as a country which has been playing favorites and supporting them on preferential basis.Some would object to extensive interference in the internal politics of Afghan resistance and would not like to see Pakistan playing a meaningful role in the process of reconstruction.                /
  2.   The second group is comprised of those Afghans who have been living under the control, of Kabul regime, . and have been subject to Kabul-Soviet propaganda against Pakistan. They have developed altogether a different perception of Pakistan's role during the 13 years of war. Their view of Pakistan's assistance would emerge from their past perceptions, and would like to see a limited role for Pakistan as compared to other donor countries
  3.   The third category of influence will be from those Afghans who took refuge in the western world. This group is comprised of Afghan technocrats, intellectuals and professionals having a Western blend of ideas by now. Their views will be in conformity with those of Western views on Pakistan's role.in the process of reconstruction.
       In such a situation a consensus, among these three groups on the level of Pakistan's participation wo*uld be necessary while accepting a Pakistani offer in the process of reconstruction.
       At present, the emergence of new world order and the collapse of Soviet , Union,are two major factors which force Pakistan to develop cordial relations with the countries in West Asia. It is hoped that the relationship between Pakistan and Afghanistan will be of cooperation in a broad regional framework.
                       SECTORS WHERE PAKISTAN CAN HELP IN THE SHORT TERM
      Among the sectors identified in the research carried out by UN agencies and NGO's Pakistan can assist in the following:
,1. Logistical support for the voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees.
                                         129

APRIL-JUNE,
1992
 VOL. 5 no.- 3
2.   Food aid on short term basis.
3.   Agricultural inputs.
4.   Road repair and construction.
5.   Raw materials for building of shelters.
6.   Creation of health facilities, including supply of medicines.
7.   Hater supply schemes.
8.   Supply of skilled and professional manpower.
      These are a few areas which would require the immediate reconstruction following the establishment of an acceptable regime in Kabul.
      Pakistan has   indigenous   technological base and   experience in all these
 sectors as weir as the potential to' assist.  Pakistan   can also help Afghans in
 terms of human resources, particularly after the repatriation of skilled labor from the Middle East.
      The instrument of foreign investment is most essential for any under deve-loped/deyeloping economy- Pakistan and .Afghanistan have a history of unregistered trade Of a significant volume. Pakistan's private sector could be approached for going into small scale joint ventures in Afghanistan, provided their investment is secured through some institutional framework.                Pakistan is mainly
 manufacturing consumer goods, therefore, it can be of, a great assistance in the private sector to establish a consumer goods production base in Afghanistan, which »(ill be an    immediate   requirement of the society in a post-settlement
 period. Presently,  Pakistani   private sector is eager   to get into the central
 Asian market. Thera is no reason, why it should hesitate to cooperate in a mutually beneficial arrangement with the future Afghanistan. The only conditions of Pakistani private enterprenure would be the security of their investments and a stable politico-economic environment.
      Also, the most important factor in the process of immediate reconstruction is' the creation of an institutional framework enabling the infrastructural absorption of foreign assistance. For this purpose a detailed study needs to be conducted on the format of existing institutional framework inside Afghanistan and its suitability for the future requirements. Since it is a difficult task to create new institutions, it may be useful to consider certain modifications in the existing structure to suit the changed conditions. This work has to be done by the Afghans. They are the best judge to state the future mechanism in every aspect of reconstruction without interference from any external power-.
      Another dimension of Pakistan's assistance could be, that Pakistan can make efforts in order to influence other friendly countries to assist Afghans in the process of immediate and short term recpnstruction.. For example, in November 1991, the second investment conference for the promotion of joint ventures among Islamic countries was held in Karachi. The aim of this conference was to promote cooperation among Islamic countries to help less developed countries for transfer of technology and setting up of industrial projects. At such forums Pakistan can advocate, the need for assisting Afghanistan in its reconstruction along with the bilateral diplomatic channels. But this depends, largely on the nature of Pak-Afghan relations in future.
                                      130
 APRI-L-JUNE. 1992          flfGHflNJIHAD           VOL. 5 Nd. 3
     So far the relationship between aid giving agencies and Afghans is sore. It is important that the Afghans should decide whether they would like to deal with the donor countries bilaterally or they prefer to deal with an aid consortium. The idea of establishing a consortium may be helpful to avoid unnecessary interference from individual donors. The Afghan authorities can propose projects to the consortium for technical and financial assistance, thereby controlling the implementation phase by themselves.
     If Pakistan is to play a meaningful role in the immediate reconstruction efforts it is important to note that there is a need to adopt confidencebuilding measures between the Afghans and Pakistani side. The misgivings which have been created by some quarters are needed to be cleared out. Pakistan should be seen by Afghans as selflessly assisting them in their hour of need. That will create the basis for a new friendly, cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship between the two countries. To participate in the reconstruction efforts as desired by the Afghans will be indeed an opportunity for Pakistan to lay. the basis for such relationship.
 THE OUTLINE OF THE UNOCA MINE CLEARANCE PROGRAM FOR AFGHANISTAN
 BY: KEFAYATULLAH EBLAGH ATC DIRECTOR
     Afghan Technical Consultants (ATC) is only one of several implementing NGOs for the UN6CA mine clearance'(demining) program. The program is conducted inside Afghanistan altough ''its headquarters like all other NGOs are currently located in Pakistan.
     ATC maintains a central office in Peshawar and is the largest of all the NGOs within the program. ATC have up to seven semipermanent site offices located inside Afghanistan. Each of these site offices administers two or three demining teams. Currently, only 4% of ATC*s 800 personnel work permanently in Pakistan; the other 96% spend the vast majority of their employment inside Afghanistan.
     The mine clearance program (MCP), is fully sponsored by UNOCA; however it is only one of many programs controlled by UNOCA within the framework by the six NGOs and one USAID organization are also supporting the demining task. They are located in Peshawar, Quetta and Pul-e-Khumri. The USAID organization, provides mine clearance dogs.
                                          131
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992               111!JIM                   VOL. 5 NO. 3
         UNOCA           
ATC MCPA  DHQ  OMA RONCO 
QUHTTA SWAAD MCPA DHQ OMA     RONCO 
PUL-e-KHUMRI HALO     MCP rep       
      The organizations are as follows:
 1.   ATC - Demining operation and physical demining in eastern, central and selected northern provinces.
 2.   DHQ    - Training and monitoring of demining personnel
 3.   MCPA   - Surveying and marking of mined areas.
 4.   OMA    - Mine awareness training.
 5.   RONCO  - Provision of mine detection dogs and handlers.
 6.   SWAAD  - Demining in southwest provinces.
 7.   HALO TRUST , - Demining in selected Government controlled areas.
                                            THE MINE THREAT
      It has been estimated that there may be 5-10 million mines in Afghanistan? however,, some more extravagant figures of up to 50 million mines have been also presented. However, estimates as low as five million mines still create enormous problems.
                                           WHAT IS A MINE
      Mines are available throughout the world in an enormous variety, many of which have found their way to Afghanistan. They are made from steel, wood, plastic, bakelite, tin, or a combination of all these. They can be designed to destroy a tank, blow off a man's leg or fire shrapnel through the air.
      Certain mines can become self-destructive after a time while some remain active for decades. Mines can be activated by remote control, applied pressure, released pressure, trip wire and an assortment of other methods. This alone makes mine clearance a dangerous and time consuming task.
                                  HISTORY OF THE DEMINING PROGRAM
      In 1989, for the first time ever in its s history, the UN dedided to establish a mine clearance program; it was designed to assist the repatriation
 of Afghanistan. As part of the program, training centers for mine clearance were established in Peshawar> Risalpur (NWFP) and Bilali (Quetta). At these . training centers Afghans voluntarily enrolled for 15 days for basic training. At the end of the course the trainees were supplied with basic mine clearance equipment. They' then returned to their village or camp. The demining program has developed and matured over the past two years and now all aspects of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ?'XL
                                          132
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 program are directed to the establishment of professional and effective demining organizations with formalized teams of well trained deminers.
      When UNOCA initially decided to establish a demining NGO with organized teams, it did so by planning a pilot project. I was subsequently requested to establish the NGO and assume the responsibility of implementing the pilot demining project. I did this by dividing the problem into three broad areas:
 a.   Selection of demining and administrative personnel,                      .
 b.   Development of an organizational outline and essential equipment list,
 c.   Defining a modus operandi and selection of an area of operations.
                                        PERSONNEL SELECTION
      Selection of the deminers came fyom Afgnans who had completed the basic mine training at Risalpur training camp. Administrative staff were identified from a variety of sources. At this stage it was apparent that the inherent danger of mine clearance required the organization to be run along paramilitary lines. To maintain control and standards, it was decided that all the deminers would be paid, boarded and transported by our resources. These initial decisions have proven to be invaluable as the organization has expanded.
                                 DEVELOPMENT OF AN ORGANIZATION
      Although the initial pilot project only allowed for about 40 personnel, I decided to organize the NGO into a very definite structure to allow for any possible expansion. When in Afghanistan, the demining team was administered.by a "Site Office" controlled by a supervisor who was under the direct command of the ATC Director. The deminers were also organized into a team with a team leader. This system is still continued, with some modification. An added priority was insurance for employees.
      Demining equipment has been provided by the UNOCA. Major items for demining are mine detectors, vehicles, radios and miscellaneous equipment such as prodders, markers, etc. All participating NGOs use the same style of equipment that was used in the beginning of the program; however some of the models or types may have changed.
                                        MODUS OPERANDI
     The modus operandi for the original ATC team and all subsequent demining teams is based on modern mine clearance techniques. Although the demining teams began in Kunar, the UNOCA mine clearance program now extends to all the eastern and southern provinces and to a lesser extent, the central and northern provinces.
                                         THE BEGINNING
      The first mine clearance supervisory office was established by ATC on 25 December 1989 in Kunar, a pilot project with 10 administrative personnel. At that time the demining team consisted of 24 persons from different jehadic parties; this team was deployed to the site accompanied by the director, technical advisor, operation officer and a supervisor.
                                           133
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 april-june, 1992                AFGHAN JIHflO
      This pilot project was a matter of concern to all because of the instability among the mujaheddin parties, on the one hand, and the Kabul regime hostilities, on the other. Fortunately, due to the support of the mujaheddin Shoora, we were able to overcome the problems and we maintained neutrality among political groups. This neutrality has become one of the most important facets of the demining program.
      For the first time since the revolution, the road between Nawa Pass and Sarkani district was opened.
      Owing to the result of this successful operation, UNOCA was encouraged and decided to increase the number of demining teams to six. It also allocated further budget for the expansion of demining operations.
                                         EXTRA TRAINING
     ■ In order to improve on the initial demining operation and minimize the chanciss of casualties, all demining teams are subject to a revision course after each six months of operations. The courses involve■an initial interview by the training staff and then attending the practical phase of the course. These courses are designed to correct any procedural problems, introduce new techniques and reinforce previous training.
      To date all ATC jj^sms have attended at least one of the revision courses whilst a few of the teams have now completed the£r second revision course. These courses are often conducted in Risalpur or Quetta; however they are conducted inside Afghanistan as well whenever possible.
      Since introducing the revision courses our casualty rate has been reduced and the standard of deminers has improved.
                                        FORMATION OF TEAMS
      Mine clearance teams are organized to 27 deminers, including a team leader, two sub-leaders divided into eight small groups of three persons.
                                              MEDICAL
      The inherent danger of mines has required the MCP to identify, train and deploy paramedics with the demining teams. These paramedics are Afghans and are supervised by Afghan doctors also employed with the NGO's.
      A project to establish Medical Field Units has already been approved and is awaiting financing. These field units will assist in offsetting the enormous problems of evacuating casualties from Afghanistan. Casualty evacuation is currently very slow and dangerous and the UNOCA has been requested to assess other options, including aeromedical. evacuation.
                                                     134
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 flfMJflMIl                    VOL.  5 NO. 3
                                EXPATRIATE STAFF               .
      The MCP has several expatriate staff attached a’s advisers and trainers as follows:
 a.   Program Manager, Norwegian
 b.   Senior Technical Advisor, Australian
 c.   Technical Advisors to MCPA and ATC, Australian
 d.   Training/Monitoring staff (DHQ), Australian
 e.   Operations and Administrative staff of HALO Trust, English
 f.   ATC Flail Project, English
      During the initial phases of the demining program, several other countries provided training personnel* however, as the program developed, the number of expatriates has been reduced.
      All Australian staff are army personnel provided by the Australian ■ government. They are experienced and provide for very cost effective support. The English expatriate staff to HALO Trust are volunteers and are also inexpensive to the program. The Flail expatriate staff are provided by a private company and their personnel are now reduced to two. These countries included:
      USA, Italy, France, UK, New Zealand, Australia, Norway, Thailand, and Canada.
      Expatriate staff are an important assest to the program In providing experience and advice. Afghans however are employed to perform all the duties of demining activities. It is anticipated that expatriate staff, particularly the Australian military, will be required at least for some years to come.
      Support from other countries, particularly those with experience in mechanical mine clearance would also be valuable to the MCP. Specially from Norway and Sweden.
      Experienced Afghans are always being sought to support the MCP in command, control, liaison and advisory roles.
                                    MDD (MINE DETECTING DOGS)
      The MDDs are sensitive to devices which contain small amounts of metal and difficult to detect by mechanical means. The MDD'3 smell the explosive no matter how deep the min# is laid* they are therefore a good addition to the options available to assist in demining. The dogs'effectiveness however is less than 100%, but by combinining the dogs with manual deminers, we maximise the effectiveness of the operations.
                               FLAIL MACHINES
      In. mid 1990, the UNOCA approved the Mechanical Mine Clearance project within the framework of ATC. Two mechanical flail machines were purchased and were deployed to Urgun, Paktika. For a variety of reasons, the Flails have not
                                                135
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  HANJfHflfl                     VOL.  5 NO. 3
 operated effectively on-the terrain of Afghanistan. Since most of Afghanistan.is mountainous and covered with rocks, gulleys and steep hills, transporting these machines is< extremely difficult.
       Both flails are now undergoing major refurbishment in Peshawar and it is expected to relocate them to Khost city, Paktia in 1992.
                                                  ATC
       ATC currently consists of 18 demining teams, each of 27 persons. Including the administrative staff, ATC employ nearly 800 Afghans and three expatriates. The entire program has about 1,500 personnel.
       Demining operations have been conducted in 13 provinces as follows:
 A.   ATC:
       1. Kunar, 2. Paktika, 3. Paktia, 4. Nangarhar, 5. Ghazni, 6. Bamian, 7. Badakhshan,' 8. Takhar,
 B.   HALO TRUST:
       9. Parwan, 10. Balkh, 11. Baghlan,
 C.   SWAAD;
       12. Kandahar, 13. Helmand, 14. Badghis.
 Bamian: Bamian, with the exception of Ghulghula ancient city, has been cleared of all surveyed mine areas.
 Kunar: In Barikot district , with the exception of mountain tops, all high priority tasks in the area, including agricultural areas, villages, roads and canals, have been cleared. Demining in other Kunar districts continues.
 Ghazni: All regions of Chardiwal, that were heavily mined, have been completely cleared.
 Takhar: Work has recently commenced North of Taloqan.
 Badakhshan:Several areas in Zebak district are now clear of mines particularly parallel to the main road.
 Paktia/Paktika: Work continues in these two provinces.
 Nangarhar:  Demining has recommenced in Nangarhar after a period of political
 instability.
 Badghis/Kandahar/Helmand: These provinces are the responsibility of SWAAD. Baghlan/Parwan and Balkh: These provinces receive limited demining through the HALO Trust demining NG0.
                                          FUTURE PLANNING
      The expansion of mine clearance program plans is contingent to sufficient funds. Several NGOs throughout the country plan to speed up the mine clearance, as well.
      The priority of clearance is as follows, although they may vary according to the needs of the local people:
                                           136
                                     a
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO, 3
       1. roads, 2. villages, 3. canals and streams, 4. agricultural land, 5. grazing land.
      Lowest priority is usually given to the clearance of mountainous areas that were used as observation posts during the war. These areas are not used very often. When conditions are favorable, these areas will also be cleared.
                          RELEVANCE TO AFGHANISTAN
       The eradication of mines from Afghanistan is a vital and essential element of repatriation. Too often returnees have fallen victim to mines. Out of necessity, Afghans have returned (and will probably continue to return) to areas with mine problems.
       Mine victims can be seen in every village and district. Although mine clearance alone is not an answer to large scale repatriation, it is one of many major contributing factors. Mine clearance will continue with or without a peace settlement as a mine- is a double edged sword and does not distinguish between political beliefs.
                                EXPANSION
     The enormity of the mine clearance problem in Afghanistan demands the expansion of the existing MCP. The. availability of funds is the only restriction to expansion as the infrastructure for training, operations and administration already exist. Significant expansion is required in all provinces in which the MCP currently operates; however it will also need to expand further north.
     To deal effectively with the mine problem, further demining organizations must be established along the lines of ATC. This requires more funding but the program is essential and vital to the people of Afghanistan.
              FOREST REGIONS IN AFGHANISTAN
BY: DR. HASHMATULLAH MUJADDEDI
    Forests in Afghanistan are limited only to some geographical zones. The important, forest zones of Afghanistan are located in Kunar, Paktia, Nangarhar and Badghis provinces.
KUNAR PROVINCE: There were about 66,500 hectares of conifers in Kunar province. Out of 29 million cubic meters of industrial wood trees in Afghanistan, 25 million cubic meters are located in Kunar province.
      Therefore, Kunar province contains the highest and important forest of Afghanistan. Important industrial trees of Kunar are Cedrus Deadar, Picea
                                          137
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992              mum                         VOL.  5 NO.  3
  mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmammmmmmmmaummmmmmBmmammmm
  Smithinu, Pinus Wallichians and Abies spectubills.
       During 1973, 145,000 cubic meters of wood in Kunar province was cut but it was not followed with re-forestation.
       Furthermore, they were not cut properly and therefore only 86,000 cubic meters of cut wood was obtained and 41% of the forest was lost due to poor methods of cutting.
       The capacity of this forest area is estimated 100,000 cubic meters but as they are cut by improper methods, it would have only 59,000 cubic meters capacity. If the cutting continues like that, 1,000 hectares- of forest landi. would change to abandoned land each year.
       Near Asadabad, 2,000 hectares of land was used for Eucalyptus. Out of 16 different types of the trees only Eucalyptus Camatduleriseis had given the best result.
                                                                t
  • During 1985 there were 165 hectares of Eucalyptus on the banks of Kunar River.
  PAKTIA PROVINCE: Earlier estimates said that there were 165,000 hectares
  destroyed forests, 210,000 hectares pasture type forests and 14,500 hectares of industrial type forests in Paktia province.
      The capacity of industrial wood in Paktia was estimated to be 2,130,000 cubic meters. Six years ago they were cutting 300,000 cubic meters of industrial wood each year in Paktia province. Each year 5,000 hectares of forest was destroyed.
      Olea Ferruginea and Quercus baloot are very common in Paktia province. Olea ferruginea can be changed to industrial wood with grafting.
      Oak trees were good source of wood for fuel. In 1980-89 80,000 metric tons of oak wood was transported to Pakistan and Kabul and 11,000 metric tons of charcoal was produced annually from oak.
      Chamaerops ritchienna trees are very common in the area between Khost and Jaji Maiden. The leaves of these trees are used as boriya, hat, fan, basket and the seed is used for tasbeh (beeds for prayer).
 NANGARHAR PROVINCE: In  1973 3,000 hectares of industrial wood existed in
 Nangarhar province.
      The capacity of this forest was estimated about 70,000 cubic meters.
     Each year about 5,000 hectares of this forest was destroyed.
 BAOGHZS PROVINCE: There is a forest of Pistacia Vera in Badghis Province. The
 area covered with Pistacia Vera trees was estimated about 300,000 hectares. There were 15-20 trees in each kilometer square. Most of these trees are old and
                                            138
  I
    APRIL-JUNE, 1992             MANJfHflO                 VOL., 5 NO. 3
new seedling's growth is hampered by the existence of animals. The trees are also cut for fuel by the local population.
         Pistachio forests are also common in BadakHshan, Baghlan and Samangan provinces.                                                             ,
         Since 1989, the FAO has been carrying out a number of small orchards rehabilitation and community forest projects infAfghanistan.
         A total of 630,000*budded fruit trees, 35,000 apple root stocks and 100,000 poplar cuttings have been planted. Nurseries for plantation of trees have been established in Balkh, Faizabad, Kabul and_ Samangan. In 1990 a total of 100,000 cuttings were provided to nurseries in Ghazni, Kunar and Paktia for rooting, propagation and eventual distribution.
                                     RECOMMENDATIONS
     1.  Tree seed and seedling (sapling) must be tested and care must be taken that
         only species and varieties that are suitable for the area are planted.
< . .
     2.  The issue of low cost housing which reduces or replaces the use of wood must be urgently addressed.
     3.   Considering the amount of damage to existing fruit trees, emphasis should be placed on establishing fruit trees nurseries.
    4.    Local trees varieties should.be planted until more suitable varieties are
          found.            ,
    5.    In. the planning and implementation of re-forestation projects, special consideration should be given to pursuing alternative fuel sources.
                                      CONCLUSION
                                 Most trees have either been cut by the Russians to eliminate
         mujaheddin shelters or destroyed by bombs or lack of water. These trees
         were a source of fruit, food, fuel, poles and lumbers for building, in
         addition to being influential in soil conservation and weather conditions.
                                                           %
         Afghans are traditionally tree loving people and like to have trees on their properties.
                                              139
april-june,.1992
 vol. 5 no. 3
LATEST INFORMATION ABOUT TWO AFGHANISTAN PROVINCES \ BAMIAN IWARDAK
 A SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE
      Bamian is situated irj the center of Afghanistan. Roads and tracks from the province to Baghlan, Mazar-e-Sharif, Wardak and Ghazni provinces are connected through the Hajigak pass. The Baba mountain in the western part of Hindu Kush rangfe extends from the east, to the west of Bamian province. Green pasture-land stretches on both sides of the mountain.
      The statues of Buddha and Sh'ahr-e-Gholghola, reminiscence of the days of Gengis Khan, are a witness to the strategic and logistic, significance of the province in our history. The famous trade link known as the 'Silk Route' connecting Afghanistan with Chine,. also passed through the province.
      The province is part of the agro-:ecological planning region of East Central Asia. Administratively it is divided into five Uluswalis and two Alaqadari's. The center of the province takes its name from the province itself. The total area of the province is 17,414 square kilometers and its altitude ranges from 1,475 to 2,700 meters in various districts.' The majority of the population of central Bamian is Dari speaking and belongs to Hazara tribes.
      Bamian forms part of the Hazarajat areas which, historically^ have been among the best developed areas of Afghanistan. The province had been categorized as a food deficient area even before the war. The war has further aggravated that condition. Agricultural land mainly comprises of small land holdings located in the valleys and on mountain slopes, with low yields. The main crops are wheat and potato. The province exports potatoes and wooden beams mainly to Kabul. Central Bamian has, comparatively, the best economic
Bamian
  APRJL-JUNE, 1992                    inittl                    VOL.  5  NO. 3
  infrastructure, and the economic base gets poorer in areas to its west.
       There is no large scale industry in the province. In terms of the presence of small scale rural industry. Pan jab and Shibar are much ahead of the rest of the districts.                                              .
       The Panjab district has a variety of small industry producing woolen carpets.and rugs, cast-iron,and copper products and straw baskets. The district is known for stone quarrying; precious stones are also found there. The shibar district produces, besides woolen carpets and rugs, handloom cloth, leather products, vegetable oil, household utensils, wood carvings and straw baskets. There are very few industries in other districts.
       The constraints faced by small industry include non availability of tools and equipment, lack of credit and- scarcity of skilled manpower.
    . There is no scarcity of manpower in agricultural sector, but in' many districts skilled manpower is either scarce or in short supply. The largest scarcities of skilled labor are reported for silk weavers and midwives.
                                           LOCAL SITUATION
       Center of Bamian has contained eight political parties which are also represented in the Shoora, the principle local authority governing the provincial center since mujaheddin took its control' in 1988. There are three Shia parties, three belonging to Afghan Interim Government, one Hezb-e-Islami and one composed of a small group of educated members with no single tribal or ethnic identity. The Shoora's authority does not extend beyond central Bamian. Towards .the west a new alliance of Shia parties, called Hezb-e-Wahdat, has claimed control. A more complex situation has developed towards the east with Tadjek, Ismaili and Hazara groups scattered across the area.
      NO single group in the province can claim dominance, which has resulted in a .sense of insecurity and mistrust among the groups. However, Shoora-e-Islami and Shobra-e-Wahdat are the two most influential groups in central Bamian.
                                    POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
      The settled population of the province estimated by the 1979 census was 268,517 with density of 15 per square kilometer. The census also estimated that
 the urban population constituted only 2,7% of the total population Of the province. In 1978-79 the urban population was confined to Bamian center. The total area of the province was estimated at 17,414 square kilometers. According ,,to projection for 1990 the settled population of the province that year was estimated at 317,143 implying a growth rate of 2.1% per annum.
                                        NUMBER OF REFUGEES
      Five percent of the 1990 population of the province has become refugees, 99% of whom are in Iran, only 29 families from Bamian took refuge in Pakistan. Those who took refuge in Iran form 1.3% of the total population of the province.
                                            141
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                llllll                       VOL.  5  NO* 3
 There was also some movement of population between Bamian province and other areas of Afghanistan.
                                 EFFECTS OF WAR ON POPULATION
      An estimated 5,002 persons lost, their lives due to the war, making 1.7% of the total population of the province. Another 1,534 persons were rendered disabled. Bamian center suffered the largest loss of life and disability of people. However, the province has not been directly affected by the war.
      A large variety of mines are reported to be present in Bamian center. Mines are also located in the districts of Kahmard, Saighan and Shibar.
                                   SITUATION OF FOOD SUPPLY
      In Bamian the agricultural land is confined to narrow valleys and mountain slopes which limits the local prospects of food supply. Even before the war the province was known to be a part of food deficit region in Afghanistan. The annual food deficit is estimated at 123,342 metric tons. Due to very low personal income many youngsters have migrated to Iran in search of work to provide food to their families back home. Malnutrition among children has been a prevalent and growing affliction. In some districts people sell fresh and dry apricots to generate some funds for buying food while in some other districts people live mostly on livestock production and imported food.
      For supply of wheat, rice and edible oil the province is dependent on Kabul and Pakistan. Black and green tea and sugar also come from Pakistan.
                                     PRICES OF FOOD ITEMS
      The prices of most food items are on a higher side, which most families are not often able to afford. According to a survey, conducted in June-October 1990, the price range of food items was as follows:
Food Items  Price range  
            (Afs/Kg).    
Wheat         123  - 164 
Barley         82  - 137 
Rice          342  - 507 
Potato         21     82 
Edible oil    548  - 685 
Tea (Black) 1,000 -2,685 
Tea (Green)   800 -3,068 
Sugar         384  - 657 
Beef          548  - 900 
Mutton        550 -1,200 
Chicken     1,200 -2,500 
    . Price o food commodities have been increasing steadily with time. In June-October, 19 the average price of a cow was Afs. 131,000, of a sheep Afs. 21-000, and f a goat Afs. 16,000.
                                           142
  APR IL-JUNE, 1992               mm JH
                                                       AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
VOL. 5 NO. 3
        Estimates of the total cultivable area in the province range between .149,540 jeribs to 285,500 jeribs. Sufficient information is not available to check the reliability of any of these estimates. While only limited areas in Bamian province have been directly affected by war the.indirect effects tend to gain intensity as war dragged on* Major problems of the province have traditionally been the limited availability for cultivation, low preperation of saleable farm products, lack of infrastructure, scarcity of fuel for hearting and cooking (leading to cutting down of trees for firewood),. over-grazing of pastures and
 dry farming of upland areas with subsequent ecological degradation and lack of
                                  *
 support services in agriculture-.                          '               ,
      For ‘ the whole province the area for seasonal crops is 85% of the total cultivable area. Area under fruit orchards is only 5% of the total area cultivable. About 10% of the area is left lying temporarily fallow.
      The average farm size of cultivable land in the province was 18.5 jeribs. Some 77% of the total farm land in Bamian is irrigated - most of it by canals. There are 79% farmers with only irrigated land, 1% with only rain-fed land and 20% with both. Various sources of water for irrigation .have been in use in the province. Damage to the irrigation system was one of the three main war damages.
                                    CROP PRODUCTION
      Main crops are irrigated potato, barley, alfalfa, clover, fruits, ric’e and beans. Alfalfa and clover are mainly grown on rain-fed farms. Wheat is a major crop covering 70% of the total area. The. next major crop is potato which accounts for 14% of the area* Rice is grown only on 4% of the area while animal fodder accounts for the remaining area.
      Major products exported from Bamian is potato and wood, mostly to Kabul. The province' is also important for its fruit production which is 21% of the national output. Major fruit crops are grapes, apples, apricots, and pears. Fruit diseases are major problems.
                                                  SEEDS
      No improved seed was available; locally in May-June, .1990, Some seed sent by the Swedish Committee in 1989 had proved unsuitable. Two government farms, under mujaheddin control since 1981, were leased out to private farmers. They used to have seed multiplication plots. The farms were.badly in need of repairs.
      In June-October,  1990 a 50-Kgs bag of DAP was costing from Afs. 3,000 to
 Afs. 4,000. Urea jWas available from Af s.. 2,0OO to Afs.. 2,500 per 50-Kgs bag.
      In 1989 in Bamian province 8-9% of the farmers owned oxen, 11% depended on hired oxen. Of those owning oxen 58% owned one ox, 29% owned 2 oxen and 2% owned 3 oxen. In November 1989 the price of an ox was Afs. 120,000.
                                         143
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
III
IIH
 VOL.- 5 NO. 3
                                  CONSTRAINTS TO AGRICULTURE
       Non-availability of quality, seeds and shortage of farm power and funds have been reported as the major constraints throughout the province. Non-availability of irrigation water has been reported from some districts while lack of locust and pest control has been reported from other districts. Crops diseases were identified by 82% farmers in Bamian to be a consistent problem. Animal diseases were also cited as a major problem. Most of the forests in the province have been deforested.
                               ROAD TRANSPORT AND COHMUNICATION
       A private transport service with 10 buses is operating in Bamian center. There are no taxis, pickups or private cars. The air strip is in good condition but airport building has been damaged.
       Bamian center is a logistic center as it is linked with roads to many cities and towns. For six months in a year the areas south of Bamian at Hajigak-pass is blocked by snow and more easily reached from Pakistan. The roads are in a very poor condition, having been damaged both by war in some areas and through neglect. Despite the strategic importance of the province, the road infrastructure there is much under-developed. All roads passing through the province are dirt roads, with most bridges and culverts along the routes .either extensively or partly damaged. Most parts of the central road are open only to 4-wheel-drive vehicles and even that only for seven months in a year as mountain passes are >blocked by snow in winter. Mujaheddin Shooras in central Afghanistan have been frequently emphasizing the need to restore or build road infrastructure. The most sought-after road is the one that links central Afghanistan with Mazar-e-Sharif in the north.                                              . .
      The radio communication system in the province has been destroyed in the war.. There is no electricity in the province. The usual sources of energy used for household consumtion are kerosene, firewood, coal and animal dung. Coal and Kerosene are used only in three out of seven districts. Petrol was not available in four districts and in the remaining three districts the average price for petrol was Afs. 1,000/gallon. Diesel was available in all the districts at an average price of Afs. 657/gallon.       '                             «
      The usual sources of water supply for domestic consumption in the province are reported to be the joy (small stream), hauz (man-made water pool), wells, springs and melted snow.
                                SHELTERS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS
     During the survey in June 1990 more than 71% of the total shelters in the. 56 villages were intact and untouched by the war. About 6% of the shelters were reported to be extensively, damaged while another 12% had suffered partial damage. New constructions amounted to about 7% of the total while another 3%, damaged during the war, were under repair.
             Of the 1,568 shops in the 56 villages half were reported to be still
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992                 WfiHM JflWO '                * VQL. 5 NO. 3
  intact. In all, 32% of the total shops voters extensively damaged; 5% of those shops were already constructed a new 18% of the total shelters had suffered partial damage, of which 27% were under repair.
      The office buildings had suffered the most, 91% of which had been almost completely destroyed. Another 4% of the buildings had suffered partial damage and only 5% were left intact. No reconstruction or repair work on the affected buildings had started as yet.                                    ,
      Of the 65 schools and madrasas, 34% were unharmed. Some 57% of these were extensively damaged and most of them still required reconstruction. Another 9% of the buildings suffered partial damage of which 33% were under repair.
      Of the 20 health centers 11 were intact, seven were extensively damaged and two were partly damaged.
      Fifty-seven percent of the mosques were not-affected by the war, 12% were extensively damaged.and 31% had suffered partial damage.
      Major storage facilities in the. province are very inadequate and restricted. These are available in only three of, the seven districts.
                                    DAMAGE TO HISTORIC SITES
      Many of the historical monuments have suffered extensive damage during the war years. Bulet holes can be seen in statues of Buddhas and many precious artifacts have been stolen. The calcium-rich soil around the Buddhas is being removed by the local farmers for their fields which threatened several ancient caves and the two Buddhas. The ruins of Shahr-e-Gholghola (Whispering City) are also extensively damaged and the site is reported to be infested with mines.
                                                                 V
      The'local populatibn is very much aware of the significance of the historic monuments. The appropriate UN Agency may undertake the restoration of the monuments in close collaboration with the local population.
                                  HEALTH FACILITIES AND SERVICES
      The health facilities in Bamian. province have been reported to be very poorly equipped both in terms of qualified staff and equipment. In the whole province there are only 18 clinics in all with, very disproportionate number of qualified staff to the population. The total number of doctors in the province is only 18.
      Female daily attendance is nearly as much pis that of male attendance, but there a're no arrangements for treatment for conditions and ailments specific to women.                                      >
      Clinics in Bamian center are relatively much better equipped than those at other places. However, even here the clinics do not have any sterilization equipment, X-ray films or even a dentist’s chair.
                                                      145
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
      The most common ailments reported from, the province are diarrhoea, tuberculosis, goiter and respiratory infections.              ;
                                   PRICE RANGE OF MEDICINES (PRICES IN AFGHANIS)
 NAME OP MEDICINE                     PRICE RANGE
Aspirin tablet                   ,3        . 8 
Chloroguine tablet                3         10 
Penicillin ampule                80        200 
ORS packet                       40        100 
Ampicillin bottle               100    - 1,000 
Bactrine tablet                  10         15 
The health services are reported to be rudimer 
ry. The war has largely disrupted or damaged the health services which, in any case, are inaccessible to the majority of the population being’ located in and around the provincial capital. Most of the health facilities are under the control of various political groups who do not coordinate with each other. They are dependent on medicine supplies from Peshawar.
      The mission recommends developing a primary . health care system for the province. Simultaneously programs in mine awarness, hygiene and health education also need to be implemented.
                                     EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
      There are in all 1,295 mosque-schools, 75 madrasas and 62 primary schools in Bamian Province. Only primary schools impart formal education. Schools are generally in a very bad condition, lacking proper building, trained teachers, furniture, books and other educational material.
      According to a rough estimate the ratio of school-age males in the province is 51% and that of females 49%. But male students comprise 94% of the total enrollment and female students share only 6%. Some 87% of population eligible for enrollment in primary and secondary schools is out of the school system. Of the total eligible males only 24% are attending primary schools while the proportion of females doing the same thing is only 2%.
                          RESETTLEMENT NEEDS AND PLANNING IMPLICATIONS
                                                    -1
      Bamian is one of the poorest and most under-developed regions of Afghanistan. It was saved from the direct ravages of war, but indirect consequences of war have taken their toll. Food supplies are one of the major concerns. Given the nature of its terrain, the province has little capacity of agricultural production and has to depend heavily on food supplies from outside. The war has seriously disrupted the supply route from Kabul and forced the province to depend on supplies 'from far away Peshawar. Wheat supplies under United Nationals assistance > program are limited and due to fregmentdtion of administrative authority in the wake of war, their' distribution has not been free from risk.
                                                     146
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
III
                                                                                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
       The supplies have also been hampered due to fast deteriorating road infrastructure.
       Agricultural sector is one of' the worst hit. Clogging of irrigation channels has resulted in substantial cultivable area becoming fallow. Floods and earthquakes have led to the loss of large areas of cultivable land. In the circumstances many people from the province are moving to other parts of Afghanistan and Iran in search of livelihood. But they are migrants, not refugees as they leave their families behind in their ancestral homes.
       Historic sites have suffered extensive damage. Many school buildings are destroyed. Trained teachers and teaching material are reported to be scarce. Host trained teachers have been dislocated as a consequence of war. Most of the health facilities have very limited operational capacity.
       .The response of/ the agencies responsible for planning and implementing resettlement programs in Afghanistan to the area needs has been very poor. Cultural monuments have received a better attention from the agencies concerned. Very little attention is being paid to restore agricultural and road infrastructures and to resolve the problem of food scarcity of an alarming dimension.
       Priority projects for Bamian are construction/repair of two major roads to facilitate access between central and northern Afghanistan. In the education sector at least two primary schools per district maybe constructed or repaired.
       Repairing and constructing irrigation channels, demining operations and provision of storage facilities in every district are some other projects which should be implemented on priority basis.
A SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE
     This survey was conducted in March/April 1990 to determine the effects of war both in qualitative and quantitative terms on various sectors of Afghanistan's economy and society and to point the direction for long-term development planning.
                         ADMINISTRATIVE AND GEOGRAPHIC FEATURES
       Wardak lies at the intersection of the. rural zones of the central Highlands and the Logar Valley. The provinces bordering Wardak are Kabul, Parwan, Bamian, Ghazni and Logar. Wardak lies in a mountanous region where the altitude ranges between 2,100 to 2,950 meters.
      The province is administratively divided into five Uluswalis (districts) and four Alaqadaris (Sub-districts). Haidan Shar is the provincial capital.
      Wardak is also important in linking the country's capital to Ghazni and Kandahar through the main Kabul-Kandahar highway. The province is also linked to Herat through a main road and to Bamian through the Hajigak Pass.
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 april-june. 1992            AFGHAN JEM
       In terms of  ethnic composition the dominant ethnic groups in the province
 are.the Pashtun,   Tadjek and Qazilbash. There are no significant nomad groups in
 the province but many, nomads from other provinces either pass through it or come to stay there for limited periods.
       Agriculture is the main economic base of the province, but only about 5% of the agricultural    land is irrigated. Another 15% of the land is       comprised
 of rain-fed farms   while the remaining 80% is made up of pastures. The principal
 crops are wheat, potato, rice, maize and alfalfa. No large scale industry exists . in the province.                 N
                                    ■ V.
       Both Behsud Part 1 and Markaze Behsud are far ahead of any other district with a large number of bazaars and Sarais. By comparison the two districts seem to have suffered less in war due to being located at a distance from Kabul.
       The commercial superiority of Behsud Part 1 and Markaze Behsud is also demonstrated by the presence of a relatively larger marketing infrastructure in the two districts.
                                   POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
       The last population census in Afghanistan was conducted in 1979, but remained incomplete due to changes in governments and the civil turmoil that followed. According to this census the total population of the province in 1979 was 287,605. The district with the largest population was Markaze Behsud which accounted for one quarter of the total population. The population of Wardak, including the refugees, in 1990 is estimated to be 398,910, signifying an increase of about 31% in 11 years. The density of population in the province is 40.1 ranging between 25.7 in Jaghatu and 84.6 in Maidan Shar. If refugees are excluded from the estimate the increase in population density works out to be 26%. .
       According to Afghan refugees registration in Pakistan a total of 23,178 people from Wardak Province took refuge in Pakistan. The refugees constitute 6.7% of the settled population of the province. Largest number of refugees origniated from the district of Saydabad. . The provincial capital Maidan Shar lost about one third of its population. People from other parts of the country have also taken refuge in Wardak Province. About 58% of the refugees from Wardak are reported to be concentrated in Kurram Agency in NWFP alone. Other refugees have taken shelter in Quetta, Mardan and Zhob districts and Waziristan and Orakzai agencies.
                                  FOOD PRICES AND AVAILABILITY
      The price data, especially in war-like situation in Afghanistan is highly .prone to fluctuations with time. The supply of various items in a given area depends on a host of factors which are not controlled by the normal market mechanism. The damage to infrastructure, transport problems, presence of armed conflicts etc, have paralysed the local production capacity and led to an increasing dependence on foreign sources for supply of basic food items. j
        i                                 •            '  .                !
148
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992                 flfBMNJtHffl J_.   _____________ VOL.  5 NO.  3
                                PRICE RANGE OF SELECTED FOOD ITEMS
  Food Items                   Price  range
                                                   (Afs/Kg)
Wheat                100   - 157 
Barley                71  - .171 
Rice(High Quality) 357 *   - 429 
Rice (Low Quality)   185   - 357 
Potato                29      71 
Edible oil           500   - 829 
Tea (Black)        1,300 -2,28.5 
Tea (Green)        1,400  -2,285 
Sugar                400   - 500 
Beef                 700  * 914- 
Mutton             1,000  -1,428 
Chicken            1,200  -2,800 
      The usual energy sources used In households for cooking food, lighting, warming etc, are reported to be wood, cow dung and Kerosene oil. The average prices of Kerosene/6allon, wood/Kgm and dung'/Kgm in the province Work out to be Afs. 853, Afs. 37 and Afs. 22 respectively. For Kerosene the prices per gallon ranged from Afs. 450 in Jalraz to Afs. 1,300 in Markaze Behsud.
                                        STORAGE FACILITIES
      The storage of food in the province has always been poo?, the food grains are stored generally at a small level by individual families in the villages*
      Aside from private houses, storage in some form is available only in four of the districts. Some of these need repairs before anything could be stored there. Construction material is available for repairs to these storages.
      .There was very large fluctuation in prices of building material including wooden frame, wooden beam, glass, earth and stone. However the price of cement was the same in the five districts where it was availabe.
                                          AGRICULTURE . .
          • •
             Almost all the Bast Central zone where the province of wardak is located is
 characterized by scarcity of flat land. The agricultural land is available in narrow.valleys. Large farms are very-rare. Almost all farms in the province are totally irrigated. Dominant modes of irrigation are canais, Karezes and water collected from springs. Because of being located at considerable height, winters are long and the growing season short. Only a single crop of whe&b is,therefore, possible.
      The average farm size in Wardhk province is calculated to }>a around six jaribs though 61% farmers own less than that area.
      Besides wheat the main crops are potato, rice and maize. Other crops do not follow, wheat on the same field. In fact other crops are sown on irrigated land
                                      149
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992                 IIIUO                          VOL. 5 NO. 3
  often at the expense of wheat on. less' fertile soil, not considered to be good enough for wheat cultivation.
       The percentage of farmers growing wheat did not change during 1978-87 but in case of farmers growing rice or potato there was marked decline. The number of potato growers remain the same. The decline occurred due to scarcity of irrigation water.
       The seed application rate in the province increased, but due to large decrease in the use of improved seed the overall production of wheat crop suffered. The slump in production intensity was also significantly caused by the reduced fertilizer use.
       in 1978 46% of the farmers growing irrigated wheat had their own oxen, 49% shared oxen and-another 4% hired the animal. Xh 1987 the farmers owning the oxen declined to 20% while both the farmers sharing or hiring oxen were increased to 55%. The same trend was recorded for farmers growing rice.
       The prices of seeds have been registering substantial increase. Assuring that the farmers in Afghanistan could obtain fertilizer growing wheat was still highly profitable. The price of an ox varied from Afs. 80,000 to Afs. 200,000.
                                       ROADS AND TRANSPORT
       The condition of roads even during the pre-war periods in the province was quite bad. Ths only paved rgad was the Kabul-Kandahar highway .which passed through Maidan Shar and the districts of Saydabad and Nerkh. Most of the roads were actually dirt passages, though at some places graveled roads .also
  existed. During the war the situation only aggravated as many better raged on the routes frequented by the .government troops or mujaheddin. The road ' infrastructure, under-developed as it already was, also suffered due to lack of maintenance, and at many places damages occuring due to erosion from snow could not be repaired.
      Although the crucial importance of the restoration of roads in the j rehabilitation and development phase in Afghanistan is self-evident little has been done by the development agencies working in Afghanistan in that sector. All the roads in various districts are reported to be either damaged due to the war or due to lack of maintenance. Like the roads the transport in Wardak is in very poor condition. The war has aggravated the situation and adversely affected the supply of fuel at many places. Even where available, the fuel is expensive so -ithit the coats of transportation and travel have also gone up.
      The price per gallon of petrol ranged from Afs. 1,000 to Afs; 3,000. The average cost per gallon for the whole province was Afs. 1,925. Both the repairs and the small tools work-shops are reported to be present- at most of the district headquarters. Thsrs are private transport services for passangers and for goods in every district.
                                         150
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992                       1IH0                     VOL. 5  NO. 3
                         HEALTH FACILITIES AND SERVICES
       The health facilities in Afghanistan even in pre-war days were considered to be highly inadequate. The war, on one hand by causing casualities multiplied the people in need of medical treatment and care and on the other destroyed the medical facilities. The conditions of medical and health coverage in the Country, therefore, have further deteriorated due to war. The province of Wardak is no exception. In addition to the qualified doctors with degrees there are others working as doctors without having any recogni'zed qualifications of the profession.
       Deh Mirdad, in terms of provision of medical facilities, is ahead of all districts while the condition is worst in Markaze Behsud and Behsud Part I.
       Out patient treatment and surgery are being carried, out in all the districts except Maidan Shar. However, the facility for anesthesia is only available at Deh Mirdad and Nerkh. Mobile first-aid is being provided in six districts. The facility for treatment of tuberculosis is only present at two district headquarters though it is reported to be a major disease in the province.
       Despite poor state of the clinics people turn up in large numbers to seek treatment for various ailments. Of them 41% are females although clinics have no special arrangements for providing relief in cases of conditions and ailments specific to women. Vaccine is carried out by clinics in only two districts. The ailments which deserve immediate attention in order of priorities are diarrhoea, war injuries, anaemia (especially in women and children) tuberculosis, acute respiratory problems and malaria.
      The clinics reported their problems in order of priority as being ill equipped both in terms of medical, surgical and laboratory equipment and medical specialists and staff, non availability of medicines or expired medicines beving supplied, not having facility for storing medicines, non-availability of ambulance and not having an electric-power generator. The most needed medicines in the clinics include anti-biotics, anti-diarrhoea, analgesics, vaccines and multi-vitamins.
                      Not all’ the medicines are available in every district. Six of the eight districts do not have ORS while diarrhoea was cammon in many parts of the
 province. Medicines are available in a wide range of prices.
                                      \
                                     EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
      As in case of health facilities educational facilities were also destroyed fin large numbars during the war. Mosques and Madrasas, primarily imparting religious education to small children and the youth, did hot suffer damages to the same extent' as formal educational institutions like primary schools. The mosques exceed'other institutions of instruction in all districts, followed by madrasas. In - mosques the religious, leader, known as Imam, imparts religious instructions to the children in the local community. In madrasas male youth are given primary religious instruction with teachings in some other subjects. The secondary schools, are functioning only in half of the districts while five
                                             151
  APR IL-JUNE, 1992                  AfGlUO                       VOL. 5 NO. 3
  districts have primary schools.
       The average number of teachers in primary school ranges between two and seven. The average enrolment per primary school ranges between 51 and 540. Generally very few females go to school. The proportion of females declines substantially with higher classes. Schools in 3 of the 6 districts do not have any female enrolment. Generally the teacher/student ratio is quite satisfactory in most schools.
       According to a crude estimate only about 14% of total children of              <
  school-going age is actually in the school system. Of the total males in the age group about 26% are attending school while the comparative proportion of females is less than 2%.
       All the primary and secondary schools in various districts reported their major constraints as lack of or insufficient number of text books and other teaching material, absence of,or highly insufficient furniture and shortage of class-rooms and other amenities. Widespread damage was caused by war to school buildings in the province.
               RESETTLEMENT NEEDS AND PLANNING IMPLICATIONS
       The effeats of war on Wardak provinae have been quite widespread, especially along the main Kabul - Kandahar highway passing through the provinae. Repairs and reconstruction of shelters * public buildings, markets and storage facilities are of prime concern. Many bridges and culverts got destroyed and stretches of roads Were damaged due to bombing and mining. Blocked dalverts at many places result in flooding of water from streams. Bridges and culverts need urgent repairs and reconstruction.
       The greatest setback to agriculture in the province was caused by shortage of irrigation water resulting from choked .and damaged water channels. After shortage of irrigation water farmers have, reported insects and pests as their biggest problem. Scores of animals have died as a result, of bombing and mine explosions; These require urgent replacement.
       All the established schools were either destroyed or damaged in the war.
  Their reconstruction may not seem an urgent requirement but vocational training, especially in construction skill, demands immediate attention. Some funds have been provided for repairs of schools, teachers training and supply of educational material. But substantial funds would be needed to restore the condition of education sector.
                                   t
      The ' situation of health facilities in the province is dismal. On the one hand, many hospitals and clinics were destroyed in.the war and on the other, those requiring medical facilities due to injuries .in the wsr increased also.
 Some new clinics were set up but they do not have sufficient equipment, expertise and medicines. Most of the. mobile health units do not have any vehicle. The existing facilities should be adequately equipped rather than new ones are set up. A more appropriate strategy would be to strengthen the mobile medical units by providing thdm vehicles, equipment, medicines, trained staff
                                           152
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
■11
      etc, and to increase their population coverage.
           Programs aimed at rehabilitating the disabled, involving the widows in income generating activities and providing financial and material support to orphans for the purposes of education are some of the measures needed to be introduced.
           De-mining operations in the mined areas are required, supplemented by mine awareness programs for the local population to avoid casualties resulting from mine explosions.
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
153
 I APRIL-JUNE, 1992 mmiim vol. 5 NO. 3|
 REPORT ON THE SEMINAR:
    MEANS FOR COMPENSATING EDUCATIONAL SHORTCOMINGS IN FUTURE ISLAMIC SOCIETY OF AFGHANISTAN

» « • •
       •y. EDITOR'S NOTEs Following is a report on the seminar:       *How to
       -y. compensate for educational losses of the past in the future ,*.*;• •y Islamic society of Afghanistan. The seminar was the 7th of its vj ;X kind held by the CCAR in Islamabad 11-14 May» 1992.                 X;
          CwA^mw.w.v.»^:
           Iff*
           -> o.*A*.*.*.M.*-<-* • •••«••••

                              IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL.
                                                          /
        The                    seminar is the 7th of its kind that has been held by the
  CCAR’s Institute of Policy Studies of Afghanistan and in which Afghanistan's problems were discussed by the Afghans themselves, who sought ways and means to overcome them. The seminar which was attended by a number of scholars, experts, university professors and ulama was opened in Islamabad at about noon, 11 May 1992, with the recitation of some verses from the Holy Quran by Mawlawi Nezamuddin Nafeh.-
        Prof. Fazel, Chairman of the seminar, in his opening speech said, "we have faced total destruction during the 14 years of war which has deprived us of almost everything. However, these material losses can all be made up within a short period of time, but what cannot be compensated for so easily is the'loss we suffered in the field of education. We have lost many of our learned figures. Years of hard work are needed before we will be able to replace them. The youth, who lost the best years of their learning, will not be able to gain the time they have lost. But we have managed to drive the Russians out of our country and destroy them completely. We can also revive our Islamic education to the extent that no gap can be visible between the two generations."
       He said, during the last 14 years the Kabul regime not only degraded the educational system in the country as a whole but by teaching the youth communist doctrine and recruiting them in the KHAD and military units, gave them a thorough brainwash. Furthermore, those who were sent to foreign countries have all been deprived of the necessary Islamic education. "It is now our obligation to reverse the whole process of learning and to familiarize our youth with the
                                                         154
    APRIL-JUNE. 1992                          mm                     VOL. 5 NO. 3
    Islamic golden culture. It is the duty of this seminar to seek ways and means to compensate for these losses," he said.
         Mawlawi Mahmood Draswal, CCAR staff-member, welcoming the participants to the seminar congratulated them on the success of the Islamic jehad and the establishment of the Islamic government in Afghanistan. He said, "it is a great source of pleasure and honor that the Institute of Policy Studies of Afghanistan has been able to hold its seventh seminar - this time on seeking ways and means to compensate for educational losses suffered by the Muslim sons of. our beloved homeland - through your concerted efforts and experiences in the educational field. Our greatest of all honors lies in the fact that contrary to the previous six seminars (which said thS 'Future1 Islamic Afghanistan), this seminar, with the Grace of God Almighty,' uses the term the ’present’ Islamic government of Afghanistan."
        Continuing his statement Mawlawi Draswal said, "the establishment of the IPSA within the framework of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance, was initiated by Sabahuddin Kushkaki and the approval of other founding members of the CCAR for this purpose, that whenever an Islamic national government was formed in Afghanistan the administration should have the necessary proposals and guidelines which have been set for them before hand in the shape of books printed as a result of these seminars. Our Muslim and valorous nation have proven their heroism in the battlefield for the defense of Islam and the liberation of their homeland in the ’not very distant’ past. It is now upto them also to show that they are capable of dowing the same wonders in the political field. Our mujaheddin leaders in particular, through foresight, exact and careful thinking, should leave their party-conflicts and individual gains aside and by extending a hand of friendship' and unity should exert their all-out efforts for preventing the enemies to exploit them on ethnic, linguistic or regional considerations. It is now high time that the people of Afghanistan, in all walks of life, mobilize their physical and mental energies towards reconstruction of their war-torn country and the mental rehabilitation of their youth who have been deprived of education and kept away from their national and Islamic culture under various circumstances".
       There were altogether 18 articles which topic-wise fell into four separate categories. Each article was given the same period of time for discussion as was alloted for reading. Furthermore, groups were formed to scrutinize each article in a critical manner.
        We now take up each group of articles in turn and see if we can submit a set.of proposals to the Education Ministry of the Islamic government as a source of reference for their future development programs.
        The first series of articles were related to the aims, curricula and the general educational program on Islamic principles and these were:
   1.   "Islamic Training Methods", by: Prof. Asadullah Shinwari.
   2.   "Islamic Subjectivity and the Role of Education”, by:        Fazlum-Minallah
        Fazli.
                                            155
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992                     IfCIIMM                       VOL.  5 NO. 3
      3.    "Moral Standards," by: Prof. M. Eshaq Hussainkhail.
      4.    "Islamic Values and Requirements", by: Mawlawi Mahmood Draswal.
                                  r \
      5.    "Islam, the 'Religion that Formulates Law for Irradication of Illiteracy", by: Abdul Ahad Ashrati.
           Prof. Shinwari in his articles says, "the Islamic educational system is constantly teaching the human beings about their nature and essence, the objectives behind their creation and their destiny. The writer reviews educational values in the light of the Quranic Verses and concludes, "we must have taken a lesson from the bitter experiences of the past and should have learnt that the main factor behind the disastrous situation in our war-torn country was the result of aimless and superficial education in the hands of the enemies of Islam and the homeland and which we followed quite consciously. We must determine our path ourselves and leave aside vicious and corrupt thoughts and imaginations. We should never again accept any reasons, plots or excuses for our having a superficial knowledge."
           Fazli in his lengthy article sheds light on the role of education in the development of Islamic concepts and mentality and writes, "we are capable of aligning every school subject with due regard to developing the Islamic conception and enlightening the youth towards progressive methods of education.
      Fazli suggests:
                                                                               *
      -  Basic changes be brought about in the curricula of religious madrasas as well as other educational institutions.
      -  Competent personalities with legal capacity and loyal to Islam be entrusted to teach Islamic principles.
         The curricula be followed to the last letter.
         Cultural centers for advancing religious teachings be established.
         Pre-academic curricula be freed from those ideological subjects that conflict with Islam. However, university curricula can teach subjects of this nature.for comparison and analysis purposes and even that on a limited scale.
           Prof. Hussainkhail in his article considers moral standards in Islam and comparing them with the standards of the present-day youth who have either been educated by the Russians or the western countries or trained in the jehad atmosphere where everything ends in the gun-barrel. He proposes that the > conflicting moral standards be brought under a single Islamic rule and during the educational rehabilitation period no youth be deprived of undergoing such training on account of his age - which may not necessarily fall under the norms set for this purpose.
           Mawlawi Mahmood Draswal, with reference to Quran and Hadith (Sayings of Prophet Mohammad PBUH), throws light upon the need and importance of education
                                                156
   april-june, 1992           AFGHAN
VOL. 5 NO. 3
   and Islamic educators, the need for learning and education of the women, refraining form being parsimonious in or sparing of imparting knowledge to others and the subject of receiving wages against teaching or imparting knowledge to others. Regarding the education of women the article says, "Islam enjoins upon us that as the male child or member of the family has the right to be educated by his parents or other educators, in the same manner girls and other female members of the family have the right to receive the necessary Islamic teaching and other important education from their parents or others concerned."
        Mawlawi Draswal suggests, "the Islamic government is duty-bound to supply Islamic teaching and other necessary education to all members of the Islamic community within its financial      capabilities. He calls upon all parents and
   other educators to impart the necessary religious knowledge to their children and to supply theih with the urgent Islamic conduct and behavior.. He also urges that the mass media make public, on a regular basis, all that is absolutely necessary about Islamic tenets;     conferences in these respects be convened   in
   Islamic and other appropriate       institutions;  schools and madrasas have     a
   collection of books on religion, jurisprudence, conduct and political sciences; public libraries also be supplied with similar books; in order to enhance and develop Islamic education in        the country    regular religious madrasas   be
   established in provincial centers and, possibly, in all districts; adult education programs should also include useful Islamic teachings and the curricula of primary, secondary and high-schools have sufficient coverage of religious education.
        After a thorough discussion of the importance and values of literacy and knowledge from the viewpoint of Islam, Ashrati in his article explains the first law regarding, combat against illeteracy in these words, "after the foundation of an Islamic government was laid in Madinah, Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon Him), after the great Battle of Badr, enforced a law which reads:
       "Those POWs who cannot afford to ransom themselves released, but are
       blessed with literacy, can be freed after making ten of us literate."
       In this way each 'literate' POW secured his release after teaching 10 persons how to read and write. The Honorable Zain-bin-Sabet was among those who came to literacy by learning from one of the prisoners of the Battle of Badr.
       This is the first known "Law" in the history of mankind in connection with measures for the irradication of illiteracy.
        Ashrati proposes: Individuals should help their neighbors to literacy; parents should not ignore the education of their children; the gates of the mosques should not be closed in the face of children> and/or illiterate adults; religious madrasas and institutions,should be offered moral and material support both by public and the government; teachers and students alike should take part in efforts‘against illiteracy during their vacations; plant owners should spare short periods for the workers to learn how to read and write; Imams, other personnel belonging to the mosques and retired civil servants should all help towards this end. "A desire on the part of the public to learn is also of utmost
                                             157
   APR IL- JUNE, 1992                    aflilMB                     VOL. 5 NO. 3
   importance," Ashrati concluded.
         Long discussions took place on' these articles during separte sessions and necessary amendments were brought about and the following proposals were made regarding Islamic education:
   -  The mosques be used also as centers for publicity, education and religious discussions.
       The Imams be given adequate salaries, should benefit from promotion opportunities and retirement funds.
       Educational seminars be held for teachers of religious madrasas.
       Teachers' training institutions may have separate departments for the training of teachers involved in Islamic teachings.
       The Education Ministry may assist specialized Islamic institutions wholeheartedly.
       The Education Ministry should have exclusive advisery boards in the provincial centers in which ulama, educational experts, members of the Parliament, the Municipal Council and the Provincial Council are admitted.
   -  On the basis of a Hadith from the Holy Prophet (PBUH) we ought to have mercy upon the children and respect to .the elders in each and every community beginning with the family circle.
   -  The Islamic education can be defined as: "Supply and procurement of means and opportunity for the healthy and all-sided development of personality in the light of the high principles of Islam."
   -  The educators have the obligat'on to teach boys and girls before puberty on the physical changes they are bound to get at some stage.
   -  The Ministry of Education should keep the boys and girls separate right from
   the primary class.                                  *
       Equal education opportunities be offered to all without the least discrimination.
       There ‘were four articles which dealt with objectives of education' and curricula:
   1.   "The aims of education in the Islamic set-up of Afghanistan", by: Prof. Mohammad Fazel.
   2.   "School curricula during the jehad years and proposals regarding the reconstruction curricula", by: Abdul Ahad Amozgar.
   3.   "Educational interruptions during various stages and their impact on the content of teaching", by: Ass. Prof. Shah Wali Atayee.
158
     april-june, 1992                  AFGHAN JEHAD                   vol.  5 no. 3
    4.   "Preparatory education for various levels", by: Hassan Gul Bandawal.
         Prof. Fazel in his article has divided the objectives of the Education Ministry of the Islamic government in Afghanistan into three sections:
    a.   Basic Objectives: These include Monotheism, piety, strong faith, unity and solidarity, spirit of Islamic brotherhood ... particularly with other mujaheddin ... and faithfulness to the Hanafi sect of the Sunni faction. The article also deals with the principle of human courtesy and dignity and good morals which, in the writer's opinion, are the basis for Islamism. The preservation of the national culture and traditions such as regard for the chastity of the opposite sex, hospitality, the preservation of individual and social freedom and national integrity, which do not conflict with Islamic principles are also included in this class of objectives.
    b.   General Education Objectives such as the choice of a healthy thinking and action, the feeling of responsibility towards one's actions, thorough development of the language for deduction and reasoning purposes.
    c.   Specific Objectives which can be sought in the learning of every subject.
         Prof. Fazel in his article classifies the primary education from grade one to grade six, that of intermediate education between class seven and nine''and secondary education from class 10 to 12. Beyond the 12th grade can be considered as higher education in which the student's talents and/or his intellectual taste should also be taken into consideration.
         Giving a detailed syllabus of the jehad period Amozgar in his article explains that the shariat principles, motivation and encouragement to jehad and jehadic discipline formed the major part of the curriculum. He points out that moral, social and' national values; social, environmental and health problems; recognition of pupils; ability to write school textbooks are the main points for consideration in' preparing the curricula. He concludes, "since our youngsters have grown up in different atmospheres and cultures in the neighboring or other countries, there is no doubt that they have been influenced by these alien cultures. As such, these cultures have produced in them great changes, either consciously , or. unconsciously, which may not be so easy to undo. This ■ necessitates exact theoritical'and practical planning. The writer suggests that:
    -  Test papers be prepared for assessing their educational background.
    -  Assistance be sought from retired teachers and Imams on voluntary basis. , Parents be consulted.
    -  Outstanding students be asked to help other students.
        Shah Wali Atayee mentioning educational interruptions during the various stages of the jehad and the educational institutions that have been created for the refugees, proposes the following:
   -   Islamic thinking which has a constructive role in the development of
                                             159
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                     H»                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
personality be accepted as a basis in all educational fields.
   -  Special schools and madrasas be established for the benefit of those whose education has been interrupted during the jehad years.
      Special vocational and technical courses be set up for those who had interrupted their education and have now passed the school-age.
   -  In-service courses be held for the benefit of those who have to support their families.
   -  Co-education be avoided but the girls and the women-folk can be given vocational training in different fields provided they are dressed respectably.
        Bandawal in his article reviews the importance of education, language and culture, syllabi, school text-books, presentation of a lesson and has constructive suggestions as follows:
   -  A high-level committee be established to determine general objectives and
   the educational policy.                                               ■ >•
   -  Before preparing the educational curricula, a committee be formed to review text-books in use before the Saur coup and those published during the jehad years and to devise a transitional syllabus for immediate use.
   - A separate department of "unfinished education" be established within the framework of the Education Ministrf,
   - Prom statistics or other documents the number of those with interrupted education be determined.
   - Pupils be taught in their vernicular languages as in the past. Teaching of the second language should start from the 4th and that of the foreign language from the Sth grades.
   -  Those who have forgotton or lost their mother tongues and. their educational levels are above the 9th grade may be given a 12-month compact course in order to raise their standard to the required level. Those under the 9th grade level be enrolled in classes specified for "interrupted education" after completing a
   three-month language course.
                               ■
   -  Special seminars be held for teachers involved in "unfinished education" in order to bring their levels to normal standards.
   -  Students enrolled in these schools be given extra classes after school hours.
      There should be special Radio/TV programs for such students.
   - Students who are not up-to-date in their religious knowledge should be registered with the Imams in mosques to enhance their knowledge during early morning-hours or evenings.
                                            160
VOL. 5 NO. 3
APRIL-JUNE.
           Thorough discussions took place on the above proposals with constructive critics and necessary amendments were made.
           The third category of articles also cover a large number of subjects such as adult education, complementary education, private tutoring, vocational education, in-service training and training of the disabled as follows:
      1.   "Official and private adult education", by: Abdul Karim Nedayee.
      2.   "The importance of adult education and its application in the society of Afghanistan", by: Shah Aga Mujaddedi.
      3/ "Supplementary and complementary education", by Prof. Mohammad Mohsen Formuli.
      4.   "Training after school-age", by: Khwaja Qutbuddin Najmi.
      5.   "Need for in-service education in war-torn Afghanistan", by: Khwaja Mohammad Mohsen Monsef.
      6.   "Training of the war-crippled", by: Nazar Mohammad Karyar.
      7.   "Training the war-crippled", by: Prof. Mohammad Alam Bayan.
           Prof. Nedayee in his article discusses the factors behind the high rate of illiteracy in Afghanistan based on figures and statistical data. He has the following suggestions on how to educate the adults:
        Taking a national census of those eligible for adult education.
        Establishing courses for adult education according to local requirements.
        Establishing short-term workshops for raising the standard of teachers involved in adult education.
        Setting up of vocational programs on mine clearance.
     -  Preparing permanent and mobile primary and practical courses within the framework of the department for vocational training. (Similar courses can also be established for women with due regard to Islamic principles).
     -  Preparing teaching material for these courses in the local languages.
     -  Producing attractive films on Islamic lines.
     -  Harmonizing the educational curricula of all present and past public and private institutions.
        Establishing evening vocational schools for the benefit of the workers.
161
   APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  IlfCHilllJIHAD                   VOL.  5 NO. 3
        Shah Aqa Mujaddedi in his article, read by Prof. Fazel,. mentions that the prisoners of the Battle of Badr were delegated by Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) to teach literacy to others and suggests that every literate person in the community should teach yet another person how to read and write. He has also suggested establishment of a large number of courses for adult education. Mujaddedi says in his article that for the present the madrasas and mosques can be used for teaching the adults. Adult education should be expanded in the armed f.orces. He suggests that a separate department be established in the Prime Minister's office for supervising the education of adults.
        Prof. Formuli in his article mentions problems in the educational system after the bloody communist coup and considers the educational syllabi in accordance with the present-day requirements. He says that curricula be reviewed on the basis of Islamic educational principles, specific and general educational objectives of definite standards and the means for furthering knowledge and a messenger of Islamic values.
        Qutbuddin Najmi in his article says that during the past 14 years many children have been deprived of their primary education and their age has now passed the school-age, previously set between 7 and 12, whereas they are now between 14 and 27. He suggests, "it is now the duty of the Education Ministry of the Islamic government of Afghanistan to conduct a general survey after the return of the refugees in an effort to determining their number. It should then group them according to their ages and provide the necessary facility for their education."
       Mohsen Monsef reviews in-service education and training and states that civil servants and teachers in a region be classified on the basis of their educational levels; evening courses be formed for elevating their levels; programs for general education and vocational training be followed. Monsef concludes and stresses that great need is felt for experienced teachers in all educational fields for standardizing the educational system. This can only be achieved through the establishment of in-service.courses of which every person should avail himself.
       Nazar Mohammad Karyar in his article evaluates various categories of war-disabled, enumerates the NGOs involved in assisting these persons and, after giving facts and figures about the disabled, makes the following proposals:
     Education of the disabled be made compulsory from the age of 7 to 21.
     Both day and evening-courses be established.
     Special hospitals and clinics be built for treating the disabled.
  -  Homes for the disabled be built at various sites in the rural areas.
  -  Recreation centers be opened for their daily activities and passtime.
  -  Technical workshops be established for their practical training.
                                            162
     APRIL-JUNE* 1992             •    MMM                             VOL.  5  NO. 3
       Special departments be opened to look after their well being.
         Mohammad Alam Bayan reviews the disabled from the psychological view-point and proposes the following:
   -  If the crippled is already skilled in any of the trades, retraining would not
   be necessary.                x                                              <
   -  Training of others should continue until they attain thorough skill in a specific job.
       If possible the disabled should receive training alongwith normal people.
   -  Special training methods be taken into consideration when the disabled cannot <
   be trained together with normal people.                                          !
   - In training for a trade priority be given to adults and the youth.
       The training period for adults should not exceed 12 months.
   -  Special training courses should be offered for the disabled at universities, schools, technicians' schools, specialized workshops and at work sites.
   -  Normal people should not be trained in trades specifically meant for the disabled.
   -  Those under prolonged medical treatment should join training establishments prior to the completion of their treatment.
        Occasional discussions took place on the articles that were readout and amendments were made to the articles as a result of constructive criticism. For a thorough scrutiny of the articles and the preparation of complementary proposals group discussions also took place with positive results. The title of Prof. Fazel's article was changed to: "Objectives of education in the Islamic organization of Afghanistan". These objectives, which were originally divided in three parts, were corrected to two parts with related clauses as follows:
   I - BASIC OBJECTIVES:
   1'. Strengthening the foundations of belief:
        a.  Theism and piety and obeying the commands of Islamic Shariat.
        b.  Recognition of the greatness of man.
        c.  National rights, traditions and culture.
        d.  General freedom of thought and action for students.
        e.  Creation of a' sense of responsibility', in students towards the Islamic
            community of Afghanistan.
        f.  Encouraging the youth in freedom of expression.
   II- SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES:
   1. Relating each subject to the pre-determined contents.
                                             163
    APRIL-JUNE. 1992                          HUM                     VOL.  5 NO. 3
   2.   Synchronizing every specialized subject so that it falls within the frame of the general objectives.
   3.   Strengthening reading and writing skills in students.
        In relation to Amozgar's article its title was altered to read: "A glance at the 14-year educational curriculum and proposals for its future". The following proposals were unanimously agreed upon:
   -  The present syllabus be altered because the jehad has now served its purpose.
   -  New educational programs be included in the educational curricula.
   -  When preparing the new syllabi opinion of scholars, technical artd vocational experts and experienced personalities be sought.
      The educational curriculum should also posses moral values.
   -  These curricula should   play an important      role in the future educational
   system.
      It should also satisfy the present-day requirements.
      Necessary facilities for education should be provided for.
        The title of Qutbuddin Najmi's article was changed to: "Education beyond school-age" and it was proposed that the syllabus for such training and education should be in harmony with that of public schools.
        The following were proposed in connection with Monsef's article:
      The various state institutions- should arrange in-service training and education in an effort to elevating the standard of knowledge of their respective personnel.
   -  Programs   for in-service education should be reviewed according to modern
   educational standards and local requirements.
      A committee be formed in relation with training facilities for the disabled.
   -  In order    to  supervise matters related to     the present population of the
   disabled and those that may possibly be crippled in the future, an independent administration be established.
   - A separate branch within the framework of the department for educational syllabi be formed to prepare specific educational syllabus for the disabled on the basis of their requirements.
   -  Since in   our   war-torn country artificial     limbs or other rehabilitation
   facilities are not at the disposal of the disabled, Islamic nations should;be approached for assistance in this regard.
                                          164
     APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  IIIIH                          VOL.  5 NO. 3
          The last series, consisting of two articles, were related t;o the deviated youth. These were:
     1.   "Youth deviation during fugitiveness and its remedy", by:           Mawlawi'
     Nezamuddin Nafeh.
          ' 1 - ; \ .
     2.    "Mal-effects of Marxist teachings and the need for re-educatipn", by: Abdul Malek Jauhar S^iddiqi.
                                 . /
         Mawlawi Nafeh in his article discusses drug addiction; the spread of drugs; their disadvantages; social, economic, political and cultural effects. The article reviews deviations emanating from addiction to drugs and concludes by writing on how to mortify one's passions. The article argues thatfto combat inner passions is the only way for improving morality which can best be' achieved through obeying Islamic teachings and tenets. Resorting to Islamic^' principles necessitates large scale efforts on the part of the individual and the society at large.                              >                                ’ '
         Jauhar Siddigi in his article1 reviews the history of communism, in Afghanistan■and enumerates' the crimes committed during the communist era. The article also throws light on the moral and material destructions that were brought about to our country during this dark period and finally invites the entire nation for a cultural jehad arguing, "though the military jehad has now successfully ended,, the cultural jehad of the Afghan intellectuals remains untouched.1! The article suggests that the establishment of ah Islamic academy will be the best remedy for the Marxist deviations. The article asks whether the fast-chaning situation in the world will affect the opinion of persons affiliated with the former Soviet Union? The article says that apparently the answer to this question is in the affirmative. "But" it warns, "'we should not be over-obtimistic about it, ■' Though communism has been buried for the time-being, its fingers are long-reaching and can still play some important role in the region. The Russians are still capable of reviving their power and, by availing themselves of their past experiences, they are trying to make up for their shortfalls and to emerge as a significant economic center in the world and by this means to achieve what it could not manage through military means in the past."                                           '    ~
         Thus, we are nearing, the end of our seminar. In the light of a 4-day deliberations we can dare say that the seminar-atmosphere has been friendly, the debates were scientific and scholarly and the objections were constructive and complementary. The articles had shorter introductory sections and considered our shortcomings thoroughly and came out with remedial proposals.
         We are sure that the debates, articles and proposals of our seminar will prove a useful assSt to the Education Ministry of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, we are also sure that our Islamic government will be able to use it to their maximum advantage. The satisfaction the participants have had from their valuable work during the last four' days will be more rewarding to them than any material gains.
                                           165
     APRIL-JUNE. 1992          ■      MM JIHAD            VOL. 5  NO. 3
        NEW BOOKS
    1.   QURANIC LEARNING (DARI)
    PUBLISHER: Mujaheddin-e-Mustad'yefeen-e-Afghanistan;32 pages.
    CONTENTS: The  change in  Quran explanation styles during the Islamic history;
    explanation of the Quran through Hadith (Sayings of the Prophet); explanation of the Quran by logical deduction; the objectives of the Quran and its relation with the world.
    2.   ISLAMIC ECONOMIC ORDER (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Mawlawi Abdul Majeed Kudikhail; 338 pages.
1
EDITOR'S ROTE: The Afghan Jehad is giving specifics of each book as they appear on the books themselves* therefore* we should not be blamed for incomplete particulars * if any.
I
    CONTENTS: Economics; Islamic economy and modern views; principles of subsistence in the light of the Quran; brief example of the Islamic economic order; abridged map of the Islamic economic order.
    3.   TAREEQ-E-DA'WAT (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Fathi Yakan; translator: Prof. Naimatullah Shahrani; publisher: Da'wat and Jehad University; 200 pages.
       • \ ‘
    CONTENTS: Obligation for invitation to Islam; forms of invitations etc.
    4.   JEHAD AND PATIENCE (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR: Abdul Ali Bazargan: translator: Ajruddin; 67 pages.
    CONTENTS: Patience of the Prophets; individual and community patience; patience during jehad and during learning; patience of the Bani-Isra’il: Quranic verses regarding, patience and fortitude.
    5.  THE FUTURE OF ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN. FIFTH SEMINAR (DARI)
        A collection of articles and discussiqn, by Afghan scholars; publisher: CCSR; 522 pages.                          ' ’ ?
                                              166
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992                        mum                   VOL.   5 NO. 3
      CONTENTS: Articles and discussion presented to the CCAR seminar on the future of media in Afghanistan held in Islamabad 11-14 May, 1991.
      6.  THE BELIEF OF THE SUNNIS (DARI)
      AUTHOR: Imam Abu Ja'afar Tahawi; translator: Mohammad Sayyed Ar-Rahman Haqqani; 142 pages.
      CONTENTS: The book considers the Islamic faith from the viewpoint of the Hanafi sect and rejects the Wahabi (Salafi) opinion.
      7.  THE ISLAMIC JEHAD IN AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
      AUTHOR: Dr. Enayatullah Eblagh; 129 pages.
      CONTENTS: Basic difference between Islamic and communist communities; infra-
      structure of the communist community; a glance at the Afghan jehad during the past years; Quranic recommendations regarding jehad (Holy War).
     8.   THE TRUE HEROES OF THE SCHOOL OF PROPHET (PASHTUT
      AUTHOR: Dr. Abdur Rahman Rafat Pasha; translator: Azimullah Azimi; 134 pages.
      CONTENTS: Abu Sufian bin-al-Hares; Abu Talha Al-Ansari; Ja'afar bin Abu Taleb;i
     Rabi'a bin Ka'ab; Ramla bijit Abu Sufian; Sa'ad bin Abi Sufian; A'ayad bin Bashr; Abdur Rahman bin Auf; Aqaba bin A1 amer-Al-Jahni; Amr bin Sa'ad and Wash! bin Harb.
     9.   HOW TO PERFORM HAJ? (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Mawlawi Abdul Baqi Wardag; translator: Abdul Bari Ghairat; 33 pages.
     CONTENTS:  Pillars, obligations  and traditions of Haj; when to begin the
     performance of Haj; places to be visited; the types of Haj; criminal acts that may necessitate sacrifice or charity; visiting the Shrine of the Holy Prophet (PBUH).
     10.  ISLAMIC JURISPRUDENCE FOR THE YOUTH (DARI)
     AUTHORS: A number of Badghis ulama; publisher:    University Book Agency; 247
     pages.
     CONTENTS: Commandments regarding ablution; How to perform prayers; commandments in relation to Zakat (charity); commandments regarding transactions; puberty for teenagee boyes and girls; how to solemnize a marriage; types of divorce.
     11.  ISLAMIC VALUES IN MODERN CIVILIZATION" (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Dr.  Ahmad  Farid Mustafa; translator: Eng.  Ghulam  Hazrat Motawazeh;
     publisher: Engineering Islamic Society of Afghanistan; 56 pages.
                                               167
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 MUlim                         VOL.  5  N0. 3
 CONTENTS: Factors affecting the Islamic civilization? contemporary civilization? proposals regarding Islamic city planning? modern samples conforming with the values of Islamic city planning.
 12.   A GLANCE AT THE POLITICAL ECONOMY (DARI)
 PUBLISHER:  Mujaheddin-e-Mustad•yefeen-e-Afghanistan? 84 pages.
                                                                                                    1
 CONTENTS: Definition of production? production relations? types of labor? goods? capital? profit? exploitation? Imperialism? Federal German economic system? Federal Germany and world imperialism? oppositions against imperialism.           v
 13.   INJURIES (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR:  Mulla   Asadullah  Hanifi? publisher:  the  HEIA Cultural and Press
 Association? 496 pages.
      A collection of Jehadic and anti-communist poems.
 14.   SOME FACTS ABOUT HABIBULLAH BACHA-E-SAQA. (THE SON OF THE, WATER-CARRIER) (DARI) .
 PUBLISHER: Mursad? 76 pages.
 CONTENTS: A biography of Bacha-e-Saqa (the son of the water-carrier) and how he came to power.
 15.   MELODIES OF THE BUNKERS (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Abdul Matin Wardag? 66 pages.
      A collection of jehadic and patriotic poems.
 16.   PRINCIPLES OF COMPUTERS (DARI)
 PUBLISHER: Afghanistan Computer  Academy? translator: Abdul Bari Qarizadeh? 35
 pages.
 CONTENTS: Definition and history of Computer? the uses of computer etc.
 17.   BLOOD AND TEARS (PASHTU)
AUTHOR:  Mullah  Asadullah Hanifi? Publisher:    the  HEIA Cultural and Press
Association? 172 pages.                                                            r*
     A collection of jehadic and patriotic poems commending independence.
                       ’                                  -                       a*
18.    GERMAN CULTURAL AND ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE TO AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
     Compiled by Mohammad Akbar Nazari? 68 pages.
168
     APRIL-JUNE. 1992                IfQMIfl                       VOL. 5  NO. 3
     CONTENTS: Part X of this book recounts the projects completed through German assistance from King Amanullah's coronation upto the April (1978) coup. Part II considers the services rendered by the Germans to the Afghan refugees during the past 14 years.
     19.  AFGHANISTAN DURING THE ATTACK OF THE CRIMINALS (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Haji Abdul Qayyoum Fedawi» publisher: Istiqlal; 360 pages.
         The book depicts counteracting roles of Fo'ad, a secret police agent, against communist activities prior to the April (1978) coup.
     20.  MAWLANA FAIZANI (DARI)
     PUBLISHER: Cultural Section of Tawheed Madrasa; 240 pages.
         A collection of political, cultural, historical and analytical memoires about Mawlana Faizani with articles and poems in his praise. The books also carries comments on his works and thoughts.
     21.  AN ABRIDGED BIOGRAPHY OF SHAHEED PROF. AHMADZAI (DARI)
         Compiled by F. Fazel and A. Waseeq; publisher: JIA Writers and Speakers' Association; 30 pages.
         The data has been collebted through interviewing his personal friends and relatives. The book also carries an unpublished interview with the late Prof. Ahmadzai regarding the history of Islamic movement in Afghanistan.
169
I APRIL-JUNE, 1992 AfCHAWJtHflB VQL« 5 NO. 3
   A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN
[
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
      THE MUJAHEDDIN PRESS
         EDITOR'S NOTE: With the liberation of Afghanistan and the fall of Kabul in the hands of the mujaheddin some jehadic publications either stoppedcompletely, moved their establishments inside the country alongwith the refugee caravans or simply suffered from malorganization, This, has been necessary to mention because the effects of these events have, naturally, been felt to some extent in our publications too.               '
Jj      have offered countless martyrs for the
Mm fit fa freedom of their country shall never be
JLmJ      ®    prepared    for its break-up. with this
                                              end in view only HIA shall suffice to
                                              protect Afghanistan's unity. In the
                                 r
MARCH-APRIL
 EDITORIAL:   "Will mujaheddin be the
 winners in the UN political game?". The editorial writes, "latest developments which bespeak of mujaheddin's willingness to accept controversial figures in the interim government also, the presence of great danger and another fraudulent political game cannot be ruled out. Some of these persons, after ascending to the* position of power, will most probably not only reject the past agreements but may, with complicity of the enemies of Islam* try to open a fresh chapter of inter-mujaheddin fighting and kindle, the fire of ethnic, religious and linguistic differences. It is up to the mujaheddin, under the circumstances, to bolster up security forces and assist the interim government in the establishment of a preliminary Islamic order in the country. With this object in mind they ought to control the forces in all the capital cities, including Kabul, so that the ominous plans of the enemies of Islam are sterilized.
 - Prior to Juma prayers in Nusrat Maina, in connection with the latest events, Hekmatyar said, "the nation who
 presence of HIA nobody can even think of splitting Afghanistan. In HIA', the nation has faith. You can see Hazara,
                                                      l
 Tadjek, Pashtun, Turkmen, Uzbek, Baloch and Noristani in this organization and presently the representatives of all these tribes do exist in our council".
 -  Pertaining to the latest events, in a message from inside Afghanistan, Prof. Sayyaf observed, "due to their national interests the neighboring
 countries were assisting us. During the Red army aggression in Afghanistan, they sympathized, with us and now that
 they attained their objectives and the danger of communism was averted, we are being abused from every quarter",
 -  Prof. Rabbani, in a press conference in Islamabad, said for the sake of Kabul's security, mujaheddin are
 creating an interim administration so" as to control the situation in other cities of Afghanistan, including Kabul, so that life, property, honor and status of the residents of Kabul remaini unimpaired.
 171
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
                      A rman-eMujahed
                             MARCH
              22
 EDITORIAL: "The existing problem can be solved through wise and tactful means and  compromise". Recounting ,;the
 problems, the editorial writes, "we once again call   upon all   those
 connected with jehad and the activists of jehad leadership to go hand in hand with each other in these sensitive moments of jehad and try to save the country from the abyss of uncertainty and bring an end to this fearful adventure".
 NEWS ITEMS: In regard to the
 resignation of Najib,- Mawlawi Moazin said,.."due to mujaheddin's pressure Najib was forced to resign".
   At the conference of mujaheddin commanders in Tehran, Mawlawi Moazin said, "our mujahed and anti-atheist nation who have witnessed the greatest victories Of the last two centuries by defeating great Britain, the 19th century superpower and" the Soviet Union, the 20th century superpower. We must now do some serious home-work and, through jehad experience and other available means, settle the issue of Afghanistan".
               APRIL
       18
 EDITORIAL:   "A call for unity". The
 editorial calls on the mujaheddin to unite for the sake of the country's freedom and territorial integrity.
 NEWS ITEMS:      Under   the prevalent
 conditions that the atheistic powers have risen 'in ehmity against the Muslims, particularly the Islamic
 government of Afghanistan and have, of late, intensified their ominous efforts, it is up to jehad leaders to take cautious steps.
        28
 EDITORIAL:  "The jehad of our valiant
 nation is the beginning of the movement and freedom of the world's condemned and enslaved nations". The editorial discpsses the effects of Afghan jehad on , the freedom movements of East Europeon and Central Asian countries and finally the disintegration of the former Soviet Union itself.
 MESSAGE: In  his message to the nation,
 Mawlawi - Moazin observed, "lately the surprizing and hopeful changes inspired by the turn of eventful developments in the country call for solidarity, unity and peaceful spirit among the mujaheddin so that the fruits of the mujahed nation's toils over the years, are utilized properly and the existing problems are discussed and threashed out in accordance with Islamic principles, through understanding and complete compromise. It was not a single party or organization which launched the jehad but it was the joint effort by all. It was our Muslim nation's faith which finally led the defeat of the Red Army. Thus no single party has the right to claim .victory for itself".
              MAY
     26
 NEWS ITEMS:  A meeting  , presided over
 by Mawlawi Mohammed'Nabi Mohammed!, was convened 2 May in HEIA central office.' It was attended by Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazin, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Mawlawi Abdul Sattar Siddiqi, Mawlawi Abdul Hai Za'afrai and Mawlawi Arsala, In this meeting a total merger between the various factions of the HEIA, led by Mawlawi Mohammedi, was
172
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 declared. In a statement Mawlawi Moazim; observed, "we had no differences; whatsoever. The temporary separation; among us was due to certain difficulties".
  Basheer-ul-Momenat
                          MARCH
            19
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "The Muslim
 Woman's Eternal Example" it states, "with the advent of Islamic ^evolution in our beloved country, Afghanistan, the Muslim woman discovered and proved! her real worth by standing shoulder-to-shoulder with her mujahed brethren. Today the Muslim woman has a great duty' and an onerous mission to carry out against the commonplace western culture so that under the title of "the example of deliverance" they can compete, with their veils on, with the occidentals having their veils off." The Muslim woman cannot bow and be brow-beatern by excesses. She is unwilling to hurt the feelings of her husband, even by uttering a bitter word, and she will live with her husband, in all sincerity, up to the end. We ought to introduce these women to the Western world so that the men who have been let down'by Western women's disloyalty come to understand them better.
     Burhan
                           APRIL
            4
EDITORIAL: "Afghanistan and a dangerous Future". While considering the
achievements of jehad step-by-step and discussing the problems and harrasment caused through  the enemy, the
editional says, "the Russian puppets of
 Kabul are finally playing up their old tricks of "create rifts and govern" for their survival and under the cover of propagating tribal, ethnic and minority deprivations and confrontations of various nationalities are trying to prolong their authority; unfortunately this chronic diplomacy- and disscussions have had their hold on mujaheddin. Despite the fact that the 14-year-old jehad had brought all the ethnic groups together, a number of jehad leaders, knowingly or unknowingly, voluntarily started working for the regime i.e.-to the regime's interest, fanning ethnic and religious issues and furthermore a tug of war for -power started which gave fresh lease of life to the governing body bf Kabul. 'We, therefore, call upon the jehad leaders and righteous mujaheddin not to allow, any more, the enemies of our country to subject our oppressed nation to further tortures so that with this kind of effort, God forbid, we may have paved the way for the enemy to achieve its goals."
  Daneshjo
                       MARCH
          19
 REPORT: In an interview with cultural
 officials of Islamic Revolutionary Publication and Daneshjo, Prof. Rabbani said, "under prevalent conditions, our mujaheddin ought to rise to the occasion valiantly, the way they did in the past, and sweep up the last communist remnants". In regard, to his meeting with Foreign Minister of Tadje-kistan in Iran, he said, "we explained time and a^ain to the Tadjek side and representatives of Tadjekistan Republic that they and the rest of Central Asian newly independent states ought to feel reassured that the mujaheddin have no illwill whatever towards these
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 republics. On the other hand the mujaheddin and the Afghan nation desire to establish friendly relations, based on religious, cultural and historical links, with these republics. Therefore, these republics, henceforth, ought to sever their relations with the Kabul puppet regime"
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
NEWS ITEMS:
- Professor Rabbani said, "we accept the current mujaheddin government and if there is consensus on the constitution of another administration that will also be acceptable to us".
 - The 1st night of Afghanistan poetry was observed at a high level meeting in a grand special ceremony in Tehran by the Afghan research department. Mr. Ibrahimi, (one of' the speakers, in his address observed, "we were witness to the fact that it was one of the Afghan poets who had rendered the best poem on the obituary of Imam Khumaini. This proves that Afghanistan Is a rich land of Persian poetry endowed with sublime literary heritage.
   Commemorating the decade of the "Dawn of Iranian Islamic Revolution" the " ltural Committee and Cultural Association of JIA youth in Meshed held an exhibition in. that city displaying various kinds of jehad tableaux, posters and portraits of the leaders of Islamic movements. The exhibition which , continued 9-15 February, 1992 was visited by the refugees as well as the local people.
                       Fath-e-Kabul MARCH
                                 23
EDITORIAL: Under the title of the "The Spring", the editorial writes, "we are hopeful that the spring which is the harbinger of happiness and beauty will provs the bearer of happy tidings of freedom, peace and security for our oppressed nation. However, we are welcoming th& spring with tears and cries".
 - Professor Sayyaf said, "by the Grace of God Almighty our mightiest adversary was killed in our presence, in our life-time and by our own hands and its name was erased from the world map. Despite - all this, if we are lazy, we are suspicious and our decisions dwindle that will be purely due to our own faults, ungratefulness and stackness."
 -  Engineer Hekmatyar said, "the Afghan army is preparing itself for another upheaval in Kabul. Congratulations started with the mighty hands of mujaheddin."
 -  Professor Mujaddedi said, "we have told this to UN also, in unequivocal terms that in case the communist elements attend the meeting, we will not attend and the meeting will fail".
 - Engineer Ahmad Shah said, "we cannot divide Afghanistan with this multitude of parties. We are in need of unity of ranks and guidance and a singular leadership".
-  Mawlawi Khales said, "our aim is to topple the Kabul regime and replace it with an independent mighty Islamic government."
                                          APRIL
                                               21
EDITORIAL:  "Kabul , waiting for the
Conquerors." While recounting the mujaheddin successive victories in the country and’ foreseeing the imminent fall of Kabul writes, "under the
174
   APRIL ■‘■JUNE, 1992                     flfGIIAN J(HA8                          VOL.  5   NO.  3
  current situation we have certain requests to make to the honorable Muslim citizens of Kabul to take advantage of the opportunity and start a clean-up operation of the present communist regime by themselves. Since this has remained a tradition of the valiant citizens of Kabul to drive out the trespassers by constant national uprisings as has been done in the past, all eyes are turned in expectation towards the people of Kabul and it is hoped that they shall maintain the security of this beautiful city and will not allow any damage done to their life and property".
  NEWS ITEMS:  The  jehad leaders are
  discussing SO as to be able to take over the power from the present regime.
                                        MAY
                  7
  EDITORIAL: Under  the title, "Good
  tdings to the nation", the editorial writes, "after years the sun of freedom rose on our homeland and its rays shone atop the hills, cities and! towns of Afghanistan. Finally our nation made its way, through fire and blood, to freedom. The heroic mujaheddin, without bloodshed and casualties, victoriously marched into Kabul, but with utmost sorrow it ought to be . mentioned that some people changed this spotless victory into bloodshed since hundreds of Kabul defenseless citizens were hurled into a blood-bath. We are. hopeful that henceforth we could harmoniously carry on our living in an Islamic free 'country and be able to help other nations also attain their freedom.
 NOTICE:  , The Fath-e-Kabul magazine
 which, prior to the conquest of Kabul, used to provide you with good tidings of victories, presently winds up its mission: under this title, and God
 willing, will continue its religious assignment in the near future in its beloved homeland under a new title. The Kabul Youth Council.
        Ferogh
                                   APRIL
                4
 EDITORIAL:          Entitled "Spring  is Har-
 binger to a good year" the editorial states, inter alia, "undoubtedly the new year is blissful and augurs well but the spring is harbinger to a good year.  Our           spring  of this  year is
 pregnant with manoeuvrings of jehad politicians to oust the Kabul communists. This year's            spring which is
 being turned up and down by Benon Sevan, the Russo-American representa-
 tive, is still keeping its distance from our jehad,leaders. As such how can this new year be considered as blissful that augurs well? Concluding, we pray that God Almighty may guide the jehad leaders on the right path and bestow upon them the understanding of facts and social justice".
 REPORT: In an interview with BBC
 Ayatullah Mohseni said, "we are of the opinion that whatever plan is approved let it be done with consensus so that internal bloodshed is avoided".
                                    MAY
               5
 EDITORIAL: "What happened to all that
 sacrifice and self-abnegation?" Congratulating the nation on the freedom of Afghanistan, the editorial states,, "it is h,ighly regrettable  and              very
 Surprizing that under the conditions that we have overpowered the enemy thoroughly, inter-mujaheddin fighting
APR IL-JUNE, 1992           JIFGIMN   HU                  VOL.  5 NO. 3
 should flare-up on ethnic, tribal, regional and linguistic considerations, killing the defenseless peopl-e who have suffered long at the hands of the communists".
     The editorial concludes, "but what happened to all those original jehad slogans. What became of all those sacrifices and self-abnegation? And what happened to all that valor and sincerity"? Why should we spoil the toils and tribulations of 14 years of jehad at the altar of ambition, power-seeking and personal desires? We hope that common-sense will prevail and with the same spirit that we started jehad, we should now    work for:
 restoration of peace and, security in the country      so   that the c.oming,
 generations may not curse us".
 MESSAGE: In an important message
 Ayatullah Mohseni has said, "it is up to us     to protect the    territorial
 integrity of our country and maintain general security and strengthen the values of human justice and under the patronage of Islamic teachings start the country^ reconstruction. HIA, under its sway, knows its religious obligations and is committed to its social duties and feels uneasy about, clashes   in    Kabul among  mujaheddin
 during the past few days.
        Hadaf
                                   APRIL
                12
BDXTORIAL; "There is Still time": While sorrowfully recalling the opportunities the editorial writes, "if, God forbid, at the end of a. successful Islamic revolution a non^Islamic government is enforced on the Muslim nation, in that case the establishment, of an Islamic
   government will be .confronted with many obstacles and difficulties. Therefore, for the great cause of an Islamic government, let us offer, big, sacrifices, let us forego our worldly priveleges and distinctions and through-unity among the rank and file of mujaheddin, and by the Grace of. God Almighty, foil the conspiracies of our enemies."
   NEWS ITEMS:  Commanders and elders,
   favoring the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan are being threatened by unknown terrorists and their lives are threatened. The first incident in the series occurred in Jalozi Camp with thb murder of Professor Ahmadzai 2 April, 1992. Two days later commander Ameer Sadig alongwith his two guards was murdered in Faqirabad. Similarly the body of a commander of Jalozi Camp was found near Warsak Dam. All the victms .were known to have been strongly against the UN plan and the disintegration.,
       In the same chain of incidents, Malang, working in Hekmatyar's Secretariat, was recently killed by unidentified gunmen alongwith his brother and a six-year old child. Similarly unsuccessful attempts have been made lately on the lives of two other commanders. According to the comments made by official mujaheddin sources these incidents are the outcome , of some unholy forces trying to achieve their ominous objectives.
                                         MAY
                                           13
   EDITORIAL: "Our' duty in the wake of
   Islamic government of Afghanistan." While kneeling in gratitude at the altar of God Almighty for the sake of bestowing on us the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the editorial asks, "brothers and sisters,
176
APRIL-JUNE* 1992             DUlfHU                     VOL. 5 NO. 3
   hold each others' hands, support your Islamic government, make efforts and holster up for the reconstruction of the war-battered land and sink all your-differences and according to God Almighty, be brother to each other."
   SARCASTIC COMMENTS:
   -  Mirza Bobani:   Can you point out
   the difference between an Islamic government and. a motley government?
   -  Yes, an Islamic government is that which is constituted through elections allegiance. The heads of state and, government are servants to the people,) On the other hand a motley government: is one where the Muslims and infidels sit together and sign decrees and, like wolves and sheep, eat each other with their eyes and eyebrows and are preparing each other for physically handling the things i.e by kicking and boxing.
       Mirza Bobani:   How is a motley
 government formed and what are the grounds for its establishment?
       Such a government comes into being when a number of brothers, who clamber for power and chairs, i.e. each one of them, secretly and under the cover of a blanket  extend     their    hands   of
 friendship to the enemies, and finally when the blanket is raised and- .taken away, all the hands are exposed.
                    25
 PAPERS:   "One who does not sacrifice.'
 cannot protect the nation." This goes without saying that troubles and disorder must end before peace and. security are restored. Evil must be removed before justice and fairplay can be established. We continued our armed jehad for 14 ' years with a view to wipe out the forces of evil apd uproot the elements of infidelity and atheism;.
  eliminate the hegemony of the infidel creed where the people remain deprived of their just tights, where they are persecuted, victimized and tortured. One who does not sacrifice cannot protect the nation. The luxuriant and westernized, who are not ready to offer any sacrifice, cannot protect the nation and one should not have such expectations from them. Unity is the way to stability and durability of Islamic government.
       Brothers,.
       Our battered and demolished land 'is in desperate need of reconstruction. It lies squarely on our shoulders to feed and clothe the orphans. It is our duty to fulfil the aspirations of the martyrs by bringing the Islamic revolution to a logical conclusion.
            MAY
     7
 EDITORIAL: "The  sun cannot be eclipsed
 with two fingers." While describing the religious scholars' role in jehad most significant the editorial says, "today by the grace of God, the jehad strength lies in the hands of scholars who own the greater part of Afghanistan.' At this juncture the scholars are quiet as far as slogans-raising for power and stance are concerned. It is because they have declared jehad in the way of Allah's glory' and also■because of the tense situation so that bloodshed can be averted. They have reconciled with the decision of jehad forces. However, it does not mean that it demonstrates the weakness op the part of scholars since the nation have supported the scholars wholeheartedly and shall continue to do so."
177
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO'. 3
 NEWS ITEMS: In an obituary to all the
 martyrs, Mawlawi Mohammed Nabi Mohammadi said, "no one can implement a law other than Hanafi religion in Afghanistan. In case some one tries an option other than this, he will not only be a sinner in front of God and punishable bub he will be rejected and condemned by the entire Muslim nation and shall.lose his credibility."
   Inqelab-e-Islami
            MARCH
      14
 EDITORIAL:. Entitled "The Heroic 14 March Uprising of Herat" the editorial discusses the historical uprising of 14 March, 1979 of the valiant people of Herat.
 INTERVIEW:  In  an  interview with  IIA
 representative about the latest efforts towards the political resolution of Afghanistan problem, the leader of JIA, Prof.  .Rabbani said, "regarding the
 solution of our country's problem we were .always of the opinion that the mujaheddin wanted a justified and onorable solution in our country and a
 b
 tpeedy end to bloodshed. It goes ithout saying that mujaheddin have always tried to restrain the continuity of .this tragedy but as long as war-
 hungry regime and its murderous ’ and bloodthirsty band in Kabul, remnants of Soviet aggression,are not wiped out the restoration of peace and security] in Afghanistan will be a difficult task".
                   Ittehad-e-Is lam i
                        MARCH
                             30
EDITORIAL: "Eid, a message of unity”:
The editorial recalls the sacrifices offered at the cost of freedom and regarding the jehad organizations writes "As a substitute to unity and solidarity among themselves the jehad organizations are fast competing with each other to reach the Kabul bloody throne . as quickly as they can. irrespective of their modus operand!. In case there are differences, even though they gain power, the net result will be that of defeat. The present, survival and governance will be such that we have witnessed so far. We have still time not to provide our enemies with certificate of our incapability nor to give the international foes of jehad the opportunity to enforce their unholy decisions upon us.
              APRIL
      8
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the conspiracy of world infidelity in the course of jehad" the editorial considers the speedy UN peace efforts in Afghanistan an outcome of US confusion and ■ warns the muslims not to sit for talks with the infidels".
 REPORT: Professor Sayyaf, the chief of IIA, at a sermon of Eid prayers in the mosque of Hijrat Kalai, observed, "we do not accept a coalition government, neither shall take common decisions with the1 enemy 1 nor 'accept the domination by the infidels. Wfc want a pure mujaheddin Islamic government in Afghanistan; we will never bargain on the martyrs, on the head-squares of our widows and the tears of our orphans".
 178
-s
APR IL-JUNE* 1992              MIMI   MU                  VOL.  5 NO. 3
    NEWS ITEMS:    The two organizations.
    namely HIA (Khales) and IIA, which so far have had almost common stance and: opinion in regard to political and jehad developments, have decided to maintain their similarity of views pertaining to the future events and circumstances and have constituted a joint assembly for this task.
                                                  13
    EDITORIAL:   "Interim administration,
    another conspiracy of jehad enemies." Rejecting the UN - proposed interim administration in Afghanistan as a conspiracy the editorial writes, "the stance of sincere and decisive mujaheddin and the brave bunker-holders of Afghanistan is such that interim administration, neutral government and coalition government are unacceptable to them and stand totally condemned. We want pure Islamic order for future Afghanistan created by the mujaheddin according to their will and from amongst themselves and till the achievement of this goal our jehad-shall continue."
    REPORT:  At the  obituary  ceremony . of
    the late Prof. Ahmadzai, Prof. Sayyaf, in regard to the constitution Of transitional .government and a neutral team, observed, "those who have presented their lists, regarding the constitution     of      an     interim
    administration, to Banon. Sevan are, in fact, those who have sold out Afghanistan and .they are those who,
, during the infiltration of Communism, atheism, infidelity and corruption, were the gate-keepers of the country. We declare our stance once more that we want the establishment of mujaheddin ..government in Afghanistan in accordance with jehad objectives; We are neither candidates for leadership nor for the ministries".
    PAPERS:  "Why do not we accept?." The
 reason for the rejection of the UN plan is that the establishment of.a genuine Islamic government in Afghanistan is favored by the mujaheddin.
                 20
 NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with MIDIA 7 April, Mawlawi Khales asked Prof. Rabbani's JIA and Engineer Hekmatyar's HIA to sink their differences and move towards Kabul, now that the fall of Kabul regime is imminent and the situation in Kabul has deteriorated. Mawlawi Khales said, "we do not support inter-Afghan differences from any side and condemn those indulging in such acts".
 - Jalalabad, the center of Nangarhar province, which was besieged entirely by the mujaheddin since two years fell to mujaheddin in toto.
    Helmand province surrendered to the mujaheddin and its administration was taken over by mujaheddin entirely.
    Mujaheddin conquered Maidan 'shar, the center of Wardak province.
 - Watanjar, the Defense Minister of Kabul communist regime was killed.
 - Raz Mohammad Paktin, another Najib's supporter, was murdered.
 - Abdul Rahim Hatef has been appointed in place of Najib.
                 27
 EDITORIAL: "Blessed be the victory of
 Islam": After leaving behind 14 years
 of struggles and jehad, sacrifices, unbearable toils and tribulations, the heroic and mujahed nation of Afghanistan finally succeeded to achieve their cherished goal of hoisting the banner of monism and could demolish the nests of infidelity and atheism. Thus once more the ray of
179
 APRIL-jUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 light infiltrated and happiness, joy and mirth brightened up the pale features of the valiant and oppressed nation. While felicitating the Islamic nation, the warring mujaheddin and the oppressed nation of Afghanistan on the victory of mujaheddin, we condole with the entire bereaved families and pray for further victories of the guardians of Islam.
    Prof. Sayy.af declared 25 April to the newsmen that he got the consensus of mujaheddin leaders in regard to the constitution of a team to .take over the power quickly from Kabul regime. He said, "the first paragraph of the decision reads that a 50 member Council headed by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi shall leave for Kabul within the next 2 days. The. council will comprize 30 commanders, 10 prominent scholars and 10 politicians who are. members of jehad organizations.
     As agreed the team is obliged to transfer the power to mujaheddin from the regime in case of Kabul's downfall, and this process shall be completed within 2 months. Professor Mujaddedi will be the leader of the team for these 2 months.. At the end of . the two months, the 50 members headed by Prof. Mujaddedi; . shall remain alongside the Islamic interim government as Islamic Council".
 NEWS ITEMS: The scholars of Pakistan
 and Afghanistan have Supported the "mujaheddin government" .and have condemned the inter-mujaheddinrwar.
                                        MAY
                25
EDITORIAL: "We stand resolutely by our commitments in regard to the constitution of a commission for power transfer in Kabul". The editorial insists on the. commitments made in
 Peshawar regarding the transitional mechanism and wants all the mujaheddin to act accordingly.
 REPORT:   In a wireless msssage to
 Al-Bunyan Prof. Sayyaf observed 24 May, "The interim government established in Peshawar is still acceptable to us provided no one violates the decisions or assigns power for himself. We : had despatched the 50 member- team to Kabul only for two months and,, merely for power transfer and we have not conferred the authority of appointments on anyone". ittehad-e-Islami interviewed waliullah Salim, in-charge of jehad and Arabic press of the journal, who had recently returned from Kabul. Waliullah Salim recounted the developments in Kabul as such:
     Discarding of Western dress for both sexes, growing of beards, the youth attending the mosques for daily prayers contrary to the past, clearing the city areas from anti-Islamic and communist slogans, observing veils for the fair sex, total ban oh playing music in the hotels, and cldsing most of the cinemas.
   .Salim recounted the hew government
 decrees as:  (1) total annulment of the
 communist regime cabinet, (2) the cancellation of the entire anti-Islamic rules and regulations, (3) annulment of the National Assembly and the Senate,
 (4) disbanding the Satanic intelligence department of KHAD, (5) the dissolution of the communist Watan Party and confiscation of its moveable and immoveable property, (6) strict observance of the legal veil (purdah), (7) the establishment of an exclusive Islamic Law Court for trial of the criminals, (8) total ban on alcoholic drinks and narcotics and (9) confiscation and sealing up of the entire anti-Islamic literature.
APRIL-JUNE, 1992             HiJIIII                    VOL. 5 NO. 3
  REPORT: In a wireless message, Prof.
  Sayyaf said, "the war against TIA in Kabul is a conspiracy from outside guided   by         Kishtmand-trained
  communists. Regarding interference from the outside, we are in possession of sufficient proofs and documents which will be disclosed at a more suitable opportunity. Despite the fact that the enemy conspirators and the alien-loving quislings deployed all their might and weapons in martyring a great number of innocent and defenseless people, so far we have, restrained ourselves, and have not reciprocated as they deserve".
  Jabha-e-Jehad
    MARCH-APRIL
  EDITORIAL: Entitled "Sensitive terms
  and more' sensitive Obligations" the editorial states, "the brethren who had made the people, during 13 years, the medium were alarmed by peace process and consider the way to solution of Afghanistan problem solely in elimination of mujaheddin Islamic state. Therefore, their entire proposals revolve on the axis of removal of this interim government replacing it by another interim state, as soon as Najib relinquishes power," The editorial says, "to those who, instead of constructing, are bent upon destroying whatever is left and are utilizing their, entire facilities to topple the only representative organ of mujaheddin and that of Afghanistan, we Say, for God's sake, do not let this golden chance Slip away from your hands and for the sake of homage to the sacred blood of 1,5 million martyrs and hundreds of thousands of crippled and, disabled, orphans and widows, resolve your' differences and rifts".
  INTERVIEW: In an interview with BBC
  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi was asked: "As
  reported Benon Sevan has expressed hisj
 concern that a number of mujaheddin are creating disturbance for the sake of political and financial gains albeit for peace. What do you think about it?" Mujaddedi responded, "the majority of organizations, most of mujaheddin, scholars, jehad commanders and tribal elders have supported the UN plan. Of course there are some leaders who may oppose it       and possibly may make
 trouble , and God willing-. they will not succeed because the majority of Afghans have supported this plan". ,
Jawanan -e-Mosalman
APRIL
  20
 EDITORIAL: -"Kabul waiting for the victorious      mujaheddin"  under    this^
 title the editorial writes, the current year brought fresh color with it to our oppressed nation in as much as the second biggest and ancient city in the north of the country was conquered by mujaheddin, with the conquest of this strategic        city by  the    valiant
 mujaheddin the dilapidated edifice of. the puppet regime fell down in pieces and every one is waiting with crossed fingers to get relieved of the century.
     The latest achievements. of the mujaheddin once more prove that the secret of the Muslims*' fortune and f welfare lies in jehad and Islamic movement. The day is not far off when the glorious banner of Islam shall flutter atop Kabul city, the heart of the country.
                                          MAY
                                              ' 3
 EDITORIAL: "The end to waiting": The
 long wait of our Muslim nation came to an end, the wait coupled with toils and tribulations, sacrifices and miseries
181
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                                     llfmillliiffMIfl                                   VOL.   5     NO.   3
 and the jehad of our valiant mujahred nation, after passing through multitudinous     stages,    finally
 culminated, as we expected, in perfect victory and success commission which with its corruption and all its deprivations, ruled the world over seventy years was swept over by the endurance and bravery of the Afghan nation and was totally wiped out. As such the heroic, Afghan nation is justified to rejoice over their victories and after a long and tedious wait . celebrate their success and conquests and take pride in them..
 NEWS ITEMS: At a function of teachers, students and employees of mujahed secondary school the final victory of Afghanistan Islamic revolution was celebrated.
    At the initiative of jIA youth organization, a grand procession was held in support of mujaheddin interim council and policies of JIA.
                    r
 Jehad Hindara APRIL 11
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "Another leaf from
 UN plan" while discussing the UN proposal for a 15 .member council, the •• editorial calls on mujaheddin to adopt a united stand to protect the sacred ideals of their mujahed nation against the     threat     of   international
 conspiracies.
 INTERVIEW: In regard to the mujahed-
 din's singular Islamic administration in Khost, Mawlawi Nizamuddin Haqqani said, "after the capture of Khost we got together to constitute a singular administration and entrust its affairs to capable persons. Therefore 1 a .30-
 member commission was constituted and approved a bill comprising 18 articles. Then' based on consensus arOund 300 to 350 persons comprising commanders, tribal leaders and scholars were invited, who after a week's deliberations, constituted an administrative board in the center of Khost, as sanctioned by this supreme council, to run the affairs of Khost.
                                                25
 EDITORIAL:    "Great tragedies and
 meritorious victories". Recounting the events of jehad 14 years, the editorial writes: "27 December which was the day of barbaric aggression of the Russian troops in Afghanistan changed into the day of Soviet Union disintegration and break-up: and 27 April which was the
 bloody day of successful coup changed into total defeat and annihilation of the puppet Khalq and Parcham regimes."
 REPORT:  The regime armed forces in
 Gardaiz surrender to mujaheddin. In an address to military officers and men, Haqqani observed, "we were trying that the regime forces in Gardaiz surrender peacefully to mujaheddin but the enmity between you and mujaheddin was due to the atheistic regime and now that the regime no longer exists our enmity is also non-existent".
      22 April in which Gardaiz fell to mujaheddin, Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, Maulawi Nizamuddin Haqqani, , General Rahmatullah Safi, Lt. General Mohammad Taher Solamal, Brigadier. General Mustafa and' a number of other commanders and public figures, who were watching the situation in Tzeta Kandau entered Gardaiz, Mawlawi Haqqani offered thanks-giving prayers in the Gardaiz grand mosque in the vicinity of Bala Hisar.
182
APRIL-JUNfc. 1992
                                       MAY
                 23
 EDITORIAL: . ."A* big step towards
 permanent peace and security". It must be said ruefully that the mujahed and valiant people of Afghanistan welcomed the total freedom of their country and the conquest of Kabul with bewildered eyes. We wish to God, that the great #and unforgettable freedom and victory gained at the cost of unparalleled feats of bravery and valor coupled with enormous sacrifices of our mujahed nation at the final stages of glorious successes, could have been saved from the internal strife, the outcome of struggle for power and ambition, causing untold miseries to the people. Through tactful and wise leadership of Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, in the frame-work of all commanders' Council, the peace' committee completed its benevolent process in a logical and meaningful manner which culminated in a cease-fire and possible end to fighting.
 REPORT: Prior to the capture of Kabul, Al-Haaj Haqqani insisted on three points: (1) Since the fall of Kabul
 regime is unavoidable and a fore-gone conclusion, therefore military operation against Kabul must be avoided otherwise it may result in. competitive poyer seeking’ with dangerous consequences. (2) The Kabul regime should surrender itself as a'country, not as coalition, to the entire mujaheddin forces, (3) The jehad leadership .must have consensus on a singular administration.
     Unfortunately whatever we see today . is just the opposite since- the fire of strife and the flames of bloody armed conflict among the mujaheddin are raging. But as a result of Sympathetic efforts of Jalaluddin Haqqani a peace treaty was drafted in Kabul 18 May and
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 cease-fire was declared and through the mediation of Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani an agreement : to end fighting was reached. On this Account the people of Kabul, through their representatives, expressed their gratitude and thanks to Jalaluddin Haqqani.
      Kausar
                                MARCH
              28
 EDITORIAL: "The past annals and the
 happy tidings of unity": While
 recalling the jehad various events and discussing the absence of unity, the editorial finally asks: Would it not
 be possible for a united mujaheddin to topple the regime? Have the mujaheddin reached that political stage when they can live together? How long will these murderous and painful inter-mujaheddin developments continue to disturb the coordination of mujaheddin affairs?
 NEWS ITEMS: The German daily Die He It
 writes, "Pakistan has the key to the peace in Afghanistan. Najib, the chief ,of the puppet regime, wants to surrender the power to a transitional government and himself stay out, provided the government be sponsored by the UN".
 - In view of the talks between Benon Sevan and Akram Zaki, Pakistan Foreign Secretary General, the transitional government of Afghanistan will be constituted within a month. -
 - After successive long meetings the commanders■ of eight organizations could, last week, reach a consensus on the establishment of a local administration to coordinate the affairs and maintain public security and order in
                                                       183
  APRIL-JUNE* 1992                             HfCIIllNJWflfl .                             VOL.  5   NO.   3
 Khost district of Pektia province. A 10-member governing body has been formed for general supervision of affairs. For the removal of the area's problems* coordination of affairs and the maintenance of public order the following nine committees have been constituted and distributed among the organizations:
 1.  The Secretariat Committee headed by
     Hekmatyar of HIA.‘
 2.  Security Committee supervised by the Haggani fronts.
 3.  The Cultural   Committee   (Mawlawi
     Haggani)
 4.  The NIFA Reconstruction Committee.
 5.  The Financial  Committee   (HIA).
 6.  Judicial Committee (HEIA).
    t               •    •
 7.  The Education Committee      (IIA).
 8.  The Health Committee (JIA).
 9.  The NLFA Power and Water Committee.
 - Robert toman, the chief of Central Asian Desk in the center of International Studies and. Strategies, based in Washington says, it. is unfortunate that |central Asian Republics have recognized the Kabul puppet regime.
                                                  31
 EDITORIAL: "Mujaheddin  military ppera-
 tions and Benon Sevan's peace effort". Under this title the paper considers Benop Sevan's peace efforts subservient to mujaheddin's military operations and concludes,""it will be better for Kabul regime to admit "" its weakness and fragility and make way for . the mujaheddin, otherwise it will suffer serious conseguences followed by infamy."
 NEWS ITEMS:   Mawlawi  Mohammad Younus
 Khales has put forth ah 8-point plan for the solution of the Afghanistan problem. According to his proposed plan firstly a council of . scholars, commanders and tribal leaders will be constituted in which each province will have 3 members of scholars.
 -   Professor Rabbani said, "the prevalent conditions call on mujaheddin to evolve an interim administration, before circumstances worsen and insecurity intensifies, so that the situation in various provinces, particularly in Kabul, is controlled and life, honor,' status and property of Kabul residents are safeguarded.
 - Mir Afzal Khan, NWFP Chief Minister, in a press conference, observed, "we will not allow the establishment of an interim government in Pakistan territory and whosoever wants to do so, let him go to Afghanistan and carry out his plan there."
    Hamed Al-Ghabid, QIC Secretary General, has said in Jeddah that with Najib's stepping down from power the stage for the solution of the Afghan problem has been set. He said that after the resolution of this problem the 01C will take active part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 - During an address in Nusrat Maina, PeshaWar, Hekmatyar said, "the people of Afghanistan shall never allow UN . soldiers to be stationed on their soil". He regretfully recalled that a few leaders have expressed their preference for a UN sponsored government' rather than a mujaheddin sponsored interim government". . He added, "such persons think that UN can provide them* with an opportunity in the future government".
 - The daily Far East Economic Review reports that Pakistan has decided to
184
 APRIL-JUNE- 1992
 VOL.. 5 NO. 3
 expel the mujaheddin of alien countries who ; had, participated in the Afghan Jehad.
11
              APRIL
       8
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled "the latest deve-
 lopments in the resolution of Afghanis-, tan problem" in which light is thrown on efforts towards that end.
 NEWS ITEMS:  In  an exclusive  interview
 with "Kausar" Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor said "Najib*s resignation alone is not enough. The entire regime should collapse.
       Peter Tomsen, US special representative for mujaheddin said, "US still supports the. UN peace plan. We are keeping our fingers crossed for the day when power is completely transferred to the mujaheddin and we and others get the opportunity to launch an 1 international aid and reconstruction program for Afghanistan.
    Shahar.yar Khan, Secretary Foreign Affairs said, "when mujaheddin find that these humanitarian aids are meant for the people of Kabul then they will not. create bottle-necks" .     .
 -  In regard to the establishment of an interim government in Kabul, Benon Sevan UN representative said, he expects that the date and venue for the so-called inter-Afghan dialogue will.be. announced by UN Secretary General soon.
 -   Prof. Sayyaf said that,his organization and that, of Mawlawi Khales have decided to proceed with their organizational policies and military programs jointly so that, in the "wake of political developments in'Afghanistan, Jehad affairs can progress.
  EDITORIAL: Entitled, "Islamic jehad and intrigues of world arrogance" it discusses the world conspiracies against Islamic movements.
  NEWS ITEMS:
      Dr. Robin, the American expert on Afghanistan says, "power transfer from Najib to a delegate or an interim cabinet will not be taken as the establishment - of a government in Afghanistan".
  - The Pakistani and mujaheddin circles have reacted differently to the shipment of wheat to Kabul. Prior to the dispatch of wheat Professor Mujaddedi had asked the Muslim and friendly countries for the supply of emergency aid to Kabul city. The Islamic parties of Mawlawi Khales and Hekmatyar and IIA of Sayyaf have" not been happy with the dispatch of food supplies to Kabul. In this connection Qati Hussain Ahmed has said, "the dispatch of food supplies to Kabul means assisting the survival of Najib regime". Abdul Wali Khan and Haji Bilour have welcomed the move.
  - Boutros Ghali, UN Secretary General, claimed that the warring sides in the Afghan issue had agreed to the UN 15-inember Commission.
    Benon Sevan said, "the mujaheddin leaders ought to listen to the wishes of the people for restoration of peace and accept the demands of the interim government as soon as possible.”
    Pakistan government quarters have started collecting arms and equipment from the mujaheddin^
 - Mohammad- Nawaz Sharif Prime Minister of Pakistan said, "the objectives of Afghan jehad Have been achieved".
 185
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
                     15
 EDITORIAL: "Mujaheddin's   unity great
 necessity of battle fronts". 'After discussing the common goals and the necessity for unity, the editorial reminds, "under the prevailing conditions there is urgent need for mujaheddin's unity on the battle-fronts.
 NEWS ITEMS:    According   to Reuter,
 jehad commanders in eastern Afghanistan have said they will block the land route for the supply of food to Kabul.
 - Qazi Hussain Ahmed said that under no Circumstances he will accept Boutros Ghali and Benon Sevan's plan for the constitution of a 15-member commission, in regard to the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
 - Ghulam Ishaq Khan, the President of
 Pakistan, has called the formation of a 15-member commission to take over power from Najib prior           to the
 establishment of an interim government, a "positive step" and has said, that in this manner the way to the peaceful solution of the Afghan problem will be paved.
 - ' Mawlana Fazlur Rahman considers UN and Sevan's efforts as a plot against mujaheddin to avert the establishment of an Islamic government.
 -  Pertaining to the latest developments in the Afghanistan issue, Ajmal Khattak said that owing to the US aid-cut-off from mujaheddin leaders the services of some of Pakistan's political parties are also being ended.
   Kausar's office has been given to understand by knowledgeable sources that the leaders and representatives of jehad organizations have prepared the list of persons and have handed it to Benon Sevan.. The list includes the following:   Dr. Rawan Farhadi,
 A. Wakil, General Yahya Nowroz, Professor Abdus Salam Azimi, Sabahuddin Kushkaki, Nematullah Shakrani, Abdul Jabbar Sabet, Engineer Mohammad Yakoob Laali, Inayatullah Iblagh, Professor Fazel, Dr. Faizullah Kakar, Dr. Qasem Fazeli, Abdul Hai Khurasani, Fazlullah Fayyaz, Abdus Samad Saleem, General Alozai Sharaf, Abdus Sattar Seerat, Abdul Ahad Karzai, Mawlawi Omar ,Shahaed, Mawlawi Allah Gul, Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani, Abdul Jaleel Yousufi, Abdul Hameed Maasoomi, Mawlawi Ahmad Gul, Ameer Shah Hasanyar, Mawlawi Abdullah Zakiri, Akhtar Mohammad Bakhtari, Ali Ahmad Kazimi and Mohammad Naser Hasanzada.
                  18
 NEWS ITEMS:    As reported by Radio
 Tehran, an Afghan aeroplane with only some crew but no passengers, entered the Iranian airspace and landed in Meshed airport 17 April. Nothing has yet been disclosed regarding the identity of the crew.
    Abdul Wakeel, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, has' said in a press conference, "there are no signs of any violence, insecurity or instability in Kabul. Najib was not sincere in what he said".
    Shaharyar Khan, Pakistan Secretary Foreign     Affairs,     said,     "the
 opportunity for peace and security is at hand and now it is up to the Afghans themselves to come to a consensus".
                                                               Recounting the latest mujaheddin successes in the north of Kabul, Prof. Rabbani called it an important step towards the establishment of peace and security in the country and said, "under the existing conditions the country needs to be in one piece". Hekmatyar said, "unfortunately on the one hand the Kabul government did not pursue the peaceful route and on the other international conspiracies and
186
Dr
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  WWBB                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
 non-cooperation, of mujaheddin parties created      bottle-necks     whereupon
 mujaheddin were constrained to opt for pressure and violence so as to resolve the issue".
 -  Pir Sayyed ' Ahmad Gailani opposing vehemently the mujaheddin military operations in the northern suburbs of Kabul city said. "such measures will have negative effects on UN peace efforts in Afghanistan which are presently in progress". Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said, "after the conquest of Charikar and the capture of Bagram airbase ' and Division No.40. when the forces of Ahmad Shah Masood were moving towards south of Kabul, the men of one of the organizations blocked their way and Obstructed their advance towards Kabul”.
 -  US State Department spokesperson, in regard to the Afghanistan situation, said, "the present military operations will result in more bloodshed". She added, "the long, steady and durable struggle of mujaheddin to attain their right of self-determination attracted world appreciation and attention".
                   21
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "The Spring of the Oppressed" it recounts the toils and tribulations of the Afghan nation.
 NEWS ITEMS: Boutros Ghali UN Secretary General said, "UN want to close the old file on Afghanistan problem".
 -  Prof. Sayyaf remarked, there is nothing new in Najib's announcement of resignation. He said, "Najib- is like a hanging drop of tear which may fall any moment" .•
 -  Some of the mujaheddin leaders have reacted to the recent announcement of Najib, the head of the puppet regime. Prof. Mujaddedi has said, "in case
 Najib is sincere in* what he says he may relinquish power to the present mujaheddin government or- to the UN sponsored' interim government".
 -    Mawlawi Khales said, “Najib's decision to resign stems from his total downfall and that is why he has connected it with the formation of a neutral government in Afghanistan which sounds ridiculous".
 -  Mawlawi Mohammadi said, "there is nothing new in Najib's announcement of resignation, it seems to be a trick".
     Prof. Rabbani said, "mujaheddin's conquests in Balkh is an important step forward in maintenance of peace and the resolution of Afghanistan problem. Simultaneously with these victories, Najib has declared his readiness to resign".
 -  Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, in regard to Najib's readiness to resign, has said, "this declaration reassures all the parties concerned who wanted that an Islamic government, through UN auspices, ’ succeed the present regime in Kabul".
 - 'Peter Tomsen, Up envoy for Afghanistan told the mujaheddin, "Najib*s continuity in power is tantamount to war and break-up of Afghanistan". He added, "we asked our Afghan friends to support the UN peace plan since this political process is devoid of bloodshed and the restoration pf peace and stability in the region shall be patronized internationally".
 - As reported, Najib the chief of the Puppet regime, has said, "with a view to restore peace and security in Afghanistan, in accordance with the UN peace plan, I am ready to relinquish the entire executive powers in favor of the interim government as of the 1st
187
 APR IL-JUNE , 1992
 day of the inception of such a government under UN auspices".
 -  Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's
 special envoy, said:   "UN  accept the
 entire responsibility of _ power transition from Na jib to _ the new interim government".
                    25
 NEWS ITEMS:    Mohammad Nawaz Sharif,
 Prime Minister of Pakistan said, "the new interim government will takeover the power in Kabul at the earliest opportunity. In the Afghan jehad we stood with our Afghan brethren shoulder to shoulder and now that peace is returned to Afghanistan^ and the Afghan nation is busy in reconstruction of their homeland they will find their Pakistani brothers still ready to assist them".
 -  A number of US Congress members have welcomed Najib's downfall and have appreciated the mujaheddin, victories. They have said that the struggle of the Afghan people is a struggle which shall be remembered by all - and for ever.
 -  General Aslam Beg, the former Chief of Army Staff said, "US and the enemies of Islam together want to disintegrate Afghanistan".,
     A 50-member interim council of mujaheddin was established in Kabul to takeover the power.
 -  Mohammad Karim Khalili, the chief of HWIA representative Council, in an exclusive interview with Kausar; said, "the formula of a 50-member commission neither includes all the jehad organizations nor the various tribes and people of Afghanistan".
    Benon Sevan met with Ahmad Shah Masood, the Chief of JIA supervispry Council in Charikar city. He wants to
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 plan an intermediary role among mujaheddin forces to enable him form a singular administration for taking over power from the kabul puppet regime.
 - Boutros Ghali, UN Secretary General, said in New Delhi, "we are in favor of national conciliation among all the sides and will not try to support the stance of one at the cost of the other".
     After the murder of a western employee . of the Red Cross in Maidan area sometime ago, a spokesman of the institute said that his humanitarian institute has curtailed most of' its activities in Afghanistan till the improvement of security conditions in that country,
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled:  "Is inter-Afghan
 assembly UN or American plan?" it writes, "in the case of any military presence inside Afghanistan, the US will, nevertheless, control its activities from a distance and as long as the American interests are not served through the future Afghan government, she will not allow peace and security return to Afghanistan. The omission of jehad organizations from participation in the UN inter-Afghan assembly could not be taken lightly. As a rule it could not be interpreted in such a manner that inter-Afghan dialogue be guided and its participants be also selected by the UN. Is it not a kind of colonization and, for that matter, the most insulting of its kind? Therefore, it goes without saying that in the back-ground the American hand is at work so as to install her own pawns in power, one way or the other".
NEWS ITEMS:   Shaharyar Khan,  Secretary
 Pakistan Foreign Affairs Ministry, in an interview with VOA said, "there are still problems among Afghan mujaheddin organizations but they are not
188
APRIL-JUNE, 1992-                 IMJM                ' VOL. 5 MO. 3
 insurmountable. It is hoped that after discussions and talks among mujaheddin and Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, the US and Russia an agreement is reached regarding the UN Secretary General's plan, and a solution to the 14 year old Afghan problem is sought."
 -  Since 6 days detailed deliberations are in progress among Afghan jehad leaders in the JXA central office in regard to the constitution of a broad-based transitory government to fill up the vacuum, subsequent to the fall of Kabul puppet regime, and also to create
 .overall unity and solidarity among jehad forces as a pragmatic alternative plan to the UN proposed inter-Afghan 150 member assembly. During these sessions two plans have been discussed for the creation of an interim government:  (i) Amendments and reforms
 be made inside the constitution of the interim government and (ii) a fresh interim government without the participation of leaders of jehad organizations.
 -  Sardar Mohammed Roshan, Minister of Education and training in AIG said, his ministry was facing financial problems. In regard to the schools of Mawlawi Khales organization he said, "we negotiated with those schools in NWFP as a result of which from a total ■of 140 schools, 12 rejoined his organization and the remaining schools declared their solidarity with the Ministry of Education and Training".
 -  Jamshed Marker, Pakistan Ambassador and permanent representative in the UN, said, "Inter-Afghan assembly is going tQ take' place and these efforts shall not cease".
 -  According to reports there is severe shortage of food-stuff, particularly that of wheat, in Kabul city.
                 29
 EDITORIAL: "Peace, the genuine requirement of the Afghan oppressed nation". After power transfer to mujaheddin the editorial regretfully recalls the fights and says, "under such conditions that Afghanistan looks ■ more like a looted and burnt house it behoves the jehad and political leaders of Afghanistan to come together in a spirit of accommodation, self-sacrifice and solidarity to extinguish the fire which is still raging inside this country. They have also to . take good care that the newly established Islamic government, which is the outcome of 12 years of sacred jehad of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan is not wasted and destroyed in the furnace of bitter occurrences and untimely internal events initiated by the mujaheddin themselves.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Zaher Shah, ex-King of
 Afghanistan, in regard to the latest events said, "the decision about the future of Afghanistan is the prerogative and responsibility of the entire people of the country". He said, it should be part of the faith of every Afghan individual to place national unity and territorial integrity of the country over and above everything else and to play an . effective role in the resolution of the Afghanistan problem".
 - Abdus Sattar Seerat, in connection with the recent clashes, said, "God forbid the break-up of Afghanistan, if at all it occurs, shall not be a fire the flames of which will recognize any geographical boundaries".
    Power was transferred from the Kabul puppet regime to a 50-member commission headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi 28 April. In his initial address, Mujaddedi said, "my first feelings in regard to visi,ting Kabul,
189
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  mmm                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
 this ancient capital of our- beloved homeland, are akin to the sentiments of a very loving and sincere son who returns to the arms of his kind mother".
 -  The President and Prime Minster of Pakistan have addressed congratulatory messages to the President of interim
 ■ government and the Leadership Council of the Afghan mujaheddin.
 “ A high level Pakistani delegation headed by Prime Minister Mohammed Nawaz Sharif visited Kabul, the Afghan Capital.
 -  US has welcomed the power transfer from Kabul puppet regime to the mujaheddin. Peter Thomsen, the American envoy' for mujaheddin said,, "the US aid program to Afghanistan ‘ in the educational and public health sectors, mine-clearance, agriculture and reconstruction shall continue to the tune of 50 million dollars annually",
                                         MAY
                                             23
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the beginning of
 the most difficult stage of the Afghan jehad" the editorial recouts the mujaheddin government and their clashes and concludes,: "Apart from the use of
 force, violence and bitternes, there are other ways and various means which can be utilized in the struggle for the achievement of political power or. the realization of one's rights. The on-coming Afghanistan battle and the infighting among parties and organizations for the achievement of power or the application of one's plans ought to be a political and cultural fight and a publicity campaign within the sound frame of conduct and standard ethics which may at the same time have healthy and moral-boosting effects on the people's way of thinking and their
 level of behavior. It should not be a devastating war which could sweep over the life and property of the nation and leave destruction and misery as its afterniath".
 NEWS ITEMS: Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, the patron of the justice ministry of the Islamic state of Afghanistan, said "henceforth if the warring sides demonstrate differences the entire nation will stand against them".
 -  Philadelphia news-paper of Cairo
 writes: "After sustained war among the
 Afghans, slowly and slowly understanding prevails".
 -    Christian Science Monitor in a
 report from Kabul writes:           "the
 communists are concerned that as soon as the mujaheddin organization settle their scores, the jehad leaders will start purging the communist party members". -
    AP quoting UN reports that , the Afghan refugees are even now leaving Pakistan. The source added that during the past fortnight around 300 Afghan refugees are returning to their homeland from Pakistan every day.
 EDITORIAL: "The  Interim government  and
 serious      political   and   security
 responsibilities". Discussing the problems of the interim government, the editorial writes, "the absence of a strong .central authority which could control directly the entire country, may create problems | and headache, in future. The problems of Afghanistan's northern provinces, controlled by the northern military council, are still unclear and nobody knows        to what
 extent theee " provinces may consider themselves committed 'to the interim1 government, as far as the execution of orders is concerned. Thus the interim. Islamic government of Afghanistan is
190
APR IL-JUNE * 1992
 confronted with onerous obligations and serious responsibilities to carry out .which can only be overcome through total unity among jehad forces of Afghanistan.
 NEWS ITEMS: AFP writes, "Pakistan, the Eastern neighbor of Afghanistan which, together with the US, has' been supporting the mujaheddin in their struggle     against     the     Soviet
 aggressors is, at present, in favor of peace and security in Afghanistan. This is because Islamabad wants to expand and strengthen her trade and commercial relations with Central Asian republics through Afghanistan".
 - In a 7-hour.meeting between Engineer Hekmatyar, HIA leader, and Ahmad Shah Masood, the interim government Defense Minister, it was decided that elections should take place as soon as possible so that, according to them, the power vacuum created in Afghanistan be bridged.
                   30
 EDITORIAL:  "The Afghanistan government
 system in the burning thoughts": Discussing various government systems in the "Third World" end Muslim countries, the editorial explains the Afghans' ideas regarding their government and writes, "some believe in a strong, stable government which can reconstruct the land, repair the damaged, rectify the past mistakes and take the co.UWv.f/y out of the abyss as quickly as possTble. On the contrary there are some who favor a multi-party system for administration of the country or a federal system like those existing in some Muslim and European countries. The jehad parties opine that with a view to fill the power vacuum speedily and restore peace and order in the war-torn country an elected •government, based on free polls, ought to be established in Kabul. This will
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 readily so-lve the primary problems, remove the bottle necks and restore peace and security in the country. Primarily the most important issue to be tackled is to remove the problems and hardships of our society, under the existing conditions' and this ought to be done without any delay.
 NEWS ITEMS .*
 - USAID . has^ started speedy repairs on the Torkham-Jalalabad-Kabul highway.
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, during his visit to Pakistan, expressed his gratitude to the government and people of this Islamic nation for assisting Afghanistan during the past 14 years.
    Dr. Najibullah Lafrai and Fareed Muzdak, in regard to the downfall of Kabul former puppet regime, have said that the fall of the regime was long overdue.
    Mawlawi Mohammad Vounus Khales, member of Leadership Council,' during his meeting with scholars, elders and jehad commanders of Kandahar, Kunduz and Kunar provinces, discussed the valuable objectives of the Islamic revolution and the measures taken by the Islamic state of Afghanistan for welfare and prosperity of the Muslim nation. He urged the people tha-t, alongside the mujaheddin brethren, they should work collectively for the restoration of peace and security of the motherland and strengthening the bonds of Islamic brotherhood.
 - Ahmad Shah Masood, the interim government Defense ■ Minister, told the newsmen in Kabul, "this is a separate issue whether or not conditions are favorable for elections, but it is our desire that elections be held." He said that during the Meeting with Engineer Hekmatyar agreement was
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
iiiuyu
reached on cease-fire, elections within six months, Mujaddedi and Rabbani's terms of office. He said while conferring the rank of general on
I
•Dostum Mr. Mujaddedi did not consult him and that he had already conveyed his objection to Mujaddedi on the matter.
                                     JUNE
                 3
NEWS ITEMS:
- The leadership council of mujaheddin started its sessions in Kabul.
    Nicholas Platt, US Ambassador to Pakistan said:  "USA  will soon send a
 representative to Kabul."
    A high powered British Foreign office team has left for Afghanistan to reactivate its embassy in Kabuli
 - Qazi Mohammad Ameen Waqad, leader of IIA mission, said, "the presence of militias in Kabul is a big hurdle in the way of restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan."
    Reports from Kabul indicate that, due to clashes between HWIA and IIA forces, several persons were killed and about 40 others were wounded in Kabul.
                    6
 NEWS ITEMS:   IIA Organization, in a
 declaration, has stated that it was the HWIA which started the fight against IIA.' There are sufficient documents proving the involvement of foreign interference in this regard. On the other hand Mohammad Natiqi, HWIA spokesman, in Tehran has given the following reasons for the outbreak of fighting between HWIA and IIA:
    The abduction of four senior HWIA
members, the arrest of HW supporters and confiscation of their vehicles by •IIA personnel. He has also claimed possession of documents proving foreign involvement.
   Shaharyar Khan, Pakistan Foreign Secretary, said, "no Afghan linguistic and ethnic break-up has taken place in the past nor there is any danger of it happening in future."
  Kaddam-ul’Furqan
  MARCH-MAY
EDITORIAL: "Onward towards the
establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan." Under this title the editorial says, "it is after a long and tiresome struggle, unprecedented sacrifices and a very long expectation that our revolutionaries have at
last: been able to put their hands on something they had always wanted. The Muslim and honest people of Afghanistan will never allow the laurels and honors earned by Islamic and United Afghanistan be wasted and forgotten through sectarian differences and against the order of God Almighty.
                                                                          P
Therefore, it is up to the entire Islamic and jehad factions to keep in check   all such unfavorable
probabilities which threaten the unity of our Muslim nation and then should restore security and peace in our beloved and Islamic motherland."
NEWS ITEM:
- Today the sacred souls of the martyrs are soaring up the blue firmament of the motherland and along-’' with the heroic and valiant sons and children of the soil are witnessing the pageantry of joyful victory and brilliant achievements.
192
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992             HUNJHIN                   VOL.  5 NO, 3
                         Mahaz
                            APRIL
             15
 EDITORIAL: Under the title,, "Jehad at
 the threshold of Victory" the editorial says, "be it today or tomorrow Najib is going to step down and power will then be transferred to a person acceptable to the majority of our nation.
 PAPERS: "The Islamic government of
 tomorrow's Afghanistan and today's problems of democracy" by Abdul Malek Jauhar Siddiqui, discusses the
 establishment of a council in the government and considers the principle of elections as leqal.
                        Mesbah
                           MARCH
                                23
 EDITORIAL: "New year season of
 victories". Throwing light on the successive victories of mujaheddin, the editorial considers the new year as season of victories.
 NEWS ITEMS: The city of Mazar-e-Sharif has come under the control of mujaheddin. The traditional "Namroz" new year rituals were carried out by the mujaheddin. The militias led by Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Ja’afar Nadiri declared their solidarity with mujaheddin .
 - The jehad leaders convened a session in JIA office at Chamkani near Peshawar 21 March. Those participating in the meeting included Engineer Hekmatyar,,
 leader of HIA, Prof. Rabbani leader of JIA, Prof. Sayyaf leader of . IIA, Mawlawi Khales leader of HIA, Mawlawi Mohammadi Ameer of HEIA, Mujaddedi leader of NLFA, Gailani leader of NIFA, Mawlawi Mansoor, Mawlawi Mohammad Meer and Mr. Javed, the coalition spokesman. Following political developments and the conquests of mujaheddin in the country1s Northern sector and the resignation of Najib, the Kabul regime president, the mujaheddin exchanged views among themselves.
                                     APRIL
                13
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "the resolution of the Afghan problem in the wake of imperialistic designs". Criticizing the UN efforts, the editorial says, "while considering the circumstances and conditions in Afghanistan, ' UN will try to move cautiously in order to implement its programs, but none of these measures will be practicable without respecting the people's wishes and their decisions. The Afghan Muslim nation swept away the blood-thirsty Soviet empire through sacrifices of 14 years of jehad . Now the valiant Afghan nation is positively sure that they shall successfully foil the entire enemy conspiracies and that the future belongs to the mujaheddin.
 NEWS ITEMS: During a session 13 April,
 the mujaheddin ■ discussed the interim administration list of members. All the jehad leaders excepting Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales participated in the session. The latter were represented by Engineer Ahmad Shah and Mawlawi Na jmuddin. The final list of members for the interim administration was discussed thoroughly.
                                                    - Hekmatyar, in a press conference 12 April observed, "we support ' the ‘incidents in the Northern part of .the
193
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  country and favor such developments elsewhere in the country. We want a peaceful political settlement which will guarantee the transfer of power from Najib, in a short period, to an administration acceptable to the entire mujaheddin".
    Mujahed
                              MARCH
                                   20
 NEWS ITEMS: Mazar-e-Sharif, the second densely populated and strategic city of Afghanistan was. conquered. During the entire operations in Balkh province 235 JIA mujaheddin were either martyred or wounded.' Tens of heavy tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy weapons were seized by. Muslim wariors\ Thousands of regime armed forces joined the mujaheddin ranks.
   KHAD battalion of Aibak city was captured 20 March. Battalion Commander alongwith his men was also captured by mujaheddin.
   Lt. General Jumma Atzak, General Rasool. and General Taj' Mohammad fled from Balkh province. ■
   The leader of JIA, in a press conference said, "the capture of Mazar-e-Sharif is the greatest victory of. mujaheddin throughout the jehad operations. This victory brings us closer to the political solution of the Afghan problem" .
 NEWS ITEMS:
                                             Mazar-e-Sharif, the second densely populated and strategic city of Afghanistan is conquered. During the victorious operations in the entire Balkh province 235 men of JIA
 mujaheddin were martyred or wounded. In this victory tens of heavy tanks, armored vehicles and heavy weapons were seized by the mujaheddin and thousands of regime armed forces joined them.
 - KhAD battalion was conquered in Aibak city, 20 March. Battalion commander and all his men were captured by the mujaheddin.
    Lt. General Juma Atzek, General Rasool and General Taj Mohammad fled from Balkh province.
    The' leader of JIA, in a press conference, said, "the conquest of Mazar-e-Sharif is the most - important victory in the course of jehad. This victory provides a short cut to the political resolution of the problem."
       26
 EDITORIAL:  "The year of Conquest ",
 under this title the editorial considers t‘he successive mujaheddin victories during the past year and is hopeful that the New Year will be the year of final victory.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Prof. Rabbani said, "the
 voice raised for disintegration of Afghanistan is a satanic voice and we ought to fight it out to the bitter end. "He said, "we believe    that if
 a partial    break-up  takes  place,
             will not survive and'then neither exist any Tadjek, Nooristani    or  . Uzbek
               We have  to unite the
 whole of Afghanistan or else we, en-block, will not exist at all. Unless we have a united, independent and strong government no tribe can protect its identity by itself".
            APRIL 2
 EDITORIAL: Under the title, "the latest
 Afghanistan there will, Pashtun, governments.
194
 APRIL-JUNE,
 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  spectacular developments" it says, "JIA is fully agreed with the UN principle of restoring peace in Afghanistan and if this objective is fulfilled through peaceful means, all the better. There are also those who consider the conquests in the country's North the outcome of ethnic and linguistic factors thereby strengthening the enemy's hands. It is unclear why such people are bent upon/ depriving the mujaheddin from the fruits of their conquests and is it justified that last year's glorious conquest of Khost be branded as such and finally the mujaheddin's entire conquests in. Afghanistan be stamped in such unholy manner? JIA, . as a revolutionary organization, shall never allow anyone dishonoring the heroic feats of mujaheddin branding them ethnic and linguistic. Similarly it expects that all the peace loving sides to the Afghanistan case, particularly two host countries of Pakistan and Iran, along-with the. UN will feel happy with the current mujaheddin victory accelerating the peace process in Afghanistan.
 NEWS ITEMS:  In  an  interview with  the
 BBC, Professor Rabbani observed, "the prevalent conditions are such that the UN plan in its original from may not be applicable and perhaps presently the mujaheddin circles may be able to open the way to the solution of the
 problem".
 OTHER ITEMS IN THIS ISSUE:   "The effect
 of Soviet break-up on the Afghanistan issue" by Professor Kamal Alhalhavi, translated by Khalil Menavi in which the following topics are analysed. The end of Soviet-Afghan frontier, positive conclusions as the disintegration of super powers and negative conclusions like singularization of America in the world. "The story of rise and fall or the Soviet Past" which throws light on the past of thA fallen country.
         3
 EDITORIAL: This is a special issue of
 the paper published on the occasion of "Eid-ul-Fitr" and the martyrdom of Prof. Ahmadzai. Professor Rabbani's messages on both occasions have been published in this issue. The message regarding the martyrdom of Professor Ahmadzai states, "the martyrdom of a great scholar and a beloved missionary. Prof. Ahmadzai, is a painful incident and an irreparable loss. His kidnapping is not an ordinary accident. This work has been planned and carried out by the enemies of Islam in accordance with a well-planned conspiracy".
      The message on the occasion of "Eid-ul-Fitr" reads, "this is an Eid of victory and salvation. The basic problem is the resolution of the case about the survival of war-monger regime and the continuity of the rule of criminal elements in the country. Any effort made towards sharing the future administration with the regime will mean complicating the solution of Afghanistan problem. With the recent victories, as of now, the scroll of the regime is being wrapped up and henceforth it should not be Considered as a party to the case. We demand from all jehad parties to set aside their procedural differences, under the current sensitive conditions, and come to a consensus bn a singular program and thus bring to an end the bloody tragedy in the country.
                           IT
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled "the  shaky edifice
 and UN efforts" it writes, "while the JIA appreciates UN efforts it calls on its representative for Afghanistan not to stand in the way of Afghan mujahed nation's will".
 INTERVIEW:  In  an  interview  with  the
195
APRIL-JUNE, 1992               HUS                VOL. 5 NO. 3
                                              21
 Writers' Association, Prof. Rabbani observed, "presently we are in need of multifarious >plans. Mujaheddin are capable of establishing their government. We fight alone, but as far as power-sharing is concerned we believe that the entire Afghan people, particularly jehad organizations, ought to participate.He added, "as a result of mujaheddin victories the regime has lost all its means and prospects for survival. We believe that conditions have changed thoroughly and regarding the resolution of the problem, not, only mujaheddin but UN should also study fresh modalities and procedures".
                   20
      This special issue is brought out in connection with the conquest of Kunduz province in which Prof. Rabbani, in a message to Kunduz commanders has said, "we pray to God Almighty that you may always be protected and that God’s justice be maintained in our beloved homeland through your efforts".
      In a report regarding this, it is said that the entire of regime posts, numbering about 200 in all, together with their personnel and equipment, were seized by mujaheddin.
      This special issue commemorating the ■ conquest of Kunduz province contains Prof. Rabbani1s address to Kunduz commanders in which he has said, "I pray to God Almighty to protect you champions of the rightful cause and enable you to establish the Islamic regime of justice by dint of your lofty courage and valour”.
      In this connection the report says that in all 200 puppet government postal centers albng with military equipment, personnel, food and logistic I depots were seized by mujaheddin.     i
 NEWS ITEMS:    The Logar mujaheddin
                        v
 conquered the entire military and state installations of that province 21 April and presently the entire province is controlled by mujaheddin.
 - At a jehad council the entire security officials and personnel of Kunduz province were ! elected and appointed. The security in the city is restored, and the people are busy in their daily routine.
 - The.. Kandahar provincial capital and its entire installations were captured by mujaheddin 20 April.
 - Three thousand Kabul regime men were captured in Faizabad. More than 10 thousand Kalashnikovs, 60 heavy and light tanks along with other equipment and depots were seized by mujaheddin.
    Badghis province in North-west Afghanistan was conquered by mujaheddin. After capturing its entire installations, mujaheddin established their Islamic revolutionary council in that province.
                 22
     This is an exclusive issue of the paper commemorating the conquest of Faizabad, Badakhshan province. In a message on the occasion Prof. Rabbani said,."the conquest of Faizabad city is gratifying and cause for rejoicing but what has pained one and all is the baseless and inhuman resistance of wayward elements of former regimes, particularly the group of national oppression which caused the martyrdom and injury of a number of valiant mujaheddin in that sector".
                 23
 NEWS ITEMS:   The  ancient Herat was
196

 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 conquered 18 April. Division 17, Herat airport, state security directorate. Army Corp No.4, Provincial and Party. Committees alongwith Radio and Television stations were captured by mujaheddin.
 NEWS ITEMS:  The provinces of iGhore,
 Hilmand and Ghazni were conquered. In a joint operation of jehad council commanders of Chagcharan in Ghore province and its entire districts was cleared of the. unholy enemy presence 20 April. Likewise Lashkargah, Hilmand province, was conquered by mujaheddin the same day and a 12-member council was designated for the city's administration. Similarly the entire military     units      and    civilian
 installations of Ghazni province surrendered to the mujaheddin. The province is now administered by a jehad council.
 DECLARATION: The Consulate General of.
 Iran in Peshawar has issued a declaration in regard to mujaheddin conquests which says:
      Majshed Brethren, the Muslim and revolutionary nation of Iran, while wishing further successes to the warriors of Islam, has never spared any aid and assistance to their brethren and" shall always', as in the past, remain staunch defender of free, Muslim and non-aligned Afghanistan.
                   25
 NEWS ITEMS: In regard to the establishment of interim administration for power transfer from Kabul regime and the establishment of Islamic government in Afghanistan the leaders of jehad organizations have reached an agreement. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the leader of .NLFA has been' elected as Chairman of the Commission for power-transfer for two months and is
 scheduled to leave for Kabul within a
                                ■ *
 couple of days. Commander Ahma*a-'Shah
  Masood has been given the post of Defense Minister. Prof. Rabbani was elected unanimously as state President and Chairman of Leadership Council for 4 months, after the elapse of 2 months. The jehad organizations' leaders can introduce their men to the government cabinet and they themselves can remain as members of the Leadership Council.
                                                27
  EDITORIAL: Today is the day that Kabul broke the chains of slavery. It is the day when the capital of Afghanistan broke^ itself- away from 14 year subservience to communism and heaved a> sigh of relief. It is the day when the glorious banner of Islam fluttered, in place of the bloody communist flag, and provided joy and jubilation to millions of world Muslims and the Afghans and     today is the   day that
  thousands of mujaheddin iif the way of Allah, after unbearable toils and tribulions over long years, liberated the oppressed city of Kabul.
  NEWS ITEMS:     The city of  Kabul was
  conquered by mujaheddin totally and peacefully 25 April after constant jehad • of 14 years. JIA mujaheddin entered the    city from the North and
  occupied the   strategic points of the
  city. Some of the Khalq communist officers led by general Watanjar, the Defense Minister, Raz Mohammad Paktin, home minister and Manoki Mangal, chief of the political affairs of the former regime' army/ rose up to resist but were beaten by jehad forces.
 - The mujaheddin of Herat report that former government officials have started working in -the departments named by the Provincial Council, of Herat. Mohammad Ismail Khah, the conqueror of Herat, was appointed as governor of Herat and Commander of Corps Army      No. 4  of      Herat Of
 the province.
 197
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
                        Mujahed-e- Farda SPECIAL FOR CHILDREN
                           MARCH
                               25
    This publication which is exclusively meant for children and the youth, in its editorial breaks the good news with the spring breeze, to the youth of the country that the current year will be final for winding up the remnants of the Russian aggressors in Afghanistan. Since this is the year in which the mujaheddin government is going to be formed in Kabul, so let us start with cleaning our hearts from hatred, grudge, jealousy and hypocracy.
                            APRIL
             9
    The paper writes, "In the success of the Islamic jehad in Afghanistan the role of the youth cannot be ignored. A good number of our youth are still spending their jail-terms in a room popularly known as the "the Chamber of youngsters."
    The Magazine writes in its editorial, "in the course of Islamic jehad every Afghan, whether man or woman/ old or young^ tried to gain God's will and carried out their obligations satisfactorily. Therefore, the role of the youth in jehad's success and ouster of the Russian invaders cannot be ignored or belittled. A great number of our youth have been martyred in their righteous belief. Right from the very beginning of jehad one of the new assignments of our Muslim youth was to maintain inter-relations of the mujaheddin in the liberated areas which they have carried out with sincerity. In regard
 to safety of jehad secrets, honesty and loyalty have proved their mettle successfully. In the reconstruction of houses also their role has been invaluable. The Magazine provides religious, social, scientific and other useful topics to the children and youth which they will find interesting and constructive.
    Mujahed Ulus
    MARCH APRIL
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "New year, new
 words" it says, "this calendar year is entirely different from the past 13 years in as much as this year Afghanistan will enter a new stage i.e. its problems will be settled with UNi efforts and those interested in freedom: and reconstruction of the country. In this wa^ the Afghan refugees shall be repatriated and God will compensate them for the past 13 years of toils and tribulations." The editorial*continues, "the Afghan fundamentalists, commanded directly by Pakistani 'Qazi' and its military intelligence shower rockets on Afghan cities and see their advantage in the speedy break-up of Afghanistan. Just behold that Professor Rabbani used to censure Hekmatyar for coalescing with general Tani while he himself coalesced with the worst murderers of all - the militia commanders.”
    The editorial concludes, "Afghanistan is endowed with a significant strategic position in the region and after the former Soviet Union's break-up this strategic position has, all at once, adopted a key status in regional developments. Based on this, the Iranian Ayatullahs, Saudi Wahabis, Qazi Hussain's followers and the Pakistani military have started competing, among themselves, creating serious danger in the way of the establishment of a singular Afghanis-
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 tan."
 MESSAGE:  Mohammad Zaher, ex-King of
 Afghanistan in his new-year message states:
              s’
      Dear compatriots, in order to achieve the jehad objectives comprising total freedom of Afghanistan, territorial integrity., restoration of peace and stability and the creation,of a political system based on Islamic tenets, respecting the independent will of the Afghan people and also to end the sufferings of the Afghan people, there are two urgent and vital requirements:
 1, Bringing about an atmosphere of co-
 operation and understanding among jehad circles and influential Afghans, including the jehad commanders, scholars, political          figures and
 tribals.
 2. -Supporting the total national unity
 of Afghanistan excluding tribal, linguistic, regional       and religious
 considerations.
 INTERVIEWS:  In an interview with Pir
 Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Ulusmal asked, "as far as I know, you as chief of the Peshawar-based delegation, comprising the three moderate organizations, have had several meetings with ex-King and some of his colleagues and advisers in Rome regarding the         resolution of
 Afghanistan problem It is natural that the trusted person of Mr. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, were also part of the delegation. The question is whether Mujaddedi will relinquish his presidential status in favor of the ex-King?
      Since around 40-50 days ago, in a Radio-interview with VOG, he Said in unequivocal terms that there is no longer any room for the ex-King in the
Afghan Community. "He has got old and his time has run out". To the above question Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani replied, " the Afghan leadership election issue has been postponed by the three moderate organizations till the Jirgah representing the overwhelming majority of Afghanistan Muslims is formed. No one has the right and no party has been given the right to forcefully impose the leadership on the people".
      Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, former Deputy Prime Minister, in an interview with "Mujahed Ulus" in regard to the meeting between ex-King and Peshawar based moderate delegation of 3 Organi~ zations observed, "since I am not well-informed on the subject therefore I am not in a position to discuss it specifically. Nevertheless, I can say this much that present negotiations and talks among the entire non-communists of Afghanistan are useful provided they are carried out with a view to realizing the jehad objectives based on considerations of the Afghan community realities".
      Prof, Abdul Sattar S6erat, former Justice Minister, in regard to the Rome visit of the moderate delegation, observed, "consultations and negotiations among Afghans and the creation of a cordial atmosphere of cooperation and common political outlook of the entire jehad circles and influential Afghans including scholars, political and tribal figures is of paramount importance. Under the prevalent conditions of our country in particular, it is an urgent Islamic and national requirement. As such the meeting of Pakistan based three delegations with Afghan ex-King in connection with inter-Afghan parleys is a useful step, towards resolving the Afghanistan problem".
199
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
                                       APRIL-JUNE
 INTERVIEW: The Mujahed Ulus interviewed various personalities in connection with dramatic developments in t.he Afghan situation. The following are some of the answers the correspondent of the Mujahed Ulus received from Abdus Satar Seerat, a former Justice Minister. He said, "the situation, on the whole, demonstrates an emphasis on the continuity of jehad achievements of the Afghan mujahed nation and in case the situation could have been maintained peacefully and Kabul, also like some of other provinces, had fallen, the countless toils and tribulations of the people could have been avoided and the historical jehad of Afghanistan could have saved its face and prestige. But unfortunately the enemies succeeded in their conspiracies and, the events of 25,26 and 27 April occurred. I do not have sufficient information and knowledge about the political coalition among the various factions, including the Parcham, in the North. It would be better that, in recognition of his bright jehad record, commander Masood be provided the opportunity to explain, at his convenience, the reasons to the modality of his cooperation with those elements and remove the misgivings developed in this regard. Otherwise, if God forbid, such political complicity with communist wings does take place, the sanctity of jehad would certainly be at stake. Factors against the national unity of . Afghanistan and insinuating tribal, linguistic and religious agitations in Afghanistan are conspiracies made out and concocted by the enemies of Afghanistan. Since the main question has been made out prior to the painful events of the last days | of April, in Kabul, therefore I think a past of the answers may be concealed in the new realities sprung inside Afghanistan. In these days that the national aspect of Afghanistan case has assumed
 greater significance and gradually the Afghans along with their problems assemble inside Afghanistan, it will not be a distant possibility, if understanding or get-to-gether as along with consideration of Afghanistan realities take place and a speedy and timely solution be sought out. If the Afghans themselves are not in a position,      under    the prevalent
 conditions,      to    negotiate      an
 understanding or convene an Afghan assembly, than utilizing the services of UN, may be necessary in order to settle the problem”.
      Mohammad Aziz Naim:    The end of
 communist regime in Afghanistan must be a source of happiness and pride for every Afghan. But alas. the night passed with no dawn in the offing. The dramatic development of events in the last few weeks which started with the uprising of Rashid Dostum, the former Soviet puppet, in Afghanistan and culminated in Karmalites' coup and Na jib's resignation was so fast that not only stripped the power off Kabul’ regime but started making inroads in the national cohesion and unity. If such conditions persist with no national savior in sight and with ho reformer emerging for delivering, the homeland, then not only our beloved Afghanistan, will face a probable disintegration, but will be placed at mercy of feudalism with perpetual civil war.
      In answer to another question Seerat said, "the coalition, spoken of, if factual will go against the law that like-poles repel each other or it is against logic and impossible to bring together two opposite and different things together. How come that Ahmad Shah Masood, the great jehad commander, the lion of Panjsher, the upright and steadfast Muslim and finally this patriotic god-loving mujahed, could coalesce on one hand, with General Dostum, trained by the puppet communist
200
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO# 3
 regime whose crimes against the people of'Afghanistan are an openbook, and on the other with the supporters of Babrak Karmal who, according to our history book is known as the Russian Shah Shuja? Could it be similar to Afghan jehad which turned the international scene topsy turvy with this One confusing the logical principles? 1 opine that such a coalition without the participation of the entire Afghan tribes and races will not prove conclusive. This point ought to be borne in mind also that Dostum should not be indicted as an uzbek? since Uzbeks are our dear brethren too and constitute part of the Afghan population. If Dostum is an Uzbek and Najib is a Pashtun but the fact remains that both are guilty of great crimes against Afghanistan.
       Under the conditions prevalent a year ago UN plan was acceptable to the warring factions in Afghanistan but the plan's modality of implementation faced confusion and mistakes, arid in the light of fresh developments.
        "I opine that the agitation of Rashid Dostum's coalition with commander Masood, the Karmalite’s coup against Najib and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's reaction through coalition with Khalqui officers were ndt isolated incidents and accidental. All these are pre-planned and solid steps taken with collaboration of Afghanistan's two neighbors,     and      perhaps    some
    international and regional interests, to destroy the UN plan, disturb our stability and national solidarity".
                                                       "As I had stated earlier, .under the prevalent conditions, circumstances do not develop to our advantage by themselves. The people's expectations * for evolvement of an all out national leadership is’- yet to materialize. Those who believe in Afghanistan and its historical genuineness is a matter of faith with them - particularly the
educated strata and the intellectuals".
       "Now is the time for action, pragmatism, sacrifice and self-abnegation. May be we still have time to block the gushing stream".
      Amanullah     Mansoori,      Former
Interior Minister, and Abdul Hameed Mobarez, former chief of Bakhtar News Agency, have also called upon the Afghan to cere for the territorial integrity, national sovereignty, unity and solidarity of the country and the welfare and prosperity of the nation.
MESSAGE:    Zaher Shah ex-King of
Afghanistan in a message said 26 April, "the Muslim and mujahed nation of Afghanistan are passing through onerous and difficult moments of achieving their historical objectives coupled with apprehension, God for bid, of spoiling jehad fruits and successes and disintegration of Afghanistan. The possibilities of confrontation among rival groups of mujaheddin organizations alongwith hasty efforts to attain, political power, by whatever means at hand, will not only harm the national ■ character of Afghanistan and the solidarity, of our people's jehad but will also postpone the restoration of peace    and security and the
establishment of Islamic order as desired by the Afghan nation".
      "The achievements of the Afghan jehad vis-a-vis the foreign aggression belong to the entire Afghan nation and the decision regarding the political future of Afghanistan too is up to all the people of Afghanistan^ It should be a matter of faith and obligation of each Afghan individual to place the national unity and territorial integrity of their country above all other considerations and pave the way for free opinion-polls of the Afghans, without any foreign pressure and intervention". He observed, "it is a
APRIL-JUNE, 1992               HlilllO                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
 matter of faith and obligation of each Afghan, wherever he may be and to whatever organization or area he may belong or whatever social and political position he may be ejoying, to come to an understanding with each other in an effort to restoring peace and calm to Afghanistan and upholding its national unity and territorial integrity",
   Neda-e-Haq
                            MARCH
                                 17
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "Unforgettable days in our Jehad History" it discusses the heroism and epics of 22 February, 1980 in Kabul and those of 14 March, 1979 in Herat.
 tl
 INTERVIEW: Pertaining to this Mawlawi
 Mansoor leader cf HEIA, who had participated in Tehran session of the commanders, observed, "at this sensitive stage of our Islamic revolution it is necessary that the commanders take the initiative of arranging meetings among themselves with a view to solve their problems in regard to their sectors, fronts and areas and to bring about necessary improvements wherever required. The Tehran conference emphasized, en bloc, that they ought to preserve their independence and maintain their Afghan entity," .
    He said, "we advised them that such conferences can be convened in friendly countries like Iran and Pakistan but these conferences should be sponsored by the Afghans, focussing mainly on the Islamic revolution. These conferences ought to be taken seriously by the commanders so as to achieve positive results"-.
                              OTHER ITEMS IN THIS ISSUE:
     "The heroic feats of Kabul muslim fighters 22 February" by Mir Azizuddin. "Only the scholars by dint of their knowledge can solve the current problems" by Qayyumi, which discusses the obligations of religious scholars.
                                 APRIL
              11
 EDITORIAL: "Let us extend the hands of
 unity to each other in,the midst of Eid rejoicings". The editorial recounts mujaheddin conquests and writes: "Now
 it is obligatory on those responsible for .jehad to consider the aforesaid principle and extend the hands of unity and solidarity to each other in these days of Eid rejoicings and they ought to jointly evolve such a comprehensive plan which is acceptable to the entire jehad forces. The Eid of these wandering refugees will be when they live honourably under the Islamic banner in their own homeland".
 NEWS ITEMS: US President Bush has
                         welcomed UN peace plan for Afghanistan.
 - Sevan is very confident in regard to his peace program whereas some of jehad leaders are opposed to his plan.
                                                        ISeda-e-Sangar
                                    APRIL
                                       22
 MESSAGES: Professor Rabbani, in his
                                                 congratulatory message to Mohammad Ismail, General Commanding Officer of South West region, observed, "I congratulate you and all the commanders of the Afghan valiant nation on the conquest of the ancient city of Herat."
202
APR IL-JUNE. 1992           AfGlldN JtH/lfl               VOL. 5  NO. 3
 - Sayyed Nurullah Emad JXA Secretary in his message regarding the fall of Herat said, "I offer sincere congratulations to my entire compatriots on the conquest of the ancient city of Herat, the city of blood and martyrdom and the city of mujahed-lovers,' and offer token prayers to the sacred souls of the martyrs of this region and elsewhere in the homeland". ,
 - Mohammad Ismail, General Commanding Officer of South West region, in a message to Ahmad Shah Masood has congratulated him and his men on the latest conquests in the northern and central parts of the country saying, "we are quite sure that the key to the heart of Afghanistan Kabul, lies in the mighty hands of the mujaheddin and, God willing, the banner of victory like in ancient Herat city and other-provinces, shall flutter atop Kabul city hlso.
 - Mohammad Ismail, in a message to Dr. Fazlullah Mujaddedi, has congratulated him and his commander-in-arms, on the conquest of Logar province. Similarly under separate messages, he has congratulated the various commanders in Kandahar and Ghazni provinces also for the capture of the centers of their respective provinces.
 REPORT:   The mujaheddin of Herat
 province, commanded by Mohammad Ismail Khan, in an operation 18 April, succeeded to capture Herat city and all its strategic installations.
 - The valiant mujaheddin succeeded to enter Badghis province and capture the entire military installations 19 April.
   Portraits of some 140 well-known Herat martyrs over the jehad years and those of its prominent commanders are printed in this issue.
                                                     Noor
                          MARCH
                              28
 EDITORIAL: A verse from the Holy Quran meaning: (The Pen and what they write)
 says, "0, pens do move, otherwise the nation will burn itself in the fire of internal trouble".
   The editorial continues, "the aliens have arrived with thousands of tricks up their sleeves so as to propagate the issue of nationalism. Nationalism Is a monster, a collection of all troubles, ''tortures, pains and miseries. It is incumbent on all people and races not to usurp the rights of others. This is true that the love ’to rule* is very sweet".
 OTHER ITEMS: In order to break up the mujaheddin, weaken them, exhaust them and belittle the strength of Islam in the region, the aliens have entered with a motive of racialism so as to instigate one race against the other and encourage one trible to fight the other. The nearest example is that of the communists who have fanned the issue of Pashtun and Tadjek so that it may erupt into a gigantic conflagration burning the fruits of the holy jehad.' As you know the British tried this very method successfully about a century ago. • Therefore, today it is incumbent and obligatory on the warriors and the entire nation to unite, and for consolidation of a united nation, hold tight to God's 'cord' of unity".
                             MAY
                                17
 EDITORIAL: When the people arrived at
203
        APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 1U1I0                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 the threshold of ’victory and success, the victory which was the only and1 final aim of the Muslim Afghans, they rose up in great jubilation shouting
 "God is Great, God is Great" and taking^ it as a happy and lucky , awgury they fired in the air in sheer ecstasy. But the next day when the news of a clash between two jehad columns spread, the
 joy was changed         into a national
 tragedy. The nation was jolted, as if struck by lightning, and started pondering over their future. It was
 more true in the case of the people who
 I
 had witnessed 14 years of civil war im the wake of jehad. This nonseating* memory is still lingering harrassingly in the nation's mind and has made them'
 worry for the future. The jehadi organizations had, several times even in the holy Makkah, pledged and vowed; solemnly to keep their promises and
 observe their agreements but the pledges and promises did not hold for long. God knows what future has got in store for us?                      , ■
 OTHER ITEMS:   The future transitional,
 interim or permanent government must take a lesson from the past transitional government. It should not
 try to devour us all at once. Social justice and respect to all jehad sections must be maintained. If, God forbid, in the post-jehad era tyrany and cruelty once again become the order
 of the day and a ruler like "Yazeed" comes to power, then we can rest
 assured that the mujaheddin would
                     ' \
 revolt like Imam Hussain (Alaihissalam) against the dictators, because one of
Quran's objectives' of revolution is to do justice and fairplay to all, and
this was the aim and secret of the Prophets' missions.
                     Pa sdar-e- Islam
  MARCH APRIL
NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with Benon Sevan, Ayatullah Tagaddussi said, "ceasefire means stoppage of jehad and jehad ends when the unpopular regime packs up."
- Najib was called upon in Kabul to release the entire political mujaheddin prisoners'.
                      Payam-e-lslam MARCH
                                25
EDITORIAL: "Great changes and greater
obligations". While discussing the latest changes the editorial writes, "under the prevalent conditions the religious and'historical obligations of every Afghan individual, particularly those of jehad parties and leaders, call for leaving aside parochial, factional and ethnic considerations. They ought to consider the reconstruction and infrastructure of their beloved Afghanistan'. The greatest responsibility and obligation that presently the leaders are seized with are .as undert
   To evolve a national political framework, a long-term policy and economic planning and determine those of political, cultural, educational, , military and defensive lines for the country's future. Unfortunately there are some opportunists who, instead of pondering over fundamental problems, consider the fresh developments as split of the country in the North and i South".
204
 VOL. 5 NO. 3.
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                             APRIL
             29
 EDITORIAL: "Towards fulfilment of great obligations".
    Under the above heading the editorial writes, "with a view to carry out the people's expectations, planning for reconstruction and seeking financial and technical sources and expertise is the main requirement. Undecidedness in this regard shall breed despondency among the people and, most probably, the country will suffer from confusion and anarchy which will invariably culminate' in the
 establishment of political and military dictatorship. This point should also be noted, that no party alone can solve the country’s problems. Therefore, national and religious unity and harmony among the entire people and foraes are indispensible for :resolving>| the country's problems and hardships.! The core of the problem is nationall unity and harmony among the entire1 jehad fortes, in the absence of which implementation of huge reconstruction program of our war-torn country will be totally impossible".
    This exclusive issue is published in connection with the victory of the Islamic revolution. Nearly all the - - articles emphasize on - the maintenance of unity among the-forces, national unity, the .security and territorial integrity of Afghanistan.
   Payam-e-Ittefaq
   MAR CH-APRIL
 EDITORIAL: Rejecting the coalition with the communists as well as the UN plan the editorial writes, "there is still time for the jehad leaders, and those
 sympathetic to the Islamic revolution and the country's fate, to decide upon the revolutionary steps to be taken towards the establishment of the interim Islamic coalition government comprising every cross-sections of our Muslim nation so that, after the fall of the satanic and despotic edifice of the April coup the infrastructure of an Islamic government is laid".
   Payam-e-Shuhada
  MARCH -APRIL
 EDITORIAL: "A moment's negligence is an unforgivable crime". Emphasizing unity among the mujaheddin ranks the editorial writes: "The establishment of an Islamic government constitutes the entire wishes of our muslim nation and it is of paramount importance that every leader and commander takes utmost care not to form a coalition government with confirmed communists. The Muslim nation are all for the establishment of an Islamic government comprizing only those Islamic parties who were present in jehad."
 INTERVIEW: Sayyed Hussain Anwari, the
 military director general of HIA and Speaker of Kabul Provincial Assembly, in an interview with "Payam-e-Shuhada" in response to a question said, "in case, the jehad honourable leaders and the valiant commanders of the battlefield cooperate closely and deeply with the transitory government the Najib successor government will not be able to restore peace to Kabul. Regarding the future elected government, he said, "the entire muslim nationalities of the country are shouldering the burden of Islamic revolution in different proportions as such the interim government must comprize the genuine and justified representatives of the entire muslim nationalities.
205
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992_____________ MHIIIilO                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
                      APRIL-MAY
EDITORIAL: "The Muslims were
victorious". After discussing the freedom of Afghanistan and
imperialistic designs the editorial writes, "now it is up to us to try for coordination and harmony among jehad forces which ' is of paramount importance. In this way we shall be able, by the grace of God Almighty, to safeguard the freedom blessing which God has bestowed upon us. At the same time reconstruction of the country should not be neglected. In the meantime we urge the Muslim countries and the humanitarian organizations to come forward and give us a helping hand in the reconstruction of our country so that, God willing, a free, independent, united and non-aligned Afghanistan marches forward on the road to progress."
NEWS ITEMS: ‘ Regarding the latest clashes in Kabul, Ayatullah Mohseni said, "while maintaining our neutrality in this disturbing development, we are, however, ready to mediate between the warring factions to reconcile in the interest bf peace and tranquility for Afghanistan."
  Shahadat
                        MARCH
           31
EDITORIAL: "Najib's resignation and the activities of jehad factions." Discussing the prevalent circumstances in Afghanistan the editorial concludes, "under such conditions that Najib has voluntarily resigned it is upto the mujaheddin factions to take the initiative of the issue in their hands and do away with UN and other
 countries' interference in the issue. The UN taking the credit of resolving the Afghan problem, when Najib himself has opted to flee, is an insult to the 14 year struggle and sacrifices of the mujahed nation. It is incumbent upon the parties to constitute an interim government, without alien intervention and make good the vacuum created by Najib's flight."
 NEWS.ITEMS: The central council of HIA elected the new members of the executive council, during a session 29 March. They are:
      Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Chief of HIA, Mawlawi Abdul Rahim Rahmat Khenjani, the head of Darul-lfta, Mawlawi Sa'aduddin Akhundzada*the Chief of judiciary, Engineer Abussalam Hashimi, the military chief, Fazlur Rahmap Kashmir, the chief of supervisory and management section, Sayyed Ishaq Del ju "Hussaini,. the chief of culture and guidance, Engineer Qutbuddin Hilal, the* chief of political affairs, Mawlawi Janbaz Sarferaz, the head of Invitation and Coordination, Prof. Ali Ansari, the Chief of Social Affairs and works,. Mohammad-ul-Hasan Jahed, the chief of education and training, Abdul Hadi Arghandehwal, the head of financial affairs. Engineer Waheedullah Sabawoon the head of Security and Works affairs. Dr. Jan Mohammad Hamkar^ the chief . of healthy affairs and Ghulam Mustafa Jawwad,the chief of refugees' Affairs.
                                     APRIL
                2
 EDITORIAL: "Our Jehad zigzagged through the sharp bends of . American challanges". Under this title and while suspecting the US, UN and Iranian efforts the editorial says, "by the grace of God at present our jehad and revolution have crossed over the entire sharp turns of world and American
206
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  MMSO                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
 challanges. On the other hand, the mujaheddin are busy with their political structure for the transfer of power. Besides jehad operations, the circumstances in Kabul have reached the point of explosion, so much so, that the puppet Najib is forced to announce his resignation. The other main threat is that of people's flight from Kabul and famine contributing to the fall of the puppet regime. But the UN, goaded by the US, is proposing to Pakistan to send foodstuff to Kabul, knowing that for fear of mujaheddin there is no other option, otherwise India would have readily provided such relief. Therefore we come to the conclusion that the mujaheddin are at the final stages of their victory and as such, cautious steps may be taken as far as friends and foes are concerned".
 REPORT:  Addressing  local and foreign
 journalists at a press conference in the compound of political affairs directorate, Hekmatyar said, "a new peace plan might soon be evolved and I hope this solution will be based on the 4 principles that we have mentioned. I expect Benon Sevan to .announce that assemblies (jirgahs) are no longer needed. We prefer that Najib's government be wound up peacefully and power transferred to a transitional office". He said, "we do not accept alien army of any country, under any name or title and under any circumstances in Afghanistan. Under the prevalent conditions that the Afghanistan issue is yet to be resolved, we expect our friends to wait a little longer and withhold dispatching their assistance to Kabul regime".
                    9
 EDITORIAL: "Jehad at the threshold of
 victory":  Owing to sensitive circum -
 stances, the editorial considers the victory of the jehad to be just around the corner and asks all the mujaheddin
   to jointly form ' an interim administration. It writes, "UN arbitration and those of others would have been correct, had Najib been endowed with enough power to resist the mujaheddin".
   REPORT: Hekmatyar told the faithful on
   Eid day, "HIA’s position is such that at the interim stage the army and police should not be sounded* The future interim government will not be a coalition wherein the ministries be distributed among the parties. After being forced by circumstances Najib ought to say that in case the interim administration is formed today he shall hand over the power to it tomorrow. The administration that is established according to our wish, means that mujaheddin will not fight against it and there will be no need for an alien army. The interim administration shall comprise the figures acceptable to mujaheddin. This structure will remain for 12 months and the same administration shall be responsible for the security of cities presently controlled by Najib's regime".
   NEWS ITEMS:
        Professor Abu Abdur Rahman Mohammad Jan Ahmadzai, a promoter of Islamic movement, while on his way to the mosque, was assassinated by unidentified person's 2 April. Hekmatyar_ is reported to have said in this respect, "Professor Ahmadzai, was a courageous, patient, solemn and a religious scholar".
   - Hekmatyar, in a telephone interview with BBC 6 April, observed, "we agree to the establishment of, ' an interim administration provided it holds elections within 12 months."
                                                 12
   EDITORIAL: "Assemblies and assistances, 207
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  UMlH                  VOL. 5 NO.  3
 the American challenge to the future jehad government". While condemning the American sponsored food assistance to Kabul regime and recounting world atheistic intrigues, the editorial writes, "presently the leading' world imperialism do not want to suffer the same fate as the Russians did, they must stop thinking in terms other than the mujaheddin government and the; puppet Najib. Providing political shelter to the murderers of Afghans will be a historical blunder which will not be condoned in future".
 REPORT: Hekmatyar, in an interview with BBC said, "we are in dire need of a> speedy solution to the Afghan problem. The persons nominated to from an interim regime must be acceptable to mujaheddin. We have told Benon Sevan in unequivocal terms that under no circumstances the formation of an interim government, through jirgah, is acceptable to us; nor for that matter, there is any possibility of handing over the lists to Benon Sevan so that he sorts out his own men at will and creates an interim office".
    Qutbuddin Hilal, in an interview with ANA regarding the news pertaining to the formation of a coalition in Mazar-e-Sharif remarked, "coalition is not practicable nor can we accept such a coalition. We have declared that any power which separates from the state ought to surrender to the mujaheddin unconditionally".
-  Hekmatyar, in an interview with ANA,, said, "we cannot accept the supporters of Najib or Zaher Shah in the interim structure. Whatever government imposed from outside, irrespective of its origin, shall npt be acceptable to us even for a moment".
-  Mawlawi Khales and Professor Sayyaf, in, a joint press interview observed, "any imposed government shall suffer a
 fate similar to that of Taraki, Amin, Karmal and Najib".
 PAPERS:  "Boutros Ghali wants peace in
 Afghanistan or imposes his own solution" by Rahmani. "Mujaheddin are no longer in need of Benon Sevan's plans and efforts" is a paper by Nangyar saying "whatever mujaheddin want is automatically implemented".
                  14
 EDITORIAL:  "Another  measure by world
 infidelity against the Islamic world". After a long preface on the conferment of the title of world fighters for mujaheddin by Los Angeles Times, it calls it another anti-Islamic step of world infidelity and has prescribed the cure for it in the enlightenment of the Islamic world through the rays of Quranic revolution.
 REPORT:  Hekmatyar, in a statement to
 local and foreign journalists observed, "we do not permit anyone from outside to establish an interim or permanent government for us. We assure all our neighbors that the mujaheddin government will prove itself a good friend of theirs. We always want good relations with Iran".
    At the conference convened in commemoration of Professor Ahmadzai, Hekmatyar said, "we want all the jehad organizations to come forward and form a united Islamic front". In this conference, Professor Rabbani said, "those     countries     which     fear
 fundamentalism, have no option other than conciliation with fundamentalism". Professor Sayyaf observed, "we consider the neutral coalition regime as against the wishes of mujaheddin".
- Jalaluddin Haqqani, in an interview with the BBC said, "in case Pakistan, stops the Arabian institutions then their joint sacrifices in the Afghan
208
APR IL*JUNE, 1992'
VOL
5 NO- 3
 jehad will be washed out". He said, "this action of Pakistan will have adverse effects on the entire Arabs, i particularly on those who have helped our jehad. In retaliation, it is possible that thousands of Pakistani workers in Arab land be laid off,, harassed or even deported."'
                                                16
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "in appreciation of conquest and victory" it writes, "the mujaheddin process of conquests and victories is so fast that the enemy military bases and launching centers are joining the mujaheddin in quick succession." The editorial proposes that the liberated areas be administered by mujaheddin in fair and just manner through the creation of joint councils so that at the preliminary stage of successful revolution, the people, Sod forbid, do not carry unsavory recollections of mujaheddin and jehad but cooperate contendedly and heartily with the revolutionaries".
 MESSAGE: In an important and historical message in regard to the glorious conquests of mujaheddin in Parwan province and Kabul, Hekmatyar observed, "the fall of the regime armed detachments in quick succession in various parts of the country,, particularly in Parwan province and suburbs of Kabul, bring forth happy tidings in regard to the imminent fall of the regime, an end to the         war and
 restoration of peace in the country. We tried that Najib and his accomplices avoid intransigence, transferring power to an interim administration acceptable to all sides. Following that general ceasefire be declared, the seige to cities be lifted, logistic routes, be opened, the return of refugees be started and within a year's time elections be held and power transferred to the elected Islamic gpvernment. But unfortunately Najib'a intransigence on
  the one hand, and international conspiracies along with non-cooperation among mujaheddin small groups on the other, hindered our work. The measures we presently deem necessary are as follows:  (1)  The regime  armed units,
  wherever they are, declare their joining the HIA mujaheddin, (2) HIA forces are committed to the security of these units. (3) The Kabul people be assured that armed men shall not enter the city. (4) In case the regime defense ministry declares its surrender , we shall stop operations on their centers and will declare the revolutionary council, comprising the entire commanders of Kabul suburbs' effective fronts, to establish the government and the Najib and Khaleqyar government be transferred to them.
  - The entire areas of Parwan province and northern sectors of Kabul province were liberated from atheistic Najib rule. The regime headquarters and bases in the suburbs of Bagram airport were conquered. The entire posts in Deh Sabz upto Bagram were captured by HIA mujaheddin. The 86th Brigade was also captured, whereas the Bagram airport is as good as conquered. The Kabul-Bagram highway is controlled by HIA mujaheddin .
                  19
 .EDITORIAL: Entitled  "Finally • Najib's
 boat capsized" it narrates the story of Najib's flight and his subsequent arrest. Regarding his successors the editorial writes, "after the flight of Najib, the successive mujaheddin victories and finally the formation of the future Islamic government in Kabul, the point that is to be pondered upon is this that the regime's military generals and other communist party members, whose antecedents are' shameful throughout jehad, are trying to win over some of mujaheddin commanders and under linguistic, ethnic
209
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 and religious differences, flare up trouble among mujaheddin. There are rumors that some of the regional states in collusion with some of communist elements, patching up with some commanders, are trying to set a * government in Kabul thereby ignoring the role of commanders of other parties. The aim of such incitement of the regional states is to install their own regime in Kabul, that of adventurous elements, to cover up their shameful antecedents and guarantee their future rule at the cost of the deprivation of others. But all those who think that by means of their intrigues they can belittle and ignore the effective and forceful role of jehad are committing a blunder".
 MESSAGE: In a message pertaining to the intrigues of HWIA opportunist elements, Hekmatyar has recalled that this treacherous group is led by Babrak Karmal and Sultan Ali Keshtmand. A number of army officers and militia commanders, inspired by this idea, are busy in subversive and adventurous activities in ranks and files of the armed forces. This treacherous group, not regretful of their past shameful antecedents are not asking forgiveness for their previous crimes, but on the contrary, they are bent upon more bloodshed and trouble making. They want to drag our nation from the war between Islam and communism to that of conflicts between the majority and minority of Sunnis and Shias, Pashtuns and Tadjeks and other races and tribes". Concluding it adds, "if Muslim mujaheddin and patriotic officers could sterilize this last plot of communist and atheistic elements then they would have checked the repetition of the past bloody occurrences for good".
 NEWS ITEMS: The ancient city of Herat was conquered by the mujaheddin and the victorious HIA commanders and mujaheddin offered their Juma prayers
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 in the city's grand mosque. The gates of Herat central jail were ripped open by HIA mujaheddin and its 1,000 inmates were released.
 -  For the sake of close and better guidance of jehad operations and decisive assault on Kabul, Hekmatyar left for the interior of the country 18 April.
 - 'Textile' posts and Maiwand district
 of Kandahar province and the Gung district     of     Nimroz      province
 surrendered to the mujaheddin.
      Helmand province alongwith the entire party, state and military bases surrendered to valiant HIA mujaheddin in toto, 18 April.
 -  The mujaheddin of Kunduz province captured 19 April the entire province alongwith all its civil and military installations and facilities.
      The HIA mujaheddin captured Shindand airport 18 April.
 EDITORIAL: . "The last . minutes of mujaheddin vitory and world imperialistic conspiracies". Under this title the editorial writes, "the unholy plan of world arrogance in collusion with some of neighboring countries is being launched to forestall the establishment of an Islamic government which is desired by our entire nation and more than 1.5 million muslims have spilt their sacred blood for it".
      It concludes by writing, "as a communist government patronized by Russia was not acceptable to our nation, a western imperialism and American patronized government in Afghanistan, by any name or title, shall not be tolerated by our Muslim nation and shall stand rejected for ever".
 MESSAGE: Hekmatyar, in his message has
210
 APR IL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  said, "as long as the power in Kabul is not completely transferred to the council comprizing the commanders of Kabul suburbs' main fronts* the military pressure on the cities and the advancement of mujaheddin will continue. All the cities must be captured forthwith and the security of the cities be maintained by mujaheddin. Whosoever insits on collaboration with the atheist regime and the front, comprizing the national traitore, shall suffer serious consequences. Those who fail to join the mujaheddin ranks upto 26th April this year, shall be deprived of the mujaheddin general amnesty and shall be tried. From mujaheddin point of view, forming a coalition front with the communists and acknowledging that the murderous Watan Party could remain in the government, would be tantamount to treason and betrayel of 1.5 million martyrs which' shall be condemned by one and all among the nation".
  NEWS ITEMS:  The Sarobi district was
  captured by HIA mujaheddin 20 April.
                   20
  EDITORIAL:   "Anti-jehad    Conspiracy
 Failed". Recounting the intrigues of the enemies of revolution the editorial writes, "the HIA forces, like unbreakable chains, encircled Kabul city and cut the . medium of contact of the selfish and despicable puppet regime communists who wanted to establish bilateral ethnic prejudices and, through conspiracy, block the way for the establishment of an Islamic government" .
     "This conspiracy was deep rooted. Last year the visit of a delegation from our neighboring country, Iran, to the Northern parts of the country and their direct contact, over the mujaheddin shoulders, with Kabul regime .local commanders was a suspicious
 liaison which no Afghan could approve. The developments that followed have amply proved that the exchange of visits ,by the Islamic Republic of Iran with the puppet regime was not groundless but a pre-meditated plan for a future date.
 REPORT:  In an address in Nusrat Maina
 mosque 17 April, Hekmatyar said, "our operations against Kabul shall continue till .it is conquered completely by the mujaheddin. The army's armed detachments who join the mujaheddin shall be heartily welcomed and we assure one and all that no one will be harmed. We will not accept any coalition government and no one from amongst the communists shall be accepted as a partner in running the country's administration. If other parties do not accept our sincere and. sympathetic proposals, they shall be responsible for future developments. It is better that the leaders be members of a leadership council which should promote harmony among the parties'*. He added that the following are eligible for the interim administration:
 1. Those acceptable to all the organizations,(2) those who have no prejudices against any party, (3) those who have not cooperated with Najib, .(4) those who are not supporters of Zaher Shah, (5) those who have not opposed the mujaheddin and, (6) those who are staunch believers and sincere faithful Muslims.
                                                 22
EDITORIAL:  "The unholy coalition under
the barrage of the mujahed nation's fury and wrath". Under this title the editorial discusses and condemns the coalition of regime's remnants with a number of the so-called mujaheddin and concludes, "we shall assure our mujahed nation that the valiant HIA mujaheddin shall close the noose on Kabul
211
VOL. 5 NO. 3
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                          OffiHitHJlHIU
  tighter and will conquer it on the very day on which the hapless, but faithful, nation was put on trial by the < red imperialism. This unholy coalition, like thousands of similar conspiracies, shall be foiled by our mujaheddin and the day is not far off when the trial of these retrogressive elements shall begin in the presence of the mujahed nation.
  NEWS ITEMS:  The entire political and
  military departments of Ghore province were captured by mujaheddin 21 April.
  - The capital of Logar province along-with its entire posts was conquered by HIA mujaheddin, 21 April.
  - Badghis province was captured by HIA mujaheddin 21 April.
  - Brigade 100th of Laghman, province. Police battalion 25, and KHAD battalions were all captured by the mujaheddin 20 April.
  i                  i
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "the fate of the
 communist Watan Party after Najib's abdication" the editorial concludes, "it is but natural that after the flight of the leaders of this band the lower tiers will be obliged to retrace their steps and in this way the ignominious chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party will be closed down. Therefore, the puppet Najib and the rest of Khalq and Parcham band-leaders ought to refrain, from more bloodshed, in Afghanistan and while repenting their past misdeeds .they should demonstrate their regrets and dissolve the communist Watan Party. By taking advantage of the mujaheddin general amnesty they ' should' also surrender to the nation’s will",
                                                 23
 EDITORIAL: "The call on mujaheddin for success and victory". "Considering the recent mujaheddin victories the
 editorial writes, "under such circumstances the- jehad commanders should not be too .proud of their countless     conquests,      dazzling
 victories, abundant booty and the .deceitful ways of the puppet regime remnants; since they want to sow the seeds of dissension and hatred among the mujaheddin, taking advantage of mujaheddin code of ethics.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Gardaiz^ the center of
 Paktia province and district Sayyed Karam were conquered by joint council of mujaheddin 22 April.
 -  Faizabad city, center of Badakhshan province alongwith its airport; was captured by HIA mujaheddin.
 -  Sevan, UN Secretary General special envoy spoke for 20 minutes with Rasheed Dostum in Mazar-e-Sharif regarding the Afghan issue.
 -  Mujaheddin conquered Farah province 22 April.
                 24
EDITORIAL:   Entitled "Muslim Ummah,
Threats and the American Conspiracies” the editorial recounts the prevalent American threats against the Islamic World and addressing the Muslims writes, "believe it or not only the weapon of oil embargo coupled with collective identification of Muslim entity is sufficient to keep at bay the challenge of 'new world order' and do away with US threats and atheistic intrigues. Likewise, the rising Islamic movements on the horizon of Muslim countries is the harbinger of a bright Islamic future. This is upto the contemporary Muslims how far to carry out their obligations and how fast to implement the regime of compulsory Islamic order".
212
  APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 OTHER ITEMS OF THIS ISSUE:
       "The perspective of Najib's resignation and the mission of jehad groups in the wake of it" by Raqem Afghani which calls for agreement among mujaheddin on at least the following three points:  (1) Adoption of a Common
 stance and the implementation of harmonious operations to wipe out the last power nests of Najib, (2) The establishment of an ■ acceptable and equitable interim government wherein the share of parties be appraised according to their internal influence and power and (3) agreement on the work program of the interim government and approval of the fundamentals for. the future political order.
 - Hekmatyar's message addressed to the citizens of Kabul through "Radio Payam-e-Azadi" says, "the brave people of Kabul have played a significant role over the years in the national struggle against corrupt governments and aliens and have had greater share in each Islamic movement and every Islamic upheaval has initiated from Kabul. The people of Kabul have suffered most in this cause giving the greatest number of martyrs. This is our desire that these people bring about the downfall .of the regime with their own hands.
                  26
EDITORIAL:  "The  preface  to  such ' an
 imperialism creates new dimensions to the start of organizational war."
      "By internal persecution, arrests and coordination of its supporting channels, the imperialism is bent upon establishing a government of its own choice in Afghanistan and eliminating
the danger   of   Islamic revolution   
midway. But       the timely       HIA 
preparedness   in the   vicinity   and 
suburbs of   Kabul      snatched   the 
initiative   from the    enemies    of 
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Afghan Islamic jehad. Now there is only one option that the jehad council of influential Kabul commanders fill the vaccum after the fall of the atheist regime. Those jehad circles that have been tricked fraudulantly by imperialism and are ready to cooperate with the last remnants of the communist regime, have still time to ponder and decide. The sooner .they decide to stop confronting the HIA mujaheddin, the better.
 NEWS ITEMS:    Kabul, the last enemy
 bunker, a city dominated by Russian puppets over 14 years, was conquered by HIA mujaheddin. Now HIA has settled down in the strategic and sensitive points of the city and are in control of the entire government installations. While hoisting the green banners, glorifying God Almighty atop their houses and raising slogans of "Allah-o-Akbar" (God is great), the citizens of Kabul welcomed the arrival of the mujaheddin in the city and were ready for every sacrifice.
 - The city of Jalalabad was conquered 23 April and its entire forces surrendered to the joint mujaheddin council.
 - The center and the entire districts of Badghis province were captured by the mujaheddin.
 REPORT:  In a press conference through,
 wireless from Kabul, Hekmatyar said, "I congratulate indivually each and every one of the Afghan nation and the entire Muslim Ummah on the victory of Islamic revolution. I assure my Muslim compatriots that, God willing, henceforth war has come to an end in Afghanistan. Now that the war is over it is imperative that the entire jehad forces unite and collectively work in restoration of peace."
                                                                    The decision arrived at by a few
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL, 5 NO. 3
  leadera regarding the future Afghan government was not shared by HIA representatives since they were not present there. The HIA agrees with the establishment of a leadership council and its chairmanship, representing the state. It also agrees with the constitution of a government and the Prime Minister but the decision adopted in regard to the power of transitional council is not acceptable to the HIA. The interim government is sufficient for power transfer and the cabinet should also be formed through the Prime Minister's advice.
  EDITORIAL:  Entitled  "Na jib's boat is
  Capsizing" it writes, "apparently Najib's boat is drowning and in case those on board with him are not particular about their safety, they shall also drown alongwith him". The editional goes on, "now that jehad is in its final stage of victory the best option for Najib and his supporters will be to desist from intransigence, repent their past misdeeds, return tb the nation's arms and surrender the power, without bloodshed, to the mujaheddin".
  REPORT: In an inaugural address to the Central Council of HIA, Hekmatyar told the audience, "based on the council system the repetition of the past painful and bloody incidents could possibly be checked. In order to wipe out the Najib regime a joint military committee be constituted and the entire jehad organizations brought under the leadership of this Committee". He concluded, “a coalition government is not acceptable to us. This is something which we have rejected also many times in the past."
        27
 achievements, fanning polar and ethnic leanings by USA and the West and hasty power transition, the editorial concludes, "our revolution is passing through its final stages of victory and the missionaries of this revolution, after the defeat of communism, will never expect any sort of kindness and n*ercy from the first rate enemies of Islam”.
 NEWS JTEMS:    The majority of Kabul
 military installations, including the Dilkusha Palace, Interior Ministry, the police stations in all the 11 districts and several other places were occupied and conquered by HIA mujaheddin 26 April.
    The Ghazni Division surrendered totally to HIA mujaheddin.
       28
 EDITORIAL:  "The  Islamic revolution's
 victory obliged the USA for childish revenge of a political defeat." Discussing the process of jehad
 EDITORIAL:   "The enemy's last assault”,
 Condemning the coalitiqn of some mujaheddin with the communists, the editorial writes, "those who have confided in cooperation and coalition of treacherous and communist elements are awfully mistaken and in case they have adapted this kind of tactics for power a'chiayeipient, then they should be aware that they will finally be the losers. Because the communists, who have martyred 1.5 million Muslims, can never be friends of Islam and will be bent upon finding an opportunity to launch their final and decisive assault on' the Afghan jehad. Furthermore,' coalition and coordination with atheistic elements would make the people hate and condemn their activists and will finally be segregated from the jehad ranks for ever".
 MEWS ITEMS: - HIA and JIA signed the ceasefire agreement. The militiamen who have entered Kabul are called upon to report. The army is being controlled by mujaheddin and their communist commanders are being dismissed, and are
214
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992            AfGHHlHUO-                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
 replaced by detachments acceptable to the mujaheddin groups.
 - HIA aircraft bombed the airports of Mazar-e-Sharif, Bagram and Khawja Rawash 27 April, in order to prevent Gelam Jam militia forces from being airlifted to Kabul. The militias on their part, using the .aforesaid' airports, bombed the mujaheddin positions causing casualties among the Kabul innocent citizens.
 - General Nabi Azeemi Deputy Defense Minister of the Kabul atheistic regime and commander of the armed forces of the regime garrison called upon the regime armed forces’ officers and units, on Radio Kabul 23 and 24 April, to obey the orders of Ahmad Shah Masood. It is said that Ahmad Shah Masood has accepted this request of general Azeemi with gratitude.
                   29
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "a series of speedy jehad initiatives" and recounting the mujaheddin victories it writes, "our mujahed nation, blessed by their Islamic wisdom and sound patience, want to reap the harvest out of the change in circumstances. The supporters of Najib puppet regime have to make good their past crimes by acting favorably so as to be eligible for a place among the nation and this could only be achieved through total surrender to the mujaheddin".
 REPORT: In  an address prior to Juma
 congregation prayers in Nusrat Maina grand mosque. Engineer Hekmatyar observed 27 April, ’,'we shall cut into pieces those who wish to cut Afghanistan into pieces". He said, HIA is good enough to maintain the security of Afghanistan. We tell our neighboring countries that in case they agree on break-up of Afghanistan, they may themselves be subjected to the same fate. He said, "a nation which has offered more than
 1.5 million martyrs in the way of its freedom cannot' readily accept the break-up of their country". In regard to stationing of UN or other troops in Afghanistan he said, "we cannot accept the presence of any foreign soldier, under any name in Afghanistan".
 - Hujatul Islam Gabraili, member of Afghanistan Islamic Revolution United Front Leadership Council, in an interview with Shahadat said, "if mujaheddin launch their operations with the same spirit of unity and harmony which conquered Khost and Mazar-e-Sharif, irrespective of their personal . and parochial considerations, I am sure the conquest of Kabul will be much easier than expected. On behalf of the entire Afghanistan Islamic Revolution United Front cadres, activists and mujaheddin, I declare that we are ready to take practical steps in the dperations for liberating Kabul. We also proclaim that for - the sake of national interest and Islamic revolution, we shall forego all kinds of privileges and distinctions".
 EDITORIAL:   "Consulting   the Mujahed
 nation". Our mujahed compatriots welcomed the victorious arrival of the valiant HIA mujaheddin to Kabul with warm feelings, thanks-giving prayers and other legitimate jubilations. But since the committed enemies of Islam had forecast such a situation they were on the alert and in order to forestall the establishment of .an Islamic government in Kabul they mobilized all their satanic machinery at once.
      HIA mujaheddin who had entered Kabul before other mujaheddin groups are fighting the militias and remnants of the regime - supported by an ethnic group. This group was originally made up by Benton Sevan, as a threat to break-up Afghanistan in case the UN plan Remained unacceptable.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Engineer Qutbuddin . Hilal
 told a. news conference 28 April, "we.
215
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                    mm                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
 have called upon our mujaheddin to-stop fighting and observe the ceasefire agreement".
     Three hours after signing the agreement General Majeed, Deputy of Rashid ' Dostum. Ahmad Hali, Masood's brother and Professor Rabbani rejected the ceasefire agreement.
 - Professor Fareed, the chief of Parwan and Kapeesa mujaheddin group and Commander of areas in the north of Kabul, was named as the Prime Minister of the interim government.
    Sultanali Keshtmand, one of the greatest and most prominent member of the notorious HWIA, who is a partner to Ahmad Shah Masood in the current coalition, in an interview with the BBC in response to this question: "How come
 that you have reconciled with ■erstwhile opponents of women's education,    fundamentalists,    and
 extremists?" said, "it was due to the exchanges, and contacts over several months that they showed flexibility in their attitude and we also reciprocated by making amends in our previous ways. It is as a result of this that we have established a new democratic front".
 - The HIA mujaheddin conquered the entire of Laghman Province 25 April.
                                          MAY
                   3
EDITORIAL: "The Islamic revolution in
the last moments of victory". The HIA mujaheddin while chanting the slogans of Allah-o-Akbar (God is Great) and waving the green banners of Islam victoriously entered the city of Kabul,
25 April. The citizens of Kabul received the mujaheddin with open arms since they had fought valiantly over 14 years to oust the evil communist forces and to keep the banner of Islam
 aloft. On entering the Kabul city the mujaheddin jubilantly gathered in front of government buildings, public parks, cross roads and squares and started celebrating their victory. It was at this juncture that the spiteful enemies of jehad started sniper-firing from their carefully chosen positions. They were strategecally well placed and had the upper hand since they had prepared themselves well in advance for this confrontation and mujaheddin were taken by surprise. The world was stunned by this new development.
 COMMUNIQUE:   In a communique HIA
 observed, "in the preliminary stage we have achieved all our objectives. Those who were unaware of our program and were judging things on their own are guessing that HIA failed in its internal plan. We neither decided to capture Kabul nor intended to declare our government there, nor for that matter, favored an expensive or a large-scale assault on Kabul. Our bhsic aim was to frustrate the conspiracy directed towards the establishment of a coalition government".
 PAPERS:  "After the power-transfer the
 issue of supporting Islam and militia will also be cleared" by Mohammed Asef wherein light has. been, thrown on the links between Masood, communist generals and the militia.
      "Mujaddedi’s departure for Kabul and launching of "new democratic fronts" by Sarkateb; in which Ahmad Shah Masood is advised "not to impair the fruits of the jehad by the atheistic'elements of the past regime".
                  4
 EDITORIAL:  "Why did ■ you grudge our
 mujahed nation the Islamic joy?". While condemning the presence of Gelam Jam militias during the Afghan independence celebrations and jubilation asks why
216
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 did they grude us the great Islamic freedom of Afghanistan? and concludes, "let us eliminate this condemned enemy as soon as possible and establish an Islamic government free from the entire linguistic, ethnic and lateral discriminations. This is the desire of our mujahed nation and symbol of our liberty".
 REPORT: In an interview with Pakistani journalists     Hekmatyar observed,
 "presently the true ruler of Kabul is Rashid 00stum. We warn the militias once again to leave the Kabul city". To a question about the collection of arms from the people, he said, "at present we are not in favor of collecting small arms from the citizens of Kabul".
    HIA commanders stationed in the south of Kabul told the BBC representative, "HIA does not want to fight the new government, who over 13 years tresspassed and committed excesses with life, honour and property of the Afghans and presently too they are engaged in looting and killing".
 - Hekmatyar advised the commanders in Sarobi to resolve the problems the Kabul citizens are facing for lack of, electric power.
 DECLARATION: HIA has, in a declaration, asked the mujaheddin to isolate themselves from the ranks of militias and the entire jehad forces and pressurize the militias to leave Kabul in a week's time. No one is allowed to collect arms from Kabul citizens. Whosoever trespasses in another's house should be killed.- We have nothing against jehad groups but we are at war with militias.
                                                   6
 EDITORIAL:   "The fairness of HIA
 principled and reasonable position”. After the downfall of Najib's government and the total surrender of the army to the mujaheddin a number of
 militias and the communist elements, related to the atheistic former regime, due to previous commitments, made with some of the parties, wanted to remain in Kabul and control a sector of the country as before and even claimed a sizeable share in the. new government. It seems that on the one hand, the groups committed to militias, have come down from their previous positions and demand that with the ouster of militias from Kabul, resolve the problem, and on the other hand, HIA too with nominating its Prime Minister and the council members, intend to be flexible and want to cooperate in the .establishment of an Islamic interim government.
 NEWS ITEMS: Qazi Shamsul Haq, a prominent Pakistani Scholar has said, "without an understanding with Hekmatyar no peace and security will be
 established in Afghanistan".
    Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the chief of Jamaat-e-Islami-e-Pakistan said, "the criminal militias of the previous communist regime are trying to secure shares for themselves in the Afghan interim government".
 - Maulana Gauhar-ur-Rahman, the chief of NWFP Jamaat-e-Islami, said, "the main reason, of the recent developments in Kabul is the presence of the remnants of Najib's regime".
                   7
EDITORIAL:   "The legality of HIA
 position":  Our mujahed nation is well
 aware of the fact that Kabul was conquered by HIA mujaheddin and the communist oppressed citizens of Kabul welcomed the mujaheddin with open arms and slogans of Allah-o-Akbar. But the dust had not settled down when the world mechanism of infidelity started to move and according to a pre-planned program the militias of Gelam jam
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  poured into the city and like robbers assaulted the mujaheddin in broad daylight. This evil legacy of the communism committed such excesses in Kabul city that even the Russians had not dared. At present when the world press releases the interviews of the Kabul citizens regarding the fighting they are told emphatically that whatsoever forgive the treacherous Gelam Jam militias, we cannot forgive them. The legality of HIA stance is amply proved through their siding, once again, with their mujahed nation and not to allow anyone tresspass and pollute the sanctity of the clean homeland of jehad and the martyrs.
  NEWS ITEMS:    The Gelam Jam militias
  accepted the ceasefire.
  -  Hekmatyar's brother is taking part in the Leadership Council. This council is convened outside the Kabul city.
  -  Haji Abdul Qadeer, the governor of Nangarhar in an interview observed, "the Nangarhar mujaheddin despise the Gelam Jam militias. We will declare the Nangarhar militias disbanded".
  -  A Pakistani correspondent, Tabassum Shahed has written that presently the rule of Kalashnikov and Gelam Jam is prevalent in Kabul.
                      11
  EDITORIAL:  "The war still remains" The
  editorial discusses the factors responsible for the collapse of Najib Communist regime and writes about later developments," now that an atmosphere of insecurity prevails inside the country and the militias alongwith remnants of previous.; regime;.5ere the; absolute rulers, thiSu.iis :-;a {model; ;.ofj Benon Sevan planning > whichpri's being; implemented? by. DGelam Janh and) f ewnof the bsdealled/:jriul.jaheddini.) But; npraise ibe.j. to| ■God. Almighty othat. , sfcheo:nation sLsjmwidej mawake f and the entireifrnahion supportsi
  this call of HIA, WAR HAS NOT YET ENDED." Till such time that Gelam Jam and the old regime remnants,' in an unholy alliance, dream of power attainment, the war shall continue since the cause for the war remains and no basic change has actually been brought about".
  RBPORT:  In a grand gathering in Jala-
  labad, 10 May, Hekmatyar, in an address, observed:     "we want to drive
  out Gelam Jam militias, who have fought against our muslim nation during the past 14 years, from Kabul and wipe out their Russian planned political and military organization". He said "we support the leadership council and the government and are only opposed to Gelam Jam militias and in this issue the entire organizations and jehad forces are with us. We want to force the militias out of Kabul through political pressure, and in case it is not done, then we will force them out".
       In this gathering Haji Abdul Qadeer, the Governor of Nangarhar, also spoke. On behalf of the Council, he welcomed Hekmatyar and felicitated him on the conquests and promised him that in case the Gelam Jam militias- do not, peacefully, leave Kabul,he along with HIA- shall drive these militias out of Kabul forcefully.
  NEWS ITEMS:   Mawlawi Khales said:      "In
  case the militias do not leave Kabul we have no other option but war".
     Prof. Sayyaf said:        "the Afghan
  mujaheddin will not allow Gelam Jami militias       and     the       Communists
  to participate in future government of Afghanistan".
                    12
 . " n<. . .1 ■ ;■ <:•.!x%>in
     ri.i?The iJPittejj^fftpgrience of politi-1 calV;br,misponge,ptionJ'(!:j ilfT,he prevalent T§iH:»3£,ipn;> i*vb.K.abpJ.,j.r,wasijthe Jesuit of

APRIL-JUNE, 1992                    mm-                 VOL. 5 NO.  3
  misconception of some of political circles; even now, when the commanders of Gelam Jam militia came to know that their supporting forces could no longer continue to assist them, they declared that they would start looting and setting a blood-bath in Kabul and they would also turn their guns against the present government rulers. After this announcement of Rashid Dostum who would dare to claim the establishment of an Islamic government in Kabul?
  NEWS ITEMS:  The  former Pakistan ISI
  Chief, in a press conference said, "the Masood militia alliance in Mazar-e-Sharif was an unwise step".
  -  Rashid Dostum, Gelam Jam militia commander, has warned that In case efforts are made to oust militias from Kabul, militia forces shall fight the present government.
  - After reviewing the circumstances in Afghanistan VOG, in a commentary, has observed that instead of Hekmatyar, Ahmad Shah Masud will remain isolated.
 PAPERS:' "Instead of sharing power the communist government officials .should be sent to reformatory training centers", by Taseer.
 - "Mujaddedi: interim or lifetime?" by Ahmad Naseem which discusses mujaddedi's remarks regarding his refusal to quit.
                    13
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the conspiracies
 of the enemies and our religious and historical obligation" the editorial partly writes:   "As a matter of fact
 today Masood is virtually a hostage in the hands of Dostum and Mr. Mujaddedi's position is yet worse. It is because of this that Rashid Dostum has decisively asked them to earmark his share in the
 government. As such Mujaddedi and Masood are obliged to provide them with share in the government. In this context the appointment of Asef Dilawar as Chief of the General Staff in the army speaks for itself and indicates what is in the air. Now considering the HIA stance the rest of Islamic organizations are duty bound to defeat the enemy intrigues cautiously and tell
 those, who have joined the ranks of Parchamies, that their action is neither in the interest of Islam, nor in the interest of the nation and the country and, for that matter, not to their own advantage”.
 REPORT: In an address to mujaheddin and the citizens of Nangarhar, Hekmatyar said, "in case the existing power of militia remain intact it would meain that communism still rules in Afghanistan. Every individual in Afghanistan wants the militia to leave Kabul". He said, "those who have offered 1.5 million martyrs for the freedom of their country will not submit or be subservient to any despotic rule". Hekmatyar said:      "I
 declare that we neither wanted war previously nor we want, in future. Whatever government comes to Afghanistan must be elected by the nation".
MESSAGE:  In a message Hekmatyar has
 said..: "mujaheddin ought to segregate
 themselves from the militia". He said, "militia commanders do not respect the ceasefire. The leader of Kayani militia, who has been promised the post of deputy-President in the interim government, has sent 3,000 armed’men.to Kabul and for the dispatch of those men, Babrak left for Pul-e-Khumri six days ago.
                 26
EDITORIAL:   "The mujahed sentimented
blood-shed based on American expediency
219
 APR IL-JUNE# >992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  and political opportunism". The events which followed the total victory, were of no surprise for our mujahed nation since the coalition government or its break-up was part of the plan of the world non-believers proceeding parallel to our jehad. Therefore the imperialism was trying to play up some of the jehad commanders          so as to achieve its
  objective, of course the commanders were also chosen carefully. The current tragedy is the outcome of this imperialistic design.
       The genuine mujaheddin shall never accept less than a pure Islamic government, be it through peace or war. The armed communists are laying their arms on the ground and surrendering otherwise the armed mujaheddin would have settled their score with them. The final victory belongs to those mujaheddin who have fought in the name of Allah.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Mawlawi Abdullah Zaheri,
 the chief of Afghanistan Council of Scholars, in an interview with the BBC, observed, "appointments and distribution of posts by Mujaddedi legally stand condemned."
    Samad Hamed, in an interview with the BBC, observed, "conferring the title of "General" on Dostum is far from Islamic wisdom, understanding and prudence."
 PAPERS:  "Six years of criminal' jehad?"
 by Obaidullah Aiman.
 "General Dostum a great mujahed..." by Mahmood Mubtaker.
 "Why is Sebghatullah Mujaddedi all praise for Dostum?" by Sayyed Ghulam Parooq Wahdatyar. "Paces are exposed" by Fida Mohammad Fayez. All the above-mentioned papers condemn the conferment of Generalship and other titles by Mujaddedi on Dostum and
 describe them as treason to jehad and
 Islam.
                        28
 EDITORIAL:  "The HIA and JIA accord -
 a step towards total defeat". Under this title the editorial writes, "after waiting for a fortnight brother Hekmatyar, HIA leader and Ahmad Shah Masood, the interim government Defense Minister, had finally met with each .other after which they issued a joint statement which stresses the ouster of militias, termed in the. accord as Northern Forces; emphasizes on holding of elections within six months and observance of Peshawar agreement stipulating power transfer within two months.
     From most items of the accord it is understood that HIA proposals had been accepted by the other side proving the righteousness of HIA position.
 DECLARATION: The Officers' Union, in a resolution, has described as an insult to jehad the conferment of generalship on Dostum by Mujaddedi and an act beyond the powers of Mujaddedi and against the national interest of the country.
   The scholars and elders of Ghazi Camp in a declaration, 25 May, have called for the establishment of a genuine Islamic government in Afghanistan and the disarmament of the militias. Rejecting the coalition government they observed that they shall not obey a ruler who acts against the Shariat (Islamic Legal Code).
                          31
 EDITORIAL:
 frustrated Discussing militias, "Based on the HIA is
   "The HIA initiatives the   coalition  future",
   the    excesses  of the
 the editorial concludes, the prevalent circumstances taking the initiative of the
220
APR IL-JUNE > 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Islamic government so as to be more effective and this is a force which cannot be contained by anyone and anywhere. Since the Islamic government shall try the murderous militias and the remnants of Communism, the internal and external enemies of Islam are engaged in active treachery.
 NEWS ITEMS:    The aircraft carrying
 Mujaddedi was hit by a rocket but nobody was hurt. The act was severely condemned by the HIA.
    Colonel Nawab, one of Dostum's militia Commanders has said, "in case an effort is made to oust the militias from Kabul, a bloodbath in Kabul shall ensue. Despite Masood being a Defense Mainister we shall carry out the orders of Reshid Dostum.
                                          JUNE
                   2
 EDITORIAL: "Mujaddedi1 s violations of
 the Leadership Council's resolutions": The editorial condemns some of Mujaddedi's actions as a violation of the Leadership Council's endorsements which include, the Constitution of a Cabinet in the absence of Prime Minister, the conferment of general's rank, his visit to Mazar-e-Sharif etc.
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Leadership Council,
                                                            representing the Islamic state of Afghanistan, convened a meeting in Chehil-Satoom Palace of Kabul 31 May, 1992, in which engineer Hekmatyar, HIA leader, had also participated. The following were approved in the meeting:
- The dissolution of the Ministry of State Security and suspension of all its activities.
   A peace commission was authorized to implement its decisions regarding the ouster from Kabul of the militia
 forces.
      A council of authority was constituted for the Ministry of Information and Culture.
     It was decided that un-Islamic parties will have no right of any '"activities in Afghanistan.
     HIA stopped a caravan of Rashid Dostum militias carrying heavy armaments and confiscated the whole lot. Their officers were taken prisoners and other ranks set free.
 - The Saudi Arabian Embassy in Kabul was ransacked for the seventh time.
                   4
 EDITORIAL:   "Who is responsible for
 tension and anarchy in Kabul?. When Kabul was conquered by HIA, it proved a challenge to the world imperialism which lost no time in creating an atmosphere in which uptil now no one is able to heave a sigh of relief".
      The editorial considers the present Kabul rulers responsible for all this tension and proposes:
       Now is the time for the righteous mujahed-din to take into consideration the sensitive geo-political situation of this Islamic country and along side HIA restore the security of Kabul. Let us, for the sake of Islamic and national expediencies, come out from the marsh of egoism and selfishness and change the complexsion of the administration responsible for anarchy and tension, into such an Islamic government which like our jehad, convey and murmur our message of revolution. NEWS ITEMS:   In regard  to the  current
 situation, Hekmatyar observed 3 June, "we cannot remain indifferent to the current deteriorating situation in Kabul. As a matter of fact there is no decision making center in Kabul.
221
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  There is no knowing as to who is ruling Kabul at present? Coalition parties have got together seizing various positions and are fighting each other. Of course the responsibility of all this lies squarely on the shoulders of those who have created such an incompetent administration proving their inability to control the situation".
  -  Fighting is still raging in Kabul and in the Western regions of the city, Kota-e-Sangi, Rahman Baba School, Guzargah and Karte Char the situation is really bad. The Kota-e-Sangi region which was previously controlled by IIA mujaheddin is now under the control of Gelam Jam militias and pro-Iran HWIA.
  -  Prof.Sayyaf said, "lately HWIA has many times attacked the IIA mujaheddin without any provocation".
  PAPERS: "Who fired at Mr. Mujaddedi's
  plane and why"? By Mohammed Asef Sameem who considers it the work of Gelam Jam militias.
      "The painful situation of Kabul and the responsibility of our jehad leaders" by Fida Mohammad Fayez.
      "When no elections can be held then no grand assembly (Loya Jirgah) can be convened." by Mohammad Khalil.
                                                   7
  EDITORIAL:  "The desired solution, the
  problem of elections, symmetrical representation". Discussing the current disorderly situation, the editorial writes, "the only way which can resolve the problem and satisfy everybody is by means of elections which ought to be on the basis of proportionate representation. This is also a most feasible way since it can determine correctly the weight of each organizationi
 PAPERS:  HIA,   in  a   statement ' has
 rejected the propaganda that the fight between HIA and the militias is based on Pashtun and non-Pashtun motives. Since Pashtun Khalqis have joined the HIA therefore the militias and some of the Parchamis are cooperating with the supervisory council mujaheddin. The HIA has emphasized that they only want a perfect' Islamic government.
                                                 9
 EDITORIAL:  "The transitory government
 is actually responsible for the current crisis." Due to weakness and incompetence of the present government the city of Kabul looks more like a powder keg which can explode with the slightest flash and may develop into gigantic conflagrations spreading to all the corners - the aftermath of which may be so dreadful that the citizens of Kabul, despite ideological differences with the communists, may yearn for the return of the puppet communist regime.
      It will be regrettable for the representatives of the present Kabul government to claim that they have done a lot during a month's time. The deteriorating situation calls on all the sincere elements and parties, sympathetic to Islam, to break the ruler's silence and start their work earnestly for the establishment of a perfect Islamic government.
                 16
EDITORIAL:   "The neighbors' mission
during the difficult days of our country." While inviting the neighbors' attention to their duties, the editorial writes, "unfortunately, most of the neighboring countries were supporting the influential mujaheddin parties inside Afghanistan, while the armed jehad was raging. But later on, with achievement of jehad objectives and the time to reap the harvest of
222
VOL. 5 NO. 3
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 jehad, the same countries, who were friendly with the mujaheddin, slowly withdrew their support from them and started supporting elements who were less inclined towards jehad and had acquired their fame through political manoeuvring".
     "Most probably the neighboring countries may have considered it easier to win over the needy and helpless elements and use them as desired. Therefore, efforts are being made to bring them to power. It is but natural that those persons and groups who are supported by jehad forces and the people from inside should be fair and reasonable in their dealings with neighbors and strangers, and should never be used as tools or pawns".
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with ANA,
 Engineer Hekmatyar observed, "there are obstacles in the way of jehad and we are hopeful that they shall be removed very soon and God will defeat the enemies". He said, the ruling Watan Party was divided into two groups in regard to the power transition to mujaheddin. One group was in favor of power transition to mujaheddin and the other worked for coalition government. Finally the coalitionists forced the state and constituted a 20 member council which took over the power.
                   21
EDITORIAL:  "The concentration and the
 nation's dilapidated foundation need Masiha". The editorial has a complain against the jehad organizations that they entered the Kabul city without any appreciation of the situation and got themselves involved with various problems. However, it has praised the prudence and assault of the HIA and recalls that it was endowed with political wisdom and minute observance ingenuity from the very outset.
 RESOLUTION:
      Jamaat-e-Isha1at-ut-Tawheed - wa~ Sunnah in a meeting 19 June, in Barikot of Kunhar province, called for stability and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. The assembly decided that jehad should continue until the last communist remnants were wiped out from Afghanistan. It expressed its opposition to the complicity of the interim government with the Communists and called it great treason with the Islamic revolution martyrs.-
        Wafa
                                MARCH
              21
 REPORT: In an interview about heroin
 addiction among the refugees. Dr. Pashtunyar observed, "from a brief survey we have arrived at the conclusion that people from all walks of life are addicted to heroin. The-survey has been carried out on the basis of age and inside Afghanistan.
 A group of 64 addicts were in the age-group of 10 to 45 years. The largest number which constitutes 33% of heroin addicts are in the age group of 15 to 25 years. These include mujahed, tailor, headman or monitor, teacher, driver, butcher, carpentar and the common man". He said the first Afghan youth addicted to heroin was found out in 1991 and prior to that no one knew of such addictions. He said if the Afghans paid no attention to this epidemic poison it will prove more harmful than the war with Russia.
 NEWS ITEHS:
    According to BBC Najib, chief of Kabul regime, will relinquish power simultaneously with the constitution
223
 APR IL-JUNE.. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  of a transitional Afghanistan.
 government
    In the northern parts of the country, the supervisory council has established contact with the militias opposed to the regime.
            MAY
      4
  REPORT:  The 3-day WUFA seminar, 21-23
  April, under the title, "the effects of the latest developments in the Soviet Union on Central Asia and the region"
 . was convened in five sessions in different localities of Peshawar. The following participated in this seminar: Six persons from various republics of Central Asia, five persons each from Iran, Pakistan and Turkey, an American lady, expert on Siang Kong region of China, and two Afghans based in the US and Germany. Besides, 500 Afghans based in Peshawar, writers, jehad commanders, politicians and foreign and local journalists took part in the seminar. During the five sessions of the seminar, the participants read their papers in regard to the political, economic, cultural and trade relations of the regional countries. The papers emphasized the need for strengthening and further development of cultural relations among the countries of the region, and bilateral cooperation between the Muslim nations of these countries were underscored. The papers considered necessary and useful the development of economic relations for the progress and growth of trade relations among the countries of the region.
 - Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, in a press conference 27 April, observed, "it is a matter of great joy and happiness that in free and independent Afghanistan, presently, our Muslim and mujahed nation are enjoying
the fruits of Islamic order instead of the communist system. However, it is unfortunate that news in regard to heavy fighting, commanded by Hekmatyar, HIA leader, is also being heard. Therefore I shall oppose a future Islamic government headed by Hekmatyar and will not participate in it. Nevertheless, I agree with the rest of commitments of the interim council".
       24
 EDITORIAL:  "Do not burn the books, do
 not destroy the annals of history", is the title of the editorial which comments on the Kabul Mujaheddin Council's decision to destroy all the communist literature available in the city. The paper argues that, on the contrary, all books on communism shoulb be retained in order to enlighten the future generations on the absurdity and futility of communism. The editorial says, "these books are living documents testifying to the criminal acts of the communists in our country. In fact the communists themselves would try to destroy these documents as these would incriminate them, but we should save them for future use".
 NEWS ITEMS:   According to the reports
 received and published, the public library of Kabul has been ransacked during the recent clashes. The daily Jang in a report says that a group looted some invaluable books of the library and wanted to carry some of the books out of Kabul but they did not succeed in their efforts.
                JUNE
                  11
INTERVIEW:   Mohammad Hakeem Aryubi, the
former Afghan Consul-General to Pakistan, who in company of Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani recently visited Kabul,
224
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
NHJ10
Zabul and Kandahar, in an interview with "WAFA" correspondent, observed, "the only way to resolve the present state of insecurity in Afghanistan is to strengthen the national unified government in Kabul and that the government comprized of the organizations only, shall not be supported by the Afghan mujahed nation. Under the present conditions a unified
national government, supported actively by the UN, to be constituted only through convening of a Loya Jirgah (grand assembly), comprizing the representatives of the entire cross-section of the Afghan community, is feasible."
PAPERS:   "Flames are rising, Kabul is
gutted" by M. Musafer.
225
| APRIL-JUNE, 1992 mmHU        VOL. 5 NO. 3
            A GLANCE AT THE INTERNAL PRESS
226

APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                   VOL. 5 NO. 3
        A GLANCE AT THE INTERNAL PRESS


                                                                              llpV '/?fV y=rrtr -frrV


8
9
0
         EDITOR'S NOTES: With the liberation of Afghanistan and the fall of Kabul in the hands of the mujaheddin the publications in the capital as well in the provinces have been revitalized. We endeavored to obtain some copies of these publications for reproduction purposes in the 'Afghan Jehad' Magazine under the heading, "A glance at the Internal Press". For the time being we have managed to get hold of some Kabul and Nagarhar publications only. We expect to obtain those from other provinces also for our future use.
 ft
 k)
 s!                                                                    ......
  8
  8 8 ■8 8
■«*i
        Anis
                           MAY
                              13
EDITORIAL: "Congratulations on Independence", is the title of the editorial which, after congratulating the entire nation on the liberation of Afghanistan and a promise for equality in the future says, "the days are now over when a handful of people would rule over the country by capturing Kabul. This has now been generally accepted as an established fact that all the Muslim people . of Afghanistan have equal rights. Ignoring this will not only be against the spirit of the Islamic jehad, but will be a big blow on the national interest.
   Hostilities are. over. The people of Afghanistan, our neighbors and the entire world community demand from the mujaheddin to live upto their words and establish the ideal community they have
 been promising from the very beginning. The stage is all set, but they must not sacrifice the aspiration of the people and the fruits of their jehad (which has proved instrumental in moulding the destinies of many nations) for their petty differences or personal whims. The poeple of Afghanistan began their jehad for the sake of Islam and the independence of their country. Now that Afghanistan has been liberated and the revolution has reached its logical destination, they should' endeavor to work towards the establishment of an Islamic order in Afghanistan and set aside their differences on ethnic, linguistic or sectarian grounds.
                 17
 EDITORIAL: "Urgent need for administrative set-up". Under this title the editorial writes, "for the first time in the history of Afghanistan a government has been established in the country which reflects the will of the entire nation, and it is for this reason also that the people are
227
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992          flffillM JfHflO              VOL.  5 NO- 3
 expecting more from, it than from any other government in the past. On the other hand, our enemies whose powers should not be under-estimated, are dead set to altering the logical course of the jehad (the establishment of a true Islamic government) by creating abnormal and unbearable circumstances and to introduce it in the eyes of the world as a bitter example so that to prevent Islamic movement on world level. "
                                               20
 EDITORIAL:  "General organization, a
 major responsibility". The editorial writes, "now that the Islamic Revolution has achieved final victory it is our individual obligation to end the miserable life of our community and, with fear from God Almighty and full perception of our responsibility, tighten our belts and role up our sleeves for overcoming economic and social difficulties and creating a peaceful atmosphere enabling all able-bodied members of the society to work for the reconstruction and prosperity of their homeland."
 ARTICLES: "Common responsibility of the government and the nation for overcoming economic problems", by: Mohammad Amin Mohammadzai. The writer says in part, "reactivating the economic wheels of the country and deploying them effectively, necessitates joint cooperation of the Islamic government and the nation."
                                               24
EDITORIAL: ...the world media have been
propagating news items that the majority of the provinces do not even communicate with the central government in Kabul let alone orders to be carried out by them. One of these says that some provinces have even concluded bilateral contracts with their
 neighboring countries. If, God forbid, these reports are correct, these may have the effect of acid being poured on a wound which, instead of healing, may have opposite effects.
       It is hoped that immediate contact is established with the provinces in an effort to mobilizing all their forces in the reconstruction efforts.
                 27
 EDITORIAL: "New relations with Islamic Republic of Pakistan". ... the peoples of Pakistan and Afghanistan had a similar life in the region for many a century as regards their history and culture. Our historical prides such as Ahmad Shah Abdali, Sher Shah Suri, Mahmood Ghaznavi and others are our common heroes.
       Now that Afghanistan has been liberated we sincerely hope that the two countries will again emerge as great nations in the region so that to revive our past glory. The Afghans are a nation who do not forget favor and beneficience so easily and are fully aware how much they owe to the people of Pakistan.
 NEWS ITEMS:    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,
 chairman of the mujaheddin council and President of the interim government, in order to express his gratitude for the services rendered by the officers in the north in overthrowing the communist regime, promoted them to higher ranks. These include ‘Gen. Rashid Dostum, Gen. Sayyed Hesamuddin, Gen. Sayyed Ja'afar Naderi, Gen. Sayyed Mansoor Naderi, Ghulam Sakhi Faizi, Ghaffar Pahlawan, Rasool Pahlawan, Helaluddin, Abdul Majeed, Abdul Momen, Jora Beg and Homayoon.
                 31
EDITORIAL:   "Need for similarity of
Views and Action". ... the pages of history are witness that the Afghans
228
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
are always united against any aggressor and have struck their enemies some decisive blows. Ethnic, tribal and even linguistic considerations have never been instruments of dissension and discord. The Afghans from the north or south, east or west and belonging to any ethnic group have been brothers to each other. Pashtuns, Tadjeks, Uzbeks, Hazaras, Balochis and other minorities have always lived together as brothers and had common destinies. Right at this moment the country needs national unity more than anything else.
  EDITORIAL:  "The  neea for   Peace and
  Stability" is the title of the editorial which begins, "similar to the early days of independence and the victory of the Islamic revolution when life in the country had returned to normalcy, with the Mercy of God Almighty and the wholehearted cooperation of our Muslim and pious people, peage and security will be further strengthened and enmity and the cold war will be replaced by friendship and understanding among the nation. A peaceful atmosphere is all the more necessary to build up upon the ruins of the country. This is the desire of the nation which will he achieved, by the Grace of God, and through nation-wide unity, alliance and equality".
                                                  9
  NEWS ITEMS:   Sebghatullah  Mujaddedi,
'President of the interim government, received elders of Paktia province and , briefed them on the objectives of the jehad and the Islamic government regarding the return of peace and stability to the country and the establishment of circumstances for a better living in Afghanistan.
 -  A statement issued from the Presidential Palace termed the rocket attack on the President's airliner as the "most cowardly and treacherous" act.
     The session of the Leadership Council was convened in which Ayatullah Mohseni, the Secretary and Speaker of the council said, the unfortunate incidents that took place between two mujaheddin organizations during the week have not emanated from the leadership cadres of the organizations but from some of their irresponsible and imprudent mujaheddin.
                  18
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Mujaddedi in his Eid-ul-Adha message to the nation, said, "let us not permit that the blood of one Afghan is shed by another Afghan".
 -  Prof. Mujaddedi received the special US envoy in the presidential palace. They discussed the victory of the jehad and the social and economic situation in the country.
    On special decrees issued from the Presidential office, Gen. Khan Aqa and Gen. Babajan have been promoted to three-star generals for their efforts towards peace and calm in Kabul.
                                               20
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani,
 Chairman of the Leadership Council in his Eid message said, "our war-torn country is in need of reconstruction and the nation cannot for ever remain a silent spectator of the ruins in the country" .
 - Prof. Mujaddedi conducted the Friday congragation prayers at the Pul-e-Kheshti mosque yesterday, 19 June. At the end Mujaddedi prayed for the prosperity of Afghanistan and the creation of an atmosphere of peace and understanding in the country.
229
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                                  JfCllllNJIHflfl                                VOL.   5   NO-'.  3
                                    21
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani, Chairman of the Leadership Council, left for Riyadh 19 May upon invitation of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia.
 - Prof. Mujaddedi, President of the interim government, received a number of ulama and commanders from Ghazni Province at the Gulkhana Palace in Kabul 20 June. Mujaddedi spoke about the responsibility, under prevailing conditions, of the Islamic government and those of the nation.
    The French Embassy in Kabul presented a number of books and school materials to the Istiqlal High-School which were accepted with due appreciation by the concerned authorities.
                            Mujahed
                                JUNE
                                     9
 EDITORIAL: "... the Mujahed is but only happy to have finally zigzagged its way to its homeland from temporary establishments abroad and is really proud that eversince the inception of the Holy jehad it has been able to
 accompany the mujaheddin struggles. Mujahed also takes pride that during the entire length of the jehad it had a full coverage of the sufferings of the defenseless Afghan people, and its pages were full of the mujaheddin successes in the jehad fronts or the storj.es of the refugees in the uncomfortable camps."
 NEWS ITEMS: The first session of the
 JIA executive council was convened in the Ministry of Defence under the
 chairmanship of Prof. Rabbani 11 May. The organizational work-program of the JIA was discussed in the meeting and necessary decisions were taken.
 - Hamida Siddiqi and some other teaching staff of the Uram-e-Sajmah. Madrasa arrived in Kabul 4 June. In her TV address to the Muslim women of the country Ms, Siddiqi explained the Islamic  aims and their jehadic work-
 program and drew their attention, particularly of the women-folk in Kabul,   for the observance            of the
 Islamic veil.
 MESSAGE:   In his Eid message to the
 nation Prof. Rabbani said, "we should not permit anyone to create rifts among the nation under ethnic, sectarian and tribal   considerations.           It is very
 unfortunate indeed that, contrary to public   expectations,           some groups,
 under the name of mujahed, are confronting each other in the battle field."
    On the occasion of the Mujahed resuming publication in Kabul, Prof. Rabbani in a statement while congratulating the staff of the journal said, "if the Mujahed reflected the high ideals of the jehad yesterday, today it will play its role as the sentinel of the jehad principles and the guardian of its high esteems",
 REPORT:  Outstanding and historical
 jehadic events from 13 January to 25 May, 1992.
                                -Jan. 13 :Gen. Momen revolted against, the Kabul regime.
                                                                  -March 13 :Kholm district, Samangan, fell to the mujaheddin.
 -March 18  :Mazar-e-Sharif in the north
             was liberated.
230
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
-March 19 :Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime announced his intention to resign
-April 12 :The strategic Salang Highway fell to the mujaheddin.
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
-April 24 :The Mujaheddin Council was established in Peshawar and the Security Committee for Kabul was formed.
•April 25 :Kabul,         the capital of
                                                                                 Afghanistan was liberated.
■April 12 :Charikar, center of Parwan was liberated.
■April 14 :Begram, the largest airbase in Afghanistan, was captured by the mujaheddin of Supervisory Council.
April 15 :Najib, the Kabul regime leader, resigned.
April 16   : Abdul Wakil, the Kabul
            regime Foreign Minister met with Ahmad Shah Masood in Charikar.
-April 28 -.The mujaheddin took over power in Kabul and the Mujaheddin Council, under Prof. Mujaddedi arrived in Kabul.
-April 29   :Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif
             of Pakistan paid a visit to Kabul.
   May 5    : Professor Rabbani, Prof.
             Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mohammadi and Sheikh Asef Mohseni reached Kabul.
 -April 17  :The cities of Herat and
             Kunduz in the west and north of Afghanistan were conquered,
 -April 18 :Faizabad, center of Badakh-shan, and Maidan Shar, Wardak province, fell to the mujaheddin.
 -April 19 :The mujaheddin Conquered Kandahar, Logar, Laghman and Badghis provinces.
 -April 21 :Qalat, the center of Zabul province fell to the mujaheddin.
 -April 22 :Benon Sevan, met Ahmad Shah Masood in Charikar. Maimana and Gardaiz were conquered.
 -April 23 :Gen. Rafee, former Deputy to Najib, met with Engineer Hekmatyar                 in     Logar.
             Jalalabad, the center of Nangarhar, fell to the mujaheddin.
 May 6 sPir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NXFA and Mazari, chairman of the HWIA central council arrived in Kabul. The first session of the Leadership Council was convened under Prof. Rabbani.
 May  7  :The   Leadership    Council
          banned the sale of alchohol
          and narcotics.
 May 12  :The   Leadership    Council
          charged the Ministry for Reconstruction to set up a committee for estimating war damages. It was also decided that the Ministry of Information and Culture sort out all non-Islamic books from libraries for
          storing in a.safe place.
 May 18 :Mir Mahmood Musawi, envoy from the Islamic Republic of Iran, arrived in Kabul for discussions with Afghan authorities.
231
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 - May 21 :Prof. Mujaddedi left for
           Mazar-e-Sharif.
 - May 22 :Prof. Rabbani left Kabul
           for a round-trip of Herat, Balkh, Jauzjan, Faryab and Baghlan provinces.
 - May 25 :Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and
           Ahmad Shah Masood met face-to-face and agreed on permanent ceasefire and general elections.
   Nangarhar
                                   APRIL
               28
 EDITORIAL: The editorial regarding the capture of Jalalabad says, "the historical Jalalabad has again embraced its righteous sons - the victorious mujaheddin. The maintenance of security and peace in the city will again prove that the mujaheddin will also be capable of perfect diplomacy and administration and by this means will ensure a bright future for us.
 NEWS ITEMS: Leaders of Nangarhar
 Islamic Mujaheddin Council held a    meeting with   high-ranking
 office-bearers of the province.
 - Haji Abdul Qadeer, Chairman of the i Provincial Mujaheddin Council, met the delegation of Islamic nations in his office. This delegation, from an Islamic relief organization is going to launch their assistance programs in the agricultural, public health and educational fields as well as welfare of orphans in the province.
               29
 DECLARATION: The Provincial mujaheddin
 Council in Nangarhar assures all those
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  coming under the banner of Islam that:
  1.  The Islamic government will guarantee peace and security and protect their lives and property.
  2.  Those     following      mujaheddin
      instructions, can be assured of complete security.
      l
  3.  Those defying mujaheddin orders will be punished accordingly.
  4.  Mujaheddin will do their best to procure necessary food supplies and other consumer goods.
  5.  Citizens are requested to keep law and order and to seek emergency help from security men if and when
  > required.
  6.  Government and military establishments and installations are public property and should be safeguarded by all means.
 NEWS ITEMS:    A 35-member religious
 delegation consisting of Pakistani, Saudi Arabian and Syrian Ulama arrived in Jalalabad to congratulate the authorities on the establishment of the provincial mujaheddin council.
                  30
 EDITORIAL:  "Jehad  Victory eliminated
 economic limitations". The editorial says, "... with the victory of the holy jehad, disasters and hardships imposed upon them by the previous regime, have all ended and peace and security prevails throughout the length and bridth of the province. With . the reopening of supply routes the market is now bursting with al.l kinds of goods."-
 NEWS ITEMS:
                                                                    Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales,
232
 VOL. 5 NOi 3
APR IL-JUNE, 1992
 leader of the- HIA, arrived in Jalalabad from Peshawar 30 April,
 - Haji Abdul Qadeer, Chairman of the Nangarhar Mujaheddin Council, met the employees of the Arab nations • workforce 30 April.
 - One hundred and sixty-seven political prisoners were released from Nangarhar prison 29 April.
    Haji Malang, the new Rector of Bayazeed Roshan University, in a function held 28 April, was introduced to the professors and staff-members of the university.
                                         MAY
                  2
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial discusses the
 complete victory of the Islami revolution and the joy the Muslim nation got from it.
 REPORT: Upon a decision taken by the
 Nangarhar Mujaheddin Council, regarding the transfer of food supplies to Jalalabad, prices have sharply dropped as from 28 April, the day the supplies began pouring in. There is every hope that food shortage will be completely eliminated within a short period.
                  3
 EDITORIAL: "The mujaheddin victory has
 added yet another golden page to our glorious history". The editorial says, "...the invading powers in our country through the ages have not only suffered a total defeat in Afghanistan but that this has always been followed by their complete disgrace of such dimentions that they will never forget. Prom row on no power on earth would ever I dare to bother us again.               1
                    5
 EDITORIAL:  "Our mujahed nation will
 overcome the present difficulties through Islamic jehad". The editorial says, "anti-Islamie plots and intrigues will also be removed through the wholehearted efforts of the mujaheddin. With complete unity and the strengthen- < ing of the Islamic rule in the country, the mujaheddin will be able to play effective role in the reconstruction of the country too".
 NEWS ITEMS:     Prof. Sayyaf, Prof.
 Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammadi and Ayatullah Mohseni alongwith large groups of mujaheddin left for Kabul via Jalalabad.
    Three armed persons, who made an abortive attempt to terrorize the cashier in the security department of Nangarhar, were captured and handed over to the legal authorities.
                   6
 EDITORIAL:  "The mujaheddin victory was
 a welcome news for all oppressed nations in the world", ....The Afghan mujaheddin have earned the honor of the liberation of Afghanistan and the defeat of the Russians through offering of sacrifices and herorism, which will serve as a good example for other oppressed .nations throughout the world" .
                                                    9
 EDITORIAL: The  editorial states that
 the Mujaheddin Council in Nangarhar have established a permanent peace in the city. After elaborating on the subject, the editorial also mentions plans for reconstruction.
 NEWS ITEMS: Haji Abdul Qadeer met Maulana Fazlur Rahman, leader of the
233
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Pakistani delegation, in Jalalabad 6 May.
 - Fazlul Haq, general commander of the Nangarhar military forces, met the leader of the "Operation Salam" demining tteam in Jalalabad 7 May. Decisions were taken regarding the demining ■ operations in the province during the meeting.
                    10
 EDITORIAL:  Under the title, "jehadic
 forces emerged victorious", the editorial relating the sacrifices offered by the mujaheddin against the Russian invaders says, "the Afghans as well as the world community at large hre of the opinion that for a nation, which stood firmly against the Red Army until their final and total defeat, it will not be at all difficult to overcome the present problems and Establishing^ a national Islamic government in the country soon."
NEWS ITEMS:  Engineer Hekmatyar, leader
of the HIA, accompanied by a big caravan of entourage arrived in Jalalabad via Kabul 10 May. He was received at the Surkhakan Bridge by the leader and members of the provincial mujaheddin council.
- Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, arrived in Jalalabad via Torkham 10 May together with his entourage and visited various parts of the city afterwards.
                   16
EDITORIAL:   "Looking after the youth
education in the light of Islam". ... when the Islamic jehad emerged victorious throughout Afghanistan, in Nangarhar, similar to other provinces, law and order was maintained shortly afterwards. Teaching at the Nangarhar University and other educational
 institutions in the province were started and is still continuing and it is hoped that the turn-out of the educational institutions will be highly religious and patriotic graduates.
                 17
 EDITORIAL: "The Afghan nation is going
 to rebuild all the war ruins". Under this title the editorial writes, "we sincerely hope that the war-torn Afghanistan shall be rebuilt through unity of the mujaheddin and their Islamic and wholehearted efforts, thus showing to the entire world community that the Afghans are not only champions of the battle-field but can also do wonders during times of peace".
 NEWS ITEMS: Haji Abdul Qadeer, chairman of the Nangarhar Mujaheddin Council, has said that salaries of all the government functionaries and military personnel would be paid shortly. He said this would also include back payments.
                 18
 EDITORIAL: "It is the obligation of
 all to partake in the reconstruction efforts". Under that title the editorial calls on all farmers, peasants and skilled workers of the province that, by utilizing all the facilities provided by the mujaheddin council, to take part in the reconstruction work without further delay, thus fulfilling their national and Islamic obligations.
                27
EDITORIAL: "Jehadic forces in Nangarhar emerging as a united force". ... the people of Nangarhar request the general military command and the provincial mujaheddin council to eliminate all traces of the dark communist era in
234
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
HIM Jill
 the province through unity and islamic brotherhood.
                                     31
 EDITORIAL: "Progress of the mujaheddin
 forces in defusing land mines and other unexploded ordnance". Under this title the paper writes, "... work in this field has already started and it is expected that with the clearance of the entire- province from their threats, irrigation dams aVid headworks will be built enabling the farmers to work in their fields as in the past."
 NEWS ITEMS:
    A training seminar for the military personnel of Nangarhar province was opened by'Haji Fazlul Haq 28 May.
    The security forces in Nangarhar arrested two shop-lifts and a drug addict who were immediately turned over to the legal authorities.
                             Hewad
                                  MAY
                                     10
 EDITORIAL: "Congratulations on the
 victory of jehad" is the title of the editorial which says, "with the help o$ Almighty God and firm reliance upon the strength of the Afghan nation, the Afghan jehad finally came to its logical conclusion after a lapse of 14 years. The,former Soviet puppet regime in Kabul had seriously endeavored to-create rifts among the nation and to weaken the bonds of national unity by means of an alien and obsolete ideology. But finally a moment came when the continuation of the treacherous regime was no longer possible and was doomed to collapse.
 Now that the Islamic independent government has been established under the Leadership Council, it can be considered as an important event on national, regional and international levels."
     "The people of Afghanistan should rest assured that the victory of the jehad and the Islamic government demands from them scarifice, sincere toil and cooperation as much as that they should consider their efforts not only as an obligation under the Islamic banner but also as a sacred worship. Sincere participation in social affairs, reconstruction of national economy and foiling the unholy efforts and plots and some saboteurs and opportunists are priorities that should never be ignored."
 NEWS ITEMS:
     Pakistan was the first country to recognize the mujaheddin government of Afghanistan. This was followed by the Islamic Republic of Iran and Saudi Arabia.
     Power from the communist regime was officially transferred to the Islamic government of Afghanistan 28 April.
     Headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi the Mujaheddin Council arrived in Kabul 28 April.
     Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of -the interim Islamic Government of Afghanistan received the diplomatic corps and officials of the UN agencies in Kabul 29 April.
                                                 16
 ' i       I '
 EDITORIAL:   "The end of a dark era".
                                                               Under this heading the paper writes, "the legitimate jehad of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan, led by the I Islamic Movement, finally reached its
235
  APRIL-JUNE# 1992 ,                  mm                 VOL. 5 NO, 3
  destination after zigzagging its way through blood and fire. Now that the Islamic government has been established we should, like to assure the entire suffering and oppressed nation that oppression, strangulation, savagery and terror are all over and from now on, no parent will ever be given the chance to mourn their dear ones and we shall all lead a guaranteed life under the Islamic order.”
  NEWS ITEMS:
      Consumer goods are plentiful in Kabul and can be obtained with moderate prices.
                                                 21
  EDITORIAL:   Under  the caption, "the
  victory of the Islamic revolution" the editorial says that the victory of the Afghan jehad was received with the warm welcome of the world community not only by extending their best sentiments on the occasion but by also sending their high-ranking delegations to Afghanistan. It is now upto the people of this country to set aside their differences replacing it with Islamic brotherhood. By this means they would be able to prove that the Islamic jehad was really launched in the way of Allah and not for any material gains.
 NEWS ITEMS:
     Following the total ban on ' the Watan Party, it has now. been announced that their movable and non-movable' properties have been confiscated and turned over to the Baitul-Maal.
 -   The kingdom of . Malaysia has officially recognized the Islamic government of Afghanistan.
 -   The Russian Federation has donated 80 thousand tons of flour and some supply of medicince to the peop of
 Afghanistan. The first consignment of the aid reached Kabul 14 May.
                  26
 EDITORIAL:  "Reconstruction, the first
 priority*". The editorial writes, "the victory of the Afghan Islamic jehad which has been earned through the heroic struggles of the mujaheddin and the blood of hundreds of thousands has not yet completely ended. It entails new and important responsibilities on the part of the entire people of the country with new and broader dimentions. These include jehad for fair play and justice, the consolidation of national independence, territorial integrity, wholehearted efforts for eliminating the remnents of infidelity and atheism and the traces of foreign intervention and for the reconstruction of the war-torn country. The world community in general and the freedom-loving nations, in particular and humanitarian organizations are morally bound to take active participation in the Afghan reconstruction efforts".
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, Chairman of the Leadership Council in a statement told the employees of Afghan Radio and TV, "leadership and government in an Islamic nation should not be considered as "lordship" over the people. Our valorous mujahed nation eliminated communism from the surface of the earth and with its historical uprising managed to bring a change in the world that has come to be known as the miracle of the dentury. The enlightened in our country should rest assured that the days for oppression and terror are over. Every man of letter, poet, writer and intellectual should discharge their missions with Islami spirit".
 INTERVIEW: Mir  Najibullah Sahoo Care-
 taker of the Central Bank in Afghanistan has said in an interview, "after
 236
APR IL-JUNE, 1992
 the establishment of the Islamic government in Afghanistan and on account of the wise leadership of the bank and the cooperation of the mujaheddin, banking affairs in Kabul were not interrupted and all banking transactions are continuing normally and oh a larger scale thdn before.”
                                       JUNE
                  1
 EDITORIAL: "The reality of the human
 rights in Afghanistan" Under this title the editorial says that the general amnesty announced by the Islamic government of Afghanistan is an obvious proof of the Islamic brotherhood prevailing in the country. The life and property of the people are safe under the Islamic Legal Code. Nobody will be detained without proper court procedures, and will not be' arrested without proper warrants and the nation will live under the Islamic banner with complete safety and protection . of the law. It is very unfortunate, though, that the committed enemies of Afghanistan and Islam are propagating baseless propaganda that the human rights are not respected in Afghanistan.
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor in his address to university Professors said, "the victory of the Islamic governing!: is in fact the victory, of' the scholars." But this should not end our efforts neither should it excuse us from discharging our duties. On the contrary it will open a new stage of responsibilities and opportunities for us and the presenc.e of personalities of your cadre will acutely be felt.
 - In a gathering of the journalists in Kabul 28 May Ptof. Rabbani said, "Islam will never permit suppression of thought and speech. The religious,, professional arid patriotic responsibilities are very grave and important".
  VOL. 5 NO. 3
     The mine clearance organization, established for Afghanistan in 1989, has transferred its offices to Kabul and has already resumed its activities in this respect.
     An Institute for mental care has newly been established within the framework of the Ministry of Public Health.
                    8
  EDITORIAL: The editorial discussing the
  sacrifice made by Ibrahim and those
               )
  offered by the mujaheddin writes, "while we celebrate the Eid-ui-Azha this year as a twin celebration, we hope that the Eid in our country this year will be a harbinger to peace and prosperity in the country".
  NEWS ITEMS: The Leadership Council has decided on the establishment of a joint force within the     framework  of the
  Ministries of Defense and Interior for the maintenance of law and order in the city. It was also decided that no organization could undertake • any activities without the permission of., the Ministry of Defense.
 EDITORIAL:  "The Islamic Afghanistan
 should not be allowed to fall into oblivion". The editorial recounts the various   sacrifices   offered  and the
 heroism  displayed by the mujaheddin
 during the last 14 years and concludes, "it is now upto our neighbors and other world nations to assist Afghanistan in its reconstruction efforts in the same . mannner they contributed towards the ' jehad victory".
 NEWS ITEMS: Chairman and members of the Leadership Council called on the nation to maintain their soliderity irrespective of the linguistic, sectarian, religious or political affiliations.
    Prof. Mujaddedi,    President of the
 interim 'government in his Eid-ul-ftzha message said, "after a long period of struggle and jehad for - independence, Afghanistan is now in dire heed for peace and tranquility".
237
1 APRIL-JUNE, 1992 MMO V0(- 5 ncTTI 
                                    
       CHRONOLOGY, AFGHAN EVENTS
APRIL—JUNE 1992
    APRIL-JUNE. 1992                       AIGHANJIKJIO                      VOL. 'S  NO.  3
       CHRONOLOGY, AFGHAN EVENTS
       APRIL —JUNE 1992
                                   APRIL
                                         1
 »■ A foreign office spokesman in his weekly briefing in Islamabad 31 March said the government is considering UN request   for    food  assistance
 on humanitarian grounds to meet the shortage of food in Kabul. He said the UN has approached Pakistan for a temporary food assistance for Kabul which will be replenished by UN later. If the decision is taken to supply food, then it will he made sure that the supply should reach the needy Afghans and not the Kabul regime. The basic proposal of the UN was that the food will be handled by the UN, the spokesman said. (PT)
 " UN special envoy, Benon Sevan, met in Kabul 31 March with Kabul regime President Najibullah, as Iran and Pakistan issued a joint statement endorsing a speedy political solution to the Afghan war. US officials said that Sevan, who flew unexpectedly to Kabul from Tehran, discussed with both Najibullah and his foreign minister Abdul Wakil the tripartite talks he had held with Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, and Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju. The US officials did not disclose further details. (PT)
 “ A - joint statement issued at the
 conclusion of a two-day visit to Tehran' by Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Sidiq Khan Kanju, says that both the countries have agreed for taking all possible steps to prevent further bloodshed and avert chaos and civil war in Afghanistan. The talks between the two foreign ministers were also joined . by UN special envoy, Benon Sevan. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in
 Peshawar 31 March HIA Chief, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that Najib Was on the verge of collapse- militarily . and politically and mujaheddin preferred to go ahead with peaceful transfer of administration as they were not in favor of further destruction and bloodshed in the streets.. Rejecting any coalition, with militia he      said, the militia
 should surrender to the mujaheddin of any party. Najib should unconditionally resign and power should be transferred to an interim        administration of
 non-controversial   people to hold
 elections within one year. The members of the interim administration should not be entitled to participate in elections. He categorically opposed posting of foreign or UN troops in Afghanistan. He apprehended that     the situation in
 Afghanistan could take another course if it was not settled wi.thin days. (PT)
 * The Kabul Times in an article has
 said that security  situation in Kabul
 would worsen and would get out of UN control when Najibullah steps down. Meanwhile, BBC says only one-third of
239
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 the country is under the. control of the I UN has become the hijacked organization Kabul regime and even the second largestJof US and its present Secretary General, city, Mazar-e-Sharif, is in the hands of [in  his belief        and concept, is the
 mujaheddin and local   militia. (MLM)    [custodian of the US interests.        The
                                           1 government   should be well   aware that
     The   weary looking Kabul regime      I neither US    nor Russia is   happy over
 President Najibullah shown on television|Pakistan1s access to Central Asia nor as addressing a gathering of religious | are they        favor of  the establishment
 leaders, academics,    social figures andJ of an Islamic          Government of the
 representatives     of      the capital's mujaheddin    in Afghanistan.  Therefore,
 district in Kabul 31 April, called on [Pakistan should make all out efforts to Afghans   tb bury  their  differences and | end differences among the   mujaheddin,
 protect national unity at, all costs |.(jg)
 'until an interim neutral government can j » According to Radio Kabul 20 rockets take, power in Kabul    in April. "In  the hit Jalalabad 1   April killing three
 present sensitive conditions in the [persons and wounding another five. (RA) country, when the UN peace process is forging ahead, it is the duty of all to ensure the unity and territorial'! integrity of the country", he said.
 (MLM)
2
                                              Mujaheddin sources report that the 'Cement Project' west of Herat city, lone of the most important government strongholds in the province, has fallen I to the mujaheddin. The sources quoting Briefing newsman in Islamabad 31|jia commander Esmail Khan said that March a foreign office spokesman said [the Cement Project, one of the most there was no truth in reports thatjstrategic military bases, was' captured Pakistan has asked for the establishment 127 March. The 400-strongr military, of a Commission in Kabul prior to the [militia and police force deployed in holding of UN-sponsored Afghan assembly[the base, have all been captured, to take charge from the regime in Kabul.: | (VOADS)
 The report was attributed to Afghan| leaders who reportedly claimed that the!
 Pakistani officials during talks with!
 them    have suggested         for   the | ~ The Pakistan Times in its editorial 2
 establishment of a joint commission in j April says that with the fast changing Kabul comprising equal number of repre- | situation in Afghanistan it has become seritatives of the mujaheddin and Kabul j all the more important that the regime. The spokesman described these | settlement of the Afghan issue is reports as speculative and said that | reached at the earliest. A major crisis Pakistan was fully committed to the UN | has recently erupted in the country's formula and would continue to support | north which has pitted Pashtuns against it. (MLM)                               | non-Pashtuns. Sensing the tense
                                           situation prevailing in the country. The daily Jang in its editorial 1 I even Najibullah has called upon Afghans April says that attempts aimed at making | to bury their differences and protect Afghan mujaheddin share power with | national unity at all costs until an Russian remnants will >spoil • their | interim neutral government can take sacrifices. The Government of Pakistan f power in the country. At the same time should not become party, to a solution asjeight parties of Afghan mujaheddin in will culminate in disintegration of [ Pakistan have unanimqusly agreed to the, Afghanistan which is part of a conspi-jformation of an interim government ■ in : racy to plunge it into a civil war. The 1 Afghanistan. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,: leader
 240
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
  .of HIA, has also declared that the mujaheddin prefer to. go ahead with peaceful transfer of administration as they were not in favor of further destruction      and bloodshed  - in  the
  country. He    also clarified  that  the
  mujaheddin were not against the OIC or the UN as these bodies could play a positive role in     restoring peace  to
  Afghanistan through a permanent settlement. With all the sides agreeing to a political and peaceful solution of the Afghan problem there is no reason why peace should not return           to
  Afghanistan earlier than expected. (PT)
  » In the background of intensified efforts for an Afghan solution the daily Jang in its editorial 2 April says that all avenues should be utilized for a peaceful solution as early as possible. The Afghan mujaheddin should also play their role in paving the way for the success of efforts for peace and scree on some practicable . way , for an Afghan solution reflecting aspirations of the people of Afghanistan. At the same time it is also imperative for the Government of Pakistan not to be influenced by propaganda reports of anti-Afghan lobby and instead give importance to the opinion of influential Afghan mujaheddin leaders by seeking guidance ih its decisions from the eternal principles of Islam. The Government of Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin should have a unanimous viewpoint. The proclaimed Iranian policy is also in unison with that of Pakistan. At the moment Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and even the entire Muslim. World should concentrate only on establishing a government in Afghanistan according to the wishes of the people of that country. (JG)
 * MIDIA reports from Baghlan that three commanders belonging to the KHAD and police forces of the province defected to. the mujaheddin commander MUla Shamsul Haq 28 March. The report adds that 300 soldiers under the above commanders also surrendered to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
     According to ’ a Radio Tehran broadcast a joint communique was issued 1 April at the end of the visit to Tehran of Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, the Pakistani Minister of State for Foreign Affairs. The communique stresses the need for a speedy and peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue and expresses the hope that the latest statement by Najib regarding the progress of the UN peace plan will help the' peace process. (RA)
" Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy for the Afghan Resistance, in answer to a question said that his government still supported the UN peace plan for Afghanistan . because "it is the only means to help end the Afghan conflict peacefully." He added, intensification of the war efforts in Afghanistan will bring about a situation similar to that in Yugoslavia - which because of internal disputes, has been split into small sections and where the outlook for peace is very dim. He said, the time is very conducive for a political solution, but cooperation among the Afghans themselves is also necessary.
(VOADS)
                                                  3
* Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 2 April the UN envoy, Benon Sevan, said upon return from Kabul, "I have never been so optimistic and hopeful about the success of UN mission as I am today and nobody should dare to destroy it." He said that during the last week of his shuttle between Peshawar, Islamabad, Kabul and Tehran he tried to achieve peace and understanding among all parties concerned to "ensure necessary . arrangements for pre-transitional mechanism before the proposed gathering of Afghans." He said he was extremely happy to announce that the Afghans and the concerned governments have welcomed a proposal to combine the two Afghan gatherings into lone which would now take place before
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 the end of the current month. "We are in a process of working out the last details before making the announcement about the date and venue of the proposed gathering and the number of participants to be invited", he said. Their number, he said, would be between 150 to 500. (MLM)
 ~ Benon Seven. UN special envoy, during his two hour talks in Lahore 2 April with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Shafif briefed him about the talks he had held with the Kabul regime authorities earlier in the day. (PT)
 - Benon Sevan, the specila representative of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan has said in Pakistan that peace efforts for Afghanistan are gaining momentum. He said, he expects that the modality and venue of the so-called intra-Afghan dialogue may be announced next week. He said, it is probable that the Secretary General himself will make a statement in this regard. Benon Sevan urged that urgent humanitarian aid was needed for Afghanistan because the country in general and Kabul in particular was in need of food supplies. (VOADS)
 » After a press conference with Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy for Afghanistan, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi was asked to express opinion regarding the UN peace plan for Afghanistan. He said, "we had accepted the UN plan right from the beginning but with some reservations of which Benon Sevan was informed. Among these is, that the communists should not be allowed to take part in this gathering because their presence will not be tolerated by the mujaheddin and the refugees both".
 In answer to a question regarding ceasefire Mujaddedi said, ceasefire will be held- after a mujaheddin government is established. When asked whether he is optimistic about this latest UN plan for Afghanistan he said,
 "I believe that it may have positive
 results because the absolute majority of the mujaheddin, field commanders, ulama and mujaheddin organizations have also accepted the plan. There are also some who have objected to the plan, but they are in the minority".
       Prof. Rabbani in answer to these questions said, "we will welcome any positive effort, but in the case of the UN plan we have already expressed our opinion. The recent changes in the Afghan situation, which point to the fall of the Najib regime and a possible power vacuum to be created, we are all of the opinion that a transitional administration be formed by the mujaheddin followed by the estalishment of ah interim government. Regarding participation by Najibullah or his representative in the proposed UN Afghan assembly he said, we will never agree to sit with them around a conference table. (BBCPS).
                                                  4
 - In response to a request from the UN
 for urgent relief supplies. Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan has ordered immediate despatch o'f food  relief- to the people of
 Afghanistan,     said an official
 announcement in Islamabad 3 April. The relief consignment of 10,000 tons of wheat is being despatched immediately from Pakistan to Kabul by air and by road, the announcement said. The food relief will be received by UN representatives and shall be distributed by the Kabul regime Red Crescent. (NTN)
 -   Benon Sevan,    UN  special envoy,
briefed in Islamabd 3 April the Kabul regime Charge d' Affairs Qudratullah Ahmadi about efforts being made for the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan. Later talking to the Jang Ahmadi said the relief consignment of 10,000 tons of wheat from Pakistan will start reaching Kabul from 5 April. (JG)
242
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
    Kabul regime President Najibullah hasl the NIFA, told a BBC correspondent by welcomed the Islamabad decision to rush! telephone that differences existed
  10,000 tons of wheat to Afghanistan to I between the moderate and extremist help the country to overcome its foodl mujaheddin groups over the list of problems. (MLM)                          I names prepared for the intra-Afghan
                                            dialogue. He said, three moderate The Afghan mujaheddin carried outl mujaheddin organizations viz HEIA heavy rocketing of Gardaiz city 3 April, I (Mohammadi), NLFA and NIFA have handed the regime television said. No casualtyl over their lists of nominees to figure was, however, given by the tele-| Benon Sevan already. In answer to the vision announcement. (PT)                question whether or not Prof. Rabbani
  " The Washington Post, The Washingtoni I and Engineer Hekmatyar would also Times and The Wall Street Journal have I attend the meeting, Gailani said that all written that the majority of the I they were not included in their list mujaheddin and Najibullah, the Kabul I but would, probably, prepare their own regime President, have accepted a plan I lists for this purpose. He said, even which will ensure the transfer of power I they disagree to join, the three from Najib to an interim mujaheddin I moderate organizations and some others, government, which is going to be I which I know are in favor of the plan, decided upon end of this month by S00| | w±ll attend the meeting. (BBCFS) representatives of all those concerned.
  It is said that the gathering will be held either in Geneva or Vienna.
  (VOADS)
  • Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's, personal representative for Afghanistan, has announced that the UN is currently trying to obtain permission from the Kabul regime for the supply, by air or road, of 10,000 tons of wheat to Kabul as part of an effort to curb further deterioration of the food situation in Afghanistan. Sevan said he has talked with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in this regard who has expressed Pakistan's readiness to ship the amount of wheat to Kabul in the shortest possible interval. (BBCPS)
  “ Upon return from Kabul Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy, told reporters in Islamabad that peace in Afghanistan is within reach now and that some kind of guarantees, including one from the UN Security Council, was now necessary. He said no individual or group will be allowed to frustrate the peace process in Afghanistan. (RA)
 • Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of
5
 - Kabul regime 4 April thanked Pakistan for sending urgently needed food aid to> Kabul. Welcoming the move the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil, said in a statement, "we believe it contributes to the speeding up of the process of a political and peaceful settlement of the situation". .(PT)
   The Amir of Jamaat-i-Islami, Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmed, has protested against the government decision to despatch wheat to Najibullah regime on the instructions of the UN and described the step as totally contradictory with its Afghan policy. He said the nation would not allow the government to violate its own policy on Afghanistan so easily. He shid that the Afghan mujaheddin had the capability to establish food depots near Kabul and other cities for feeding the citizens living there. They had, in fact, actually provided food and medicines to the citizens on .certain occasions. The government should, therefore, help the Afghan people through the mujaheddin instead of Najibullah, he said. (PT)
                                                      243
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                      AfGHM'ilHIflD                        VOL.   5  NO,  3
                                                nature have been witnessed in the Afghan capital. (BBCFS)
 * The Afghan resistance groups HIA (Hekmatyar), NLFA (Mujaddedi), N1FA (Gailani), HEIA (Mohammadi) and Da'eya-e-Islami (Waqad) have submitted the lists of their nominees to UN special envoy, Benon Sevan, in Peshawar 4 April for a neutral administration in , Kabul to take over from the present regime and make arrangements for a transitional government there. The resistance groups, led by Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Mawlawi Younus Khales, did not hand over the lists. (PT)
 » According to Kabul regime airport authorities      a C-13.0 Pakistani
 plane - tailed closely by a UN plane -arrived at the airport at 12.15 p.m. 4 April with emergency food aid for the. capital. (NTN)
 » In an interview to VOA Pakistan's: Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Shaharyar Khan, has expressed the hope that an interim government would be set up in Afghanistan by the end of the current month. He said, on the request of the UN Pakistan has decided to send 10,000 tons of wheat to Kabul to overcome food shortage. (NWT) ..
 - Talking to Nawa-i-Waqt 4 April AIG Prime Minister Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has criticized Pakistan's decision to supply food aid to Kabul saying that it amounts to a reinforcement to Kabul regime at a time when it is on the verge of a collapse. Amir of HEIA, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, also talking to Nawa-i-Waqt said, the decision of food aid to Kabul regime is not in ‘ favor of Afghan mujaheddin and the people of Afghanistan in the prevailing situation. He said, it has eased pressure on. the communist puppet Kabul regime to step down. (NWT)
* Two PAF aircraft loaded with 30 tons of emergency relief weat landed at Kabul airport 5 April. This was the first time during the past 14 years of j war in Afghanistan that flights of this ]
 » Four rockets hit Kabul 5 April, which inflicted heavy material losses but with no casualties. (RA)
 "   Regarding  the developments      in
 Afghanistan diplomatic sources say that plans for the intra-Afghan dialogue and the transfer of power from the Kabul regime to either an interim government or a ruling commission are well under way. Though details of these plans are not disclosed, but sources say that apart from two mujaheddin organizations all others concerned have approved of them and have submitted tha list of their respective representatives to the meeting already. (VOADS)
                                                   6
 “ Scarcity of food supplies and the state of confusion in the country have forced the inhabitants to migrate to neighboring countries. Reliable mujaheddin sources said that the shortage of consumer goods and continuous explosions during the last few days have forced the citizens of Kabul, including a large number of military officers, to leave the city for the neighboring Pakistan. (VOIRA)
 * The Washington^^Times writes that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, who had previously supported the UN peace plan, took his pledge back 6 April. The paper adds, since the majority of the mujaheddin groups are supporting the UN peace plan, Hekmatyar's move will have little effect. (VOADS)
 - The New York Times says Benon Sevan,, the, personal representative of the UN Secretary General, will invite some . 500 Afghans either in Geneva or Vienna by the end of this month to convene the intra-Afghan peace conference. At the
244
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 same time a small group of 12 to 15 neutral Afghans will proceed to Kabul to form the interim government there. (VOADS)
     In an interview with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, the BBC asked his party's stance regarding the establishment of the 12-man interim government to which Hekmatyar said, "we do not agree with Benon Sevan's convening of inter-Afghan meetings and. consider his formula to be impracticable needing much longer time. We say that there should at first be an interim set-up comprising uncontroversial personalities selected from the lists submitted by the mujaheddin organizations. Those favored by all or the majority can then establish the interim administration. We will never agree tp a coalition government with Najib or with a government imposed on the Afghans by a foreigner. (BBCFS)
 " NIPA reports from Meshed, Iran, that Adam Khan, a Kabul regime militia commander in Herat, surrendered to the NIFA group of the mujaheddin in Ghorian district. (VOADS)
                                                  8
 * UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali has in a statement at the UN 7 April appealed to the international community for 30,000 metric tons of food for Kabul. He said there was a need to act quickly to avoid further tragic humanitarian situation and its political re-percussions at this time when Afghanistan was "moving towards a political settlement."
 “ The Government of Pakistan has despatched 7 April second consignment of food relief to Kabul in response to the UN request.for assistance. (PT)
 ~ Iran pledged 7 April to increase the shipment of food aid to Afghanistan after a UN mediator described the situation in the country as
  "deplorable". The commitment was made by Foreign Minister AH Akbar Velayati during a meeting with UN envoy Benon Sevan, Tehran Radio reported. (NTN)
  * IIA (Sayyaf) and HIA (Khales) have' decided to adopt a single and unified political and military policy in view of the fast changing situation of Afghanistan and efforts by the UN to create a neutral administration in Afghanistan by the end of April against the wishes of the mujaheddin. Totally rejecting any participation in the UN-sponsored peace talks, both Sayyaf and Khales accused Benon Sevan, 7 April in Peshawar, of wanting to undo the Islamic struggle of the mujaheddin and to hand over power to anti-mujaheddin pro-western Afghans at the behest of the US and other forces. Prof. Sayyaf expressed deep concern over the supply of Pakistani wheat to the' communist regime of Kabul. (PT)
  « US State Department in Washington 6 April warned its citizens against travel to Afghanistan saying, Americans may risk being kidnapped or taken hostage. (PT)
  - Three Afghan mujaheddin belonging to HEIA, were shot dead in the Afghan colony in Peshawar on Eid-ul-Fitr day by some unknown gunmen, reports ABS. (PT)
  -  Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan, returned to Kabul 8 April after a brief visit to Tehran and Islamabad. During Sevan's stay in Tehran Dr. Velayati, the Iranian Foreign Minister, expressed his government's readiness for further humanitarian assistance in an effort to overcome the present .severe food shortage in Afghanistan. The Pakistan government is also continuing the supply of food stuff to Afghanistan. The third Pakistani aircraft loaded with 15 tons of wheat landed in Kabul airport 8 April. (BBCFS)
245
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 1 - The US State Department in a statement has warned the . Americans to desist from travelling to Afghanistan because of the danger of attacks and abductions. The statement adds, political unrest prevails in most parts of the country and law and order is not respected. (VOADS)
9
  " Some inside sources told The Nation, that high level government officials' contacts are in progress with Afghan mujaheddin commanders for starting wheat supply to Kabul by road on the request of the UN. The Afghan commanders were, however, reluctant to accept the proposals of their Pakistani hosts. An Afghan commander Haji Abdul Qadeer belonging to HXA (Khales) was contacted by a number of senior government officials for providing safe routes to Kabul. He told Pakistani officials that he would consult with his colleagues from other resistance parties and would later inform the government. (NTN)
  " Benon Sevan, UN envoy, had a meeting in Kabul 8 April with the regime President Najibullah and .apprised him of his efforts about the implementation of the UN plan for Afghanistan. Najibullah expressed his pleasure over the efforts of Benon Sevan and explained some points of view of his regime about the Afghan problem. He also thanked' the UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, for his appeal about providing international humanitarian assistance to Kabul. (MLM)
 Benon Sevan called on Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 8 April and apprised him of latest developments on the Afghan issue with particular reference to the outcome of his recent visits to Tehran and Kabul as part of his shuttle diplomacy for a political settlement of the Afghan issue. (NTN)
 - The government of Pakistan officially acknowledged 8 April that an "interim mechanism"         is     being
 established in Kabul which would replace Najibullah regime prior to the setting-up of an interim government. A Foreign Office spokesman said that the UN envoy Benon Sevan was back in Islamabad from Kabul to carry on his consultations with a view to establishing this "neutral mechanism". He said, "this is being done in view of the deteriorating situation in Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan and it would prevent the possibility of chaos and disorder so that transfer of power takes smoothly". When questioned if all the Afghans concerned, both inside and outside Afghanistan, had agreed to this "neutral mechanism", the spokesman said, "at this point I cannot give more details. Benon Sevan has not concluded his meetings and I do not know 'what he has concluded". (NTN)
 - Afghan mujaheddin and rebel militia have formed a joint administration "Junbesh-e-Milli " to run the affairs of Northern Afghanistan, reports BBC. (NTN)
 " In their planned attack on Gardaiz the Afghan mujaheddin have killed 20 regime troops and injured dozens of Others on the third day of Eid-ul-Fitr.
 A missile also hit the Gardaiz Radio Station and its broadcasts have come to a halt. Kabul regime planes are also bombing mujaheddin positions and using napalm bombs killing four mujaheddin-and injuring several others. (JG)
                    I
 * The Pakistan government has decided to expell all those Arab nationals who have been fighting with the Afghan mujaheddin and whose visa permits have expired. Arab sources say Pakistani officials are apparently engaged in compiling the names of all the Arabs residing in Pakistan. The 10,000 Arabs in Pakistan belong to Saudi Arabia,, Yemen,     Algeria,     Libya, Syria,.
246
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Palestine, Jordan, Tunisia and the Sudan. They have all been involved in the war against the former Soviet troops and are still continuing the fight against the remnants of the communist regime. The report adds that this Arab organization has established offices in all Arab nations except in Jordan. (VOAPS)
 * A report from Peshawar said 4 April that the entire militia force in Faryab Province has surrendered to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
     Military commanders, displeased with the Kabul regime, have joined the mujaheddin forces and have established an independent administration in the north of the country. The headquarters iof the administration is in Mazar-e-Sharif and the council is .leaded by General Rashid Dostum. (VOADS)
          10
 - Some confidential sources told The
 Nation that high level American as well as UN officials are trying to convince most of the world countries for supply of food items to Kabul on emergency basis. The US envoy to Pakistan, Nicholas Platt, has held a detailed meeting in Islamabad with three Afghan mujaheddin leaders,         Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi for ensuring safe routes to the UN trucks carrying wheat to Kabul. (NTN)
 -  In an interview to a New Delhi based journalist in Kabul the regime President Najibullah said 9 April he would step down at the end of April and not wait for a UN-sponsored interim government to take over. Meanwhile Benon Sevan has warned (date and place not given) that unless the UN peace process went ahead quickly, Afghanistan risked dismemberment along racial lines. (NTN)
    The UN envoy, Benon Sevan, l'eftj Islamabad 9 April for Geneva to report to the Secretary General about the
 latest developments of his shuttle
 diplomacy for the peaceful settlement
 of the Afghanistan problem. He has
 taken with him the list of participants who may join the proposed Council and
 'attend the proposed assembly. (MLM) (
 » The BBC correspondent reports it is
 not yet known whether the Military
 Council which controls most parts of
 the northern territory in Afghanistan
 has gained the support of the most
 important mujaheddin commander, Ahmad
 Shah Masood. Despite the fact that he
 had always tried to avoid contact with
 the militia forces, some of the
 commanders under him have joined the
 military council either with or without
 his consent. Sayyed Mansoor Naderi,
 leader of the Isma'ili religious*sect,
 has announced his full support of the
 council. (BBCFS)
          11
 - Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Chief of IIA and Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Chief of HIA have rejected UN Secretary General's proposal regarding the formation of a 15-member commission for setting up an interim government. According to spokesman of Mawlawi Khales in Peshawar 10 April both of the resistance leaders said that they would not accept any proposal except formation of a pure government of Afghan mujaheddin.- The fate of the government which would be formed against the wishes of mujaheddin could not be different from that of Noor Mohammad Taraki and Babrak Karmal and nobody could form interim government in Afghanistan without support of the Afghan mujaheddin, they said. (NTN)
    In his reaction to UN Secretary General's proposal regarding the 15-member commission in Afghanistan, Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said, "we have never agreed to the setting-up of Jirgah in Afghanistan and we will
247
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
ICIllflO
VOL. 5 NO. 3
Rashid Dostum to full general in          demobbed", the decree said. (NTN)
                                 ceremony in Mazar-e-Sharif 22 Ma
calling him a great Islamic warrior wh » Reliable sources in Kabul said
government 28 April in Kabul. Kabul'      heavy weapons          from the city to
television interrupted a mid-nigh         Mazar-e-Sharif to protect them from any
broadcast to make the special announce    expected attack       by the mujaheddin
ment. The Interim President als* present in the city and the surrounding promoted Dostum's 14th division comman' areas. (JG) der, Jora Begh, to major general am ■ several other Uzbek staff officers wh<   « Sudan, one of      the world's poorest
participated in the lightening strik< countries, has sent six planeloads of to prevent the Hezb take-over of Kabu:    food aid to         Afghanistan, senior
after the fall of the Soviet-installec Sudanese official said in Kabul 23 May. communist regime. The commander of th« Gutbi al-Mahdi, heading a delegation former regime's 70th Brigade based ii from the Khartoum Government, said 150 the province of Herat, was alsc tons of sugar had been handed over to ■promoted to lieutenant general. The the new mujaheddin government in Kabul Interim President also promoted Jafaz as a gesture of Islamic solidary. He Naderi, Ismaili sect leader of the 80th said his delegation was investigating division stationed in northern province what other food aid could be sent to of Balkh, the officials said. Observers Afghanistan. (PT) said the promotions had drawn the
battle lines clearly between Hekmatyar . The Nation in its editorial 25 May and the rest. (NTN)                       says Prof. Mujaddedi and Ahmad Shah
tfasood find it difficult to accept the ~ Afghanistan's Interim Government lemand for Dostum's ouster because of Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, iekmatyar's declared aim of entering while talking to Al-Bunyan at Paghman Cabul at the head of his own group -(date not given) said that they could     -he largest presence of fighters around
order the withdrawal of the militia       Cabul. It will, they feel, amount to
forces of the previous communist regime   :otal surrender to an unscrupulous
from Kabul any time, if mujaheddin        idversary, who may not abide by the
leaders can positively make sure that rules of game. This confrontational Kabul is quite safe from outside          itance could have been avoided had
attacks. (MLM)                            lekmatyar and everyone else abided by
* The Afghan Interim Government has 'efused the offer on the assumption decided to demobilize time-expired ;hat he would have no real power. That troops from the army of the former tower would be in the hands of Ahmad regime, officials said in Kabul 24 May. :hah Masood. Be that as it may, there A decree issued by Defense Minister s no way out of the delinuna except Ahmad Shah Masood said the disbanding hrough the realization of certain would begin 22 June and be completed in ealities on the ground. The most a period of two months. "Personnel and mportant reality is that Masood*s' commissioned officers whose terms of Limination from the power structure is service have been completed in the jt possible. Also so long _ as he ranks of different contingents and mains in charge 0f national security, detachments of the armed forces will be Lctating to him of any arrangement
helped install the mujaheddi Gelam Jam Militia is airlifting its
        25
the Peshawar agreement whereby Hekmatyar was to be made the acting Prime Minister. Hekmatyar, it seems.
                                                     299
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
  Palestine, Jordan, Tunisia and the Sudan. They have all been involved in the war against the former Soviet troops and are still continuing the fight against the remnants of the communist regime. The report adds that this Arab organization has established offices in all Arab nations except in Jordan. (VOAPS)
  * A report from Peshawar said 4 April that the entire militia force in Faryab Province has surrendered to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
  ~ Military commanders, displeased with the Kabul regime, have joined the mujaheddin forces and have established an independent administration in the north of the country. The headquarters !of the administration is in Mazar-e-Sharif and the council is .leaded by General Rashid Dostum. (VOADS)
                                                10
 “ Some confidential sources told The Nation that high level American as well as UN officials are trying to convince most of the world countries for supply of food items to Kabul on emergency basis. The US envoy to Pakistan, Nicholas Platt, has held a detailed meeting in Islamabad with three Afghan mujaheddin     leaders,   Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gai'lani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi for ensuring safe routes to the UN trucks carrying wheat to Kabul. (NTN)
 » In an interview to a New Delhi based journalist in Kabul the regime President Najibullah said 9 April he would step down at the end of April and not wait for a UN-sponsored interim government to take over. Meanwhile Benon Sevan has warned (date and place not given) that unless the UN peace process went ahead quickly, Afghanistan risked dismemberment along racial lines. (NTN)
                                                                                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
     The UN envoy, Benon Sevan, left) Islamabad 9 April for Geneva to report to the Secretary General about the
 latest developments of his shuttle
 diplomacy for the peaceful settlement
 of the Afghanistan problem. He has
 taken with him the list of participants who may join the proposed Council and
 “attend the proposed assembly. (MLM)
                     I                  '
 » The BBC correspondent reports it is not yet known whether the Military Council which controls most parts of the northern territory in Afghanistan has gained the support of the most important mujaheddin commander, Ahmad Shah Masood. Despite the fact that he had always tried to avoid contact with the militia forces, some of the commanders under him have joined the military council either with or without his consent. Sayyed Mansoor Naderi, leader of the Isma'ili religious*sect, has announced his full support of the council. (BBCFS)
                  11
-  Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Chief of IIA and Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Chief of HIA have rejected UN Secretary General's proposal regarding the formation of a 15-member commission for setting up an interim government. According to spokesman of Mawlawi Khales in Peshawar 10 April both of the resistance leaders said that they would not accept any proposal except formation of a pure government of Afghan mujaheddin.- The fate of the government which would be formed against the wishes of mujaheddin could not be different from that of Noor Mohammad Taraki and Babrak Karmal and nobody could form interim government in Afghanistan without support of the Afghan mujaheddin, they said. (NTN)
-  In his reaction to UN Secretary General's proposal regarding the 15-member commission in Afghanistan, Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said, "we have never agreed to the setting-up of Jirgah in Afghanistan and we will
247
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
no
 never agree with it in future. We have not submitted any list for this purpose to the UN. The list we prepared of the non-controversial persons is only for discussion with other mujaheddin. If the interim administration had any support of the communists or Zaher Shah, then such a government would be rejected. The interim administration must hold elections within one year. Any method without elections would be unacceptable, and any government made by any foreign agency would not be tolerated even for a moment."
     Karim Khalili, spokesman of the HWIA in his reaction said that the UN had no right to make final decisions on the names given to it for an interim period. The final list, he said, must be subjected to mujaheddin's approval otherwise it would be rejected. (NTN)
 ~ UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, told a press conference in Geneva ,10 April that all sides in the Afghan conflict had agreed to set up, immediately, a 15-member governing transitional council in Kabul. "We have reached an agreement for the formation of the council which will take power now. The Afghan parties have also agreed to convene, as soon as possible, an international conference on the Afghan conflict. This can take place in the coming weeks but, no site has yet been determined", he said. (PT)
 " Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 10 April welcomed the announcement by the UN Secretary General that an understanding had been reached for the replacement of the present regime in Kabul by a council of neutral and impartial personalities. He appealed to all Afghans to join with each other and seize the opportunity for peace. (PT)
- UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, says all parties concerned in the Afghan problem have agreed to establish'
 a 15-member Leadership Council for receiving the executive power in Kabul. After the council is fully established, he said, conflicts will end, general amnesty will be proclaimed and the power will then be transferred to an elected government. (BBCFS)
 * The HIA (Hekmatyar) in a statement has said, that no list prepared without their consent will ever be acceptable to them. The statement adds, "persons related to Zaher Shah or those with their hands stained with the blood of the nation or those who have taken arms against the mujaheddin cannot be included in the interim set-up". The statement also rejected Boutros Ghali's announcement and the establishment of the     transitional    administration.
 (BBCFS)
 -  Following an urgent call by Boutros Ghali for emergency humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan the US, Iran and Pakistan have expressed readiness to take urgent measures in this regard. (RA)
                  12
 -  The US 10 April warmly welcomed the
 UN Secretary General's announcement on an agreement in principle among the Afghan     parties     to     form    a
 pre-transitional council to monitor the next steps in a political settlement of the Afghan conflict. "The formation of the pre-transitional council can be the first step towards political settlement and reconciliation in Afghanistan", State Department Spokesmen Margaret Tutwiler said in a written statement. "But it is only a beginning and much hard work remains to be done", she ^aid. (PT)
- Answering newsmen's questions at a reception for the Pakistan Cricket Team in Islamabad 11 April the Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said that all difficulties in the way of
 248
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
nm
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 the settlement of Afghanistan problem have been overcome. Regarding continued opposition by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and some other Afghan leaders, the Prime Minister said efforts were on the way to bring them round the acceptance of the transition arrangement for bringing peace in Afghanistan. He said the 15-member council which is to take over power from the present Kabul regime, pending establishment of an interim government, was being composed in consultation with the mujaheddin leaders. (PT)
 " President Bush told reporters in Washington 11 April that he was pleased with an agreement announced 10 April aimed at ending what he called 13-year civil war in Afghanistan. "I welcome progress in Afghanistan", he said. (PT)
 " The list of possible Afghan personalities issued in Peshawar 11 April named for 15-member UN-sponsored transitional administrative council, which is due to take power in Kabul for an interim period of six months, includes a number of Afghan intellectuals, scholars, academicians, former diplomats and spirituals. These personages have been described as neutrals who will be the part of the pre-transitional arrangement in Kabul with the voluntary stepping down of present Kabul regime President •Na jibullah.. (PT)
 " The Peshawar-based ABNS has issued 11 April the following list of possible, Afghan personalities of a 15-member transitional council suggested by the UN for Afghanistan:
     Prof. Rasool Amin, General Yahya Nauroz, Abdul Samad Hamid, Prof. Abdul Sattar Seerat, Dr. Abdul Hakim Tabbibi, Prof. Mohammad Asghar, Dr. Inayatullah Iblagh. Prof. Mohammad Hashim Mujaddedi, Juma Mohammad, Ibrahim Azeem, Abdul Karim Mustaghni, Abdul
  Salam Azeemi, ShamsUddin Majrooh, Prof. Mohammad Hasan Kakar and Abdul Hakim Katawazi. (NTN)
  » Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 11 April the ANP President,
  Ajmal Khattak, has endorsed the announcement of the UN Secretary General for an early political settlement in Afghanistan and urged the leaders of all rival Afghan factions to avail the opportunity. (NTN)
  - According to Los Angeles Times the Prime Minister of Pakistan has silently signed an order prohibiting issuance of visas to militant Muslims. The move has followed the concern expressed by western countries that an international Muslim mobile military force patronised by       Cairo-based       organization
  'Akhuwat-i-Islami' is dangerous not only for countries adjoining Pakistan but also for Sudan, Tunis, Jordon, Egypt and Iraq as well as China, the Phillipines and Burma. Quoting western intelligence sources the paper has said that this international jehad force, after forcing former Soviet Union to withdraw from Afghanistan, is at the moment based in Pakistan and if the UN peace plan fails, in Afghanistan the force can become . very disastrous for Afghanistan and Pakistan itself. The paper has described this force as world warriors. Meanwhile, according to VOA, Pakistan has decided to expel all those Arab militants from the counry who had been supporting the Afghan mujaheddin and preparation of their list has started. (JG)
 - According to an Arab newspaper Hayat, the UN has asked the Arab countries to stop forthwith their assistance to fundamentalist groups of Afghan mujaheddin. (JG)
 “ In a press statement in Peshawar 11 April the Secretary General of JUI, Senator Samiul Haq, termed the
249
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 '15-member council for Afghanistan as a drama and a conspiracy to sabotage the jehad in Afghanistan. He said that all the main resistance groups had rejected the said Council, whose taking into confidence was necessary for Pakistan. Even if Najib steps down, he said, the government would be controlled by his anti-resistance party. (MLH)
 *• Highly placed sources in the foreign office in Islamabad have said Pakistan is relentlessly trying to prevail upon the militant Afghan groups to come to negotiating table and become party to the peace settlement. A number of Afghan leaders, including those inside Afghanistan, have been contacted through various sources to drop the idea of capturing Kabul by force, said the sources, adding that intelligence reports have indicated that some frustrated elements would like to go for the military option. ”We want a pro-Pakistan government in Afghanistan which would help us to keep the region peaceful", said the sources. The sources also said that a Saudi leader recently visited Peshawar to persuade the militant Afghan mujaheddin leaders to join the peace process, as the other course would be disastrous for all concerned. "Najibullah is daily sending signals to Pakistan to expedite the process for installing the pre-transitional interim government as he feared that things could get out of hands any time" an official source in a sensitive agency told The Muslim. (MLM)
 - The daily Jang says in its editorial 12 April that the announcement of Najibullah for stepping down from power clearly indicates the success of UN efforts. Nevertheless, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Younus Khales, Prof. Sayyaf and Karim Khalili have declared as unacceptable the inclusion in the proposed interim council of the communists and Zaher Shah. The
 announcements of the UN Secretary General apparently also imply that the communists and Zaher Shah will not be included in the council and it will comprise in                        all    respects the
 non-controversial       and      neutral
 personalities. With regard to the role of the UN the apprehension expressed by certain Afghan mujaheddin leaders also look sufficiently justifiable on the ground that the US and certain other powers                       are   scared of the
 establishment of any real Islamic government in Afghanistan. Nonetheless
 the aspirations of the Afghans cannot be completely put aside and the Afghans can overcome                       all these obstacles
 through complete unity in their ranks.
 (JG)
 “ The daily Nawa-i-Waqt says in its editorial 12 April that though Afghan mujaheddin leaders were well in picture of the reasons behind their opposition and rejection of the «proposed interim council announced by the UN Secretary General, the fact also remains that they have not even succeeded in finding a military or political solution. This has led only to reinforcing Najibullah regime in Kabul. Therefore, if some ground work is being initiated for an Afghan solution it should be welcomed as, under the prevailing conditions, this is the only way of ousting Najibullah. The Afghan mujaheddin organizations can afterwards settle their scores according to their plans and in the meantime they should allow the establishment of a government in Afqhanistan. (NWT)
 - The Secretary General1s statement regarding the establishment of a 15-member executive council has prompted various reactions among the mujaheddin groups. From among these organizations HIA (Khales) and . IIA (Sayyaf) have outrightly rejected it. HIA (Hekmatyar) has many objections while Prof. Rabbani,. leader of JIA, says he would' accept the UN plan as a whole provided;
250
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
IMHO
  his own proposals in this regard are accepted. Commander Hagqani, Chairman of the Commanders' Council, has called the plan unpracticable whereas, Sayyed Mohammad Ali Javaid, Deputy chief of Harakat-e-Islami, says he will favor a neutral council provided the members are elected by the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
  * According to an article by Cathy Evans, a correspondent of the Manchester Guardian, Prince Turki Al-Faisal, chief of Saudi Arabian Intelligence, has proceeded to Pakistan in order to urge on the mujaheddin organizations to agree with the UN plan and keep the road open for the shipment of food supplies to Kabul. (BBCPS)
  " According to an ANA report the 15-member executive council proposed by the UN Secretary General for an interim administration in Afghanistan will hbld its first meeting in Islamabad within a week. The source adds that members of the council who are residing in various foreign countries, have already left for Pakistan and are due to arrive Islamabad 14 April. (VOADS)
                   13
 ~ Talking to newsmen in Peshawar (date not given) . Abdul Waheed Waheed, chairman of political committee of HEIA (Mansoor group) said that every formula framed without consultation of mujaheddin would fail. Commenting on the 15-member council formed by UN for Afghanistan he said that       it was
 impossible for the mujaheddin to give their future in the' hands of those who remained neutral during the Afghan war and failed to support their innocent brothers. (NTN)
 - Senator Mawlana Samiul Haq, Secretary General JUI, has in a statement in Peshawar (date not given) rejected the UN 15-member council for Afghanistan and termed it a conspiracy to sabotage the Afghan jehad. A real stable Islamic
 government in Afghanistan can be formed only by taking into confidence the Afghan mujaheddin. Even after Najibullah the real power will remain in the hands of those who are involved in the killing of 1.5 million Afghans. (JG)
 -  The Federal cabinet meeting presided over by Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 2 April accorded unanimous approval to the government's policy on Afghanistan. "The endorsement of Afghan policy was unanimous and there was no dissent", said a cabinet source after a four-hour meeting. The Prime Minister told the meeting that the Afghan situation has entered into a delicate and decisive phase. "It will now be intolerable for me to see any minister, except Mr. Kanju, to air views on the Afghan issue, as the government is now feeling itself very close to clinching the peace settlement", said the Premier. Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju briefed the members on the on-going efforts to resolve the Afghan problem under the UN formula.
 (MLM)
 -  Addressing a crowded press conference in Peshawar 12 April Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, said that the mujaheddin have neither finalized the list of the consensus candidates nor provided it to the. World Body for inclusion in the interim -administration. The present list of the proposed candidates for the interim administration shows that only Zaher Shah has been omitted for the time being while all of his former lackeys are included in the list. He disclosed that some people have been asked in Europe and. America to reach Pakistan as they have been included in the- list of the interim administration. He said that mujaheddin would not accept such an interim administration in which either members of the communist party or supporters of the ex-King Zaher Shah
251
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992               nil JIHAD               VOL.  5 NO.
 are included. He said that Afghanistan needed only one transitional administration that could take over power from the puppet regime, restore peace in Afghanistan and conduct elections within a stipulated period of one year. He said that HIA would allow alterations in its proposed political solution for further convenience and added that in the first six month term of the interim period direct elections should be held for the Head of the State while in the second half general elections should be conducted for the elected parliament. (PT)
 ■* In a statement issued by his office in Islamabad (date not given) the UN envoy, Benon Sevan, has categorically denied the news items appearing in a section of the press that the UN had nominated the members of the 15-member Afghan council that would replace Najibullah for an interim period. He said, "my role is simply to act as messenger between the different Afghan groups, receiving the list from them and comparing, these with others. (NTN)
 - Prof. Mohammad Asghar, leader of the Afghan National Salvation Society, regarding the 15-man executive council planned by the UN says that it is very similar to that of the society's plan. In answer to a question whether the plan can be considered as interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, Prof. Asghar said that on the contrary the plan can be considered as a great assistance towards the return of peace in Afghanistan. "The path taken by the UN is logical, and credible,* he said. (BBCPS)
 " Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, said in a press conference he will never agree to a government that is not acceptable to the entire mujaheddin organizations. Regarding the 15-member commission announced by the UN Secretary General 10 April he said he will not accept the plan* (VOAPS)
                  14
 • All the heads of mujaheddin organizations except Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf discussed at length, 13 April in Peshawar, the list of consensus candidates for the formation of the transitional set-up in Afghanistan. The leaders exchanged' the narfies of their respective lists for approving a unanimous list for the interim administration. Mawlawi Younus Khales and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf were represented by their envoys in the meeting. Efforts were also being made to persuade both the leaders to prepare the list of candidates to be acceptable to their respective parties during the transitional period. According to reliable sources the UN-proposed list of candidates for the 15-member pre-transitional set-up had also reached the hands of the mujaheddin, leaders. (PT)                        .
 -  The daily Jang has learnt from, reliable sources that the meeting of the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Peshawar have in their discussion on the second day, 14 April, unanimously rejected the list of the nominees released by the UN for the proposedl
 j.5-member transitional council for Afghanistan. (JG)
 “ Talking to General Joseph P. Hoar, Commander-in-Chief, US Central Command, at a meeting at Aiwan-i-Sadr 13 April President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, has described the proposal to set up a pretransition council in Afghanistan as a "positive step in the right direction". He, however, emphasized that the final selection of persons to be included in the council should be made taking into confidence the mujaheddin leaders. (PT)
 -  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 13 April Senator Qazi Hussain
252
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                           BffillAHJIHAD                           VOL.   5   NO.  3
 Ahmed, Amir of JI, said that the UN has no right to impose the government of its own choice in Afghanistan to sabotage the cause of victorious Afghan, mujaheddin. He said that as the solution of Afghan issue was in itsi final stages, the dangerous American virus, which was also present in the foreign office and bureaucracy of ouri country was trying to paralyse the Afghan issue. He said the Arab nationals who served the Afghan, mujaheddin for 13 years morally and financially, should not be expelled and instead the Christians and Jews, who damaged the Afghan jehad, should be expelled from the country. (PT)
 * Pakistan is understood to have told! the Peshawar-based Afghan leaders* hostile to the UN peace efforts that it would lose no time in according full! recognition to the Interim Council to; be constituted to take over power fromi Najibullah regime. These leaders,, according to sources, have also been plainly warned that once the recognition was granted to the new set-up in Kabul, Pakistan would be morally bound to ensure full protection to the same and would in no way be involved in any activity meant to destabilize the new structure. Commenting on the situation an official source said that no one1, should expect from us that we would allow anybody to sabotage the UN efforts for the solution of the Afghan problem as we have already ensured full support to these efforts and were working for their success. (MLM)
 “ In a press statement 13 April Fatehul Mulk Nang Yousofzai, a former member of the Afghan parliament has; said that for the first time in world-history, names of cabinet members were announced before the head of the state. He questioned whether it was an interim council or members of Zaher Shah cabinet. He attributed the UN's planning a joke with the Afghan nation
 and said that no one could impose a* government on Afghans without wishes of the people. (NTN)
 • Afghan mujaheddin have captured the Salang highway, mujaheddin sources told MXDIA 13 April. (NWT)
 “ India has expressed its willingness, to grant political assylum to Najibullah and several other members of the ruling Watan Party and their families, informed sources told ANA. (JG)
 - Talking informally in Islamabad (date not given) the former Chief of ISI Lt. General (Rtd) Hamid Gul hasj said that induction of an interim) council in Afghanistan against thel wishes of the people can lead the: country to a civil war leaving its impacts on other neighboring countries including Pakistan. The interim council should comprise persons who enjoy the support of the masses, otherwise the objective of a ceasefire in Afghanistan will not be achieved. Any wrong step at the existing stage can lead to grave consequences, he said. (JG)
 “ The daily Jang in its editorial 14, April says that in view of the haste shown by UN envoy Benon Sevan in the establishment of an interim council for1 Afghanistan and the way in which the influential Afghan groups have been ignored, the objective of a lasting and durable solution of .the Afghanistan, problem may not be achieved. The editorial further says that the requirements and conditions of the Afghan jehad and the Afghan mujaheddin are yet to be met; they are not willing to tolerate the presence of communists and supporters of ex-King Zaher Shah in the interim government or any administrative matter in future; the list of the members of the interim council is stated to be carrying mostly the supporters of the ex-King and the
253
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 communists. Benon Sevan at the instance of Boutros Ghali insisted on convening a loya jirgah making Hekmatyar group to withdraw its list of non-controversial persons at the last moment and the powerful groups of Sayyaf, Khales, Mansoor and Hekmatyar have already described the SEVAN PLAN detrimental to the interests of the Afghans. All this lends credence to the apprehensions of the Afghan mujaheddin that supporters of the ex-King Zaher Shah and the communists will at last be imposed on the Afghans under a ,US-Soviet conspiracy. (JG)
 * Mujaheddin sources say discussions were held, 12 April, between Pakistani officials and a number of mujaheddin leaders on the executive council established by the UN. In yesterday's meeting Mawlawi Khales and Prof. Sayyaf were represented by their envoys Engineer Ahmad Shah and Mawlawi Najmuddin respectively whereas other leaders had attended personally. Jayid Naser chief of the ISI also attended
                      i
 the meeting. Pakistani officials told the mujaheddin that the UN and Pakistan did not want to impose a political solution or any particular person on the Afghan nation. It is the duty of the Afghans themselves to establish an interim administration at their own will. Meanwhile, Mohammad Zaher, the ex-King of Afghanistan, in a written statement to the VOA has welcomed the latest UN- announcement and the efforts of its special envoy for seeking a political solution to the Afghan problem. (VOADS) *
* The speaker of the Advisory Council, Mohammad Younus Qanooni, in a news conference regarding the UN plan for an executive council said, "as far as I know the majority of the mujaheddin organizations have not yet handed over their respective lists of nominees to the UN envoy and those who hiave already done so, are doubtful about the practicability of the UN plan". (VOADS)
                   15
 * Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 14 April Foreign Secretary Shaharyar Khan said, the question of the rejection of the proposed interim Afghan council by some of the Afghan mujaheddin groups does not at all arise at this stage especially when the council has not yet come into Existence. The lists containing names of neutral personalities received so far by UN special representative Benon Sevan does envisage some names from Kabul. But they do not represent the ruling Watan Party. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, he said, has differences on neutral council. (PT)
 v Mujaheddin sources said that four of the 15 members of the proposed interim council of Afghanistan have reached Islamabad accompanied by UN envoy Benon Sevan, They are cabinet members of former King Zaher Shah and are:    Dr.
 Mohammad Yousuf, Abdul Samad Hamid, Abdul Jabbar Sabit and Abdul Sattar Seerat. (NWT)
 - The Afghan mujaheddin organizations resumed crucial deliberations in Peshawar 14 April to finalize the list of candidates for the interim council. Those who attended the meeting were Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Karim Khalili, Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, Sayyed Asef Mohseni, Jebraili and a leader of Ittehad-e-Islami representing Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus KhaleS did not attend, nor was he represented at the meeting. (MLM)
 * Benon Seven, UN envoy, returned from Geneva 14 April and briefed the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs about his meeting with the UN Secretary General. Meanwhile, the Minister of
254
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 i
 State expressed concern that speculative reports and comments continue in the press pre-supposing that the council has already been nominated. The fact is that so far an understanding in principle exists' that power should be transferred to a pre-. transitional council of neutral, impartial Afghan personalities. (PT)
 “ Loud explosions were heard in Kabul 14 April as reports said that a government-mujaheddin coalition had taken two vital garrison towns north of Kabul. The explosions occurred as top 'Kabul military sources confirmed rebel claims that the towns of Charikar and Jabul Saraj 60 and 80, kilometer north of Kabul, had fallen to the coalition headed by northern mujaheddin commander Ahmad Shah Hasood. The rebels were also encircling a strategic airbase in the region, the sources said. The push from the north came as rumors swept'official and civilian circles in Kabul that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar of HIA was planning a thrust into Kabul from the south of the city. (NTN)
 " The strategically important military airbase, Bagram, has fallen to the mujaheddin of HIA 14 April. Huge quantity of arms and ammunition was also seized by the mujaheddin as in most part of the province the regime forces surrendered to the mujaheddin. Latest reports disclosed that mujaheddin have also captured the 2nd and 40th divisions of Kabul army. Scores of military aircraft have also been seized by the mujaheddin. Report claims that mujaheddin have blocked all the routes leading to Kabul from the north, including the Salang Highway. The city of Charikar and the Bagram airbase are under the control of mujaheddin of HIA while Charikar1s northern part and adjoining areas are controlled by JIA mujaheddin. (PT)
 » Reports say that the mujaheddin captured the Strategic township of
 Charikar, 60 Kms to the north of Kabul, Rabbani in an interview to the BBC said, the mujaheddin under the command of brother Ahmad Shah Masood have recently captured a number of strategic military bases, including Charikar, and are advancing towards the Bagram airbase. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, regarding the victory in Charikar says, all military units between Kabul and Charikar have joined the HIA mujaheddin one after the other. In answer to a question he said the HIA did not wish to attack Kabul, "we want Kabul to be conquered without blood-sheed", he said. (BBCFS)
                16
 - Kabul regime President Najibullah has gone into hiding following the fall of the country's biggest airbase, the state owned Indian Doordafshan television said 15 April. It said a large number of military aircraft belonging to Kabul regime were said to have fallen into the hands of Afghan mujaheddin after the capture of Bagram airbase. Quoting a Kabul Radio broadcast, it said the regime leader was preparing' to leave Kabul. The UNI quoted the youngest daughter of Najibullah as saying that "her father was safe in Kabul and is in touch with the Afghan embassy in New Delhi". (MLM):
 * The latest reports from Afghanistan say that the mujaheddin forces have made substantial advance towards Kabul, reports BBC. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, HIA leader, has said his forces are preparing to attack Kabul.In an interview with the BBC he said the UN plan to form a neutral transitional council would take a long time and his group was not prepared to wait that long. According to ANA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said that the operations that led to the fall of the strategic city of Charikar and the largest military
255
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Bagram airbase were conducted at the initiative of HIA commanders Ustad Farid, Ustad Fateh Mohammad, Engineer Tariq and Shafaq. He said the mujaheddin were systematically moving towards Kabul and had reached the outskirts of the city. However, if the regime defense ministry announces its surrender the mujaheddin will not enter the city by force. If the regime was still persisting to cling to power then we will have no option than to break into the city. (NTN)
 ~ Shia Afghan mujaheddin units have advanced to "the gates of Kabul" a Shia mujaheddin spokesman, Abdulhagh Shafaq, told a press conference in Tehran 15 April. He said there had been "perfect coordination" between Shia and Sunni mujaheddin battling the Kabul regime in recent operations. (NTN)
 * A delegation of leaders and representatives of Afghan mujaheddin held a meeting with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 15 April. The meeting continued till late in the night and according to an official announcement, UN envoy Benon Sevan, later also joined in the meeting. Rapid developments towards resolution of the Afghanistan     issue     came     under
 discussion. The Prime Minister made a fervent appeal to all mujaheddin leaders to make all-out efforts to avoid bloodshed in Afghanistan and particularly in Kabul. He appealed to them to exercise their authority and statesmanship to ensure smooth and peaceful transfer of power in Kabul. (PT)
 - Briefing newsmen in Islamabad . 15 April a foreign office spokesman said, Pakistan remains committed to the process initiated by the UN for the peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue. "We are continuing our support to the UN Secretary General and his personal representative on Afghanistan
 for the formation of. a pre-transitional council which will lead to convening of the Afghan assembly to determine the interim government in Afghanistan. He said that Pakistan is not aware of the composition of the proposed pretransition council as the consultations among Afghan mujaheddin parties in this respect are still continuing. It will be premature to give any final opinion about the shape of the council at this stage. Asked if he officially confirms that Bagram' airport has fallen to Afghan mujaheddin he said, "we have received reports about capturing of some towns and places by certain mujaheddin parties." (PT)
 “ Talking to newsmen at the foreign office in Islamabad 15 April UN envoy
 for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, said that UN plan is fully on track and recent happenings in Afghanistan will have no effect on it. There is no set-back to our efforts and we are still hopeful about their success. "We do make events", he said. (PT)
 " Chris Powers, BBC correspondent reports from Kabul, it looks as though the forces controlling the Bagram airbase have all . joined the rival mujaheddin    groups   in       the area.
 Government   sources  say     that   the
 majority of the armed forces around the Bagram airbase are cooperating with the mujaheddin loyal to Ahmad Shah Masood, the strongest guerrilla commander.
 (BBCFS)
 - The US State Department spokesperson, Margaret Tutwiler, .in a statement said' that recent reports tell of rapid mujaheddin advances towards Kabul but the position is not very clear. The statement adds, these developments will not change the US stand that the oniy effective way to resolve the Afghan issue will be through poliical means. "The danger still exists that the present military operations may lead to further bloodshed", the statement says. (VOADS)
 APR IL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 *  The US asked the Afghan mujaheddin
 15 April to stop fighting and accept UN peace plan for Afghanistan. A state department spokesperson         Margaret
 Tutwiler said in Washington that a military option by the Afghan mujaheddin will lead only to a prolonged and useless war, rendering impossible the reconciliation in the country. (JG)
 *   The Peshawar-based Afghan resistance leaders have agreed on formation of a 28-member council for ruling Afghanistan for a short period. On the other hand HIA (Hekmatyar) declared a 34-member revolutionary council of the Afghan mujaheddin commanders from various parties for controlling the situation in Kabul. The Afghan resistance leaders, who had formed a committee for preparing a . list of commission members, after securing a list from the said commission, were flown to Islamabad 15 April for holding an important meeting with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif. (NTN)
         17
 » The Kabul regime,President Najib-ullah resigned 16 April from all posts in government and ruling Watan Party and took refuge in the UN office in Kabul. BBC quoting reports from Moscow said that Najibullah had been arrested! while trying to flee the country. Several hundred troops, who defected the government, took control of Kabul 'airport and prevented Najibullah from leaving Kabul. According to reports Najib surrendered power to a coalition of generals and a key rebel commander. Senior government officials and members of Watan Party said that Najibullah agreed to turn over power to four top generals who joined forces with Ahmad Shah Masood. The generals are: Mohammad Nabi Azimi, Baba Khan, Asif Dilawar and Abdul Momen. Meanwhile, a senior general and Minister of State Security,
 Ghulam Farooq yaqubi, shot himself to death 15 April at night. According to an official declaration the new rulers have backed UN plans for a peaceful transition in Kabul. (MLM)
 . The Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin parties are now working on another plan to retrieve the situation in Afghanistan. Th*» heads of eight parties had a 13-hour long meeting in Islamabad 16 April which was also joined twice by Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif for sometime. The meeting was also attended by Minister of State for Foreign Affairs. Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, Mohammad Akram Zaki, Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Shahryar Khan, Secretary Foreign Office, Lt. General Javaid Nasir, Director General ISi: and Riaz Mohswmad Khan, Additional Secretary Foreign Office responsible for Afghan affairs. (MLM)
 » Addressing « press conference in Kabul 16 Apri 1 the regime Foreign Minister, AbduJ Wakil said, Najibullah has been stripped of all his powers in the government and the Watan Party after trying to flee the country. Power in Kabul now rested in the hands Of Afghanistan'a four vice presidents and the Watan Party, he said. The existing government was ready to hand over power, "tomorrow or the day after" to a UN transitional committee, made up of neutral per tonalities agreed on by all sides of tne Afghan conflict, he said. (MLM)
     Highly placed sources said in Islamabad that Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif hac, in the last few days, reportedly received signals from Najibullah that he mwy leave Afghanistan any hour and had o^en inviting the Afghan mujaheddin to ;oin the interim council to administer the country. "I cannot hold on indefinitely and if the pre-transitional council takes over, then I will leave Afghanistan", Najib was
257
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 quoted by the sources. The sources said, "Nawaz Sharif is constantly urging the Afgan mujaheddin leaders to immediately take a plane and go to Kabul to join the pre- transitional council". (NTN)
 “ Top foreign ministry officials said in New belhi 16 April that Najibullah, who has resigned . as Kabul regime President, will not be granted assylum ,in India, but he can come as a refugee.
 (NTN)
 i
 -   Abdul Wakeel, the , Kabul regime
 Foreign Minister, said 16 April that Najibullah has been deposed. In a press; conference in Kabul he said, Najibullah wanted to flee the country but he was stopped and was forced to hand over power to a newly formed council. Blaming Najibullah for treason to Watan Party, Abdul Wakeel said Najib was-hated by the Watan party more than byj the mujaheddin. (VOADS)                j
 -    According to news t, reports Najibullah, the Kabul regime President, has relinquished all his executive and party responsibilities. The news of his resignation was for the first time disclosed by the French Ambassador in Kabul. Diplomats say, Najibullah has handed over power to four senior generals who are allied with Ahmad Shah Masood, the JIA commander. It is said that the four generals, are' Mohammad Nabi Azimi, Baba Jan, Asif Delawar and Abdul Momen. (VOADS)
                    18
 " The city of Herat fell to the mujaheddin of HIA 17 April, reports ANA. Mujaheddin also broke into the city, prison and released all the prisoners there. In another development IIA commander, Haji Sher Alam captured, three military posts in Paghman district of Kabul province. Mujaheddin made advancements upto Bagh-e-Daud
 around ' 12 kilometers west of Kabul , city. (NTN)
 -  Talking informally to a group of!
 newsmen at the Shamshatu refugee campi in Peshawar 17 April Gulbuddin Hekmat-1 yar, leader of HIA, said that events in Kabul were a drama staged by thei enemies of mujaheddin and Islam tq fizzle out the plan of HIA but this, instead has brought the goal of the mujaheddin more nearer. Najibullah having been stripped from all the administrative posts, the reigns of power were in the hands of the> comprades of Babrak Karmal and Sultan Ali Keshtmand. He said HIA believed in, the peaceful transition of power to the interim administration and would make-sure that the future governments in Afghanistan came through general! elections and that coups were no more repeated.      If       the      present
 administration in Kabul failed to transfer power to the mujaheddin-nominated council, then no one could stop the armed mujaheddin from entering Kabul city. He said that mujaheddin have made advances towards Kabul city from different fronts. (MLM)
 -  Two military aircraft of the Kabul
 regime were flown from the Shindand military airbase to the Iranian city of Meshed by Iranian    pilots 17 April,
 wired reports told ANA from Farah. Reports say that Iran sent 60 "Sepahe Pasdaran" including 20 pilots to the Shindand airbase which is under the seige of       Farah mujaheddin.     The
 commanders in .Farah province have taken-a strong exception to this blatant interference in      the . affairs    of
 Afghanistan and appealed to the world community to stop Iran from interfering in the affairs of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 " Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in an interview with VOA said that commander Ahmad
S.hah Masood telephoned to him (date not given) and told him that forces of HIA, (Hekmatyar)    tried to prevent      the
258
 APR IL-JUNE• 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  advance of his forces when the mujaheddin of Ahmad Shah Masood moved towards Kabul.- Mujaddedi said that the strength of Ahmad Shah Masood forces is greater, and he does not believe that Hekmatyar group will check its way. He said hia mujaheddin are on alert near Kabul.. (MLM)
     Kabul regime foreign Minister Abdul 'Wakil met mujaheddin leader Ahmad Shah Masood at Charikar 17 April. Diplomatic 'sources said that he went there to work out some kind of arrangement with 'Masood for a peaceful transition of power to the interim Afghan Council. (MLM)
  » Iran is working diplomatically to secure a peaceful transition of power in Afghanistan, Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati told Tehran Radio in an interview broadcast 17 April. (MLM)
  - The UN Security Council after a, closed door session for nearly 90 minutes, convened by US and the Russian Federation 16 April, called on all groups in Afghanistan to show restraint and pursue the political solution envisaged by the UN, reports AAP. There is no viable alternative to a political | solution of the Afghanistan crisis, the• Council President Simbarashe Mumbengwi of Zimbabwe, told reporters reading from an agreed text. "Failure to do so could only perpetuate the suffering of the Afghan people", he said. (PT)
 -  UN envoy Benon Sevan held urgent meetings with Kabul's new rulers 17 April to try to prevent a slide into anarchy following the ousting of regime President Najibullah. (PT)
 -   Pakistan 17 April started fresh efforts to establish contacts with the Afghan mujaheddin commanders inside the country to prevent the already saturated situation from further deterioration. A sensitive agency has
  been assigned the -task to "go and. convince the commanders", said high level sources in the Foreign Office in Islamabad. Benon Sevan, Foreign Office officials said, is constantly exchanging views with the Pakistani experts by telephone informing them about the latest developments taking place inside Afghanistan. "We can see little hope to bring Afghan mujaheddin leaders closer to the UN peace formula, said official sources. (MLM)
    According to latest reports heavy gunbattle has been continuing in Kabul and the different Afghan groups are only 18 miles away from the capital preparing for final assault, reports PTV. Meanwhile, regime generals sympathetic to the northern alliance were reportedly working in close contact with General Abdul Momen, one of the Generals of the northern coalition who is now in Kabul. (NTN))
    The Indian Express newspaper said 17 April that India planned to rescue deposed Kabul regime President Najibullah and fly him to New Delhi. The plan was to smuggle out Najibullah but the attempt was foiled when news of the plan leaked to the Afghan armed forces, who prevented Najibullah's departure on the plane parked at Kabul airport. (NTN)
 - Afghanistan Ambassador in India has i fled his post and gone underground along with the family of deposed ,
 President Najibullah, his brother-in-law, an embassy spokesman said in New Delhi 17 April. (NTN)
  The Nation in its editorial 18 April says that Najibullah's exit from the scene in Kabul even before he could formally hand over power to a UN brokered transitional council, has more than ever before brought home the explosive possibilities inherent in the situation of flux that now prevails in
259
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  the Afghan capital. No matter what has caused the dramatic disarray in Kabul and whether or not the remnants of Najib regime are capable of holding the fort in the face of a major onslaught, there appears to be no viable alternative to take over power in Afghanistan. While the mujaheddin groups are hopelessly divided, not even in a position to agree on the composition of an interim government, and Afghanistan is virtually in control of mutually hostile warlords, largely split on ethnic and tribal lines, the only ray of hope for ensuring a modicum of peaceful and orderly transition is the UN peace plan. (NTN)
  « According to VOA, UN envoy Benon Sevan has been holding talks for taking Najibullah out of the country but some authoritative persons in the Watan Party are not permitting him to do so.
  (NWT)
  “ The daily Jang in its editorial 18 April says though 13-year bloodshed, alien domination and remnants of communists appear to have come to an end with the exit of Najibullah but at the same time it also seems that the sufferings of the Afghans are not yet over under a US conspiracy. Western media are highly projecting certain Afghan commanders who are also said to have been receiving direct aid from the western countries. It is apprehended that US and her allies will support particular Afghan groups with the aim of creating dissentions between the Afghan mujaheddin, plunging Afghanistan into a bloody civil war on ethnic and linguistic lines. In the circumstances high responsibility devolves on the shoulders of all the Afghan mujaheddin to forge complete unity in their ranks by remaining vigilant against US conspiracies and moves by certain neighboring, countries. They should, therefore, lose no time in setting up an interim council with their full consensus. (JG)
 - Talking to Jang 17 April former] COAS, General (Rtd)' Mirza Aslam Beg,, said the UN plan for Afghanistan has lost its impact as it was prepared in haste without a consensus between all the Afghan mujaheddin parties. Things are now in the hands of the Afghan mujaheddin and Pakistan should fully support them in this hour of trial as in the past. (JG)
 * Abdul Haq Shafaq, the HWIA speaker regarding the fall of Najib in an interview in Tehran said, overthrowing the Kabul regime and eliminating Najib was one of the strategic objectives of the Afghan jehad and with this the main hurdle for the return of peace in the country has been removed. In answer to a question regarding an attack on Kabul he said, "we do not intend to enter the city through military operation. Having an upper hand right at this moment and enjoying the support of the citizens of Kabul, the mujaheddin will soon occupy the entire city without any efforts. (VOADS)
 " Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA, has said regarding the fresh developments in Afghanistan that he was really concerned about recent events. "I hope those responsible for the coup against Dr. Najibullah, by resorting to logic, choose a path which will assist the return of peace to the country", he said. He said the only way to step up peace efforts under the preset conditions was the UN peace process. Any steps to frustrate these efforts will prove detrimental to the process. "We must try to see the plan implemented soon in order to avert further bloodshed" he concluded.
(BBCFS)
     The Guardian correspondent reports, that chances are very dim for finding a leader in Afghanistan who will enjoy the support of the remaining Afghan army of very low morals and, at the
260
  APR I L-JUNE * 1992    illMHfl              VOL. 5 NO; 3
  same time, be acceptable to mujaheddin qroups who are advancing on Kabul. The reports add, though the West supported the struggle for the downfall of Najib,I nonetheless they may now regret it for a radical Sunni government in Kabul may very well influence Islamic movements in the central Asian republics and may boost the morales of the radical groups in Pakistan and the Middle East who • have helped the mujaheddin for long periods. (BBFS)
                    19
  " The new Kabul regime has reached an accord with Afghan leader Ahmad Shah Masood, its embassy in India said 18 April. Embassy Counsellor Ziauddin Naseery said Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil held "detailed and positive" talks with Masood 17 April and has come to an understanding with him. (PT)
  * Kunduz and its historic fort have fallen into the hands of the mujaheddin. The situation in the city was quiet and JIA fighters were "advancing on the airport, reports MIDIA. (NTN)
 *  State Department deputy spokesman, Richard Boucher, said in Washington 17 April that the US fully support UN efforts to help stop the fighting in Afghanistan and create an atmosphere conducive to a peaceful transition to self-determination. (PT)
 - According to ANA mujaheddin of three organizations HIA (Hekmatyar), IIA and HIA (Khales) launched a joint operation and captured Kunduz city and its military airbase 18 April. (PT)
 *  Radio Kabul announced 18 April that Vice President Abdul Rahim Hatef had taken over as Acting President. (PT)
 *   Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 18 April at a lunch with Indo-Pak representatives who are havinq an unofficial dialogue, ANP leader Khan Abdul Wali! Khan said that Afghanistan has plunged into deep trouble with the premature ouster of President Najibullah. Regarding role of Iran he said Iran had manipulated the situation to divide Afghanistan on linguistic and ethnic grounds. (MLM)
   " In a message to UN Secretary General 18 April Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, voiced concern and regret that some Afghan groups were opposed to the UN peace efforts. "Iran totally supports the efforts of the UN and of its envoy, Benon Sevan, and is ready to give any help necessary in this grave moment of Afghanistan", he said. Meanwhile The Tehran Times warned / the mujaheddin 18 April that "unless they give their support to a peaceful transfer of power, a second Lebanon might emerge". (MLM)
  * A press release issued by the Ira-nian Embassy in Islamabad 18 April denied a report appearing in a section of the press that an Afghan plane with its crew landed at Meshed airport 17 April. (MLM)
 " A foreign office spokesman told correspondents in Islamabad 18 April that talks were going on in Peshawar with mujaheddin leaders to secure their agreement to the composition of the council to which power should be transferred in Kabul. In reply to e question the spokesman said that Pakistan was continuously in touch with Iran and exchanging view oh the' developments in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  According to an OIC statement im Jeddah 18 April the organization has welcomed the ouster of Kabul regime President Najibullah, saying the move would pave the way for restoring peace in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  The officials in Washington said 18 April the US has "very few" interests
261
APRIL-JUNE, 1992         AfGIMfi              VOL. 5 NO. 3
wmmmmammammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmHmmaBammmm
 at stake in Afghanistan. They cited the end of the cold war and the fact that the former Soviet Onion no longer has military presence in the country and near the oil-producing Persian Gulf as the main reasons for the OS new stance: to the unfolding events in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 " Addressing Mardan District Bar 18 April Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the JI Chief, said "we oppose and condemn the conspiracies being hatched against the people of Afghanistan." Condemning the ON formula under "which a 15-member Afghan Council is to be formed he said that only fair and free elections in Afghanistan was the solution. It is the right of the people of Afghanistan to-elect their government, he said. The US: is opposing the establishment of an-Islamic government in Afghanistan as she feels threatened by the formation-of a grand Muslim bloc in this part of the world, he said. (MLM)
 " Talking to a group of journalists in a reception at the Iranian embassy in Islamabad 18 April Mir Mahmoud Musavi, special envoy of the Iranian government, opposed any role for the UN peace-keeping force in Kabul. "A force comprising western elements will never be acceptable to Afghans", he said. Shahryar Khan, Secretary Foreign Office, who also attended the reception, said to a question that exit of Moscow-installed Najibullah has changed Pakistan's perception about administration in Kabul. "Now Pakistan can talk to the administration, sitting in Kabul as Islamabad did with Noor Mohammad Taraki in late 70s" he said. (MLM)
 " In a statement to his commanders Mawlawi Khales, leader of the HIA, has said not to confront other Muslims just to gain political power. He has also urged the HIA (Hekmatyar) and JIA leaders to proceed towards peace and security and not to spoil the fruits of
 the 14-year-long jehad efforts. He said that there should be no compromise with the Kabul present rulers and if the latter are honestly interested in the country's peace and stability, they should transfer power to the mujaheddin peacefully. (VOADS)
 * Dr. Abdus Samad Hamed, a former Deputy Prime Minister of Afghanistan, says regarding the latest developments and meetings between leaders of the Watan Party and some mujaheddin commanders, "meetings of this nature shall cause dissension among the mujaheddin who are in desperate need of unity in order to avert a civil war. Preference of one side over the other is, in fact, a challange for fighting between the various mujaheddin groups leading to an indirect attack on Kabul and the subsequent further destruction of Kabul and adding to the sufferings of its defenceless inhabitants of the city." Hamed added that if they are really for the transfer of power, then they should contact the UN special envoy. (BBCFS)
                 20
 » A new coalition, Islamic Jehad Council, was formed in Afghanistan 19 April. Headed by mujaheddin leader Ahmad Shah Masood the alliance consists of anti-regime forces in Afghanistan. The alliance does not include HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. Ahmad Shah Masood told foreign journalists at the outskirts of Kabul that they would not enter the city until a mujaheddin government was in control there. (MLM)
 - Despite hectic efforts of the Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, the Peshawar-based Afghan resistance leaders failed to reach a compromise on current Afghan situation as well as for adopting a joint strategy on future Afghan Interim Government. The meeting started at 8.30 PM 18 April and
262
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                        AFGHANJIHAfl                         VOL.  5   no.  3
 continued till the early hours of 19 April. (NTN)
 “ A foreign office spokesman in a press briefing in Islamabad 19 April, said, at the meeting of the Prime' Minister with all of the mujaheddin, parties in Peshawar 18 April a broad consensus has been developed in principle for the formation of a mujaheddin's Council for smooth, peaceful and orderly transfer of power to the council from the Kabul authorities. He said, it was agreed that the 10 mujaheddin parties would be nominating two representatives each. The proposal, he said, had the concurrence of the UN Secretary General's representative,. Benon Sevan. Meanwhile, some resistance leaders have outrightly rejected the proposal of entering into an alliance with the ruling Watan Party. (NTN)
 * A powerful coalition of Afghan mujaheddin, troops and militia commanders have assembled north of Kabul and are preparing to replace the regime in the capital, reports said 19 April. The coalition forces headed by Ahmad Shah Masood want a peaceful takeover of Kabul. Masood is joined by defecting militia commanders Abdul Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Jaafar Naderi and General Momin. (PT)
 - A mujaheddin source told MIDIA that Jalalabad, the center of Nangarhar, completely surrendered to the mujaheddin 19 April. Division No.11, airbase and all the security posts of the city defected to the mujaheddin. According to PPI the center of Wardak province, Maidan Shar, also fell to the' mujaheddin and all the regime troops; surrendered without any major resistance. The provincial headquarters of Samangan province, Aibak, fell to the mujaheddin 19 April and mujaheddin broke open the city prison releasing all the mujaheddin prisoners there. (PT)
      Abdul Wakil, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, met Ahmad Shah Masood 19 April for the second time during the last 72 hours. Abdul Hakil said talks
 were held on two propositions ----------
 formation of mujaheddin government in Kabul    and setting up of a pre-
 transition interim council under the UN peace formula. He said that Commander Masood gave an assurance that he would not attack the city while peace talks were in progress. (MLM)
 “ Pakistan is reported to have urged Iran to exercise its influence on Tadjek guerilla leader Ahmad Shah Masood and ask him to extend his cooperation to the ongoing UN peace efforts to end the conflict in Afghanistan and announce his unequivocal acceptance of the UN peace plan. Sources in the Foreign Office in Islamabad told The Muslim that Pakistan had decided to approach Iran in a bid to prevail upon the Afghan mujaheddin leaders to agree on a neutral council, which could take over power in Kabul from the present regime. (MLM)
 “ Pakistan has been in contact with commanders of northern Afghanistan who have achieved great successes ' in the Afghan jehad recently. This includes Commander Ahmad Shah Masood, who has sent messages to the President and Prime Minister, conveying assurance that he supports a peaceful transfer of power in Kabul and looks forward to mujaheddin leadership to quickly work out a political plan. (MLM)
 " The Nation in its editorial 20 April says that in case better sense does not prevail among the rival Afghan power seekers and drift to chaos and anarchy is unabated, regardless of who seizes control in Kabul, Afghanistan will be headed for fragmentation into as many, independent regions as there are warlords strong enough to hold a territory. The events in Afghanistan are
263
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  moving at a dramatic pace. Any further delay in securing the elusive peace agreement could be fatal to peace prospects and may unleash a reign of terror unprecedented in the i3-year-old Afghan conflict. (NTN)
  * News reports indicate Masood has said that he is quite capable of entering Kabul but he desists from doing so lest other groups would follow suite. He said, "as soon as we are in Kabul other mujaheddin groups, irrespective of their strength, shall be able to enter the city without the least resistance. Though we may have the government to ourselves we shall not be able to control the situation. (BBCPS)                              ,
  - A former Deputy Premier, Dr. Abdus
  Samad Hamed, says that ■ the present
  confusing situation in Afghanistan is
 the result of communist intrigues. They
 have launched a coup against Najib in
 order to create discord among the
 mujaheddin forces. "The mujaheddin * f ought to have established a committee
 for taking over the power from the
 Kabul regime thus forming an interim
 government composed of the majority of
 the mujaheddin", he said. (VOAPS)
                    21
 » Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has given deadline to the ruling military officials of Kabul to surrender to mujaheddin   by April 26 at  the latest
 and avail general amnesty reports ANA. "If the gang of four did not surrender unconditionally then the mujaheddin will have    to remove it by force",  he
 warned. (NTN)
 - Commander Ahmad Shah Masood sent reinforcements 20 April to the southern approaches   of the capital Kabul     to
protect it from attacks by other mujaheddin groups. A BBC correspondent said he   has seen    the    forces of. I
 Commander Ahmad Shah Masood posted alongwith regular army on the main highway some 20 miles from Kabul. He said gun and light ammunition fires are1 also being used against groups on Paghman  mountain. Hekmatyar on         the
 other hand has assembled his troops on. the south of Kabul. A report said that his troops have occupied a position at a hill-top near Kabul from where they were shelling Ahmad Shah Masood's position. (MLM)
 “ OIC special envoy Ibrahim Saleh Bakr, called on Minister of State for Foreign  Affairs,  Mohammad Siddiq Khan
 Kanju and the Secretry General Foreign Affairs, Akram      Zaki 20       April and
 exchanged views with them on various aspects  of the     ongoing  efforts of
 transfer of power to an interim administrative machinary in Kabul in a peaceful and orderly manner. (NTN)
 *• Addressing a crowded press conference in Kabul (date not given) UN envoy Benon Sevan has appealed to all Afghans not to undertake any rash action that might jeopardize the advent of peace. He said there remained two possibilities for an agreement, that of a pre-transition council of neutrals and that of a majority government in Kabul to replace the Soviet installed administration. (NTN)
 ~ At his daily press briefing on Afghanistan a Foreign Office spokesman said in        Islamabad 20 April      that
 commander Ahmad Shah Masood in high level messages to the Government of Pakistan and Afghan mujaheddin leaders has stressed that "he is not working for any separate deal       with      Kabul
 authorities". The spokesman said Masood supports the formation of a mujaheddin council to which power could be transferred and that is why he has requested mujaheddin leaders to form such a council at the earliest, (NTN)
 * A spokesman of the Peshawar-based
264
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 AIP told The Nation on telephone that Commander Ahmad Shah Masood was busy in talks with the representatives of the. ruling Watan Party in Jalalabad. Meanwhile, Engineer Abdul Qayoom Khan,, Peshawar-based Afghan Consul said that: negotiations of the Kabul regime offi-: cials were in progress with mujaheddim commanders in various parts of Afghanistan for making alliances at local levels. (NTN)
 - The UN has sought permission of Pakistan Civil Aviation Authorities for landing at any moment its planes at three airports including Peshawar airport in the next three days. According to reliable sources the concerned authorities and agencies have been accordingly informed about landing of UN planes at Peshawar, Islamabad and Karachi airports. (NWT)
     Deposed Kabul regime President Najibullah will arrive in India 20 April at night, a senior Government official said in New Delhi. Speaking on condition of anonymity the official said Najibullah's plane was expected to land at the city's internal airport after 11 P.M. Indian's Chief Government spokesman confirmed that authorities had made arrangements to receive Najibullah. Witnesses said security was beefed up 20 April, apparently in expectation of Najibullah's arrival. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime appeared to have reversed, after intense diplomatic pressure, its decision to stop former President Najibullah from leaving the country, diplomatic sources said. However, official sources in Kabul said details of the agreement had yet to be finalized. (PT)
 - Mujaheddin news services in Pakistan said Kabul's 11th Division surrendered Jalalabad city and airport 19 April. State television in Kabul said the city of Gardaiz, center of Paktia, was also
no longer under full government control after the local garrison commander made an alliance with a mujaheddin commander, Jalaluddin Haqqani. (PT)
- Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil, said in Kabul 19 April that a government' led by the mujaheddin was, now possible. He said he had met Commander Ahmad Shah Masood for a second time and they discussed the UN peace plan as well as the possibility of setting up an Islamic mujaheddin government. (PT)
 " Talking to a team of mediamen in Geneva Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said, recent developments culminating in resignation of Najib were positive   and encouraging. About    his
 recent meeting with Afghan mujaheddin in Peshawar, he said that there was unanimity and consensus among majority of the factions. Only one or two factions   have some   reservations  and
 showing reluctance to cooperate. (PT)
 " Afghan mujaheddin stormed the 22nd Brigade of Kabul regime 19 April and broke into Pul-e-Charkhi prison releasing more than 4,000 prisoners, reports ANA. (NTN)
 » Speaking at a press conference five days after troops at Kabul airport prevented  Najibullah  from leaving  the
 country Benon Sevan, UN envoy, said* Najibullah's departure from the Afghan political scene had been agreed on as "part of   the  peace  process". Sevan,
 refused further comment on reports that full clearance had been given for Najibullah's departure, saying the issue was both sensitive and dangerous. "His departure has been part 1 and parcel of the peace process. There was a certain understanding and the fact was that certain procedures were not followed by others", he said.(PT)
                                                                 “ A Saudi envoy delivered King Fahd's message to Afghan leaders in Peshawar
265
VOL. 5 NO. 3
APRIL-JUNE.
 20 April asking them to remain united and patient. The Saudi Ambassador met the Afghan leaders and discussed with them the developments in Afghanistan with special reference to King Fahd's message. Mujaheddin sources said that King Fahd wished that Afghan mujaheddin leaders should solve their problems through mutual understanding. (PT)
 * Briefing newsmen at US embassy in Islamabad 20 April a senior American diplomat said that the US wants broadest possible participation of different political elements in the body politic of Afghanistan. "We are nearer , to achieving the objective of peaceful transfer of power in Afghanistan despite the changes taking place there and are closely working with Pakistan towards this end," he said.(PT)
 » A participant has told The Nation on telephone that a meeting of the leaders of 10 Peshawar-based resistance groups in Peshawar has failed to reach a compromise regarding a joint strategy amongst the mujaheddin parties following the prevailing situation in Kabul. It was learnt that the meeting was convened with a view to form a council of the mujaheddin parties to replace the Kabul administration. (NTN)
 "■ Kandahar city and- its airport as well as Baghlan have fallen to the Afghan mujaheddin, reports MIDIA. The Afghan mujaheddir have formed their joint council for the maintenance of peace in Kandahar. (JG)
 » Abdul Ahad Karzai, a Kandahar dignitary regarding the surrender of the city to the 21-member mujaheddin council has said, the city was handed over to the counil. 19 April. The . council    has now taken over      the -
administration of Kandahar. He says, the c^iyicil consists of ulama, elders and mujaheddin commanders. (VOADS)
 ~ The all commanders' council and the union of Islamic Ulama in a resolution have urged the mujaheddin to defend the lives, property and dignity of the citizens with all their might. The resolution, read out by Mawlawi Abdullah Zakeri, also states the mujaheddin should not permit anyone to endanger the lives of the inhabitants.
     The resolution rejects neutral or coalition governments. The resolution also says that the jehad will continue unabated unless and until the atheistic elements have been wiped out and an Islamic government established. (VOADS)
                  22
 * A foreign Office spokesman said in Islamabad 21 April, the Government of Pakistan was pursuing the UN plan for an early and peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue. Active efforts were being made to arrive at a consensus for formation of the mujaheddin council but if there was difference of opinion from any party, the majority decision would be carried. Pakistan was making efforts to bring about unity among the Afghan parties so that the time was not lost and the smooth and peaceful transfer of power was made possible. Any activity or action that leads to bloodshed or ethnic strife in Afghanistan will not have support of the Government of Pakistan. Regarding All India Radio report that Najibullah was coming to Pakistan the spokesman said that Pakistan will assist UN in this regard if approached by UN. (PT)
 " Indian Prime Minister Narasimha Rao said in New Delhi 21 April he was unaware of deposed Afghan President Najibullah's travel plan but knew he had wanted to come to India. "The position will be known -by Tuesday (21 April) evening", he said. (PT)
 " In a press statement in Peshawar 21 April Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, leader ofl IIA, said the talks between mujaheddin!
266
   APRIL-JUNE, 1992                  Mill                 VOL.  5 NO. 3
    leaders in Peshawar have reached a very crucial stage and extremely important decisions are expected very soon. He said that all the top leaders of the mujaheddin were busy in mutual consultations for the formation of a new interim administration acceptable to all the mujaheddin leaders.. (PT)
<   » A US State Department spokesman,
    Richard Boucher, in Washington 21 April condemned recent "inflamatory. statements and calls for military action" by Islamic fundamentalists in Afghanistan saying they increased chances of new conflict. He said rebel leaders from all factions discussed formation of an Islamic Council to take power in Kabul. Ahmad Shah Masood, who commands the largest force outside Kabul, is in contact with other leaders and has called for a peaceful turnover of poweq. he said. "We hope this will set the stage for Afghan self-determination and for return of the refugees. These are goals which the US has consistently supported. In our view all sides should work closely with the UN Secretary General's special representative whc i3 in a i unique position to assist in resolving the conflict", he said. (PT)
    " Gulbuddin Hekir.atyar, leader of HIA, in a message from inside Afghanistan and also broadcast by Radio Payam-i-Azadi 21 April said,, "the formation of a coalition front with communists by the so-called mujaheddin and the recognition of the treacherous communist Watan Party to remain in the r government is a treason with the blood of 1.5 million Afghans which every ^ Afghan strongly condemns. If power is transferred to the mujaheddin council of Kabul and the mobilization , of armed forces given in their control, we will stop our raid on the city, will break siege around the city, and open all the supply routes besides doing our best to restore security of the city. (PT)
 *     Tanzeemul Ulama-e-Afghanistan (Organization. of Afghan Ulama) has taken a strong exception to the coalition of a mujaheddin faction with the ruling communist clique of Kabul and said that such an unholy alliance is against Sharia, In an interview with ANA in Peshawar 21 April the spokesman of Afghan Ulama, Mawlana Abdul Hakeem, vehemently condemned the understanding reached between the communists of Kabul and a faction of the mujaheddin in defending the Kabul city against other mujaheddin attacks. PHe said, "it is totally un-lslamic to either reach a coalition or hold consultations with the atheistic regime of Kabul and its communist clique to block the path of a purely Islamic government". (MLM)
 " Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 21 April the ex-Afghan parliamentarian, Prof. Mohammad Hashim Mujadded! and Prof. Mohammad Fazil have asked both Pakistan and Iran not to dictate to the Afghans but to counsel them only because they have never followed others' commands. They have listened to others' proposals but have never obeyed anybody's orders. They also regretted that the interim government of resistance groups formed in Islamabad could neither -fee shifted inside Afghanistan nor it was recognized by Pakistan, which blocked its recognition by other countries also. That is why the present vacuum happened in Afghanistan. They said, had the Afghans not blocked the Russian invasion, they would have entered the sub-continent unchecked. (MLM)
 *  A well informed source told The Muslim 21 April that none of the Afghan groups, participating in the peace talks in Peshawar, had indicated its nominee for the office of the president when they were asked to do so by a: highly placed Pakistan dignitary. In Kabul the Pakistan Charge d* Affairs met the UN envoy Benon Sevan 21 April
267
    APRIL-JUNE# 1992                    mm                 VOL. 5 NO.  3
  and apprised him of the latest contacts between      the 'Pakistan   government
  representatives and the Afghan leaders. An OIC delegation was also in Peshawar to persuade the resistance groups not to let this opportunity for a peaceful settlement slip away. Meanwhile, Engineer Abdul Salam Hashimi, Chairman Military Committee of HXA, has said his party had . no intention of ruling the country during the interim period, and will, instead, ask the revolutionary council     of commanders,   comprising
  eminent commanders of all the mujaheddin parties around Kabul, to take over the interim administration and conduct elections within the stipulated one year for transferring power to the representative government. He warned that those who were forming coalition with the communists could not divert the path of establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He said, the mujaheddin of HIA were determined to take the jehad to its logical conclusion. (MLM)
 * The Nation reliably *Learnt that a number of parties have „ in a meeting held in JIA office at Chamkani 21 April dominated Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi of HEIA as head of the mujaheddin council. The meeting was attended by Burhanuddin Rabbani, Rasool Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mohammad Younas Khales and Engineer Qu'tbuddin Hilal. Independent sources say that Prof. Rabbani was not ready to accept Mawlawi Mohammadi as head of the council. On the other hand a meeting of leaders of three moderate parties was held at the. residence of Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailanl, leader of the NIFA and also attended by Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mohammad Siddig Khan Kanju, Gen. Javed Nassar Chief of ISI, Sebghatullah Mujaddedl of NLFA and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi of HEIA. Acpordihg to a spokesman, the meeting started at 10 a.m. and continued till 3 p.m. He said it discussed a. number of proposals for
 formation of a mujaheddin council including proposal of Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi as its head. Some Afghan intellectuals were of the view that! Mawlawi Mohammadi was the most suitable person for the post as he always remained uncontroversial for all of resistance leaders. (NTN)
 *  The mujaheddin of Peshawar-based NIFA led by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani have entered into an alliance with the Hatan Party representatives in Kandahar province. Following changes in Kabul the Kabul regime officials in Kandahar led by sitting Governor Gen. Yar Mohammadzai formed a 21-member council with the Afghan mujaheddin of various parties. Two resistance groups HIA (Hekmatyar) and IIA (Sayyaf) remained
 away from the council (NTN)
                          , »
 « UN envoy Benon Sevan held talks 21 April with General Abdul Rashid Dostum, Commander of Uzbek militia in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif. During his visit to the city Benon Sevan met! with 50 commanders including General: Dostum, General Momin and General Syedl Maqsood Naderi. , (NTN)
 *  Talking to newsmen on his arrival in New Delhi 21 April the UN Secretary General Boutros Ghali said' that the objective of the UN in Afghanistan is to maintain its political independence, defend its territorial integrity and to promote its national reconciliation, reports AIR. He, however, refused to comment on whether ousted President Najib is safe or not. (NTN)
 - Former ISI Chief Lt. Gen (Rtd) Hameed Gul said in an interview in Rawalpindi 21 April that the Afghan issue was heading towards its logical solution. He said there ‘ would be no clash between the supporters of Ahmad Shah Masood and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as both the leaders were patriots with political wisdom. (NTN)
268
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 * Kabul regime Acting President Abdul Rahim Hatef said -21 April in Kabul his government was ready to hand over power to a temporary council of neutrals or a mujaheddin interim government. He said the question of whether or not members of the Kabul regime or the Watan Party would have a place in the new council or government “belongs to mujaheddin themselves". (PT)
  " Benon Sevan, UN envoy, who reportedly flew 21 April to an undisclosed location in Afghanistan outside Kabul, said 20 April that a transfer of power would be "a matter of days ... o* even less" in Afghanistan. (PT)
  “ Pul-e-Alam, the center of Logar province, fell to Afghan mujaheddin 21 April after a fierce battle, reports ANA. Mujaheddin got control over some other parts of the province also.
      The 100th division of Laghman has surrendered alongwith the 25th Sarandoi regiment. KHAD units around Mehterlam, the provincial center, also joined the mujaheddin. All the security posts from Mehterlam to Sarobi district of Kabul province have also been captured by the HIA mujaheddin, who have also taken over large quantity of arms and ammunition. (PT)
   . “ Talking to newsmen in Muzaffarabad 20 April the Amir of AJK JX, Abdul Rashid Turabi, said that during his recent tour of Afghanistan at least
    10,000    Afghan mujaheddin, belonging to , various groups,. had offered to fight alongwith tlie- struggling Kashmiris in occupied Kashmir. (NTN)
      Sayyed Hamed Gailani quoting Abdus Salam Hotak reports that the governor , and the military commander of Zabul Province joined the ranks of the'NIFA mujaheddin 21 April subsequent to which the NIFA commanders in the province formed a joint council of the commanders and civil officials. The
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
report adds the council has now taken over the administrative affairs of the province. (V0ADS)
                                              23
" Speaking to The Nation at his headquarter in Charikar 22 April mujaheddin commander Ahmad Shah Masood categorically said, he felt that Pakistan was helping Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. "I hope Pakistan will help the process of peace in our country", he said. (NTN)
*  Contradicting a statement by thel Defense Minister, Syed Ghous Ali Shah, a Foreign Office spokesman said* in Islamabad (date not given) that as far as a transit for Najib was concerned the UN had been in touch with the Government of Pakistan. However, there has beeii no formal request and when we are requested formally on this issue we will offer' our cooperation and in fact , we would support any effort or development which helps a peaceful transfer of power. Any such view would.
be supported by Pakistan. (NTN)
A UN Secretary General Boutros Ghall discussed in New Delhi all aspects of the recent developments in Afghanistan and expressed his concern on the political uncertainty there, including the failure to secure a safe passage for1 the Kabul regime deposed President Najibullah, Indian officials said 22-April. Efforts by UN envoy Benon Sevan to secure a flight for former President out of Kabul have again been thwarted by Uzbek militia leader, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who said he wanted "revenge on the former President".' Benon Sevan flew to Mazar-e- Sharif 21 April to meet with Dostum. but the latter refused to allow Najibullah toi fly out. (NTN)
*  UN Secretary General Boutros Ghali has decided to have an interim government in Kabul sworn in during hisi
269
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  presence there 26 April, well informed sources said 'in Islamabad 22 April. According to Ghali plan, the sources said. Vice President Hatef will, take oath from the new regime's members representing almost all the major mujaheddin factions but certainly not including Hekmatyar's HIA. Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has been tipped off to be the head of the new regime. It is learnt that the Government of Pakistan was persuading mujaheddin groups to accept the members of the proposed interim Afghan government. (NTN)
  * Addressing a press conference in Parliament House in Islamabad 22 April MNA Mehmood Khan Achakzai and Chief of
 PMP said that Pakistan was the only, country of interfering in the internal, affairs of Afghanistan. He asked Pakistan to fulfill its obligations for the
 implementation of UN peace formula in Afghanistan as a testimony for democratic norms. He said that' any efforts to sabotage the peaceful transfer of power in Afghanistan would promote ethnic as well as sectarian violences in that country which would later affect Pakistan too. He warned that ahy amendment or violation of the UN peace f ormula would create -explosive situation in the region. (NTN)
 " Briefing newsmen about his talks with the Peshawar-based' - resistance leaders in a press conference in Islamabad 23 April Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddig Khan Kanju, said that objectives of the jehad had been achieved and now all of -the -rival Afghan factions wanted that there should be no further bloodshed, territorial integrity of their motherland would remain intact. He s€id that Pakistan was facilitating the Afghan mujaheddin for reaching a consensus and it had . no intention to impose its decisions on mujaheddin leaders. (NTN)
 |. - A Kashmiri mujaheddin organization, Al-Jehad, in     a statement       read out to
 reporters by      telephone         22  April
 threatened to assasinate Kabul regime deposed ruler Najibullah if he comes to India. It said "Najibullah is anti-Muslim and it has been decided that death squad will be created to eliminate him. (MLM)
 - For the Sth day 22 April, meetings amongst the          various mujaheddin
 organizations  in different      parts of the
 city throughout the day failed to reach a consensus on a body which will fill the vacuum created by the resignation of Najibullah in Kabul. (NTN)
             V                   *
    Some 30 military and civilian
 officials of the former regime have
 been arrested by the four-man military
 council which seized power in Kabul 16
 April,, reported' Al-Bunyan quoting an
 officer of former regime army. (NTN)
    Speaking at a lunch hosted in his honor in Vienna by Austrian President Dr. Kurt Waldheim 22 April, the Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said a settlement in Afghanistan , is now "within our grasp." (PT)
 " The Afghan mujaheddin have captur.ed the' strategic garrison city of Gardaiz alongwith its military airport and all the security posts around the city 22 April report Al-Bunyan and ANA. (PT)
    Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 22 April a foreign office spokesman said that it was essential for the Afghan mujaheddin to take quick decision for the formation of a mujaheddin council as things were moving "very fast" in • Afghanistan. He said, efforts in Peshawar are continuing to bring all the Afghan parties on a single platform to form a council to take power from present Kabul authorities. The spokesman said,- the UN had been in touch with us about the safe passage of
270
APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 M1J10                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
  'Najib and we are willing to extend cooperation if formal request was made. (PT)
  * UN envoy Benon Sevan met with mujaheddin commander Ahmad Shah Masood at Charikar 22 April, reporters on the scene said. (PT)
  " A column of 2,000 heavily armed mujaheddin of commander Ahmad Shah Masood marched towards Kabul 21 April and camped just 12 kilometers from the city. Commander Mohammad Sharif who led the column told The Nation that their leader had ordered them to halt just' short of the capital and they were awaiting further orders. The Kabul regime army was allowing them through their lines. Meanwhile forces of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar were reported to be 25 miles south of Kabul and also heading to the city. (NTN) /
  " A spokesman of the External Affairs Ministry said in New Delhi 22 April that India's relations with Afghanistan are on State-to-State basis. He said ,the Government of India is in touch .with the UN authorities on the development in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  On his return to Kabul after his meeting in Charikar with Ahmad Shah Masood the UN envoy Benon Sevan told journalists that meeting with Masood was a big step forward towards the settlement of the crisis. (MLM)
 ~ UN Secretary General Boutros Ghali and Indian officials 22 April reviewed the situation in Afghanistan and attempts by his special envoy Benon Sevan for a peaceful transfer of power in Kabul. (MLM) *
*    Mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) repulsed an attack of .Gelamjair militiamen of General Momin near Dashte Chehil Dukhtaran 22 April, killing 60C militiamen and capturing 200 others, ANA reported. (MLM)
 » A Vice spokesman of US State Department Richard. Boucher has said that Afghan commander Ahmad Shah Masood was in touch with other Afghan mujaheddin leaders for peaceful transfer of power in Kabul, says a press release issued by the USIS in Islamabad. The State Department is satisfied on the development, the spokesman said. (NWT)
 * The HIA (Hekmatyar) in a communique broadcast by Radio Payam-e-Azadi 22 April asked the Kabul militiamen to vacate Kabul citjr till evening 23 April otherwise an operation will be launched against them. (NWT)
    HIA (Hekmatyar) has. released the details of its plan for an interim government in Afghanistan. VOA quoting an HIA spokesman, Abdul Salam Hashemi, said that peaceful transfer of power should be made to a Shoora of mujaheddin commanders .comprising all the mujaheddin organizations including both factions of HIA, NLFA, IIA, NIFA, HEIA (Mohammadi) and JIA (Rabbani). The Shoora should hold elections after one year and then transfer power to a representative government. (NWT)
 * Mass demonstrations were held at five different places in Kabul against the looting of big stores by Dostum militia in the city. They raised slogans and demanded an end to the communist regime in Kabul and expulsion of Dostum militia from the city. (JG)
 “ Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 22 April after a series of meetings with Afghan mujaheddin leaders the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, said that things were moving very fast towards a solution. He said • that Afghan leaders were exploring new avenues as in the past they were engaged in jehad and now they were working for political settlement^ (PT) ,
 »' A, senior.Kabul regime official said 22 April that five of Hekmatyar’s
 271
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 commanders came to Kabul for talks with the regime 21 April and said they would not carry out Hekmatyar1s threat to Kabul regime for a surrender by 26 April. (PT)
 “ The daily Jang in its editorial 23 April says that establishment of a government of the Afghan mujaheddin having become so visible after disintegration of communist regime in-Kabul, we should remain vigilant.1 against the designs of anti-Islamic forces aimed at rendering fruitless on linguistic, ethnic and parochial considerations the sacrifices and endeavors of Afghan mujaheddin. Such indications are already there with the exaggeration of differences between Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and other factions of the Afghan mujaheddin. Attempts can also be made to cast doubts over exemplary love and affection generated over, the years between Pakistan and Afghan     mujaheddin and ■ create
 misunderstandings between them. This is all aimed at preventing Pakistan and Afghanistan to become friendly countries in the times to come and thus work for greater Islamic objectives. Therefore, instead of supporting one or the other organization we should rather work for a consensus between them. (JG)
 “ Reports from Peshawar indicate that in a message to religious leaders of Pakistan, commander Ahmad Shah Masood has requested them to prevent Hekmatyar from attacking Kabul. The sources add commander Masood has requested to ask Hekmatyar why he should attack Kabul when the Kabul regime leader's are prepared to hand over the power in any case. (BBCPS)
~ The US is trying to recover heavy weaponry which it had previously supplied to the Afghan mujaheddin. The step has been taken at a time when a significant mujaheddin leader has threatened to attack Kabul if a radical
  Islamic government was not established in Afghanistan. (VOADS)
  " Ahmad Shah Masood, Chairman of the Supervisory Council, has requested Hekmatyar to reach a consensus with political leaders in Peshawar. Masood said he hoped an understanding would be reached with Hekmatyar adding, "if Hekmatyar could mobilize enough troops he would have entered Kabul long before now. (BBCFS)
  -  In an interview with the French daily Liberation Ahmad Shah Masood has said he would set aside his differences with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, provided he (Hekmatyar) "puts a stop to his activities". (VOADS)
  -  Mawlawi Khales, leader of the HIA, regarding solution of the Afghan issue has said, the mujaheddin should jointly elect a person as the head of the interim government, who would then send a committee- to Kabul for taking over power from the Kabul regime. He said, since the Kabul regime was at the brink of downfall they need not make haste. Khales said talks on the various problems in Afghanistan were continuing among the mujaheddin organizations and a decision would soon be reached. (VOADS)
                                                 24
 *  Addressing a press conference in New Delhi 23 April the UN Secretary General Boutros Ghali said, "the UN will do whatever it can, if not to find a lasting solution, then at least to adopt steps to provide national reconciliation in Afghanistan".' He refused to elaborate on Benon Sevan's efforts in Afghanistan saying it would jeopardize the process. (PT)
 *  Afghan Commander Ahmad Shah Masood met UN envoy Benon Sevan 22 April in Charikar where the latter arrived by a Kabul regime helicopter. At the same
APRIL-JUNE, 1992               M
     time troops of Ahmad Shah Masood entered Kabul's perimeter. "By the grace of God there has been no fighting”, Masood told journalists in Charikar. The contents of the talks between Benon Sevan and Ahmad Shah Masood were not known. Journalists returning from the meeting to Kabul reported hundreds of Masood troops walkihg towards the city and later they could be seen
                               , ranged up along a mountain crest visible from a hotel window. (PT)
     - A US State Department spokesperson, Margaret Tutwiler., told a news briefing in Washington 22 April that US and Russia are working to remove major weapons systems from the hands of resistance and regime forces in Afghanistan. She said the US is strongly supportive of the efforts of UN envoy, Benon Sevan, to work out a peaceful transition to a new government. (PT)
     “ Kabul Radio said in its broadcast 23 April that regime Vice President, Mohammad Rafi, met in Logar with HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. The Radio: quoted Hekmatyar as saying that the crisis over the formation of an i'nterim government and timely transfer of power as well as holding elections in a period of one year, can be solved.
   (NTN)
   -  Mawlana Fazlur Rehman, JUI Secretary General, told APP in Peshawar that he made contact with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar on wireless 23 April and the HIA leader agreed to the proposal' of not attacking Kabul after the April 26 deadline and said he would ask his mujaheddin not to
s fire a single shot till the formation of the Afghan Council. '(PT)
   -  Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 23 April the Chief of the Representation Council of HWIA, Mohammad ' Karim '• Khalili, said a comprehensive formula based on the
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  proportional representation of all segments of Afghan society to form an interim set-up in Kabul will be the only practicable solution to the Afghan issue. (PT)
  * UN envoy Benon Sevan, who returned from Kabul 2 3 April,         met  Prime
  Minister Mohammad Nawaz. Sharif and briefed him about the situation inside Kabul and his meeting with Commander Ahmad Shah Masood. Briefing newsmen a Foreign Office spokesman later said, Benon Sevan informed the Prime Minister that any government or council, formed by the mujaheddin, would take power in Kabul to fill the dangerous vacuum created there. He said Pakistan was in touch with Iran, Saudi Arabia, UN and OIC in the context of its effort to bfing about an agreement among the Afghan mujaheddin organizations for the formation of a council to take power in Kabul. The spokesman said we were in constant touch with the commanders inside Afghanistan including Ahmad Shah1 Masood. "If mujaheddin do not move fast to take power, it could lead to unfortunate consequences", he said.
  (PT)
  " According to All India Radio Commander Ahmad Shah Masood told newsmen (date and place not given) that anybody refusing to •- join the new council will be thrown out by the Afghans. (JG)
 « At the end of talks between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, and General Rafee, a deputy president of the Kabul regime, the HIA spokesman said discussions did not take place on coalition with, what he termed, "the atheistic communists and traitors". .
                              \
      General Rafee told a press conference in Kabul later that discussions between him .and the HIA leader centered on two proposals:
 (1) The interim government should
273
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 take over power with the agreement .of1 all the sides concerned.
 (2) A council should be established of commanders of Kaibul and the surrounding areas.
      Meanwhile, Ustaci Fareed the most powerful HIA commander says, there was no need to enter Kabul by the use of. force since the Kabul regime was falling apart just the same. Criticizing Masood for coalition with what he called, "the communist forces", Fareed said he (Masood) has , formed a coalition with elements from the militia, and the Kabul regime and others who have fought the mujaheddin, for long years, have destroyed the cities and have "transgressed the property and chastity,of our people". (BBCFSj
    Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General, criticized some of the mujaheddin leaders who, under the name of Allah, were challanging others for fighting. He was definitely referring to Hekmatyar who has threatened to attack Kabul if the government did not surrender until the evening of 26 April. He Warned, however, if fighting was triggered in Kabul it would have grave consequences.
 (BBCFS)
    Dr. Ashraf Ghani, Prof. at Jhon Hopkins University, says that every day adds fresh anxieties. If looting and destruction begins in Kabul it may result in the total end of foreign assistance. He said anyone starting the fight will not be able to feed his forces longer than four to six months.. "Moving towards peace through political means will be the best solution to the problem", he said.(VOADS)
                                                25
 » Afghan mujaheddin leaders agreed 24 April to form a 51-member council which will take over all political and military power in Afghanistan for two
 months, mujaheddin .news agency said. The agreement was signed by Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Younus Khales and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, who is in Afghanistan, did not attend the meeting but two of his representatives were present. The Council will be headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi of NLFA. Afterwards another council, identified as a "Leadership Council" will be formed fpr four months headed by Burhanuddin Rabbani of JIA. The Prime Minister will be chosen from HIA (Hekmatyar) and he will have three aides to help run day-to-day affairs. The Interior Ministry will be run by an aide belonging to Rasool Sayyaf of IIA. The HIA (jKhales) will run the education Ministry and Foreign Affairs will be looked after by an aide drawn from NIFA of Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. Informed sources in Peshawar said the defense portfolio will be allotted to the JIA faction to which commander Ahmad Shah Masood belongs. The office of Supreme Court Chief Justice Will go to the HEIA. of Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. (NTN)
 * In a press statement issued by the ANA 2 4 April      the   HIA (Hekmatyar)
 group rejected the agreement among the Peshawar-based Afghan resistance groups on the ground that the decision was taken in the absence of his party representatives. The statement said HIA believed that in the formation of Cabinet the Prime Minister must be consulted. Any proposal' that does not ensure elections within one year would not be acceptable to the HIA, and it will never .accept the formation of the council for the transfer of power which is unnecessary and redundant and that it would create further problems. In view of HIA the Interim Government is enough for the transfer of power, 'the statement said. (NTN)
 * Radio Kabul announced 23 April that Abdur Rahim Hatef who was appointed as
 APRIL-JUNE* 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  acting President after the removal of Najibullah from power has been demoted by the Afghan Parliament and appointed as senior Vice President. (NTN)
  *    State Department spokesperson, Margaret Tutwiler, said in Washington 23 April that the US is "very encouraged" by Afghan resistance leader Ahmad Shah Masood's calls for broad representation in a new ruling bpdy for Afghanistan. "In our view this is the path to resolution of the Afghan conflict", she said adding "we support efforts of, UN envoy Benon •' Sevan to assist .in finding a way for a peaceful and orderly transfer of,power to a new government that enjoys broad support". (PT)
  * Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif had detailed discussions in Peshawar 24 April with Afghan leaders regarding
 •formation of the transitional government in Afghanistan and congratulated them on arriving at a consensus in this regard. He said "now it is time to reap and enjoy the fruits of the struggle".
 , (PT)
  *    Briefing newsmen about accord concerning formation of a council to take ov.er power in Afghanistan the Chief of IIA Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf said in a press conference in Peshawar 24 April that during the first phase of the accord a 50-member delegation under the leadership of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi will leave for .Kabul within two days for getting power from the collapsed regime in Kabul. The 50-member .council will comprise 30 field commanders representing various jehad groups, ten ulama and 10 nominees of the resistance groups. The council, will run the affairs of the country for a period of two months, after which an Islamic government will be formed for &> period of four months under Burhanuddin
1Rabbani. The government will also have
a cabinet in which a nominee of HIA (Hekmatyar) will be Prime Minister. (NTN)
 " Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 24 April Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of the 50-member council of the mujaheddin interim government, called upon the world to support the Afghans ih their efforts for restoring a peaceful atmosphere in their country as well as in reconstruction and rebuilding process of their motherland. He also announced general amnesty ' for Kabul regime troops, soldiers and officers. (NTN)
 -. President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif have welcomed the accord reached 24 •April to set up , a broad-based transition council to take over power in Kabul. The President expressed deep sense of satisfaction that a consensus had finally been reached and hoped that it would result in the restoration of peace and tranquility throughout Afghanistan. The Prime Minister in his message said the accord will restore the Islamic and independent character-of Afghanistan and lay the foundation of a just peace in the country. (NTN)
 ~ Mujaheddin commander Ahmad Shah Masood said in Jabul Saraj 24 April he will defend the capital against the threatened attack by his bitter rival. He said a mujaheddin council will take office in an interim capacity "as soon as possible". (PT)
 - Tehran has made public its. preference for Ahmad Shah. Masood whose men are reported to have entered Kabul. Speaking in the north-eastern city of Meshed near the Afghan border 23 April, Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar. Ve'layati lavished praise on Masood, who has vowed to defend Kabul from attacks by rival groups. Meanwhile, Iran's. Foreign Ministry Director General Mir Mahmood Mousavi, meeting the UN envoy Benon Sevan in Islamabad, voiced1 concern about military moves by certain < groups which threaten Kabul, Tehran Radio reported. (PT)
 275
APR IL-JUNE, 1992
 -   UN envoy Benon Sevan discussed Afghanistan with top Indian officials during a secret visit to New Delhi 24 April and then flew back to Pakistan with Secretary General Boutros Ghali, UN and Indian government officials said. Sevan arrived at 11.30 a.m. on a UN aircraft for a four-hour stay as Boutros Ghali delayed'' his scheduled departure from India without giving any reasons. (NTN)
 -   In the first direct and detailed
 contact on wireless arranged by the ji Chief Qazi Hussain Ahmed between HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Commander Ahmad Shah Masood of JIA, they have agreed not to attack each other's positions and closely cooperate in the larger interest of the country and the nation on any objective proposal. (NTN)                ‘
 *   The US Government has banned the entry of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Yasser Arafat in the US. Diplomatic sources say that both the leaders are involved in activities against human rights. (JG)
 - Afghan mujaheddin have taken full, administrative control of Jalalabad, AIP reported. The takeover followed several days of discussion. (NTN) *
 *  The Pakistan Times in its editorial 25 April says the stakes in Afghanistan are indeed too high and any wrong decision by any group at this critical juncture might turn the hard-won victory of the mujaheddin into a bloody fratricidal conflict. This is a time to show maturity, patience and tolerance. It needs to be impressed upon the mujaheddin that the collapse of the Najib regime is not a victory for any particular political leader or commander but for the entire Afghan people. This is a time to unite for a broader objective, not to equable over partisan interests. (PT)
 M                       VOL. 5 NO. 3
 * Iran Has supported Ahmad Shah Masood, chairman of- the Supervisory Council. Ali Akbar Velayaty, the Foreign Minister of Iran, while praising Ahmad Shah Masood said that he was the most daring of all the mujaheddin commanders. Iran's support for Ahmad Shah Masood has come unexpectedly because in the past Iran had always supported'the Coalition of Afghan Shias stationed in Iran. (VOADS)
 - Quoting the Afghan International News Agency, the AFP reports that the Afghan resistance leaders have agreed on the formation of a 51-member council, led by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, to take over power from the Kabul regime. The report adds that another council, i.e. the Leadership Council, will take over from Mujaddedi after two months and will itself stay in power for another four months. The latter council will be headed by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani. (RA)
 “ Mujaheddin sources report that Hekmatyar has contacted Commander Ahmad Shah Masood by telephone regarding the present situation in Afghanistan. The sources add that the contact was urged1 by Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the JI leader, Mawlana Fazlur Rahman, leader of JUI and a number of Arab personalities.
 (VOAPS)
                 26
    r
 » Mujaheddin troops of different factions peacefully took over Kabul 25 April with some occupying the Presidential Palace, the radio and television station and most’ministries. At the Presidential Palace in the center of the town, Kabul regime troops and mujaheddin of Ahmad Shah Masood sat together at the entrance, while at the radio and television station militia troops of Uzbek Commander Abdul Rashid Dostum were in clear control. Dostum has allied himself with Masood who has
276
 APRIL-JUNE- 1992
                                                                                  VOL. 5 NO. 3
  pledged to defend the capital from an attack by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. Troops of Hekmatyar's HIA were in control of the Interior Ministry. An armored personnel carrier with Jamiat fighters stood guard outside the road to the Foreign Ministry and outside the Central Bank. At the Indian Embassy, an employee said, Vit is confusion here". (PT)
  ~ The Peshawar-based six resistance groups who entered into an agreement 24 April announced formation of a six-member defense council for taking control of the situation in Kabul with Ahmad Shah Masood as its head. The remaining members of the council included Abdul Hag of HIA (Khales), Sher Alam of IIA, Siddiqullah, Shah Rukh and Commander Deedar. Similarly, the six coalition partners .have also announced naihes of their nominees to the proposed 51-member commission. (NTN)
  - Fighter planes, took off from Kabul 25 April shortly after the announcement of a six-member council headed by Commander Ahmad Shah Masood to administer Kabul. Foreign military experts in Kabul said the planes were headed for positions held by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar whose troops have been massing to the .south of Kabul. Masood was designated Defense Minister in an announcement carried by national television. Fighters loyal to Commanded Masogd are in control of most of the strategic crossroads in the city. Uzbek militia force loyal to Commander Masood holds the airport and radio station. (NTN)         ,  '
  » Talking to BBC 25 April Pakistan's High Commissioner to UK Dr. Humayun Khan said Pakistan wanted that interim Afghan Government was acceptable to all. Asked if Pakistan was disappointed . by the attitude of .Gulbuddin Hekmatyar towards the Interim
 Council, as Pakistan's. different governments had supported and helped his HIA more than any other groups. Dr. Humayun Khan said it was a misunderstanding that Pakistan's support had been for a particular group or party. (NTN)
 » A reliable source told The' Nation that after reaching a -consensus about formation of an interim government Sebghatullah Mujaddedi was contacted by the Kabul regime and congratulated him on this achievement. The Kabul regime has proposed his early arrival • in Kabul to resolve the increasing tension, between ,the rival mujaheddin. (NTN)
 • The leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, in his final warning to Ka,bbul regime has asked to surrender to the mujaheddin until dusk 26 April or else the mujaheddin would go ahead with the military option. The ANA correspondent quoted him as saying in his message on Radio Payami Azadi that "the mujaheddin do not accept the recently-announced decision about the interim set up". He said this was an international conspiracy and mujaheddin would never accept the 51-member council. The council, he said, has to be replaced by the council of Kabul commanders if    at all it is needed.
 Secondly the cabinet has to be formed, by the Prime Minister himself so that he/ can form     a  strong and    stable
government. (NTN)
- Commander Ahmad Shah Masood said 25 April (place not given) that he was completely in    favor of  power   being
handed over to the new dogncil being set up under the agreement reached in Peshawar. He accused Gulbuddin Hekmatyar of attempting to stage a coup in Afghanistan   and planning to   seize
power in collusion with former President Najibullah. (MLM)
   \ ■ ■
 ; UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali,
277
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                VOL. 5 NO. 3
   during a meeting with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan 25 April, welcomed the formation of a transitional mujaheddin council to take over power in Kabul, a TV report quoting an official communique said,in Islamabad. (NTN)
   -  The newly formed Afghan delegation headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has asked the people of Kabul city, all the mujaheddin troops and the armed forces to obey the orders of the security committee headed by Ahmad Shah Masood, Defense Minister designate of the interim government of Afghanistan. (PT)
   -  The Pakistan Times in its editorial
   26 April says, now that the mujaheddin have reached a historic accord regarding a 50-member Afghan mujaheddin council to take over the administration of Kabul within the next two days, it is time to reap and enjoy the fruits of their struggle. So far as the different field commanders in Afghanistan are concerned, they should make their contribution towards bringing normalcy and providing protection to the people The Afghan leaders have to unitedly start the gigantic task of economic rehabilitation       and        national
   reconstruction in an atmosphere of peace and harmony to reclaim for Afghanistan its lost place in the Islamic world. (PT)
  *  . Addressing a wireless press
  conference from an unknown place inside Afghanistan 25 April the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that some of his armed contingents entered Kabul and occupied all the important buildings and closed ^the Kabul airport for all sort of air traffic. He said that all the militia commanders of the Kabul] regime have surrendered and. hoisted green Islamic flags atop all military arid government installations. He] advised the hostile elements inside and around the Kabul city to desist from] any kind of military adventurisml
  otherwise the HIA forces would storm Kabul with full strength. He said if any plane tried to take off from the Kabul airport it would be shot by the HIA mujaheddin. The Kabul city is encircled by our mujaheddin and nobody is allowed to flee from the city. He outrightly rejected the landing at the airport 27 • April of the council from Pakistan to assume power. Najibullah, he said, would not be allowed to flee from Kabul and his fate will be decided by the people of Afghanistan. (PT)
  " Addressing a press conference at PAF Chaklala airbase after his return from Sahiwal 25 April, Prime Minister Mohamtnad Nawaz Sharif, said it was Pakistan's foreign policy triumph in resolving the Afghan issue by effecting an agreement among * Afghan mujaheddin for peaceful transfer of power and the Afghan conflict had come to an end with it. He' said that Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran had largely contributed towards the successful agreement. It was the thanks-giving moment and the Muslims should bow before ^lmighty Allah in utter humility that he crowned them with this victory and success. (PT)
    Addressing a press conference in Kabul 25 April the regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil, said that Kabul would hand-over power to a 51-member mujaheddin council the same day they arrived in Kabul, "We highly welcome the accord reached in Peshawar and are fully prepared to cooperate in the peaceful transition of power", he said.
 ( PT)
    The ■ ANA reports that the HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin entered Kabul from the north and south and occupied strategic positions in the city. The JIA sources have also confirmed these reports. The sources add that the HIA attack on Kabul was planned by. Gen. Amanullah, commander of the Sama; garrison. The operations from the north!
278
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                 MulWfl
  and south were led by Ustad Fareed and
  Eng. Faiz Mohammad respectively.
  (VOADS)
      V
  - Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan has fallen to the mujaheddin forces without the least resistance/ Prior to the take-over by the forces of the JIA and HIA, the citizens of Kabul welcomed the establishment of a mujaheddin council for the interim government by holding rallies in various parts of the city. (BBCFS)
                   27
  “ Former Vice Chairman of National Intelligence Council of American CIA, Graham   E.   Filler, has said in  his
  latest          publication on Islamic
  fundamentalism that after defeating a world super power in jehad the establishment in Afghanistan   of  the
  government by the Afghan mujaheddin will pose a great threat to US and the West. He said Islam has now replaced Mafxism and Leninism and is' equally annihilating for Western civilization. Islam    is rapidly progressing     in
 Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey and Pakistan and is to lay its deep impacts on US policies. In future these Muslim countries will form such a powerful block that ignoring them will not be possible, he said. (JG) *
* Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Prof. Burhanuddinin Rabbani, leaders of HIA and JIA respectively, are understood to have agreed on tne composition of an interim government in Afghanistan. Both the leaders have, during their contact on wireless on the night between 25 and 26 April,, agreed that Burhanuddin Rabbani will be the President and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar the Prime Minister in the interim government whereas Ahmad Shah Masood will be the Defense Minister. Similarly, Chief of IIA, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, HIA (Shales) and Shia organizations will also get
                                                                                    VOL. 5 NO. 3
 representation in the interim set up. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi will not be included in this government because they have been working for some other elements. (JG)
 * The victory of Afghan mujaheddin in Afghanistan was enthusiastically celebrated by the people in occupied Kashmir. They came on the streets and raised ' vociferous slogans of Allaho Akbar (God is Great) and Islam Zindabad. At several places they also-distributed sweets. (JG)
 -   The Interim Afghan Council delegation led by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, scheduled to reach Kabul in two days time, could not leave Peshawar for the Afghan capital even after this period 26 April due to clashes between rival groups and shelling of Kabul airport by the mujaheddin of HIA. (JG)
 " Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has asked the ,50-member Afghan Interim Council to reach Kabul as early as possible, reports BBC. Meanwhile, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and members of
 the Interim Council kept discussing till late at night 26 April in Peshawar whether they should proceed on their journey by air or by road in view of latest developments in Kabul. (JG)
 - Highly reliable sources of HIA in
 Islamabad have said that an attempt by the deposed Kabul regime ruler Najibullah to escape from Kabul 26 April has been foiled by HIA contingents, and the Afghans involved in this attempt have been arrested. After prolonged negotiations between UN officials in Kabul and HIA, Najibullah has again been given in the custody of: the UN on the condition that UNi authorities     will be entirely
responsible for any such attempt by him in »»-e. (JG)
279
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
     Inspite of all arrangements for the departure of the. 50-member commission of Afghan Interim) Government to Kaibul for the transfer of power, the Afghan 1leaders failed to leave for Kabul 26 April. Some sources asking for anonimity have said that the officials were ''considering the land route departure of the 50-member commission's convoy if the situation did not allow air journey. The entire program of departure of the commission was depending upon the situation in Kabul and in case of armed clashes there, the possibility was almost bleak, (NTN)
     There was heavy fighting in many districts of Kabul 25 April as Jamiat and its coalition forces tried to drive HIA fighters from key buildings in the city. Heavy shelling and artillery :fire was also coming from the south where HIA forces are trying to advance bn Kabul. HIA forces retained control of the Interior Ministry where there! are also huge stocks of arms. Thp worst fighting was going on in the Mikroyan district where most of the Watan Party, and army officers live in six huge complexes of blocks of flats. HIA together with Khalqis controlled at' least one complex. Nobody could enter or get out of the area. At the TV and! radio stations Jamiat "cultural commanders" were writing news bulletins on bits of paper and handing them over to the staff to broadcast. The staff!
  appeared 'extremely scared and most of them had not been allowed to go home.
  Commander, General Nabi Azimi, appeared on TV at night 25- April asking Kabu2,; regime troops to obey the orders of th«| new Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood,, At his headquarters Jamiat fighters; stood guard alongside regular soldiers and it appeared to be the main baser from which the moping-up operations in Kabul were being carried out. (NTN)
  • Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has launched hisij promised attack on Kabul by, storming]!
  Bala Hissar Fort which is still an important garrison and holds ja massive arsenal of weapons. Kabul regime Air Force helicopters were going south to bomb Hekmatyar's advancing forces. Mujaheddin owing allegiance toi Commander Ahmad Shah Masood battled! guerillas from the HIA of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in the city center. Regime soldiers fought on both sides despite instructions from commander. General Nabi Azimi, to follow the orders of Ahmad Shah Masood (NTN)
  * Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 26 April a Foreign Office spokesman said, "fighting was going on in Kabul". Most parts of the city are under control of the forces obeying the orders of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the 50-member Council formed * in. Peshawar 24 April. The spokesman said: some elements in Kabul were trying to oppose the forces loyal to the Afghan Council. He said the. events in Kabul had vindicated Pakistan's Afghan policy to seek a smooth and peaceful]transfer of power. (PT)
 " JI offered thanks-giving prayers 26-April on fall of Kabul to mujaheddin at: Aabpara market in Islamabad. Addressing the gathering on telephone from Peshawar JI Chief,Qazi Hussain Ahmed, paid rich tributes to Afghan mujaheddin and said that they have changed the history of the world. Few years ago nobody could dream that in a short span of time there will be no country with the name of USSR on the face of the earth. He also congratulated Pakistani nation on the mujaheddin victory. (PT)
 * Troops loyal to Commander Ahmad Shah1 Masood took the Presidential Palace in. Kabul 25 April from HIA troops after a two-hour battle, eyewitnesses said. The> JIA troops and their allies from a northern coalition, headed by militia' commander Omar Agha, were bringing in. fresh reinforcements from the northern cities of Mazar-e-sharif and Charikar by Soviet planes and helicopters. Some
 280
APRIL”JUNE, 1992             HiJH              '       VOL-  5 NO. 3
 50 Hekmatyar men have surrendered 26 April to £orces of commander Masood, diplomats said. (PT)
 * Dr. Abdus Samad Hamed, a former Deputy Prime Minister, in an interview regarding the recent developments has said that a greater disaster is threatening Afghanistan which will lead to a prolonged fratricidal war. He said, the solution for this will be to consider the fresh realities. The political arena has moved from the neighboring countries to the inside of Afghanistan. The principal role should now be played by effective political elements who are currently in charge of Afghanistan. These are the mujaheddin commanders and other elements who have joined hands with them. Hamed said, their contentment should be sought and the formation of destructive groupings on linguistic and ethnic considerations be avoided by all possible meai--. otherwise nobody would emerge as the true winner. (VOADS)
    ~ Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, Professor at the US John Hopkins University, considers the conflict between Ahmad Shah Masood and Hekmatyar deeper than a mere hegemony of the Tadjeks or Pashtuns over each other because there are Pashtuns and Tadjeks in the ranks of both parties. Regarding Masood's position among his forces Prof. Ahmadzai says that the latter consists of- many different groups. One of these constitutes -the mujaheddin who have been under his direct command during the last 14 years over whose loyalty ii Masood can always' rely. The second group includes those who have coalesced with him as a result of Rashid Dustumls * historical move prior to the mujaheddin take-over of Kabul. Masood's influence over this group is at a minimum level. The third group consists of the remains of former Kabul regime army which have joined Masood at about the same time and who cannot count upon them either. Opposite to these there are other
 groups consisting of the secret police organization (KHAD) who may have other tendencies and maybe looking for other atractions. Some of these may have joined the Hekmatyar group. (BBCFS)
                                              28
 - Escorted by Pakistan police and the mujaheddin militia          Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi left Peshawar for Kabul 27 April to assume power as Interim President of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 “ Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has agreed to the formation of Interim Council which will rule Afghanistan for a .period of two months and would bring an end to ongoing fighting and hostilities there. The agreement, on behalf of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, was signed by his Deputy Engineer Qutbuddin after  Prime  Minister  Mohammad  Nawaz
 Sharif's talks with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood through wireless -in Peshawar 27 April (NTN)
 * A   Poeign  Office   spokesman  told
 newsmen in Islamabad 27 April that a ceasefire had been agreed by Hekmatyar and Masood and that .it had gone into effect. The agreement, he said, was mediated by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and    Saudi  Arabia's   Prince   Turki
  al-Faisal  in talks with      the two
  commanders via special radio hook-up from Peshawar. Meanwhile, the HIA in a communique released in Peshawar 27th April, said his party had set some conditions and a ceasefire would take effect after the "conditions are met".
  It demanded the expulsion from Kabul of all militia brought into the capital from outside, complete - mujaheddin government control over the Afghan army and changes in the structure of the army. It also demanded a purge of "communist officers" from the army and their replacement by a joint mujaheddin command, besides the taking over by "joint mujaheddin contingents", of the
281
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Isecurity of Kabul and all state installations. (NTN)
 *  UN Secretary General Boutros Ghali, after his talks with Iranian Foreign Minister All Akbar Velayati, told reporters in Tehran 27 April that the UN and Iran shared the same goals, in Afghanistan. Velayhti said his talks with Boutros Ghali were very positive and constructive and that Irani
 ' supported the UN efforts to establish a-just peace in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 " Heavy fighting continued in Kabul 27 April. The rival factions took up* positions even on minarets of mosques to pound each other's positions. Heavy clashes continued on Second day aroundi the airport. Helicopters and air force-planes were used by Kabul regime army to bomb the HIA positions and forces loyal to Commander Ahmad Shah Masood have strengthened their control over the capital,. (MLM)
 *  In a message read out on national television 26 April Burhanuddin Rabbani of JIA appealed to Iran. Pakistan and other Islamic and non-Islamic countries to help end the 14-year old conflict in Afghanistan. He said the plotters were trying to prevent "fruit of jehad’1 from reaching the war-weary people of Afghanistan. "We will not allow people with dirty hands to divide us on ethnic and regional lines"* he said. (PT) . .
 -In an interview with the BBC, Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni, leader of HIA, sai<k regarding the meeting of the mujaheddin leaders, on ceasefire, that the talks lasting many hours may continue even further. "The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan, officials of the Foreign Ministry as well as Saudi Arabian officials”, he said. Mohseni said, the following were discussed during the meeting:
1. Establishment of ceasefir between
 the conflicting sides in Kabul.
 2.  Adherence to the decisions of the leadership Council by the HIA (Hekmatyar).
 3.   Acceptance of Harakat-e-Islami conditions by the Leadership Council thus securing a ministerial post and a Vice Presidency for the Harakat.
 (BBCFS)
 * Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA, said regarding non-establishment of the ceasefire, "while insisting upon the establishment of the ceasefire we declare that the HIA should withdraw all their forces from Kabul so that to pave the way for the establishment of; peace and security there”. (BBCFS)
                                                 29
 " Reports reaching Peshawar say that fighting has erupted again in Kabul immediately after assumption of power by Afghan Interim President Sebghat-ullah Mujaddedi with fierce fighting going on in the city between forces loyal to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Commander Ahmad Shah Masood. A rocket shook the Foreign Ministry one minute after Sebghatullah Mujaddedi took over power. HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin ar£ reported to have recaptured Bala Hisar Fort and they are further advancing. Earlier, before ceasefire HIA air force destroyed ten war planes of Ahmad Shah Masood at Bagram airport. Meanwhile,
 IIA (Sayyaf) Commander, Mohammad Anwar has asked his mujaheddin not to allow any plane to land at the Bagram airport. Men of Ahmad Shah MasOod have said they are trying to flush out HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin from the building of the Interior Ministry. (JG)
 ~ Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 28 April the Chief of NIFA Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said, he would not join the Government in Kabul if
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
1JII
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  Hekmatyar or his representative was allowed to become Prime Minister. He said Hekmatyar has violated the agreed formula by saying that Cabinet will be formed by the Prime Minister. (JG)
  * Mujaheddin leader, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, assumed the interim presidency of Afghanistan in Kabul 28 April and declared amnesty for members of the outgoing Kabul regime, saying it did not apply to Najibullah and people of Afghanistan would decide what to do with him. Mujaddedi, who arrived in Kabul by road from Pakistan, asked Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to persuade his followers to lay down their weapons. (PT)
  " The HIA has named its famous commander in the north, Ustad Fareed, as Prime Minister of the Interim muja-^ heddin government and asked him to immediately assume the charge of the office in Kabul. This was announced by Engineer Qutbuddin Hilal in Peshawar 28 April. He also named Prof. Abdul Qadir Karyab and Commander Muzafaruddin to the high-level authoritative delegation for implementing the ceasefire agreement signed between the mujaheddin leaders 27 April. He called on the other parties to name their men for the commission to monitor ceasefire and warned that if other parties to the agreement continued to violate the truce, HIA will retaliate with full force. (MLM)
* Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 28 April a foreign office spokesman said that there was a vacuum of power and nobody was exercising power in Afghanistan. He said, since the previous government had lost its control over the affairs, it was presumed that the council chosen by the mujaheddin, as a result of unanimous agreement, would take power itself. The spokesman confirmed the report that Sebghatullah Mujaddedi accompanied by other members of the council has
 reached Kabul after a long journey from Peshawar. He said, nag soon as mujaheddin council takes over power, the Government of Pakistan would start dealing with it as a legitimate authority, representing the people of Afghanistan." (PT)
 “ Head of the Pro-Western NIFA, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani,* told a press conference in Peshawar 28 April he would not join any government headed by HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. He said that HIA had been given too much importance in the interim government formed in Peshawar 24 April. (NTN)
 *  Addressing a large gathering at
 Torkhman 28 April Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif announced that Sebghatullah Mujaddedi arrived in Kabul 28 April and has assumed power in the terms of agreement of 24 April under which a 50-member Afghan interim council   was formed. He said   it was a
 day of great rejoicing as it is a day. of deliverance for the people of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *   In a telegram to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, PPP Co-Chairperson Benazir Bhutto, has congratulated him on the "liberation of Afghanistan" saying "your contribution in this struggle for national independence has ' been remarkable". (PT)
 ~ Muslims facing possible death in the desert town of Ouargla in Algeria shouted   with joy at the news of the
 fall of the Afghan capital, Kabul. "Allahu Akbar" (God is great') echoed through   the town as more       than 50
heavily guarded men left a military vehicle   to enter a  building   nearby.
 (PT)
 ~ Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 28 April representative of Iran-based Shia Afghan parties alliance (HWIA) Mohammad Karim Khalili has
283
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                   VOL. 5 NO, 3
 denied that their alliance had accepted the Leadership Council formed 24 April by the Peshawar-based six mujaheddin groups. He said they would not accept any decision of the heads of the six groups and also the formation of a 51-member Council and distribution of ministerial posts of the AIG. (NTN)
 - Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, said in a press conference he .'would not join a government under the premiership of Hekmatyar.. Gailani said< "all important government posts have been given to radical groups and if Hekmatyar is the Prims Minister, then-the entire cabinet will be formed by his own choice. This will strengthen, their control even further. [VOADS)
        30
 * Prime Minister Mohammad Navaz Sharif paid his first official visit to the newly liberated Afghanistan at the invitation of . Afghan mujaheddin Interim Council headed by Sabghatullah Mujaddedi. He handed over a cheque of Rs. 250 million for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country. He was accompanied by Federal Minister, Abdus Sattar Laleka, Ministar of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, Federal Minister Mawlana Abdus Sattar Niazi, Senator Mawlana Samiul Haq, the Army Chief General \sif Nawaz, General Javed Nasi r, Saudi Prince Turky Al-Faisal and OlC Secretary General Hamed Al-Gabid. Speaking on the occasion Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said that he had come personally to congratulate Afghans on thiir great victory. "A tragic chapter has been closed and a new era has >-egun", he said adding that with the installation of the government peace will return in Afghanistan which will also give stability to the region. He also announced that Pakistan would provide
 50,000  tons of wheat to Afghanistan the first consignment of which has reached Saroi i. (PT)
* Mujaheddin leaders Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi, Engineer Qutubuddin of HIA (Hekmatyar), Najmuddin       of  HZA
(Khales), Engineer Ahmad Shah of IIA and Sayyed Noorullah of         JIA  and
representatives of other mujaheddin parties have in their six-hour long meeting in Peshawar 29 April agreed on important matters like the formation of a new interim cabinet, mujaheddin leaders' visit to Kaibul        and  the
establishment of a permanent security structure in Afghanistan.       Abd  Rab
Rasool Sayyaf told after the meeting that important decisions were made in the meeting. (NTN)
 » Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif offered thanks-giving prayers at a congragation in mosque in Kabul 29i April. (NTN)
 * At the head of a column of 100 tanks and thousands of men Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has entered Kabul, reports BBC. (NTN)
    In a report 29 April BBC said any Indian reaction could not come even after the lapse of 24 hours of the transfer of power in Afghanistan. (NTN)
      State Department Spokesperson, Margaret Tutwiler said in Washington 28 April that the US welcomes the interim transfer of power and installation of a figurehead chief of state in Kabul as steps toward a consensus government in Afghanistan. (PT)
~ A foreign office spokesman said in Islamabad 29 April that the situation in Kabul was under the control of forces loyal to the mujaheddin council headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. (PT)
“ Talking to APP in Peshawar 29 April Burhanuddin Rabbani, Chief of JIA said that the Afghan mujaheddin leadership 29 April formally dissolved the AIG
284
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 ■which was formed in March 1909, (PT)■
  “ HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar is not in a position to pose a serious threat     to     Afghanistan1s new
  transitional government, interim President Sebghatullah Mujadedi told reporters 29 April at the Foreign Ministry in Kabul after meeting the diplomatic corps. (PT)
 * in an interview to PTV the Chief of JIA, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said that his country would establish special relations with Pakistan so that joint and concerted efforts could be made for the progress of this region. He expressed his gratitude to the government and people of Pakistan for assuring all out assistance for the reconstruction of the war-ravaged Afghanistan. To a question he said the Afghan nation in future will opt for an elected government. (PT)
    Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 29 April Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said, "we have prepared a financial package for Afghanistan and we will help the Afghans with open heart. We have established a cell that will ponder as to how we can help Afghanistan in its reconstruction in various fields." Regarding criticism of the opposition he said that the 'solution of Afghan issue was a sufficient pro^f of the successful foreign policy of his Government. (PT)
 - Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif disclosed at a press conference in Peshawar 29 April about Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as having assured him during discussion on wireless that he would not violate ceasefire. (NTN)
 » Iranian News Agency reports (date not given) that Iran has recognized . the interim ruling council of Afghan mujaheddin. According to BBC, a>
 statement of the Iranian Foreign! Ministry said, it was expected that the ruling council would respect the: rights of Shias. (NTN)
 * Prime. Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif has appealed to the nation to offer thanks-giving prayers 1st May over the victory of the brotherly people of Afghanistan in the wake of 14-year long valiant jehad. (NTN)
 ~ Several rockets and missiles fell around Kabul airport 29 April when Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif was to leave for Islamabad after having a meeting with the Interim President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, in Kabul. A missile 'coming from the north exploded within the airport just when Prime minister alongwith Chief of Army Staff, General Asif Nawaz was heading towards the PAF plane. The frequent rocket and missile fire around the airport, delayed• the departure of the Prime Minister. Several bursts were also fired at the plane carrying journalists when it was leaving Kabul airspace. (NWT)
 - Naim Majroh, an Afghan journalist, told the BBC correspondent regarding the maintenance of peace and security in Kabul        that it  was upto the
 commanders and Mujaddedi in the capacity of the President of the mujaheddin council to bring peace to the city. Evaluating the murder and looting incidents by Dustum forces, Majroh said, the northern militia were recruited only for Najib's survival and at extraordinary rates. These militia were not bound by any international norms to human rights or dignity. "Therefore, it is no matter for surprise if they are behaving indecently", he said. (BBCFS)
 " Leaders of Pakistani Frontier tribes held a meeting 29 April in which they decided to request Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, to join the interim government
     APR IL-JUNE* 1992                        ■  AFGHANli[Hdfl                          VOL.  5   NO.   3
 in Kabul. The leaders also congratulated the entire Afghan nation on the freedom of Afghanistan.
      Malekzadah Wali Mohammad Khan urged the mujaheddin leaders and the Pakistan government to stop fighting between the HIA and Dustum Militia troops through talks and understanding. He warned, however, that in the event of foreign intervention in Afghanistan hundreds of thousands of people from the frontier province would fight in support of the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
                                        MAY
                                             1
 - The HIA (Hekmatyar) in a communique circulated to Press by ANA has said as the wild militiamen are firing heavy weapons, tanks, artillery and rockets on the innocent people of Kabul and destroying their houses under the pretext of defending Kabul city, firing of misiles on residential aree^s, where they resort to plunder, loot and massacre, we have ordered our mujaheddin not to conduct military operations in the residential areas and instead be positioned close to the city as a disciplined forebearing forces in a defensive position on four sides of the city until they leave the Kabul city and the innocent people of Kabul are salvaged from the atrocities of these ruthless, uncultured elements. We believe that the presence of this uncivilized and cruel force in the city contradicts the liberation of Kabul city, in its real sense, from the remnants of the previous communist regime. Therefore, they must be forced to vacate the city. (ntn)
 - The US is supporting the efforts
 towards stability in Afghanistan, western diplomatic sources said in
 Islamabad 30 April. About the American view of current political situation the sources termed it quite encouraging and said "things are moving towards stability and peace". Regarding Iran the diplomatic sources said Iran had worked very closely with the UN and Pakistan in bringing about peace in Afghanistan. The US is also working on a recovery program of the major weaponry from various mujaheddin groups, they said. The US would contribute 50 million dollars for reconstruction and development of Afghanistan this year, the sources said. (NTN)
 * Afghanistan's Interim Council held its first session in Kabul 30 April under the chairmanship of the caretaker President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, to discuss prospects of a compromise with HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. Defense Minister-designate, Ahmad Shah Masood, and 22 other delegates including commanders Jalaluddin Haqqani and Abdul: Haq attended the meeting. An official-in Mujaddedi*s Secretariat indicated that the Council had virtually slammed its door shut on Hekmatyar. "It is for the Council to decide but I think there is no more chance for Hekmatyar to enter the Council", said Assem Akram, Adviser in the Foreign Relations Department. Hekmatyar has nominated Ustad Fareed, one of his commanders for the post of Prime Minister but Assem Akram said he thought the "situation is different now". About prospects of a compromise with Hekmatyar, Defense Minister-designate Ahmad Shah Masood told journalists outside the Prime Minister's office 30 April:     "It was
upto Mujaddedi and the Countil to. decide". (PT)
* Reports coming from New Delhi quoted Commander Ahmad Shah Masood as having told journalists after his meeting with the Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi that resistance in Kabul has
 I:
  f'
V

286
April-june» 1992              WUWliKMD-                 vol. 5 no. 3
  been crushed after 350 HIA (Hekmatyar) men were killed and another 100 arrested. (NWT)
 . " In an interview with the Nawa-i-Waqt prominent defence analyst Brigadier (Rtd) Shamsul Hag Qazi, has said that excluding Gulbuddin Hekmatyar there will be no peace in Afghanistan. Statements by Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi indicate that he is representing Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and therefore concrete efforts should be made for removing differences between Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and
 Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.   Such  efforts in
 the past by Pakistan could not succeed because Commander Ahmad Shah Masood, chose in the beginning of April to compromise in favor of participation in power instead of transfer of power despite the       fact  that  mujaheddin
 parties were    never willing to accept
 such offers      over   the  years by
 Najibullah regime. The US, he said, has been accusing Pakistan of supporting Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and that is why it had insisted for direct supply, of weapons to mujaheddin commanders. (NWT)
 ~ Clashes continued near Kabul during the night between 29 and 30 April despite a ceasefire. Interim Council forces fired rockets in the south and its airforce also bombed Hekmatyar's positions. A spokesman of the Afghan Interim Council said that HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin have withdrawn 20 kilometers back and there is no more danger to Kabul. (JG)
 » Speaking at ai reception 30 April at Rawalpindi Press Club given in honor of Afghan mujaheddin released from Pul-e-Charkhi jail, MNA Raja Mohammad Zaheer Ahmed Khan, said that under pressure of foreign forces the present Government of Pakistan helped in the establishment of such a Government in Afghanistan as has no practical contribution in the Afghan jehad. He said a
 conspiracy is underway to nullify the sacrifices of 1.5 million Afghans. (JG)
                                                   3
 *• People in the Indian occupied Jammu: and Kashmir offered special. thanksgiving prayers 1 May after the liberation of Afghanistan from the Soviet installed oppressive communist regime. Two lakh and ninety people offered the thanks-giving prayers respectively at the Hazrat Belal and Jamia Masjid Srinagar. (PT)
 -  Assem Akram, a spokesman for the Afghan Interim Government said in Kabul that guerillas owing allegiance to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had blocked at convoy of 130 trucks carrying food supplies. If HIA (Hekmatyar) did not agree to let the convoy go, the' government would order an offensive, he said.
 ( NTN)
 -   Addressing the people at the-
 Badshahi Masjid Lahore 2 May on the* occasion of offering thanks-giving. prayers Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif congratulated the whole nation and the mujaheddin on their victory in the Afghan jehad. He said >jthe victory of the Afghan mujaheddin was the success of Islam. Paying rich tributes to the former President Shaheed Ziaul Hag, the Prime Minister said that he was one of .the greatest heroes of the Afghan jehad and laid his life for this cause. He said it was the late General Ziaul Haq who launched holy war against a super power which was finally 'won by the mujaheddin after the 14-year unstinted struggle. He said that General Akhtar Abdul Rehman also, .made tremendous contributions in the. Afghan jehad and also sacrificed his. life for its success. He said his. recent visit to Kabul after the victory of mujaheddin was a moment of great joy and happiness for him and Pakistan. (PT).                 '
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  * Addressing a big public meeting on the occasion of May Day at Bela in Sindh the co-chairperson of PPP Benazir Bhutto said. Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and not rulers in Islamabad had emerged victorious in Kabul. (NWT)
  - Talking to newsmen near a SCUD missile base in the South of Kabul (date not given) the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that Kabul was besieged by them and nobody could, come in or go out from there without their permission. He said we have accepted ceasefire but militia is continuously violating it.' He said the Afghan nation will never allow Rashid Dostum militia to be iiqposed oh it. (JG)
     The Nawa-i-Waqt special correspondent has quoted HIA from Peshawar as saying that it has foiled in the initial stage the conspiracy of establishing a coalition government of communists, militia and certain mujaheddin groups in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin have .completely destroyed Kabul airport terminal building in a rocket attack 30 April. They have also took over the control of strategic installations and military units in Jalalabad. The HIA faction has also threatened a final attack on Kabul if militia remained in the city. (NWT)
 " The flow of Afghan refugees returning home intensified following taking of power by the mujaheddin interim government in Kabul. (NTN)
 - Talking, to journalists in Kabul 2 May the former Kabul regime Army General and now incharge of state security, Mohammad Yahya Nouroz, said "we are trying to bring some kind of law and order in Kabul as quickly as possible. But We are not completely satisfied with it". He said, a special commission, including the high security
 officials of the previous regime, had been established by the new government to review the security situation in Kabul and initiate requisite measures to improve it. (PT)
 * During a briefing in Islamabad 2 May the Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, told the envoys of US, UK, China, Russia, France, Turkey, Germany, r Japan, Indonesia, Egypt and Portugal that Pakistan would not take sides in the internal differences of the Afghan leadership because being in their own sovereign country, it was now for them, to work out and sort out their internal differences. (PT)
 « In a statement at the UN the. Secretary General Boutros Ghali welcomed the establishment of the Mujaheddin Interim Council in Kabul and said it represented an !’important step-towards the end of the suffering of the: Afghan people". He also welcomed thei declaration of amnesty saying,, "much! healing was needed in Afghanistan1" after 14 years of war. (PT)
 - According to All India Radio the
 Afghan Interim Council at its meeting1 chaired   by the Interim President,
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, decided to grant amnesty to the, deposed President Najibullah. (JG)
 -  The three factions of HEIA were remerged 2 May under the leadership of Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. This was announced at a press conference in Peshawar 2 May by Mawlawi Mansoor. (PT)
 - In the context of the view expressed
 by the former Chief of ISI, General,
                                                                                                     • *>
 Hamid Gul, regarding conspiracies by militia and Watan Party for participation in power instead of transfer of power ' in Afghanistan, the daily Jang in its editorial 3 May. describes as highly meaningful the warning by the General that attempts aimed at keeping out of power the
288
APR IL-JUNE» 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 parties having rendered immense sacrifices in the 13-year Afghan jehad will only lead Afghanistan to a civil war after its liberation. US State Department, Western media and Kabul rulers seem to be united against Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and decided to keep his powerful group out of power. In the situation the danger of a civil war and division of Afghanistan will always be there. (JG)
                                                 4
 » Political and military situation in Kabul is still uncertain, says BBC. Abdul Haq, member of the ruling council said that the council is facing severe differences and its members even did not talk to each other. In the meantime Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has once again threatened to launch attack on Kabul if Gen. Dostum's militia is' not removed’ from there. The BBC correspondent s.'uu that the forces of Gen, Dostum were patrolling the city on tanks. They were using army vehicles just like public transport. Meanwhile, Commander Ahmad Shah Masood told French parliamentarian, Bertrand Gallet, 3 May that he was trying to isolate Hekmatyar and that another key commander, Jalaluddin Haqgani, positioned to the rear of Hekmatyar, was loyal to the new government. (NTN)
 " UN envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, flew into Kabul 3 May on his first visit to Afghanistan since the mujaheddin takeover. Official1 UN sources said Sevan is likely to meet the Afghan Interim President Sebghat-ullah Mujaddedi and individual mujaheddin commanders. Sevan said at the time he considered Najibullah’s departure from Kabul a part of the UN plan on Afghanistan which had the agreement in principle of all sides involved. Meanwhile, Commander Abdul ilaq told a press conference in Kabul 2 M,.y that NajibUllah had destroyed a
   nation, that is why the nation has to decide about him. (PT)
   « A spokesman of the Foreign and Commonwealth office in London 2 May has welcomed the formal transfer of power in Afghanistan to the interim council headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. (PT)
 " Afghanistan's former Chief Justice, Karim Shadan, was found dead 3 May, his face and chest riddled with bullets. The sources told reporters that former Chief Justice was taken from his home by three armed men 2 May in the evening. His body showing signs of torture, was found the next morning. Former Civil Aviation Minister, was also abducted 2 May and is still missing. (PT)
 * In a communique issued in Peshawar 3 May HIA has called upon all the mujaheddin organizations to expel the ignominious militiamen from Kabul city to stop loot, plunder and murdering of the innocent citizens. The communique said the militiamen enter any house at will and plunder whatever that fascinates them. The Kabul citizens are sick of the immoral and inhuman behavior     of these uncultured
 creatures. (NTN)
 - Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has in a special message to Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif and Chief of JI Qazi Hussain Ahmed, said that he would cooperate with the Afghan Interim Government if Dostum and Gelamjam militiamen were disarmed. He also assured that he would hot attack Kabul and would rather try the militias to come out of Kabul to fight so that lives of innocent civilians could be saved. He has asked Pakistan to exercise its influence to disarm Dostum and Momin militias. (JG)
                                                                 The mujaheddin shoora holding the administration of Jalalabad has in a
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  meeting decided to hand over the charge of all the military installations and army centers to HIA (Hekmatyar). (NWT)
          5
      Government forces and hardliners exchanged artillery fire 4 May as UN envoy, Benon Sevan, met with Afghan Interim     President,      Sebghatullah
  Mujaddedi and offered "all assistance". Four rockets fell in unpopulated areas, where defense minister Ahmad Shah Masood is believed to be based, while two hit the diplomatic enclave of Wazir Akbar Khan. One rocket landed in the Italian Embassy compound, causing minor damage and no casualties. Benon Sevan called the exchange of rocket and artillery     fire      "stupid      and
  unacceptable". He declined comment on the possibility of despatching a UN peaceforce to the Afghan capital saying, "I do not wish to discuss that right  now.  It is  too early to expect
  that overnight". (NTN)
  » An Uzbek militia leader Nawab said in Kabul 3 May the militia raised in Northern Afghanistan by Gen. Rashid Dostum, would leave when other mujaheddin groups in the coalition, led by the new President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, could defend Kabul without them. He said, "the new Government is not strong      enough to tell us to get
 out". (PT)
 ", Western reporters have said they have seen Dostum men looting. At least five embassies, including those of Czechoslovakia and Egypt, and an Indian airline office have been looted. Locks were shot off, safes torn open and carpets and other valuables stolen. A caretaker at a Red Cross rehabilitation center for war-wounded children said Uzbeks   were to blame  for the looting
 there.  "They tied    up my husband and
 other men and spent four hours taking everythhing to a truck parked outside", a woman said. (PT)
 Burhanuddin Mohammadi, Taqaddussi, Nasrullah Samiullah.
 - The Afghan resistance leaders including the representatives of the' two Shia groups, left for Kabul 4 May to,, join their compatriots. They included Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Asif Mohseni, Ayatullah A.R. Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazin, who had recently wound up his faction of the HEIA to merge with Mohammadi' under the latter's leadership, withdrew from the caravan at the last minute.
 (MLM)
 * Talking to newsmen in Peshawar 3 May the future President-designate in the interim     government,      Burhanuddin
 Rabbanai, expressed the determination that the interim government was capable td crush the rebels and for this purpose a committee under the leadership of Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has been established for maintaining peace in Afghanistan. About the announcement of general amnesty by the head of Interim Council, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, he said, "it is the people of Afghanistan to decide as to whom they want to forgive and whom to punish for their deeds and the fate of Najib will also be decided in the same manner". Regarding atrocities by Dostum militia the future President said, "they have surrendered and as such are working under the directives of the Interim Council". He denied that militia force comprised of elements who were imparted training in communist countries. "They are common citizens of Afghanistan and are not indoctrinated with communist ideology", he said. (NTN)       .
    Talking to newsmen at Islamabad airport on her arrival from Karachi 4 May, Benazir Bhutto, leader of the opposition said, at the moment Afghanistan will be ethnically divided and' fade out like the Soviet Union. (MLM)
   The Washington post correspondent in Kabul has reported that Commander Ahmad Shah'Masood was just like Najibullah.
290
      APRIL-JUNE, 1992         mm            VOL. 5 NO. 3
      wmmammmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmfmmam
 The Uzbek militia he is using to protect himself is severely hated by all the Afghan mujaheddin groups. As soon as General Dostum foresaw the collapse of Najibullah he chose to . compromise with Ahmad Shah Masood. General Dostum is now in full command of Kabul and is demanding participation in power, the correspondent said. (JG)
                               «
 * The daily Jang in its editorial 5 May says the biggest mistake at the time of the establishment of an interim government and transfer of power in Afghanistan was that Afghan militia led by former Afghan Generals was neither eliminated nor was it made to surrender. The very Generals under a conspiracy organized a confrontation between Afghan militia and the mujaheddin of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. To keep the powerful Afghan groups out of power is part of an international conspiracy to perpetuate an atmosphere of confrontation and civil war in Afghanistan and make insecure Pakistan's north-western borders by dividing Afghanistan on ethnic and linguistic basis and prevent Pakistan's access to Central Asian Muslim states. Having played a key role in making successful the Afghan jehad and .the establishment of an Interim Council in Afghanistan, the Government of Pakistan should as well fulfil its obligations to create an atmosphere of understanding between the Afghan Interim Council and Hekmatyar group. If the former approaches Pakistan and Iran for their help in any action against Hekmatyar, they should better not entertain it otherwise they would be left with no role to play for reconciliation and understanding in Afghanistan. (JG)
                                                  6
 - Addressing an impromptu press conference in Kabul 5 May the Afghan Interim President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said.
 his countrymen were insisting his stay in office for two ySars pending general elections. He said delegations from various provinces had told him he was the only figure who could bridge ethgic and regional gaps in the country. "If the country needs me, if there is no solution but me -- I will accept", he said as barrages of rockets from opposition mujaheddin leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar guerillas, crashed in the vicinity of the presidential palace. Mujaddedi said Hekmatyar was “an outlaw" and should face punishment for his attacks on Kabul, "because all other groups and 99% of the people agree with the government and he is only a small group". He said the original plan agreed by most of the various factions, whereby he would give way to a leadership council headed by Burhanud--din Rabbani after two months, had been drawn up in haste. "The tenure should be for two years at the least",. Mujaddedi said. (NTN)
 * Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the Afghan Interim Government, has announced a 36 member Cabinet for Afghanistan. The Cabinet also included two sons of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. (NTN)
 “ The . Afghan capital has suffered a second day of heavy bombardment and there are reports of high casualties, BBC reported 5 May. Troops of the guerilla leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar fired rockets and artillery shells on the city from surrounding hills. Kabul radio said, 48 people had been killed and 200 wounded. The regime aircraft and artillery attacked Hekmatyar's positions. (NTN)
 " Russia has offered to send emergency aid to the new government in Afghanistan but fears its aircraft could become the target of hostile guerilla fighters, a Russian embassy official said in Kabul 4 May. The
291
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  Afghan Interim Government in Kabul have hinted they would welcome aid from Moscow, the official said. (PT)
  » Iraq has recognized the new regime in Afghanistan, the Iraqi news agencyi quoted 5 May a government statement as saying. (PT)
  * Gulbuddin . Hekmatyar has- sent a peace committee to Kabul. After his meeting with Sebghatullah Mujaddedi the leader of the committee expressed his optimism for an improvement in conditions, reports BBC. (NWT)
                    7
  » palm descended on Kabul as a ceasefire came into effect 6 May after 10 days of fighting between rival mujaheddin groups. Acting Information Minister Mohammad Siddiq Chakari said shortly after taking office that a ceasefire pact had been signed and "it is in force". ANA said in Peshawar-a "peace delegation" headed by commander Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani. went to see Hekmatyar 5 May "to implement the ceasefire agreement". (NTN)
  ~ The head of Uzbek militia, Gen* Rashid Dostum, has held a meeting in Kabul with ousted President Najibullah who is under UN Mission's protection there. (PT)
 * In protest against the announcement
 of 38-member cabinet by the Afghan Interim     President      Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, the leader of IIA, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has left Kabul for Paghman, reports ANA. Burhanuddin Rabbani has also expressed his resentment against this decision. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in his reaction said the formation of the cabinet is the sole jurisdiction of the Leadership Council and its meeting has not so far been held as its members are yet to reach Kabul. (JG)
                   8
 * The guns were silent in Kabul for the second straight day 7 May. Though not officially announced by Kabul radio or television, General Ahmad Shah Masood confirmed 6 May that t:he ceasefire had been signed. (NTN)
    Addressing a press conference in Kabul (date not given) the Defense Minister-designate General Ahmad Shah Masood, has rejected Hekmatyar's demand for expulsion of militia from Kabul, says BBC. He said the Generals and militia units extending help in the ouster of Najibullah deserved to be given due respect instead of humiliation. (JG)
 “ fwhile announcing the names of the members of the cabinet the Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has prompted Ahmad Shah Masopd to the rank of Ster General (Big General). (NWT)
 - In an interview with Nawa-i-Waqt in Kabul (date not given) the Afghan Interim      President     Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi has refused implementation of: provision in the Peshawar , Accord concerning premiership for HIA (Hekmatyar) in the Interim Government. He said He'kmatyar will not get premiership even in his dreams and continuation of war by him is against Shariat. (NWT)
 * According to reliable sources the UN envoy Benon Sevan who flew into Kabul from Islamabad 6 May, is holding wide ranging discussions with concerned UN officials on matters relating to emergency food and humanitarian assistance of Afghanistan and repatriation of Afghan refugee's to their homes. They said that Pakistan convoy carrying food supplies has also reached Kabul. The UN envoy also held meetings in Kabul with
292
APRIL-JUNE* 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 head of the Mujaheddin Council Sebghat-ullah Mujaddedi and Defense Minister Commander Ahmad Shah Masood. (PT)
 " The HIA (Hekmatyar) has threatened to continue jehad if its commitments were not honored. In a communique issued by ANA 7 May it said that they agreed on assurances that the militiamen would be expelled from Kabul otherwise they would continue fight.
 < NTN)
                     9
 - Talking over wireless to Federal Minister for Labor, Ijazul Haq in Peshawar 8 May the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said his war is only against Najib's loyal militia which not only played havoc in Afghanistan during the 14-year jehad but is still killing the innocent citizens of Kabul. He said he can pardon the militia but cannot share power with them as it will be tantamount to treason with the blood of two million martyrs. He said the Afghan people support his stand and now the mujaheddin parties have also started realizing that until militia is driven out of Kabul, neither a lasting peace can be established in the country nor can a representative Islamic government of mujaheddin be formed in Afghanistan. Talking to Ijazul Haq, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf expressed concern that ways are being explored to deviate from the agreed formula of Peshawar and the presence of militia in Kabul has complicated the whole matter. (NTN)
 - The ceasefire in Afghanistan entered its third day 8 May. Meanwhile, Defense Minister-designate Ahmad Shah Masood said in Kabul 7 May that the truce was not dependent on any conditions. (NTN)
                  10
 • An Asian diplomat said in Kabul that several planeloads of troops were flown to the capital 8 May to "consolidate and strengthen" defenses. Three thousand troops reinforcements were due in the Afghan capital from the north for deployment in the Kabul frontline on the weekend, diplomatic sources in Kabul said. They also said that Babrak Karmal and Foreign minister Abdul Wakil have left the country taking advantage of the chaotic situation and resumption of civil flights after the ceasefire. Meanwhile, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and his Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood discussed, at night 8 May, matters relating to the future political set-up of the country, says an official close to Mujaddedi. (MLM)
 -  With the departure of Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazin from Peshawar for Kabul 9 May the entire leadership of the Afghans in Pakistan is now in Kabul. The only person to .stay back is Mawlawi Younus Khales who might take a few more days to make up his mind. (MLM)
 -  Some unidentified individuals have kidnapped and killed the former Minister for Water and Power, Muzaffar Hashemi, besides Hafizullah Amin and General Shahbaz whose -bodies were found in Kabul. (NWT)
 “ In his address to "Meet the Press" at Press Club Rawalpindi 9 May the former Chief of isi, Lt. General Hamid Gul, said that the recent fights between the. mujaheddin factions was a conspiracy to weaken Afghanistan militarily. He said it was the mujaheddin faith and not the American assistance that led to victory. General Ziaul Haq took the historic decision in early 1980 when the US had declared Afghanistan a "closed chapter". He
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 adopted the policy to support Afghan , jehad. The time later proved that he was right. Ruling out , chances of division of Afghanistan General Hamid Gul said, "Ahmad Shah Masood would have never left Mazar-e-Sharif if the idea of division was in his mind". Only 20% Tadjek population was in the north of Afghanistan and 35% Pashtuns were living in the south. This also negated the claims of experts who had predicted the division of Afghanistan. About Afghan government's alliance with communist militia he said, it was the demand of the hour. About Interim Council he said it was constituted when all the mediators failed to draw consensus among mujaheddin following a decision to give preference to the will 6*t majority. He informed that including the martyrs of Bohri Bazaar, Kashmiri Bazaar and Ojheri Camp blasts approximately 1,400 Pakistanis laid their' lives to support Pakistan's principled stand on Afghanistan. (NTN)
 » In an interview to Al-Bunyan IIA leader, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf said, an Islamic Government of Afghanistan mujaheddin was' their basic policy and they could not come to any political accommodation with communist militia which would be a deviation from the very objective of the 14-year Afghan jehad. Emphasizing the need for the implementation of the Peshawar accord he said, any violation would bring adverse effects. Meanwhile, in a statement from his headquarter Rasool Sayyaf has threatened to quit the government in case the appointment of Gen. Asif Dilawar as Chief of Army Staff was not cancelled forthwith. (JG)
                                                11
   Addressing a press conference in Jalalabad 10 May Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, said in connection with continued presence of militia forces in Kabul his negotiations with Prof.
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Rabbani and other leaders were in progress. However, he said if the mujaheddin leaders’ failed to shift the militia forces from Kabul, then not only his party but all of the mujaheddin Shoora, including commanders from Nangarhar and other areas, would not support the present government. He said the whole administration in Kabul is run by General Abdul Majeed, brother of Rashid Dostum. (NTN)
 " Mass graves of thousands of persons have been found in Kabul and its suburbs with most of them having been buried alive, reports BBC quoting Sunday Times Kabul correspondent. (NWT)
 « In an interview broadcast by VOA 10 May Pakistan's former Foreign Minister, Ag.ha Shahi, has said he was not completely sure that Afghanistan's tragedy had entered the phase of its logical end. Some other powerful' elements had not compromised with the situation. The Interim Council, he said, was facing a big challenge. Firstly, it had to avert a1 civil war. Secondly, it had to extend its jurisdiction to the entire country, including the main cities and the rural areas. Furthermore, it had to save Afghanistan's territorial integrity from threats. (NTN)
 - The UN has decided to send a high-
 level delegation, led by Benon Sevan, to Kabul and Tehran as part of its efforts for emergency repatriation and reconstruction of Afghanistan, reports BBC. (PT)
                 12
» Afghan militia generals sent thousands of soldiers into Kabul at the weekend, ignoring demands from many guerilla commanders that the militia be expelled from the city, senior officers said in* Kabul 11 May. At least 6,000
 /
294
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 fighters entered the capital from northern Afghanistan at the weekend and more were coming 11 May, a senior militia officer said. (PT)
 - A Soviet-made helicopter coming from Afghanistan landed at the Peshawar airport 11 May. When the helicopter entered Pakistan airspace it was escorted' by PAP's aircraft. Some circles believed that the helicopter brought an important Afghan dignitary. (PT)
 " UN envoy, Benon Sevan, left Islamabad 11 May for Kabul to discuss repatriation of Afghan refugees and emergency assistance with the new authorities there, a UN official said. (PT)
                   13
 * In a wireless interview with ANA from inside Afghanistan 12 May the leader -of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that the militia forces were violating the ceasefire agreement signed between HIA and JIA. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the latter to dissociate itself from the militia forces and do not consider Mujaheddin's action against the militia as action against themselves. He disclosed that four days back leader of the Ismaili militia, who was promised vice presidentship in the coalition set-up, brought 3,000 militiamen to Kabul. A group of -such militia while crossing oyer the ceasefire line' in a jeep was caught by the. mu jaheddin of HIA and on interrogation they confessed the arrival of 3,000 Ismaili militia in Kabul city to join the other militia coalition. On 6 May, the ex-president and head of the Parcham faction, Babrak Karmal, dashed to' Pul-e-Khumri to arrange for the airlifting of the Ismaili militiamen to Kabul while Kawyani, Fareed Mazdak and Abdul Wakeel
 had reached Mazar-e-Sharif to despatch more ' militiamen to Kabul and re-organize them. (NTN)
 *  After a decision taken at a meeting of the Leadership Council Afghan authorities banned the former ruling Communist Party and ordered the seizure of its property 12 May, sources in the interim administration said. (NTN)
 *  Some 40 masked men, armed with rockets', ransacked the residence of. the Saudi Ambassador in Kabul 'on the night of 11 May and made away with valuables. According to diplomats they tied up the guards at gun-point and took away a Mercedes-Benz car, television-set, telephone-set, crockery and carpets. (PT)
 “■ The Soviet-made helicopter . that landed at Peshawar airport 11 May brought Abdul Qadeer, the Governor of Nangarhar province of Afghanistan. He held important meetings with Pakistani authorities and certain diplomats. He also held a detailed meeting with his party chief Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales. (NWT)
                 14
« Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev flew into Kabul 13 May, with three planeloads of food and medical supplies. "We want to open a new chapter in relations between new Russia and new Afghanistan. We have to close the pages written by the communist dictators in both countries", he told reporters at the airport. He hoped the interim government would be able to speed the release of former Soviet prisoners. (NTN).
                 15
» Addressing a big public meeting in Mehtarlam, the center of Laghman, (date not given) the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 Hekmatyar, said that~'anti-Islam forces were conspiring to divide Afghanistan on ethnic and. parochial basis as they were afraid of a great Islamic State of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Tadjekistan in the region. He said that: the ex-President Babrak Karma1 and ex-premier Sultan Ali Keshtmand in collusion with a mujaheddin group made a last attempt to form a coalition government in Afghanistan under the plan of keeping intact under the banner of the      UN,  the Russian imposed
 institutions with real power in the hands of the communists. He said he has no differences with any mujaheddin party but he will not allow the communists to rule the country. He said the power will be transferred now to the elected representatives of the people and no General will be able to
 impose the alien stooges. (NWT)
 ~ Talking to media 14 May at Kabul before his departure, the Russian. Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev said Russia is ready to cooperate with Afghanistan in overcoming the difficulties of the past. He said, "we are regretting over the past. We. regard both countries as the victims of the same totalitarian system which plunged them into deep crises". Regarding Afghan children who were sent to former Soviet Union for education he said, they could go back to their homes if they liked. About 1,000 children were sent to Russia under an agreement signed in 1984, he said. He expressed his pleasure over the willingness shown by Afghan leadership to cooperate in resolving the issue of the POWs. (PT)
                 16
 “ Before leaving for Tehran after hi\ three-day mission in Kabul the UN envoy Benon Sevan called for continued peace to allow relief operations to begin. He told reporters prospects of receiving aid would be harmed "if there is no
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 peace, if there is ho order in Afghanistan". (NTN)
     A delegation of PMAP led by one of its activists in a memorandum, handed over to the Peshawar-based UN representative 15 May, demanded that the world body fulfil its moral obligation of getting a safe passage out of Kabul for Najibullah and letting him go to the place of his choice.
 (MLM)
 " Afghanistan's Interim Government has ordered all the military defectors to report for duty, BBC quoted Radio Kabul. (JG)
                 17
   Afghan Interim Government Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar are reported to have held talks 16 May on the restoration of peace in Kabul, official sources said the two leaders discussed the future course of action. Earlier-Gulbuddin Hekmatyar authorized a group of Afghan leaders and commanders to mediate between him and his rival Ahmad Shah Masood, mujaheddin and diplomatic sources said 16 May. "Hekmatyar also promised to respect the ongoing ceasefire till mediation team gave its verdict", the sources said. (NTN)
 * Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 16 May the Information Minister of the Leadership Council in Kabul, Dr. Najibullah Lafrai said that there
 was neither coalition nor a militia government in Afghanistan. "It is"
 complete Afghan Mujaheddin and a purely Islamic Government in Afghanistan", he said. To a question he said that General Asif Dilawar has joined mujaheddin ranks and played a role in the removal of Najib. To another question he said that Rashid Dostum was working under the Ministry of Defense and that his role was confined to Mazar-e-Sharif. (MLM)
 296
APRIL-JUNE, 1992               111 Jill                 VOL. 5 NO. 3
                                          18
 * HZA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said 17 May that his party was close to signing an agreement with the authorities in Kabul, reported BBC. Reports from Kabul 16 May said the aides of -Ahmad Shah Masood and Gulbuddin Hekmat-year were already in contact and that a substantial progress has been made in these parleys. Meanwhile, addressing a press conference in Kabul 17 May the Afghan Interim President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has asked the HIA leader to apologize for his attack on Kabul.(MLM) General (Rtd) Mirza Aslam Beg, former COAS, said is an interview published in the Urdu weekly Zindagi of Lahore that "dreams of the enemies for division of Afghanistan will never succeed and Islamic flag of mujaheddin will continue hoisted in that country". The patriotism of the Afghan people was their binding force. "It was this lorce which resulted in ceasefire between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood". It was wrong to presume that matters in Afghanistan can be resolved without Gulbuddin Hekmatyar whose strength was three times compared to that of Ahmad Shah Masood. "He has a> lot of influence in Afghanistan. The! number of Uzbeks and Tadjeks in his HIA was not less than the Pashtuns. On the other hand Ahmad Shah Masood had not much influence in Kabul. His influence is only restricted to Panjsher Valley", he said. General (Rtd) Beg said that despite th& fact that Sebghatuilah Mujaddedi went to Kabul last month as head of the interim government, events proved that he "became a hostage in the hands of the militia". (NTN)
 solve the country's political crisis and restore peace and order. He strongly denied that he wanted to prolong the life of his interim government . from the original two months to two years. "This is a blalant lie", he said angrily. "I do not want to continue,if the people want me to go", he said. (PT)
 - HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, is set to join Afghanistan's Leadership Council following talks with a mediation commission, the commission's chairman said in Kabul 17 May. The 31-member comission of senior mujaheddin commanders and Islamic scholars from all Afghan factions completed separate talks with Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood 16 May, commission's chief Jalaluddin Haggani said. The two sides had agreed to respect the ceasefire until the commission announced its decision. "Had we failed to reach an agreement, the ceasefire would have collapsed", he said. The two leaders had told him that they would accept the commission's recommendations. "They have given me arbitration authority”, Haggani told AFP. (NTN)
 * Iran welcomed a UN proposal to create a special committee that would help hundreds of thousands of Afghan refugees to return home. Iran, Pakistan and the UN would have representatives in the committee which would seek to repatriate the Afghan refugees currently in Iran, official sources said in Tehran 16 May. UN envoy, Benon Sevan, made the proposal 16 May during talks with Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister, Alauddin Brojardi, the officials said. (PT)
19
 - Speaking to a select 'group of foreign journalists in Kabul 17 May the Afghan Interim President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, said the mujaheddin factions were on the verge of an agreement to
20
* In an interview broadcast by VOA the ANP leader Kh^n Abdul Wali Khan has said the basic reason for the worsening situation in Kabul is that the mujaheddin leaders cannot agree on one.
297
/
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992               Hiuliwn
 point. Had the mujaheddin leaders unanimously accepted the UN plan the present uncertainty would not have been there. Now when the mujaheddin say that Islamic revolution has emerged victorious there is no justification for further conflicts. He said foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan should be stopped forthwith. (NTN)
 ~ The Afghan Interim Government set free'19 May the first Russian POW since the mujaheddin seized power last month. Acting.' Foreign Minister, Sayyed Sulaiman Gailani handed over the 26-year old POW, Sergei Fateel, to the Russian Ambassador in Afghanistan, saying it was a 'symbol of goodwill of the Afghans'. "We will do our best to release all the others", he told APP in an interview. (PT)
                  21
 - Afghan Interim Government Vice Foreign Minister, Hamed Karzai, told correspondents in . Kabul (date not given) that the interim government would not export Islamic revolution beyond its frontiers, reports BBC. (JG)
                  22
 * Jalaluddin Haqqani, Chief of the 31-member powerful mediation commission 21 May announced at his Chehelstoon base a permanent end to the war in Kabul. Under the five-point peace accord, which Haqqani scid had already been endorsed by rival mujaheddin factions, forces from the opposing sides will withdraw from Kabul within one week. "Khalqis and Parchamis and other communists will have no place in the new Islamic Government, he said. Haqqani said he was acting with written authorization from main rival factions of Hekmatyar and Masood. (NTN)
 “ In an interview published in The Hindustan Times the Afghan Interim
                                                                                    VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Government President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has said that India's treatment of its Muslim Minority will be an important factor in determining the future nature of his country's relations with New Delhi. "We have some information that Muslims have not got all their rights in India", he said. In response to a question about policy of his government on Kashmir he said he stood for some form of self-determination for the Kashmiri people. (PT)
                23
 * Civilians in small groups started leaving as Uzbek militia and fighters of hold-out mujaheddin leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar clashed 22 May in southwest Kabul, combatants said. "We are in a defensive position, but if necessary we will retaliate", said a spokesman for Hekmatyar's HIA. The militia did not allow reporters to enter the capital's Bala Hisar district after 40 minutes of heavy shelling from both sides. The fresh fighting between the two rival groups followed the announcement 21 May of a five-point peace accord by a mujaheddin council providing for the withdrawal of all opposing forces from Kabul. (NTN)
                24
 Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood tried to meet 23 May to resolve their differences but a guerilla commander blocked the road. After waiting an hour Hekmatyar's spokesman, Ghairat Baheer, said that the meeting has been cancelled because Masood-commanders refused to allow Masood and his security guards to enter the venue of the meeting. Amanullah, a spokesman for Masood, acknowledged that the meeting had been arranged and said the Defense Minister hoped he could meet Hekmatyar 24 May. (NTN)
 - Afghan Interim Government President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi promoted Abdul
298
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
ICIllflO
VOL. 5 NO. 3
Rashid Dostum to full general in          demobbed", the decree said. (NTN)
                                 ceremony in Mazar-e-Sharif 22 Ma
calling him a great Islamic warrior wh » Reliable sources in Kabul said
government 28 April in Kabul. Kabul'      heavy weapons          from the city to
television interrupted a mid-nigh         Mazar-e-Sharif to protect them from any
broadcast to make the special announce    expected attack       by the mujaheddin
ment. The Interim President als* present in the city and the surrounding promoted Dostum's 14th division comman' areas. (JG) der, Jora Begh, to major general am ■ several other Uzbek staff officers wh<   « Sudan, one of      the world's poorest
participated in the lightening strik< countries, has sent six planeloads of to prevent the Hezb take-over of Kabu:    food aid to         Afghanistan, senior
after the fall of the Soviet-installec Sudanese official said in Kabul 23 May. communist regime. The commander of th« Gutbi al-Mahdi, heading a delegation former regime's 70th Brigade based ii from the Khartoum Government, said 150 the province of Herat, was alsc tons of sugar had been handed over to ■promoted to lieutenant general. The the new mujaheddin government in Kabul Interim President also promoted Jafaz as a gesture of Islamic solidary. He Naderi, Ismaili sect leader of the 80th said his delegation was investigating division stationed in northern province what other food aid could be sent to of Balkh, the officials said. Observers Afghanistan. (PT) said the promotions had drawn the
battle lines clearly between Hekmatyar . The Nation in its editorial 25 May and the rest. (NTN)                       says Prof. Mujaddedi and Ahmad Shah
tfasood find it difficult to accept the ~ Afghanistan's Interim Government lemand for Dostum's ouster because of Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, iekmatyar's declared aim of entering while talking to Al-Bunyan at Paghman Cabul at the head of his own group -(date not given) said that they could     -he largest presence of fighters around
order the withdrawal of the militia       Cabul. It will, they feel, amount to
forces of the previous communist regime   :otal surrender to an unscrupulous
from Kabul any time, if mujaheddin        idversary, who may not abide by the
leaders can positively make sure that rules of game. This confrontational Kabul is quite safe from outside          itance could have been avoided had
attacks. (MLM)                            lekmatyar and everyone else abided by
* The Afghan Interim Government has 'efused the offer on the assumption decided to demobilize time-expired ;hat he would have no real power. That troops from the army of the former tower would be in the hands of Ahmad regime, officials said in Kabul 24 May. :hah Masood. Be that as it may, there A decree issued by Defense Minister s no way out of the delinuna except Ahmad Shah Masood said the disbanding hrough the realization of certain would begin 22 June and be completed in ealities on the ground. The most a period of two months. "Personnel and mportant reality is that Masood*s' commissioned officers whose terms of Limination from the power structure is service have been completed in the jt possible. Also so long _ as he ranks of different contingents and mains in charge 0f national security, detachments of the armed forces will be Lctating to him of any arrangement
helped install the mujaheddi Gelam Jam Militia is airlifting its
        25
the Peshawar agreement whereby Hekmatyar was to be made the acting Prime Minister. Hekmatyar, it seems.
                                                     299
APRIL-JUNE* 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 that he finds risky or unreliable, will be futile. The other reality is that running a government is quite different from fighting a guerilla war. One requires knowledge of public administration, the other requires courage in the face of death. Except for Masood, and may be one or two smaller groups, none have experience of both. That is' where the importance of a working relationship between Hekmatyar and Masood comes in. And that is where the acceptance of professional army, police and public welfare organizations run by a trained bureaucracy, comes in. When Daud ousted Zaher Shah, he did not replace the entire administration. When the Khalqis and Parchamis ousted Daud, they used his administrative machine. And now that they are gone, the new rulers have little option but to use the same tools that their predecessors did. (NTN)
                                             26
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Commander Ahmad Shah Masood have signed an eight-point agreement 25 May in the outskirts of Kabul which calls for a complete cessation of hostilities and removal of contingents from north of Kabul, the modus-operand! of which will be decided, by the Leadership Council and the reconciliation commission besides guaranteeing the implementation of this decision. The agreement also calls for holding of general elections at the earliest to avoid any power vacuum when the interim period lapses. A joint commission will be constituted which will work out modalities of elections and will announce its decisions in a week's time. However, the elections could be postponed only when the two sides so agree "and that too will be considered only in the face of unforeseen events". The interim government will continue to work as per previous agreement. The two-month tenure of 50-member council for the
 transfer of power will not be extended. The security of Kabul- will be assured -by all mujaheddin parties under the framework of the Ministry of Interior. Finally, the two sides will continue dialogue to resolve other issues. (PT)
 * Addressing a joint press conference after a nine-hour face-to-face meeting with Commander Ahmad Shah Masood in the outskirts of Kabul 25 May, Gulbuddin ' Hekmatyar, said that they would jointly counter all nefarious designs of anti-Islamic forces to disintegrate Afghanistan or create hurdles in the establishment of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan. "We will ditch all evil designs aimed at turning Afghanistan into Beirut or installing a weak government in our country". We have resolved such important and crucial matters that others would never have thought of it. "Our war was against the communists and anti-Islamic forces, we were a united force in this war and would again work together to foil their evil designs", he said. He said, "we agreed to holding of general elections in a short period of time to overcome bitter experiences of the past". We have consented for the establishment of a strong central government which could effectively handle the affairs of the state. Addressing the press conference Commander Ahmad Shah Masood said, "we have come to the conclusion that the holding of general elections is the only way out from the present difficulties and problems faced by our country, we have agreed to conduct elections through which the rights of all ethnicities in majority or minority, should be duly preserved. The limited contingent , of the north would be removed when the Leadership Council guaranteed for no fighting in Kabul, he said. (PT)
 - Former Afghan President Najibullah has fled Kabul, reports Afghan Press International quoting diplomatic soar-
300
   APRIL-JUNE, 1992                                   JKlIIIIIIJlIlllfl                                   VOL.   5    NO.   3
 ces. US officials (stet) helped in the escape of Najibullah. However, his destination is not yet known, it said. (NTN)
 * Talking to newsmen in Kabul 24 May Commander Ahmad Shah Masood opposed the promotion of Abdul Rashid Dostum and other officers by Interim Government President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. He said that he did not consider appropriate the promotions in the interim period and it should have been left to the next elected government. He said as Defense: Minister he would not ratify the promotions. (NWT)
 ~ Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 25 May the President of Afghan Commanders' Coordination Shoora Col. Haji Mohammad Gul has criticised Sebghatullah Mujaddedi for promoting Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum. He said that Mujaddedi was violating the Peshawar Accord and had betrayed the Afghan jehad, because Rashid Dostum was responsible for the massacre of Afghans while the Peshawar Accord dealt with the transfer of power from the former government and not sharing power with the same. He said Mujaddedi was not the head of the government but that of a transitional council and by promoting Rashid Dostum Mujaddedi wanted himself to control .powers in Kabul. He. said that Mujaddedi was playing ii. foreign hands and wanred to fight against such interference just like the Afghans had resisted Russian interference. ‘(MLM)
 - Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 25 May the Federal Minister for States and Frontier Regions, Sardar Yagub Khan Nasser, said a comprehensive program has been prepared for the return and rehabilitation of Afghan refugees. The week-long visit of the 70-member tribal delegation, including four Senators, six MNAs and 60 chiefs of various tribes, yielded constructive and positive results in bringing
 confidence and spirit of tolerance among the people of Afghanistan for the realization of peace. (PT)
                 27
 * Addressing a press conference at the1 Islamabad airport on his return from Afghanistan, where he had gone as special envoy of Prime Minister, the Federal Minister Ijazul Hag said the eight-point agreement reached between HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and the Afghan Minister for Defense, Ahmad Shah MasOod, has paved the way for the setting up of a strong and stable elected Islamic democratic government in Afghanistan. He said permanent ceasefire has been promised by both the sides during their meeting and it was decided to set up an election commission which will give its recommendations to the [ Ministry of Defense within one week,' complete the process of the transfer of power within two months in accordance with the Peshawar agreement and to continue bilateral negotiations to resolve other problems and sort out differences. Ijazul Hag said he handed over the special message of Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif to the acting     president,    Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi. (NTN)
 - Sebghatullah Mujaddedi was given a rousing reception in Islamabad 26 May when he arrived on a two-day official visit to Pakistan after his assumption of power as Interim President of Afghanistan. Speaking at a, banquet at President's House he said the government and the people of Afghanistan will always remember the remarkable role played by Pakistan in crowning the-Afghan jehad with success and would not refrain from rendering any kind of sacrifice for Pakistan, if ever needed. (PT)
301
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                  28
 - Addressing a crowded press conference in the Parliament House Islamabad 27 May the visiting Afghan Interim Government President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, said that Pakistani leaders tried hard to bring about an agreement among various leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin to take over power in Kabul where Najibullah was ready to hand it over. About tenure of his office he said, a negative propaganda was triggered by some people • at certain places, including Pakistan, that he intended to cling to power and extend his tenure for two years. He said he had no intention whatsoever of doing so. After two months of his assumption of power, the second phase of government as incorporated in the Peshawar Agreement would begin. Mujaddedi explained what he, in fact, said was that a large number of people meeting; him were insisting that he should
 continue in office for longer period. He said his health did not permit him to shoulder onerous responsibilities of his office. (PT)
 » Speaking at a luncheon hosted in honor of President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi of the Afghan Interim Government in Islamabad 27 May Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said the success of Afghan jehad was the crowning achievement of Islamic history, credit for which went to those 1.5 million martyrs who laid down their lives for upholding a cause. He said that destinies of Pakistan and Afghanistan were inter-twined. He was confident that each passing day would see their bilateral ties strengthened. He skid during his brief stay in Kabul he had become deeply aware that Afghanistan needed peace, harmony, mutual reconciliation and reconstruction. He said Afghanistan was passing through a critical state at this juncture as
                                                                                     VOL- 5 NO. 3
 its economy was in ruins. (PT)
 " The Nation in its editorial 28 May
 says that the peace agreement between
 mujaheddin leaders Ahmad Shah Masood
 and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, basically a
 repeat of what was decided in Peshawar
 prior to the mujaheddins' victorious
 march into Kabul, is indeed a milestone
 event. What they have decided upon for \
 the future of their country is
 perfectly in conformity with the needs
 of the time. No democratically inclined
 individual can find fault with either
 the setting up of an interim
 government, that comprises of the
 largest two political groups, or
 resolving the question of entrusting
 political      power      to      public
 representatives through the process of
 elections. Unfortunately, however,
 there are some disgruntled elements
 among the smaller mujaheddin factions
 who have started to make noises against
 the new turn the peace process has
 taken in their country. Their negative
 attitude is rooted in narrow
 self-interest that must be strongly
 discouraged by the third party
 well-wishers of Afghanistan, (ntn)
                    I
 - Describing as a reciprocal gesture the visit to Pakistan by the Afghan Interim Government President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi after Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's visit to Afghanistan, The Muslim in its editorial 28 May says the gestures of mutual goodwill may have their importance but there are certain things which will have to be guarded against. Now that the Afghans; are once again a sovereign nation, India would, no doubt, like to have it's finger in that pie, just as it insisted on having one in the Bangladesh (former East Pakistan) affairs. It is absolutely imperative that the Afghans are left alone to chart their future course, specially in respect to their foreign policy. Under no circumstances should the Pakistan
302
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 Government find it necessary to advise the Afghans what to do. We would like to ask why the ex-ISI Chief Gen. Hamid Gul was allowed to visit Afghanistan and in what capacity, the editorial said. (MLM)
 * For a second time within a month, the Amnesty International and the Human Rights Commission have expressed concern to the Afghan interim government over violation of human rights in Afghanistan. The bbc Eastern Services report that the Amnesty International, which has been investigating the       situation in
 Afghanistan eversince the interim, government took over power in Kabul,1 has asked Sebghatullah. Mujaddedi to, prevent violation of human rights in the country. The organization has also expressed concern       over recent
 statements by some mujaheddin leaders threatening to bring the prisoners to trial or even pass death sentences. (BBCPS)
 - Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, chairman of the mujaheddin council and President of the interim government, told the BBC correspondent during his official v,isit to Pakistan that the present situation, with little or no security in Afghanistan, will not permit to hold elections there. Mujaddedi said he was not opposed to the idea of holding elections in Afghanistan, on which Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood have both insisted,' the six-month deadline for this purpose would not be practicable. "The matter should be decided upon by the people themselves", he said. (BBCPS) *
* President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi of the Afghan interim government has said Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA and Commander Ahmad Shah Ma/sood are not representing the nation. Expressing pleasure over their agreement on ceasefire, he said their decision
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 regarding the withdrawal of Uzbek militia forces from- Kabul and holding of elections within six months was not correct. "The Afghans will decide upon such matters later", he said (VOAPS)
 - The UNDP has announced that reconstruction work on the Torkhum-Jalalabad road shall begin in the near future. The construction work will be undertaken by the Afghan Logistic and Construction Authority and will be financed by the us government. Work on the bridges and culverts along the road has already started and will probably, be completed by the end of June. According to the USAID office in Peshawar the project also includes the repair-work on the Sarobi-Jalalabad road and will be completed by the end of the current year. (VOAPS)
                 29
 “ Briefing Afghan refugee leaders, ulama, tribesmen, educationists and leaders of different Afghan parties at a grand Jirgah in Peshawar 28 May the Afghan Interim Government President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, who extended his visit for an overnight stay, assured that he would certainly hand over power to the Leadership Council of mujaheddin after completion of his two-month tenure. He said that he was not against elections but he was of the view that holding of polls would be practically difficult in Afghanistan as everybody was fully armed. It was entirely upto the Afghan people to decide about the government of their choice in future either through Loya Jirgah or Shoora if elections were practically difficult. Regarding Rashid Dostum he said if he and other good Generals had not come out at the back of mujaheddin, Kabul would still have been in the hands of Khalgis. About the return of Afghan refugees he said that UN has- chalked out a comprehensive plan to help in this regard. (PT)
303
APR IL-JUNE* 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 » Sebghatullah Mujaddedi praised the assistance rendered to Afghanistan by the government and people of Pakistan during the past 14 years. Addressing a gathering of Afghans in Peshawar, he said foreigners should not interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
 « The Afghan interim government , has rejected the recent allegations by the Amnesty     International     regarding
 violation of human rights. Hamed Karzai, Deputy Foreign Minister said that the allegations regarding execution of 40 former security members have been made on the basis of statements made by ordinary people in the absence or confirmation of official sources. He said, the government had declared general amnesty and there has been not a single arrest or detention on political or other grounds. (VOADS)
 - According to the correspondent of the Frankfurter Algemeiner, published in Germany, Mujaddedi President of the Interim Government in Kabul is of the opinion that all members and followers of the former Kabul regime be pardoned, whereas, the commanders and other mujaheddin leaders do not agree with him. Ayatullah Mohseni suggests that the so-called enemies of the nation should face trial and Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of jia, also supports the trial of these elements. (VOGDS)
                  30
~ On his return from first state visit to Pakistan the Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi escaped mid-air rocket attack 29 May. Accompanied by an entourage of about 100 people the plane carrying him was hit by a rocket while landing at the Kabul airport. The co-pilot was injured but the President and the rest of his colleagues escaped unhurt. The rocket took away the nose of the aircraft but
 the pilot managed to land it safely. The BBC correspondent who was at' the airport said the plane's window in the cockpit was blown out. People inside the plane said they heard a big bang, saw a flash of lignt and then the plane shuddered. Diplomats who were at the airport to greet the acting President said, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi looked white and shaken. They said he gave a short speech at the airport without mentioning the incident. It is not clear who fired the rocket. (MLM)
 * In their messages to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan have strongly condemned the rocket attack on the aircraft of the Afghan Interim President when it was approaching Kabul airport 29 May. (MLM)
 - In a special talk with the daily Jang at his headquarters the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said the Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi cannot remain in power after two month interim period even if the US, the western countries and Pakistan collectively decide for him to remain so. Regarding general amnesty granted by the interim government he said, "amnesty does not mean promotion to the rank of chief of army staff of a member of the former Kabul regime." Rashid Dostum, he said, is the murderer and enemy of the mujaheddin. The atrocities by him were not perpetrated even by the Russians. (JG)
                                                  31
 » Commander Mohammad Amin Wardak, leader of the commission for probing the incident of the rocket fire on the plane of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, says investigations so far indicate that the aircraft was hit by the shell of an anti-aircraft gun fired from Shina in the east of Kabul but the group firing
a
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 3
  it has not been determined. He said, investigation continued. (BBCFS)
  - Despite ceasefire agreement between the warring sides fighting was renewed between forces loyal to HIA (Hekmatyar) and the government militia in the south-east of Kabul. The fighting broke out on the assumption that the HIA had a hand in the rocket fire on the plane >. flying Mujaddedi back to Kabul. Investigators believe that the fire was not accidental but a pre-meditated plot. (VOAPS)
  " Leader of the NIFA, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, left for Kandahar via Quetta 28 May. After meeting with elders and dignitaries in Kandahar and ■other neighboring provinces he suggested the convening of - the Islamic Jirgah for finding a solution to the power vacuum oreated in Kabul. (VOAPS)
                                      JUNE
                                           1
  “ Contrary to the accord signed 25 May. between HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, and Afghan Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood the Afghan Interim Government President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has,in a statement 30 May, rejected proposal for the withdrawal of troops from Kabul without his caretaker government's authority, officials said 31 May. Withdrawal of security forces, including the militia, cannot be done without the- approval of the government■, and agreement between two parties was not binding on the government, officials quoted Mujaddedi as saying. Mujaddedi said he supported the provision of a ceasefire in the Hekmatyar-Masood accord, but did not find a "legal basis" for the other points bilaterally agreed by the two Afghan leaders. (MLM)
  - Addressing a press conference in Kabul 31 May the Afghan Interim Government President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said regarding rocket attack on his plane that he saw the rocket was-1 fired from that part of "Shina" where the former regime had deposited all its anti-aircraft arms and rockets which "are still there". About the performance of his government during the last one month, he said it had achieved very tangible results in this short period. "The work I have done could not have been done in one year under war conditions." To another query he said he decided to hand over power two weeks ago but people insisted that he should not do so. He said, so far he had not made any decision in this regard but, "I have no desire for power". (MLM)
  « The seven-member Leadership Council held its first session at Chehelstoon near Kabul under the chairmanship of President-designate of Afghan Interim Government     Burhanuddin     Rabbani.
  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi was the only member who did not attend the meeting.
  (NWT)
  - Hekmatyar's HIA representative in/ the Interim Afghan Government, Abdul
 Qadeer Karyab, has condemned the attack on the Afghan President's plane. According to BBC he said, "we consider this attack as against the restoration of peace and we think that .communist elements working in the government are responsible for the attack". (PT) Commander Mohammad Zaman in an interview with the Pashtu Service of the VOA regarding the situation in Nangarhar said, the province was divided into three zones each controlled by a separate council. He said a combination of these three councils forms the provincial council which in itself' constitutes part of the executive council. The security of the city is maintained 90% aind is the.
305
 \
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 responsibility of the Executive Council. (VOAPS)
                   2
 • The Leadership Council meeting, chaired by its chairman Burhanuddin Rabbani in Kabul. has banned the functioning of all parties except those of mujaheddin unless permitted by the Ministry of Interior, reports official news agency Bakhtar. The Council asked the 31-member reconciliation commission headed by Commander Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani to take practical steps for the implementation of its decision. (PT)
 " The UNHCR in Kabul has said that about 5,000 Afghan refugees are returning home from Iran and Pakistan every day, which shows a significant increase over figures for May. The UN officials hope that the returning refugees would settle in their original areas so as to collect the necessary data regarding the reconstruction of residents, agriculture,, irrigatipn and the cleaning of water channels. (BBCPS)
                   3
 with civilians kept away by heavily armed fighters» They said the tanks racing for Haqqani*s headquarters had been sent from a government garrison. Haqqani,       who  had been in      the
 headquarter    at  the time, remained
 uninjured and he left Chehelstoon soon afterwards,, one official report said.
 In Mir Wais Maidan, residents said, the1 mainly Sunni IIA were engaged in hand to hand combat with the HWIA fighters i. around the main government wheat silo and other areas. The HWIA hold some 140 installations and a SCUD missile base in Kabul       and  are demanding   five
 ministerial   and three deputies' posts
 in the 51-member interim government. Some reports said the attack on Haqqani's headquarters was prompted by a demand from his commission that all mujaheddin    from  the north of     the
 country, including the Shias, should withdraw from Kabul. (NTN)
 » Dr. Rawan Parhadi, a former Afghan politician, in an interview with the Dari Service of the VOA said:
      The reconstruction of Afghanistan in the light of peace in the country is a grave task to be undertaken by the Afghan leaders.
 « Intense fighting broke out in southern Kabul 2 June between pro-Iranian HWIA Shias and IIA, when rockets and shells pounded the city's Mir Wais Maidan district near the University-, witnesses said. Artillery and tanks joined.in the fighting. Many were reported killed and wounded and hospitals reported admission of civilians with blast wounds and bullet injuries. Reports said the HWIA fighters attacked the headquarters of Haqqani, who is also the head of a neutral mujaheddin commission based in the Chehelstoon district on the city's southern outskirts. Three of his bodyguards were wounded, one seriously. Reporters returning from Chehelstoon said the area was under a virtual siege
 -  Developing friendly relations with Muslim nations, other major countries and international organizations will play an important role for attracting large-scale assistance.
 -   Afghan expertise in economy, education, agriculture and health affairs, who have been living outside the country for the last 15 years, can play a vital role in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. The Islamic government should arrange their transport and should formulate easy terms and laws in this respect. (VOADS)
 * The meeting of the Islamic Movement of Afghanistan in Mazar-e-Sharif ended
306
 APRIL-JUNE. 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
    by issuing a resolution. The resolution stresses on support for all Islamic liberation movements throughout the world, the establishment of a government based on the people's will and the maintenance of peace in Afghanistan. The resolution urges equal economic, social and cultural rights for all ethnic groups in, the country, (TR)
         4
    .» An explosion rocked Central Kabul 3 > June killing at least one person and injuring nine others, government . officials said. Meanwhile, clashes continued for a second .day 3 June between rebels loyal to Iran and other factions aligned with Saudi Arabia Most of the fighting involved HWIA and IIA. Pro-Saudi rebels armed with machineguns and rocket launchers forcibly took over the intersection outside the Iranian embassy in Kabul. They were stopping vehicles and leading away members of Afghan Hazara community, many of whom are affiliated with the pro-Iran group. The Hazara community repo'rtedly retaliated by kidnapping several of Sayyafs rebels, At least 20 people are stated dead and more than 80 injured 2 June. (PT)
                            i
    » Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 3 June Foreign Secretary Shaharyar Khan said Pakistan was concerned over the latest round of fighting which flared up in Kabul between the two factions 2 June. He said, "we believe that the April 24 agreement which; was reached among mujaheddin organizations at Peshawar should be respected like all other agreements. He said that Pakistan strictly adhered to the principle of non-interference in Afghanistan and regarded anything which happened within Afghanistan exclusively as their internal matter. (PT)
   - Ariana Afghan Airlines has resumed operation between Kabul and Peshawar
 from 3 June for the first time sin.ce flights were suspended after Soviet Joccupation of Afghanistan. A 75-seater 727 boeing Ariana plane with six; passengers on board landed Peshawar airport 3.30 p.m. (PT)
 » The news of bloody fighting breaking; out in Kabul has shaken the Afghan nationals residing abroad, particularly when they hear that the main cause of the massacres are ethnic, linguistic and religious considerations.
       Dr. Mohammad Hasan Kakar, a former Prof. of Kabul University, says fighting and killings will not remove i'nter-communal differences but will add further to acts of vengeance, with no safety for any one. (VOADS)
         5
 " Fresh skirmishes broke out between Uzbek militia and the forces of muja-. heddin leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in the southern suburbs of Kabul 4 June,. Hekmatyar's troops had advanced on the Uzbek militia posted at Char Asyab> District and fought a battle that lasted for almost four hours, military sources said. "The attack, has been repulsed", said one Uzbek commander, without elaborating. Meanwhile, Kabul is in the grip of the third straight day of heavy street fighting between rival Shia and Sunni mujaheddin factions, the HWIA and IIA. The Uzbek militia have been trying to mediate between the Shias and Sunnis, but say their main function is to defend the city from attack by Hekmatyar. (PT)
    The present clashes between the coalition factions in Kabul and law and order situation there are the result of non-adherence to; agreements reached between mujaheddin parties, says a communique issued by HIA (Hekmatyar). One month has come to pass.but not even a single clause of the Peshawar Accord has been implemented as yet. Despite the decision of Jalaluddin Haqqani
307
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
niMf
  Commission no step has been taken to e'xpel militia from the city, the communique said. (NWT)
  -In an interview with Kabul television President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi made a passionate appeal to the Iran-based Shia mujaheddin alliance HWIA and IIA of Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf to refrain from fighting as it goes contrary to the interests of the country. Islam absolutely forbids the bloodshed of a Muslim by another Muslim without any justification, he said. He warned that some hidden hands were active to create .cleavages in the ranks of the mujaheddin to weaken their country. He said an agreement had been drafted for ending these hostilities and both sides had approved it. "From IIA side Engineer Ahmad Shah had signed the agreement while Mazari of the WHIA has also agreed to it", he said. Another   agreement   has      also been
  brokered between HWIA, IIA and HIA (Mohseni) calling for ceasefire, exchange  of kidnapees,       removal of
  checkposts erected by both parties at several places and the formation of a commission to probe into the conflict, he said. (PT)
  * Fierce fighting has been reported between the forces of Iran-based Hw and IIA in Kabul 5 June killing 20 persons and injuring some 60 others. Heavy machineguns and rockets were used by both sides throughout the night which continued till noon    5 June. Reuter
 quoted Afghan police chief as saying that more than 100 people had been killed in the fighting since 2 June. The people started fleeing when rockets were fired in the day time, the shop-keepers shut their shops and fled to their houses. Meanwhile, a spokesman for HIA    (Hekmatyar) has      denied a
 foreign radio report that Hekmatyar had threatened to "jump" into present fray as it was an oppression against Pushtuns. "It is an absolute lie", he said. (PT)
 - Saudi Arabia's King Fahd appealed for an end to the fighting in Afghanistan between rival mujaheddin groups, the official Saudi Press Agency
 (SPA) reported 5 June. "In the name of hundreds of thousands of Muslim pilgrims in Saudi Arabia, I call on you to end the spilling of blood, to exercise restraint and to lay down arms in a bid to restore peace and security", he said. (PT)
 “ Mohammad Neteqi, speaker of HWIA central council, told the BBC correspondent that the ceasefire agreement between the HWIA and the IIA has been broken by the latter three times by placing residential areas under rocket and artillery fire. He also pointed out that there is fear of foreign hands involved in the latest developments.
     ■ i
     Nawab Saleem, a spokesman of the HIA, said we are opposed to conflicts between any two parties which is the result of an unstable central government. The responsibility of these incidents rests with those who have installed such an inefficient government in Kabul and also those who wanted to come to power through intriques. (BBCFS)
                  6
 * Hamed Karzai, the Deputy Foreign Minister of the Islamic government in Kabul, told the VOA correspondent in an interview, "our foreign policy is based on friendship with world nations, attracting their assistance for the reconstruction of the country, the pursuit of the policy of non-alignment and non-intervention in the internal affairs of others. (VOADS)
                  7
 7 violating the agreement between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood, some 200 Gelam Jam militiamen I were airlifted, to Kabul 5 June. In
308
VOL. 5 NO. 3
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
    •another surprising development the Secretary General of . the former communist party, Farid Mazdak and former Vice President Najmuddin Kawyani have also reached Kabul from Bagram, The Tadjek militia commander Gen. Momin has also reached Kabul and has started reorganizing and commanding his militiamen at Khairkhana Maina north of Kabul city. On the other hand the Gelam ') i Jam militia is commanded by Lt. General Abdul Majid who is the brother of Rashid Dostum whereas the policies for the Gelam Jam militia are chalked out by the then chief of army staff Gen. Baba Jan. As part of these new developments the Afghan film institute* where the radio and TV programs were being edited and recorded,, was taken over by the Gelam Jam militiamen 6 June. Military observers of the mujaheddin believed that such developments are a prelude to further bloodshed in the Afghan capital because the situation in the capital since the arrival of the .Gelam Jam militiamen was very tense and their further ‘ concentration would add fire to the fuel. (NTN)
         8
 - JIA leader Burhanuddin Rabbani has ordered the raising of a combined mujaheddin force to combat the sectarian fighting in Kabul. In a statement in Kabul 6 June he said he was saddened by the bloody sectarian war that has raged in the city for four days. (NTN)
 - The Secretary and spokesman of the Leadership Council, Ayatullah Asef Mohseni, .said 6 June "no foreigner has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, otherwise he would be legally prosecuted."
 (PT)
   Afghanistan has asked all countries not to interfere in its internal matters and that all foreign nationals, in Kabul and elsewhere on the Afghan soil, must have valid passports and visas, reported BBC. The Afghan Foreign Ministry strongly condemned certain foreign elements for interference in Afghanistan. (MLM)
    In its editorial 'Peril in Kabul' the daily Nation says 7 June the original cause of the current conflict is still shrouded in mystery. It could not easily have been sparked by either side's claim to power. Because it would then have had other parties in the fray. 'That the seeds for this hragedy were being planted during the last few years in places outside Afghanistan, is obvious. The position can still be redeemed if the Leadership Council is allowed to play more active role and a peace-keeping force is placed at its disposal. Iran and Pakistan too should realize the extreme peril towards which Afghanistan is drifting. They should also urge all concerned to settle their differences through ballot • and not bullets. There is a great deal at stake for every one, specially for the regional countries. (NTN)
 - General Rashid Dostum is reported to have threatened the Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi that he will establish a separate' state comprising Balkh, Herat, Faryab and Samangan . provinces if • he implemented the agreements reached between HIA and JIA.
    According to another report Uzbek militias have started disarming rival factions in Kabul in an attempt to enforce the new ceasefire. (JG) >
        9
    Abd Rab Rasool sayyaf, leader of IIA, has ordered his mujaheddin commanders to stop fighting after a truce came into effect 7 June between IIA and HWIA, the two warring groups engaged in fighting. A large number of Shia elders
 309
APRIL-JUNE. 1992
B
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 had visited the field commanders of IIA in Kabul 7. June pleading for mercy before the armistice came into effect. Senior Field Commander of IIA, Haji Sher Alam of Paghman, Commander Toofan, Commander Mohammad Anwar and Commander Dr. Abdullah have, however, warned that they would strongly retaliate with devastating. blows if HWIA and its communist allies attempted any violation of the truce. The sources said a large number of fortified bunkers of HWIA fell to IIA in Shia majority suburbs of Kabul city during the first two days of fighting. (NTN)
 ■ * In an interview to a Belgian weekly Pakistan's Secretary General of Foreign Affairs, Akrarn Zaki, has called upon the world community to work for national reconciliation in Afghanistan and fully participate in the reconstruction of the war ravaged country. (NTN)
 - Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, in a statement issued from inside
                                        t
 Afghanistan, has said that his party was against giving any political privilege to the communist elements, least to speak of making coalition with them. He regretted that some mujaheddin had joined a government whose 10 ministers were holding American nationality and 'Green Cards' and whose army chief had been a senior member of the communist party. The Defense Ministry was functioning under the directives of communist generals like , Nabi Azimi, Momin and Bab’a Jan. "All the communist personnel of the then regime are still on the pay role of the new administration and they are receiving their salaries regularly". He said that the weakest administrative institution of Kabul had no. control over the affairs nor could it stop further concentrations of the militia forces in Kabul. The reinforcement of militia was a "sheer violation" of the peace pact, he said. (MLM)
 “ The Muslim in its editorial 9 June says the Afghans are.a sovereign nation and they alone must decide how they plan to work out their present and future. When the Afghan Foreign Ministry spokesman implores the world not to intefere in Kabul's internal affairs, it also implies that the Afghans strongly feel they are being toyed with by those. who parade themselves as their friends and, presumably friends of Islam. What brand of government and what brand of Islam suits the Afghan political genius and religious inclinations is a wholly internal matter and only for the Afghan people to decide. And if there is any good you can do by the Afghan people, first ask them how they would like to be assisted. (MLM)
                 10
 - Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 9 June the visiting Afghanistan's Information Minister, Mohammad Siddiq Chakari, said that Afghan interim administration is determined to abide by the Peshawar Accord. Referring to ongoing clashes in Kabul he said communists were responsible for creating uncertain situation there just for securing their own interests and the interim administration was struggling to resolve internal differences among mujaheddin through peaceful and political ways. He said as a result of 14 years of war the whole country was destroyed and the new government was facing severe difficulties. He said that they expected support and assistance from all those forces who supported them in their struggle. (NTN)
 * 'UN political affairs officer, Peter Schmitz, told a group of MNAs in Islamabad 9 June that the, former Kabul regime President Najibuiiah was under the safe custody of the UN in Kabul. The MNAs Sayed Iftikhar Gailani, Mohammad Afzal Khan and Mahmud Achakzai had gone to the UN office to submit a
310
   APRIL-JUNE, , 1992           HlUllUlt
   memorandum urging the UN to provide complete safety to Najibullah, his family members and colleages. The MNAs told the UN official that Najibullah had agreed to abdicate power under the persuation of the UN and now it was the obligation of the UN to give, him security. (MLM)
   " A hand-grenade near ’ the central ,t market in 1 Kabul killed a number of persons. Eye-witnesses said the grenade was accidentally dropped from the hand of a soldier. The BBC correspondent says that accidental deaths on account of mis-use of arms in Kabul are on the increase. A similar accident killed four soldiers over a week ago. (BBCFS)
   - Chris Powers, BBC correspondent in Kabul, quoting a family-member of former chief of state security, Asadullah Sarwari, says that he is currently in Kabul. The' report adds that Sarwari has been missing oversince his arrival in Kabul and is feared to be taken prisoner. According to other reports he may have gone to the provinces. (BBCPS)
       Mohammad Siddiq Chakari, the Minister of Information of the Afghan Interim Government, in a press conference appreciated the services rendered to the people of Afghanistan during their jehad by the government and people of Pakistan. Regarding his visit to Pakistan Chakari said, he had met with government officials who have promised to cooperate with Afghanistan in the fields of radio/television, exchange of information, the film industry and printing. Though he had not concluded any contracts in these regards he said joint delegations were currently engaged in drafting cultural contracts which may be prepared for initialling in the near future. (VOADS)
                                                                                        VOL. ,5 NO. 3
                   12
 “ In an interview with Radio Payam-e-Azadi Deputy Minister for Justice in the Mujaddedi cabinet; Mawlawi Abdur Rahim Azemi Akhunzada has said that the present set-up in Kabul is totally un-Islamic as the real authority of the government lays with the communist elements, reports ANA. He disclosed that a coalition between the communist officials, the militia forces and some so-called mujaheddin have got over control of the government in Kabul and a similar alliance is working in northern > Afghanistan. The communist officials have been strengthening their forces regularly and were actively engaged in pitting different mujaheddin groups against each other. He said that neither Islamic government could be established in Afghanistan nor peace restored unless the three conditions of the commanders' Shoora were met. These, he said, were the withdrawal of militia forces from Kabul, removal of the communist and non-Muslim elements, from all government institutions and raising a mujaheddin army. (MLM)
                   I
 “ Sheikh Zaid bin Sultan Al-Nahian, the Amir of UAE, has sent 1,200 tons of relief supplies for the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The relief consisting of flour, wheat, rice, cooking ghee and blankets was handed over to a UNHCR, local off ice by a. UAE, diplomat 9 June.
 (VOAPS)
 " Yousuf Wayezi, member of HWIA central council, told the BBC corres-. pondent it has been agreed that the portfolio of the Ministry of State Security, which was renamed as "National Security", will be given to HWIA. In answer to a question whether the allocation of the ministry will satisfy the HWIA, Wayezi said, not quitely. He said, "we had always demanded one/fourth of the entire government organization but considering
' 311
 APR IL-JUNE $ 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
   the posts allocated to HIA (Mohseni), which is also a Shia group will satisfy our whims to some extent.” (BBCFS)
          13
  " Haji Ata Mohammad Akhund, Chairman
  of the Helmand Mujaheddin Council,
  whose men were until recently Engaged
  in fighting with those of commander
  Mohammad Rasool Akhundzadah, in an
  interview with the VOA said, all the
  people in Helmand, irrespective of
  their ethnic or political groupings,
  are members of this alliance. He said
  members from various organizations have i                     I          '
  joined his alliance with a motive to
  oppose the harsh and severe behavior
  adopted by Mawlawi Mohammad Rasool
  Akhundzadah. In answer to a question
  regarding the plantation of popies, he
  said cultivation of popies was against
  the Shariat (Islamic Code) and he would
  take serious measures to stop it. "We
  had promised our religious scholars to
  stop its cultivation at the end of our
  jehad and now that we are free from
  jehad affairs, we shall replace popy
  plantation with some staple grains.
  . (VOADS) *
  * Wadir Safi, a former Minister for Civil Aviation, regarding the fights between the HWIA and IIA said, "it was about a fortnight ago when an insignificant incident occurred between the HWIA and Haji Shair Alam of the IIA which has led to this all-out war between the two parties. In the exchange of fire between the two sides in Karte Char and Karte Seh area, which raged from morning till noon, many houses in both the areas were directly hit and gutted". In answer to the question whether other organizations were also involved, he said Division 80 of the Kayani group supported the HWIA. (BBCFS)
14
  * Dr. Zabihullah Mujaddedi, Deputy Minister, of Education, regarding security in Kabul said that with the arrival in Kabul of the Leadership Council the citizens have high hopes and seem to be satisfied and happy about it. When asked whether Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had participated in the meetings of the mujaheddin leaders and the Leadership Council, Mujaddedi said, "in the sessions that were convened outside the city, Sayyaf, Rabbani and Hekmatyar had participated. But in the other meetings, Mujaddedi and Pir , Gailani did not take part". He added, Hekmatyar has never set foot in Kabul yet and, according to the government, a person revolting against an Islamic state can just as well stay out. (VOADS)
         15
  - The Frankfurter Algemeiner, published in Germany, writes in a recent article that Afghanistan has . no tendency for peace and security because eversince the downfall of the communist regime in Kabul, the suffering natives of the Hindukush Land have been subjected to various forms of hardships, disarray and dissensions. The paper adds, in the absence of peace in the country
foreign assistance will also be made difficult. Under the circumstances, the paper concludes, the future outlook and the return of millions of refugees also look bleak. (VOGDS)
» Prof. Abd. Rab Rasool Sayyaf, leader of the IIA, has termed the decision reached between the Ruling Council and HWIA as illegal and has reacted to it strogly. According to Al-Bunyan, Sayyaf in a statement has criticized Mujaddedi, leader of the Ruling Council, for doing things beyond his;
 312
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
                                                                                   VOL. 5 NO. 3
 authority. The statement; says that participation of the mujaheddin organizations in this government and determining their shares is the sole responsibility of the Leadership' council. (VOAPS)
          16
 . « Burhanuddin Rabbani, Chairman of the
 ' Afghan Leadership Council who is on his first visit to Pakistan after he moved to Kabul early this month, during his meeting with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 15, June, said that it was not the militia but the criminals and WAD elements who presented a major law and order problem in Kabuli President Ghulam Ishaq Khan said on th'e occasion that Pakistan supported the Peshawar. Accord which represented a broad consensus among the Afghan jehad leaders and initiated the transition of power to the mujaheddin. (N.TN)
     In a press release circulated by Al-Bunyan 15 June in Peshawar the IIA leader, Abd Rab ,Rasool Sayyaf, said that Sebghatullah Mujaddedi had been taking steps which were not in accordance with the agreement reached among the mujaheddin leaders for getting pbwer from the communist regime. . He said only the Leadership Council can decide about the participation and share of the mujaheddin parties in the new interim government of mujaheddin and Sebghatullah Mujaddedi is not authorized to decide this important matter. (NTN)
         17
     The Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi announced at a news conference 16 June in Kabul that Afghan Shia organization, HWIA, had decided to join the new Afghan interim government by accepting eight seats in the ruling Jehad Council and three, ministries including the Ministry of
National Security. / The President said the coalition of Junbush-e-Islami had also agreed to join the government by accepting five seats in the Jehad Council and one ministry. Meanwhile, in an interview with VOA at the end of his visit to Kabul the US special envoy for Afghanistan Peter Tomsen has expressed concern over the security situation and foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (MLM)
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the interim government has blamed leaders of other organizations for not keepig their promises. Mujaddedi, who is to head the government for two months, said in a press conference 16 June that he would ask the public, at the end of term, to decide whether to go or stay. He blamed Prof. Rabbani for violating the Peshawar Accords by forming another government within his and defying his orders. (VOAPS)
    Mir Mahmood Musavi, the .Iranian special representative for Afghanistan 'arrived in Kabul 16 June and met Mujaddedi the same day. Stressing the importance of relations between the two countries Mujaddedi said, during the 14 years of their sacred jehad the mujaheddin enjoyed the support of their Iranian brethren. Stressing the need for better mutual gelations between the two countries the Iranian envoy expressed the hope that the present difficulties would soon be Over so that to enable Iran to take active part in the reconstruction- of Afghanistan. (RTFS)
 * General Hamid Gul, former ISI chief says Iran began supporting the Afghan mujaheddin somewhat later, because of being involved in the war with Iraq-. He claims, however, that their support of the Afghan mujaheddin was subjected to a reciprocal support of the mujaheddin of the war against Iraq. Hamid adds, Iran tries to prevent any Saudi Arabian
313
 APR IL-JUNE > 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  influence in Afghanistan for fear of losing its credit in Central Asia, but "Iran has entered the game already a little too late", he said. (VOADS)
         18
  * Contradicting the allegations of former ISI 'chief. General (Rtd) Hameed Gul,regarding the transfer of power and holding of Loya Jirgah the information office of Afghan Interim Government in Peshawar in a press release 17 June called upon the foreigners not to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. "It is the just and legitimate right of Afghans to decide about their government and leadership and no one has the right to issue provocative      and      irresponsible
  statements about^ Afghanistan", the press release said. (NTN)
  ~ A high-level Iranian delegation headed by a special envoy and Ambassador of Iran in Kabul, Mr. Moosavi, called on the HIA leader Gul— buddin Hekmatyar, at a military base of the latter in the outskirts of Kabul 17 June and held closed-door discussions on the prevailing situation of Afghanistan, reports ANA. The IIA Chief, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf also called on the HIA , Chief 16 June in Kabul and held wide-ranging discussions on the situation of the country and the developments taking place in the Afghan capital. (NTN)
  “ The Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said in Kabul 16 June he ' was' no longer under an obligation to resign later this month and the people would decide whether to remain in office or stdp down on 28 June. He said, "when my time is finished, I shall call the people to decide". (MLM)
 . In answer to a question regarding Mujaddedi's tenure, Ahmad Shah Masood
 the Defense Minister of the interim government told a press conference in Kabul that according to the Peshawar Accords Mujaddedi's office term as the care-taker president of the interim government and leader of Jehad Council would end 27 June. Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani will then take over as the President of the interim government and Chairman of the Leadership Council. Masood added that the latter will remain in office for four months during which a council of "Hal-wa-Aqd" will be formed. (BBCFS)
 * Mahmood Musdvi, Iran's special representative for Afghanistan, met Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, somewhere in the south of Kabul. Ibrahim Taherian, leader of the Afghan Delegation to the meeting later said that views were exchanged on various matters in a friendly atmosphere.
 (BBCPS)
        19
 » Unidentified mujaheddin fighters tied up a Hindu famil.y of three with a power cable and electrocuted them in Kabul in a series of attacks directed against Hindus, sources said 18 June. The prosperous trader, his wife and son were killed in the night of June 16. Hindus say several attacks have taken place and ah unspecified number of Hindu money-changers have been abducted for ranson. (PT)
     The Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in a letter to US President Bush has urged him to reopen the American mission in Kabul saying his government would provide security to diplomats and the complex.. He said the reopening of the US Embassy in Kabul would be significant. (PT)
    Following the repatriation of the Afghan refugees to their homeland most of the Peshawar-based Afghan news
314
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
  'agencies, newspapers and periodicals have either shifted to Afghanistan or stopped functioning completely. However, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's ANA and daily Shahadat and Afghan Social Democratic Party's Afghan Hillat are still being published. (NTN)
  -  Sharafuddin Sharaf, Chief Prosecutor of the ousted communist regime in
                                                                  iKabul, who is accused of sending
                                                                   thousands to their deaths, has escaped
  to India fearing an attempt on his life
  in Kabul. Afghan sources said Sharaf,
  who held the post of Attorney General
  under the Soviet-installed regime of
  ousted President Najibullah, had left
  for New Delhi with his wife, son and
                                                                  daughter-in-law. They said Sharaf and
                                                                  his family held new passports given to
                                                                   them by the new caretaker Islamic
  government. (NTN)
  •                    I
  -  Engineer Ahmad Shah, the Interior
  Minister of the interim government in Afghanistan, in regard to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and his relations with the HWIA said that Mujaddedi will be in office for only two months after which power will    be transferred to Prof.
  Burhanuddin   Rabbani. He      said  the
  position of the HWIA is pot yet clear as they are not a part of the government regarding which the entire mujaheddin organizations will have to take a joint decision. Regarding the distribution of the ministries, Engineer Ahmad Shah said that this also was the       responsibility    of   the
  Leadership Council, which is the supreme decision-maker under- the prevalent conditions and any decision passed by it takes a legal form.
  (BBCFS)
  " According to reports published in a section of the Press 18 June, Hekmatyar has said that he would use force if Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Leader of the interim government did not vacate    his
  post for Prof. Rabbani at the end of his office term. Speaker of the HIA in
 Peshawar while denying the report said, the HIA was for the establishment of an Islamic order in Afghanistan. The speaker added that his party was fighting for liberating the oppressed from the rule of despots.and to freeing the citizens of Kabul from brutes and burglars. "Anybody ensuring elections and' the right of self-determination to the people of Afghanistan will be welcomed by the HIA", he concluded.
 (VOAPS()
 * Reports from Nooristan state that an earlier decision of the elders prohibiting Nooristanis from visiting Kabul is still valid. Abdul Hai Warshan, a local newsman, says that, the decision taken ten years ago places a fine of six cows (or equivalent in cash) plus one year imprisonment on anyone establishing contact with the Kabul regime. The report adds that despite the establishment of an Islamic government in Kabul, the decision still stands. (VOAPS)
 -     Sebghatullah     Mujaddedi,     the
 President of the interim government, has supported the idea of the establishment of the future government of Afghanistan through the Loya Jirgah. His press section in Peshawar has said that the Loya Jirgah will be backed by the majority of the nation. The statement has been made at a time when the HIA has threatened the use of forde if Mujaddedi did not relinquish his post after the lapse of two months.
 (VOAPS)                     .
 " Benon Sevan, personal representative of the’ UN Secretary General for Afghanistan, has said that the UN should increase the 180 million dollar assistance credit originally alloted for Afghanistan. The UN officials say that some 150 thousand refugees are returning to Afghanistan from Iran and Pakistan every week but the actual figures may probably be more. Sevan
315
APRIL-JUNE. 1992                  m\mm                 VOL. 5 no.  3
 said Afghanistan is one of the rare cases where refugees wish to return but it is feared that the UN may not be in a position to obtain the 180 million dollars needed as an emergency assistance for Afghanistan.
                  20
 * On his return from 17-year self-exile in Afghanistan the Baluch leader, Mir Sher Mohammad Marri, addressing a reception given by JWP in Karachi 19? June, said that the US, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia had s joined the war in Afghanistan but achievement had actually .been made there by Iran. Afghanistan, he said, was passing through a most critical stage of its history and its integrity was threatened. He said revolution in Afghanistan was not socialist in nature but only an event. (NWT)
    The President of the Leadership Council of Afghanistan, Burhanuddin. Rabbani, left for Jeddah 19 June on a two-day special visit to Saudi Arabia. The Saudi Government sent a special, plane to Kabul to airlift Rabbani. He1 is leading a 12-member delegation which1 includes chief of HIA and spokesman for the Leadership Council, Ayatullah Sheikh Asef Mohseni. (PT)
                  21
 " An Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman said in New Delhi 19 June that India had taken up the killings of ethnic Indians ' in Afghanistan with Kabul following recent reports of violence against Indians and their property there. "It would be a matter of deep concern if Afghan nationals of Indian origin were being singled out and, victimized on account of their being Hindus and Sikhs", he said. (PT)
- Pakistan's Ambassador to Afghanis-
 tan, Amir Usman, presented . his credentials to President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in Kabul 20 June. (PT)
 » Benon Sevan, who has been a UN Secretary General's special envoy to ■ Afghanistan since three years, has been recalled to the UN headquarters in New Ybrk. He will be replaced by another person who is currently employed as assistant to the Secretary General in political affairs. (BBCFS)
 " Following the massacre of a Sikh family in Kabul last week the Hindu community in Kabul have demanded better security arrangements for themselves. Meanwhile, the Indian Ambassador in Kabul says such incidents are the result of general lack of security and disarray in the country and have no ethnic origins. (BBCFS)
 * The Afghan Government has adopted a new national flag for the country which represents its Islamic character... The’ flag consisting of black, white and green colors is decorated with the Kalemah Tayyebah and Allah-o-Akbar (God is Great). It also carries a mosque with two minarets and is already flown over important government buildings. (RP)
 - Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, , in an interview with. Radio Iran explained his party's stance regarding the current situation in Afghanistan. He said, the situation in Kabul and elsewhere in Afghanistan was unpleasant and dangerous, and expressed his sorrow over the recent events in the country. Regarding his party's agreement with the government Hekmatyar said, "we will respect the agreements and will carry them out sincerely but the other side has, unfortunately, ignored them". Ruling out the use of force he insisted upon reaching an understanding through negotiations. He also called for elections saying, "the Afghanistan problem will not be solved without elections."
3 16
 APRIL-JUNE, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
        22
  “ The Afghan Interim President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, apologized 21 June for growing attacks on Afghans of Indian origin in Kabul, blaming his Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood for his lack of security. (NTN)
 . > •
 1 - A spokesman for the Afghan Interim
  President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said
 , 21 June the President had decided not to hand over power, as previously agreed, to the leader of a rival group, Burhanuddin Rabbani. Instead, the spokesman said the interim council made up of 64 people's representatives would be allowed to decide on the next move. (MLM)
 Mujaddedi for violating the Peshawar Accord by forming a. Cabinet. The only job of Mujaddedi, he said, was the transfer of power, but now he has been claiming that 90% of people were supporting him and, therefore, he would not relinquish power to the interim mujaheddin government. The HIA leader said that plots were under way for establishing a parallel government in northern Afghanistan so as to divide the country in north and south with active foreign involvement. He expressed concern as to why Babrak Karmal was accorded a warm welcome in Kabul and his armed men allowed to walk in the city's streets while mujaheddin were being disarmed and the citizens constantly harassed, killed, looted and disgraced. (PT)
 - There are reports of heavy clashes in Kabul 21 June between guerillas of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and pro-Government Uzbek militia but the warring sides said in Kabul they were awaiting details from the areas of fighting. "We have received news of the fighting and it is not clear who is fighting up there. We have sent a message and will learn soon", said an HIA spokesman. i PT)
 » Addressing a historic public meeting at Gardaiz 20 June, the HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, took an oath of the people of Paktia province for moving towards Kabul to fight against the remnants of communism so as to end the prevailing chaos in the country, avert the dangers of Afghanistan's disintegration and put the country on the road to peace, progress and prosperity. He told the audience that the Ministries of Defense and National Security were still run by the communist forces headed by Babrak Karmal while on all the sensitive posts, including the post of the Chief of Army Staff, communists were appointed. He flayed Sebghatullah
    Addressing a representative jirgah from Nangarhar province 21 June in Kabul the Afghan ' Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said, "I do not wish to cling onto power and my tenure is going to be over in the next four or five days. However, he stressed that people's representatives should be involved in deciding the future of Afghanistan. (PT)
 » in his addresstto a large gathering! in Gardaiz, leader of the HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said, the entire jehad forces in the afea should leave for Kabul under a single command. The VOA local correspondent has said that besides forces of the HIA- -( Hekmatyar), other mujaheddion had participated in the meeting too. The leader of the HIA said the Ministry of Defense and that of the State Security were still controlled by the communists. He said, the present government in Kabul was a coalition of the communists and the militia forces. "Plots are underway to split Afghanistan and the only way to stop it will be through the use of force", he concluded. (VOAPS)
317
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
VOL, ,5 NO. 3
 - According to reports, the General Secretary of the HWIA during a press conference in Kabul disclosed the names of the Wahdat ministers in the interim government. They are Gen. Khudaidad, Minister for National Security, Eng. Ya'aqubali ha'ali. Minister for Reconstruction and Rural Development and Dr. Abdul Wahed Sorabi, Minister of Mines and Industries. (VOIRA)
 ~ Qazi Sayyed Aman, Acting Governor of Kabul, explaining the security situation in the city told the BBC correspondent, about the same time that the JIA forces entered Kabul, some of the mujaheddin belonging to other organizations also came to Kabul in smaller groups and took position in various places in the city causing disarray and confusion. He said the ministries'of defense and interior have taken necessary measures to maintain law and order in ICabul which may come about within a week or so. "The security forces will not permit anyone to disrupt peace in the city", he said.
 (BBCFS)
                   23
      The Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi      who . had
 previously agreed no*t to try. to stay beyond his tenure and is sheduled to hand over power in a week, made a fervent appeal to powerful warlords 21 June to decide whether he stays or goes. He also said his occupancy of Presidential Palace should not be determined by past agreements, but by a traditional grand council. (PT)
    Mujaheddin Commanders 21 June in Kabul threatened to wage a holy war against anyone who opposes caretaker president Sebghatullah       Mujaddedi.
 Dozens of religious scholars and tribal leaders sat Gross-legged on the floor of the Presidential Palace and listened attentively as mujaheddin commanders
 came one-by-one across a stage and before the cameras of state-run Afghan television, calling for Mujaddedi to remain in office for as long • as five more years. (NTN)
 ■ Responding to queries iat Albadar Brigade in Gardaiz, Paktia, 20 June the HIA Chief, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that Pakistan seemed the least interested in the implementation of the1 Peshawar Accord, reached between mujaheddin leaders, and saw no harm if the agreement was altered or violated. (NTN)
     Reports from inside Afghanistan state that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, has expressed concern over threats that Afghanistan will be disintegrated. He said, plots and intrigues are underway for the establishment of a separate state in the north of the country. "We must be prepared to fight against such plots which have been planned with the help of foreign countries. Therefore, the only way to establishing a true Islamic government will be by military means", he said. (VOIRA)
 " Abdul Haq, Chief of Security Forces in the interim government, in an interview has considered "critical" the ■ security situation in Kabul. He said, as Chief of the Security Forces in Kabul he was helpless to do anything about it. He blamed the government and the mujaheddin themselves for the present chaos in the city. He said, "the mujaheddin are searching the pockets of tbo ' passers-by in the streets, molesting them and . looting their houses". (VOAPS)
                                                  24
 " Speaking at Quetta Press Club 23 June, Abdul Wali Khan leader of ANP said, in order to pit brother against brother in Afghanistan America has gifted Islamic order and Islamic
 318
APRIL-JUNE, 1992          IffilMI JUMP________________ VOL. 5 NO. 3
 government, leading to factional fight in the name of Islam. Wali Khan said that there should be no'interference in Afghanistan affairs either from America or from Pakistan so that Afghan people could decide their destiny on their own. (MLM)
                   25
 - The Afghan Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah. Masood, prevented President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi from going to his presidential palace 24 June. According to Reuter President Mujaddedi accused Masood of usurping his powers. "All the media, the radio and the television, are under the control of Masood’s ' JIA. They have been using these important resources of the Afghan people for their own party interest", the President said. Mujaddedi added, Masood used force 22 June at night to prevent the broadcast of presidential announcement Convening an extraordinary session of the 64-member Jehad Council. (MLM)
 * Heavy fighting between the. Uzbek militia, led by General Rashid Dostum, and HIA (Hekmatyar) fighters broke out 24 June near Bala Hissar fort with both sides using guns and tanks, reported BBC. It was not clear how the fighting began but reports spoke of heavy casualties. (MLM)
 ~ At ,his weekly press briefing in Islamabad 24 June a foreign office spokesman emphatically said that it would not involve itself in the transfer of power- process due to take place on June 28 in accordance with the April 24 Peshawar Accord amongst various groups of Afghan mujaheddin. It was for the people and leaders of Afghanistan to decide, this question, the spokesman said. (PT)
* Afghan Interipi President^ Sebghatullah Mujaddedi 24 June postponed the
 transfer of power in Kabul by three days, saying not enough Afghan leaders were present to take charge, state radio and television said. Mujaddedi was to have handed over power to his multi-party interim 56-member council as well as to the 10-member mujaheddin Leadership Council, but both the forums have reported that, a majority of their members were either in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia or in provinces of Afghanistan.
 (NTN)
 * Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi announced 24 June he would step down three days ahead of schedule. Heavy rocket fire was heard in the city as the President named his Defense Minister as the reason he could not stay in office . "l am ready to transfer .power tomorrow (25 June)". Mujaddedi announced before western journalists, adding that he would neither seek a second term nor recommend a new executive head for Afghanistan. (NTN)
 " Bitterly criticizing Sebghatullah Mujaddedi the ex-member of Afghan Parliament, Nang Yousufzai, in a statement in Peshawar 24 June said that Pakistan contributed a lot to the Afghans' struggle, but he did not understand as to what had compelled the Pakistani rulers to impose upon the Afghans a descendent of anti-Afghans, who had ousted Afghans' hero Ghazi Amanullah, at the instigation of British government. He said that Sebghatullah Mujaddedi could not face even a single Afghan commander and "today was. not 1919 but 1992". That is why today’s 'Shoor Bazar Mullah* would not be able to barter away Afghans' freedom to foreigners. He said that Muj&ddedi's refusal to accept the Peshawar Accord was a proof of his political and moral bankruptcy. (MLM)
 - In an exclusive interview with The Muslim Ayatullah Mohseni, leader of HIA and spokesman and secretary of . the
319
APRIL-JUNE, 1992
  Afghan Leadership Council warned in Islamabad 24 June that a lot of blood would be shed in Afghanistan if power was not transferred to Burhanuddin Rabbani as was decided in Peshawar two months ago. He accused Saudi ulama of issuing controversial verdicts in order to create chaos and sectarian troubles in Afghanistan. Quoting Afghan Foreign Office he said that Iran was interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (MLM)
                   26
  " Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, criticizing Ahmad Shah Masood the Defense Minister of the interim govenment in Kabul said, he (Masood) was not in a position to maintain law and order in Kabul. Hekmatyar also blamed/Masood for failing to choose one of his deputies from amongst the HIA personnel. Two out of his three deputies are from the Shia HWIA organization while the third is from the IIA (Sayyaf) group. He explained that the maintenance of peace in the city was the responsibility of Interior Ministry and not of the Ministry of Defense.
 (VOGDS)
 " Despite the fact that a large number of government establishments were looted during the transition of power in Afghanistan, the National Archives, the Public Library and the Kabul Museum have, however, been saved upon the initiative of some mujaheddin organizations. (VOADS)
 - Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, paid a short visit to Kabul 25 June as a special envoy qf Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif. On his arrival he met with interim President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and conveyed a special message of. the Prime ; minister to him. The contents of the message were not disclosed. (PT)
   VOL. 5 NO. 3
 ~ The former UN special envoy for Afghanistan    Benon    Sevan   .has
 unexpectedly reached Kabul 25 June.. UN sources say he has come for a farewell meeting with his old colleagues. (NWT)
                                             27
 " Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in a statement issued in Islamabad 26 June disclosed that in response to his message the Afghan Interim President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has affirmed his commitment to ’relinquish office of the President on the 'expiry of the two months' term laid down in the Peshawar Accord of April 24 last. The Prime Minister said he had sent the message through his special envoy Akram Zaki, Secretary General Foreign Affairs, conveying Pakistan's deep anxiety over continuing tension in Kabul and doubts on the future of the political process agreed by the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Peshawar 24 April. (NTN)
 * General Khodadad Hazara of the HWIA. appointed by caretaker President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi as National Security Minister, took over 26 June the Interior Ministry after two days of intense fighting between his forces and ■those of Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood, AFP quotes witnesses and other sources as saying. The General arrived at the complex after a night of clashes that left 20 people dead. ' Wahdat sources said the Interior Ministry was being renamed - the national security ministry. (NTN)
                                              30
 - Regarding the .transfer of power from Mujaddedi to Prof. Rabbani, Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani said, "when we heard about the peaceful transfer of power we praised Mujaddedi for his foresight to have removed a major cause of diss^ision among the mujaheddin groups. In answer to the question
320
  APRIL-JUNE, 1992                   Mil
  whether or not he would cooperate with Prof. Rabbani Haqqani said, not only he but the commanders and the ulama would all do so wholeheartedly. Regarding Hekmatyar's demand for the withdrawal of the militia forces from Kabul Haqqani said, "the Dostum militia had supported the Kabul regime for years, had fought against the mujaheddin and are at present engaged in looting and killing in Kabul and elsewhere. Under these conditions it is not the desire of Hekmatyar alone but of the entire mujaheddin that they should leave Kabul for good". (BBCPS)
  * Burhanuddin Rabbani, who took over power as the President of the Afghan interim government yesterday, has promised the return of complete peace to Afghanistan. According to Reuter, Rabbani in his first statement also promised the safety of the property of the people of Afghanistan. Meanv1"> le, Hekmatyar and Prof. Sayyaf, though expressing concern over the situation in Afghanistan, also announced their , support of Rabbani. Hekmatyar warned, however, that in the case of non*adherence to his call for the withdrawal of the former regime militia from Kabul, he would possiblly consider renouncing the Rabbani government. (TR)
                  31
 * Fresh fighting between Uzbek militia and hold-out mujaheddin flared 30 May in Karte Naw, a southeastern district of Kabui, shattering a 'six-day• peace forged by two resistance leaders, officials said, Militia and fighters of the HIA led by Hekmatyar clashed with rockets and light cannons in a fight to take over the area. Explosions rocked the area as the rival sides fought for a foot-hold there. (NTN)
 - Talking to journalists at the wedding ceremony of the son of Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the JI Chief 30 May, the former COAS General (Retd) Mirza Aslam
  l>HU                     VOL. 5  NO. 3
  Beg said Gulbuddin Hekmatyar cannot be overlooked in the establishment of. peace in .Afghanistan. About rocket attack on the plane of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi he said it was the mischief of elements around the airport aimed at inviting action against some particular party. (NWT)
  * The Nation in its editorial 'Attempt on Mujaddedi' says 31 May that it could have been a single saboteur or enemy agent or a group of ' men . wanting to settle their own score. It is obvious that had so many senior leaders and commanders of mujaheddin died in the plane, a civil war would have erupted, the consequences of which would have been disastrous. In defense of Hekmatyar though it could be said that having arrived at a deal with Ahmad Shah Masood, through which a share - of the power was assured for him, he had little incentive for Mujaddedi’s immediate ouster-. The question that remains is: whose interest would best be,; served through a mujaheddin civil war in Afghanistan? Could it be some power which felt that a peaceful Afghanistan would open the way to a potentially powerful Muslim block and with expanding commerce, enrich Central Asia? Or, could it be someone who wanted turmoil on Pakistan's north-west to continue and thus keep Pakistan's security in . perpetual jeopardy? Whatever the answer of answers to these questions, it is obvious that this is. not likely to be the last attempt to* destabilize Afghanistan. It would probably be just the beginning. A lot of options are actually available to a determined enemy and there are far too many suspects for him to be caught easily. Security in and around Kabul is minimal. Almost everyone has access to rockets and anti-aircraft guns. No attempt has yet been made to disarm fighters and shift heavy armor from the hands of guerillas to the regular army. Even worse, the existence of a regular army is being questioned* Ahmad Shah
321
 APR IL-JUNE/ 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 3
 Masood would be well-advised to move simultaneously on all these fronts and move quickly enough so as not to let the enemy within or the enemy without, find the time and the opportunity to strike again. (NTN)
                            *
 ~ The head of the commission investigating attack on the plane carrying Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and -senior government officials 29 May said the plane came under fire from an airbase controlled by three different guerilla factions and was not clear which group was responsible, reports BBC. The Chairman of the commission of enquiry, Mohammad Amin Wardag, said the plane was fired upon -from three separate places. But it was the shell fired from Shina that hit the plane. (NTN)
 - Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of the HXA, expressing pleasure over the peaceful transfer of power to Prof. Rabbani in an interview said, there was no room for the communists in the Islamic government. He expressed the hope that, according to the Peshawar agreements of 24 April, Prof. Rabbani would continue to discharge his duties in the office for another four months. Khales added, peace and security were of significant importance
 in Afghanistan at present and hoped that Prof. Rabbani would succeed in his efforts to bring peace to Kabul. (VOADS)
 * Nabi Mesdaq, the BBC correspondent reports from Helmand that fighting had continued in the province between elements loyal to Nasim Akhundzadeh and other mujaheddin groups for many years. One of the reasons for the on-gping conflicts is the fact that Akhundzadeh wished to have only one ruler in • the area on the ground that prsence of more will be against the Islamic principles and anybody defying this rule will be considered an outlaw and will be punished accordingly. This argument of his had prompted controversy among his followers in the past and many of them had turned away from him.
     At the fall of the Kabul regime, however, some of the militiamen in the area defected to the HIA mujaheddin and together they occupied Lashkargah, the provincial center and later another important district, Moosa Qala. Later developments prompted many of his men to rejoin the Akhudzadeh group with whose help he managed to recapture Moosa Qala. (BBCPS)
322