October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No*2r~/v Vol.3, No.l


/'■- ■ f / f } S i.
      m THE NAME OF GOD, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIfUL.
 FAUrwisil c • SHAH M‘ B00K cc‘-
 m2j CL 1f1I Ct I A • Box 1328, Kabul, Afghanis?*;-!
                 Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25888
  A RECKONING OF OUR DEEDS
      It is now almost one year since the Russians withdrew their troops from % .
 Afghanistan and the mujaheddin, with great pain and difficulty after holding what it was expected to be a historic gathering of Afghans under the name of shoora nominated and conducted on the basis of our own free will, formed a new government. At that time, both the Afghan, leaders of the interim government and the pro-Afghan international lobby and,1 indeed, privately the Russians predicted a quick downfall or, at least a gradual weathering away of the Kabul Regime. This expectation, however, did not materialize and the Kabul regime still clings to power. The factors that have contributed to the continuation of Najibullah regime are said to be continued massive Soviet military supplies, air raid missions from the Soviet Union on mujaheddin positions, existence of a large numbers of Soviet military advisors and thousands of Russian militiamen fighting under the guise of "Jauzjanis", people who have similar physical features to our northern population.
      The Soviet Union is indeed playing a double standard in its policy vis a vis Afghanistan. For, on the one hand, it is admitting that its military invasion of Afghanistan was unjustified and wrong and, on the other hand, fails to draw a true lesson from its blunder and continues to prop up a regime which the Soviets more than anybody else know, does not enjoy national support.
      But we the mujaheddin or forces who* have opposed all along the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and establishment of a communist government in bur country are also to be realistic. We have to approach and analyse coolly the whole series of events that are taking place in our country. Do we expect the
                                                                                          PRICE:
                                               • 3'
 SERIAL. NO:
SHAH M BOOK CO
PRINTERS, PUBLISHERS, DISTRIBUTORS & BOOKSELLERS
c shahm.bookco@usa.net t"maiL shahmbookco@onebox.com
PO BOX: 1328, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2—4
    October-1988-Deceraber, 1989 AfQRilNJ[HAD                     Vol.'i, Mo.I
 Soviet Union to be our friend from now on? Do we all^ of a sudden expect the Soviet Union to abandon its entire range of interests - most of them contrary and detrimental to our interests? Do we expect the Soviets to forego the means at its disposal to preseve its interests in our country including the sustenance of present Kabul regime?
      The fact is the Soviet Union, short than sending troop contingents, will do anything to sustain in Afghanistan the interests which once it thought could be preserved and maintain through military interventions. The Soviet Union is not going to resign from its interests in our country. It withdrew from Afghanistan its troops because it found out that it was failing to preserve its interests through use of brutal force. Mikhail Gorbachev’s Glosnost £xid Prestrioka indeed are not aimed at relinquishing Soviet ambitions to influence events and play a major role in the correlation of forces. Indeed, the Russians may have withdrawn physically from Afghanistan but their otherwise presence is still very evident in our country.
      When we were predicting a quick downfall of the Kabul, regime, were we really thinking that, parallel to the withdrawal of their troops, the Russians were also relinquishing their entire range of interests in Afghanistan? If we
 had such as illusion of events it was, indeed, very naive of us.
      But, to be fair, an anticipation on the part of mujaheddin leadership of
 a quick downfall of the Najib regime was correct. What our leadership failed to foresee was (1) that, short of a presence of its troops, in Afghanistan, the Kremlin was going to continue its allout support of its puppet .regime as long as it found a chance for its survival and (2) the utter lack of a coordinated military and political strategy by our leadership. For it is our firm belief that the present Kabul regime has survived not because of any inherent virtues but due to a lack of a coordinated plan by the mujaheddin to topple it.
      How long the Afghan people, in the first instance, and those who are on our side and supporting us morally and materially will wait for us?How long our people have to suffer not because they have to but because we are not sincere‘and serious to end this suffering. They may not support us for very lorg if we continue to show incompetance and lack of coordinated efforts in ending their miseries and fail to honor our jehad commitments for establishing an honest and efficient administration.
                                  4
                                                                 Vol.2, No.2—4
   October-198&-December, 19139 AfGHANJfHAQ                      Vol.'i, No.l
      The international community - including our own Islamic brethren - will also soon become impatient with -us. Already there are reports about the scaling down of material contribution to us by our Muslim friends and others*
      To rule Afghanistan from Peshawar will no longer be a virtue* In the midst of a spiral of administrative activities and expenditures. - all from donations
 we have lost our sense of purpose. By organizing an. interim government, Our main objectives were (a) to topple the Kabul regime in the shortest time possible by directing our entire energies towards that goal, and (2) while doing so, to organize an effective administrative system throughout the liberated areas so, on the one hand, we may help our citizens and, on the other hand, prove our competence and skill in administering the country. When the official organ of the Ittehad-e-Islami,of the Prime Minister of the AIG, in a recent editorial expressed dismay and disillusionment with the performances of this government, it truely spoke on behalf of millions of the silent majority of our people*
      The AIG has actually failed to fulfill the very tasks which it set for itself through the February I989, Shoora or Council: It was to go within Afghanistan within one month after of its formation and hold elections after one year of its establishment within the country, and to broaden its basis to make it acceptable to the majority of our people*
      Holding of elections - on which the AIG is now reported to be working -was, apparantly made conditional upon its establishment within Afghanistan which it has been unable to accomplish* It was assumed that, with the formation of an Afghan government within the country, elections could be held easily in many parts of the country controlled by the mujaheddin* The Shoora had apparently made one (the functioning of the AIG inside the country) dependent on the other (holding elections).
      In a broadbased government, participation or support of all Islamic forces that had fought the enemy on the battlefield or through other means was anticipated.
      This leadership, furthermore, has had an inherent and longstanding commitment to those who, in one or another way, participated in the jehad. That . commitment or pledge has been that it is to establish the rule of Islam in Afghanistan, a rule in stark contrast with what existed in the form of govern-
                                       5
October-1988-December , 1989
AfGHAN JEHAD
Vol.2, No *2—/^ Vol.3, No.1
 ment even before the communist rule, that form of government which actually paved the way for present miseries of our people and our beloved country.
      There are even now-a-days talks, unfortunately,of establishing a government in Afghanistan .other than mujaheddin forces and, if our leadership does not attend to their grave responsibilities that may well happen.
      Let there be no misunderstanding. Only enemies of an Islamic order in Afghanistan will advocate a substitution of mujaheddin leadership. What we call for is that we should attend to our fundamental obligation of providing a selfless leadership from the very ranks of mujaheddin forces. Let us stop • alluding ourselves that, .for the sake of our support for such administration -,ue ought to remain silent or suffocate our legitimate wishes and de-sires just because it is a government of the mujaheddin. We can have indeed competency, selflessness, honesty, dedication, foresightedness, alertness and other qualities essential for leadership from the very ranks of all those who have fought the enemy and are still fighting it for. the sake of Islam.
      Now-a-days also there is a great deal of talks about elections for another shoora. How these elections are going to ^e held both in a war ravaged country and in alien territories might pose many real and legitimate questions. But what will happen if elections are held, and still we remain where we are right now# Is there going to be a change of hearts on the part of our leadership after the new elections and will they unite and workout an effective strategy for achieving our immediate goal of establishing our own administration in Kabul? Or is it that the elected shoora might vote the present leadership out of office? If so, who will then replace this leadership and who will staff the present bureaucracyand chain of commands, party affiliation, etc.
      Let us not make scapegoats for our dismal record of performances. Let us say this: For the sake of Allah, Who has already provided us with a mandate^ to unite under the command of His Word, bring to an end all the mischief in our land emanating both from own deeds or those from the enemy*
    /. We do not oppose elections in any way for a shoora because, we, contrary to some others in our leadership ranks, believe that it is an Islamic injunction to hold counsel of the people in conducting such public affairs on which there are no Quranic injunction and precise and authentic instruction of our Prophet, peace be upon him.
                                   6
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2—4
   OpLol>i!19Bft—Doctt»r*t 19^9 HfCHllNJ[HIW                       V*>l/J, No. I
      Elections or no elections, we need unity, of purpose and dedication. At present we have to sit down and work out a two-pronged strategy: (1) How to topple the puppet Kabul regime and (2) how to make use of resources put at our> disposal by our friends to rehabilitate our population and economy? Our whole administration and bureaucracy have to be adjusted to achieving these two aims. Let us forget about inflating our administration but, instead, let us make our administration an effective vehicle for achieving these two goals.
 AN ADDITIONAL ROLE
              FOR CCAR
   Now that, with the grace of Almighty God, we are resuming the publication of the Afghan Jehad after 15 months delay, we also pray that no other difficulty or obstacle may emerge in our path in the future to force us stop this publication. Although our difficulty for not being able to publish the •magazine was mainly financial but also, in the wake of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the formation of an Afghan interim government- j both in February, 1989 - it became apparent that we had to add a new role for I the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance (CCAR). It took us a long time .to*procure support for funding our new projects. We all thought that our jehad leadership will.evolve a plan to bring the present Kabul regime to a speedy ] end and we will go to Kabul and our magazine, too, will be published with a ; new vision and purpose from our capital city*
                                    I
   Now that the lull unfortunately in our jehad to topple the Kabul regime ; continues^ we once again resune the publication of this magazine within the '« framework of an additional role envisaged for the CCAR with the hope that not ■ in a too far future we will go to Kabul* This added role is to issue basic policy papers on the future of Afghan society. For the war - though tantamount to an almost total destruction and uprooting of our society and our ancient and precious civilization - may yet prove a new blessing. It may provide us with an opportunity to come up with a new set of purposes which will enable us to enjoy the blessing of a free, just, fair, balanced and prosperous society in all walks of life.
                  7
                                                                                          Vol.2f No#2—A
    0ctobcr-19»C-Ducunljnr, 1909 AfCHANJtHAD                       Vol.'t, Nu.l
      That is why from now on a major portion of this magazine has been devoted to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Afghanistan. The genuine pioneers of this reconstruction and rehabilitation do not want just a physical reconstruction and rehabilitation carried in random, not talcing into consideration the true requirements of an Islamic way of life. We want every major phase of life in our new Afghanistan carefully planned and the best of our brains are asked to contribute in providing thoughts and guidelines for a prosperous society which, according to us, will not be prosperous unless it intentionally avoids succumbing to evils which modernism or narrowmindedness generate. We have to evolve a just and fair society in which our citizens may enjoy the material blessings of Almighty God not as an end but as a means to achieving moral and spiritual advances.
      This is the new role which we at the CCAE have set for our institution. And to do this, we have'already established "The Institute of Afghan Policy Studies". The magazine Afghan Jehad is hoped to be mainly a vehicle for this institution by offering pioneering thinking of our scholars towards the establishment of a society which we Afghans hope to have.
                                         8
 October-1988-December, 1989 fltEHfiB JtBflB Voll?', Mo’.l
Political Dimension:
EYES FOCUSSED ON AIG TO TOPPLE NAJIB
   The last fifteen months have been full of unprecedented events in the annals of political deve-lopnents* Here we offer the salient points of these events.
                     TRANSITIONAL INTERIM GOVERNMENT OF MUJAHEDDIN                        '
     The first Islamic government of Afghan mujaheddin, formed in the summer of 1988, before the Soviet troops withdrawal, steadily went to become weak and weaker and treaded towards ineffectiveness because: (i) the Peshawar'based parties continued to remain intact, and their leaders preserved powers and authority to themselves, (ii) the leadership council retained its status apd powers above the government, (iii) the monetary resources rested with the parties and the head of the . government was virtually a deputy leader of his party. Thus, the IUAM government was forced to tread downward and'ultimately vanish. On the other hand, the IUAM government was obliged to seek a vote of confidence from an elected shoora in accordance with an election law worked out earlier.
      A committee of 20 representatives from Peshawar based parties was constituted 1 January, 1989, to pave the way for the formation of a Consultative Shoora and the establishment of a government.
 The committee proposed that 60 nepresentatiyes from each party should participate in the Consultative Council out of which fifty percent should be the jehad commanders, while 60 seats were allocated for the Shia Iran-based mujaheddin. They, however, did not agree on that number and demanded 125 seats. They claimed that the Shia community in Afghanistan constituted 35$ of the total population of Afghanistan, while all other mujaheddin said their number could not. be more than eight percent. :
 In Such an uncondusive. atmosphere, the Iran-based Shia parties, insplte of their presence in Islamabad, did not attend the deliberations of the Consultative Council convened in Rawalpindi 10 February, 1988 •
      The other difficulty was that, during his visit to Iran, the IUAM President Prof. SebghatUlIah Mujaddedi promised 100 seats to Afghan mujaheddin based in Iran. But other members, however, did not agree and, after a prolonged debate, 80 seats were offered to them. This was not acceptable to the Shia delegation.
      Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, as the spokesman of the IUAM, announced 15 February that the leadership .council will lead the government with a President and a spokesman. Its President would be appointed in rotation after each six months. With the establishment of an interim government, elections will also be held for an assembly and .then the government would seek a vote of confidence from the elected body within two months. The elected council would have the choice to accept the government or announce another one. It will also appoint a President. The leadership Council would also delegate its powers to the elected government and the elected council will draft a Constitution for the country. Later on, upon the approval of the Constitution, the powers of the ,head of the state and. head of the government would be defined.                                                            ^
                                                           9

                                                                             Vo 1.2, No.2—l\,
    October~1988~December, 1989 flfGHflWJtHflll                               Vol.3,  No.l
      He urged the Shoora to debate the policies and composition of the government of Engineer Ahmad Shah. While members of the Council were expressing their views about that government the atmosphere-in the Shoora became tense due to conflicting opinions.In subsequent sessions until 18 Feb. Maw^H!.' Muhammad Nabi Muhanmadi was introduced as chief of the leadership council and Engineer Ahmad Shah as head of the government. But only a day* later the Shoora refused'to vote for them. So the leaders deputed 20 February a team to iron out the differences. The team then appointed a 14-member commissions led by Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani,of Khales party, to submit a report to the Shoora which was to be binding. The Commission submitted its plan 22 February, (for texts see sections on "Documents.").
      On the basis of the plan, elections were held 22 February and the Chairman of the Commission announced the results which were:
      Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi 174 votes, Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, 173 votes, Mawlawi Muhammad Nabi Muhammadi, 139 votes, Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, 126 votes, Mawlawi Muhammad Yunus {(hales, 102 votes, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, 99 votes, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, 89 votes. ;
    .Consequently the offices of the Head of the State and Health Ministry were alloted to the NLFA, Premiership and Ministry of Communications to the Islamic Unity, Ministries for Defense, Scientific Research and Agriculture to the Harkat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, Ministries for Foreign Affairs and Border affairs to the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) Interior Ministry and Ministries, for Haj, Endowments and National Security to the Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) Ministries for Reconstruction, Information, Mines and Industry to Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and the Supreme Court, Ministry for ■ Education and finance to NIFA.
      The AIG cabinet, announced by Mujaddedi 24 February,consisted of:
      Mujaddedi, President, Prof,. Sayyaf, Prime Minister, Mawlawi Muhammad Nabi Muhammadi, Minister of Defense, Engineer Ahmad Shah, Minister of Communications, Mawlawi Muhammad Yunus Khales Minister of Interior, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani Minister of Reconstruction, Mawlawi Muhammad Shah Fazli, Minister for Scientific Research, Haji Deen Muhammad, Minister for National Security and Sayyed Muhammad Nader Khurram Minister of Public Health.
      After one week^the Hezb-e-Islami introduced Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as Foreign Minister, All An sari as Minister for Borders, and Judge Najiullah as Justice Minister. A fortnight later the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan introduced Dr. Najibullah Lafraee as Minister of Information and Engineer Aishan Jan as Minister for Mines and Industries. After the lapse of one month, NIFA introduced Muhammad Amin Arsala as Minister of Finance and Dr. Farooq Azam as Minister of Education and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani himself assumed the office of the Chief Justice.                              '1
      Twenty days after its formation on 17 March, the: AJ.Q held its first session in Shuiwa region, Paktia 15 km inside Afghanistan from the Pakistan border. But the government, according to directives, did not shift to inside Afghanistan and remained based in Peshawar,
      In June-July, 1989, sWhen the Takhar bloody incident occured and Hezb-a-Islami and Jamiat-e-Islami clashed with one another, Prof. Rabbani officially urged the AIG to suspend the membership of Hezb-a-Islami in the AIG. But, before any decision could be taken by the AIG, Hekmatyar left the AIG accusing it of failure to honor its pledge for holding elections. ‘ Thus the government once again was engulfed with disunity. As this Islamic government continues its duties^ it is legally
                                                           10
                                                                            Vol,2, Ho.2-l>
     Oetober-1986-DecewBer, 19fl9 flfOHjMIittHflB                            Vol.3,  No.l
 bound to bring about an elected shoora by the end of its one year term and seek from the elected 1
                                                ■ <                                         ■    i
 body a vote of confidence.
      The AiO has so far been recognized only by Saudi Arabiaf Behraiin, Malaysia and Sudan while the OIC has also allotted the Afghanistan seat to it and number of other countries have promised to 'recognize it, but as this government was not able to shift inside Afghanistan and ;failed to broaden <its,base as expected by the public, no other country recognized it. .
r                                -DIREX3TvTALKS'           SOVlfiTS’                            ..
      Meanwhile, during' the course'of these' conflicts, the Russians resbrted to a' new game in the ; political scene of Afghanistan by appointing its''first Deputy Foreign Minister^, Yuli Vorontsov as Ambassador in Kabul in September 19S8. Following the arrival of Vorontsov, direct negotiations were held between the mujaheddin and Soviet diplomats in Islamabad. The release of Soviet POWs was the declared agenda for talks but contact was also established on other issues. The second phase of the direct talks was in Taif, Sau^li Arabia, 3 December where direct talks were held between Prof.Rabbani
 and his colleagues on onfe side and Vorontsov alongwith his colleagues on the other. Following the
                            ' ' / 1 -third round of talks between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Russians in Islamabad, the IUAM officially ended the series of talks with the Russians due to Russian persistence for the participation of Kabtfl regime, in the future political establishment of Afghanistan. Prior to the beginning of dire- 1 cat talks between the mujaheddin and Russians, some of the IUAM1 leaders were opposed to such talks,1 ProfSayyaf was of the opinion that in the presence of Russians in Afghanistan, holding direct -' dialogue with them is an insult while establishment of secret contacts was tantamount to dishonesty;1 Mawlawi Khales said: "We will not enter any dialogue with the Soviet unless there is an acceptable agenda." Hekmatyar held that the Soviets were compelled to hold direct dialogue with the mujaheddin and he consider this as a big victory for the mujaheddin. Prof. Rabbani also held similar views about talks with the Soviet Union.Other leaders also did not oppose negotiations with the Soviet Union.
      Broadening the level of contacts, Vorontsov did not remain confined to talks with the IUAM and’ took up a journey to Italy as well to hold talks with the ex-King Zahir Shah on the political frames work of a future government. He also held talks with the lran-based eight-party alliance and tiie^ to woe them by a promise of autonomy to the central provinces. But the mujaheddin considered all such moves hypocratic aimed at including un-Islamic forces in the political arena of the country, inclu->; ding the puppet Kabul regime.
                                                  KABUL REGIME OVERTURES
      Simultaneously the Kabul regime also launched hectic efforts for its survival and resorted to a variety of stratagem. On the eve of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, it announced the formation of a so called non-party government headed by Hassaii Sharq, known among the Afghans as a 1
 KGB agent. It started to beef-up that government and secured'a vote confidence for it from a newly elected assembly. But simultaneously with the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan 15 February, Najib once, again relapsed to old tactics and dissolved the Sharq government by, proclaiming emergency in the country’ and. appointed KLshtmand at the head of an executive council.' Najib also- 1 abrogated or suspended some /portions of the so-called Constitution. He once again appealed to the mujaheddin to join him in' a broadbased government.' He also made deceitful offers of local autonomy' to the commanders but the mujaheddin turned down' all such offers. '
              " 11
                                                                                              Vol.2, No.2^-4
October-1988-Dec ember, 1989                                   Vol.3, No.l
      Najib also released the Hafizullah Amin'Khalqis such as Sharie Jauzjani and Kiuttl Muhammad Katawazi and others and included them in the government. He also entered reconciliation’with the dejected Khalqis and Parchamis like Karim Meesaq, Mahmood Baryaley and others and gave them government posts. He established a so-called alliance of leftistdemocratic parties ed The PalwaSha. The Ya Haq, Weekly News and other so-called newspapers to criticize his policies.
 /But all these bids, failed to make his government popular among the Afghans and, instead, it had to face constant coups and opposition.
              N ATIONAli^SALV'AT'IQM''-SOOIETY- ( JAMIAT^Ei-R^S^
      In pursuance to the regime *s endeavours for the restoration of peace and security, a society • calling itself the Society of National Salvation was formed in Kabul 20 September, 19^9* by some ’1 Minister: .and high ranking official of the former regimes. In its first communique the society
 pointed out that it has resorted to function with-trust in Almighty Allah by establishing contacts with all the warring Afghan, factions including individuals, political organizations and national forces' inside the country, parties and Afghan organizations based in Pakistan, Iran and other countries, armed commanders in various regions of the country, the former Monarch and his supporters ‘ ■
 inside and outside the country and Afghans outside the country by inviting them to find a solution • to- the outstanding national issues through holding talks and respecting1 individual and social rights,
      They said they were resorting to these activities for the sake ofs
      "...National interest and dictates of the conscience and complete freedom, as well as refraining from discrimination and biased towards any of the parties and only for an expression of public spirit and interest ...
      "for creating an atmosphere condusive to under standing among all concerned parties and finding an acceptable solution .for the people and opposing sides,
      "for the preservation of the independence and national unity and territorial integrity of the country,                                     ,
      "for bringing to ah end foreign interferences in the affairs of the people of our country,
      "for cooperation and assistance towards the establishment of an interim national unity govern-
 .raefit comprised of concerned parties and for the revision of the Construction through a loya jirgah of the true representativew'of the people,
      |*for helping free elections to be held for a national assembly in which all sides would parti-. cipate,        «                                                                   ''            ,
      '•for cooperation in the establishment of a state order based on the principles of sacred religion of Islam, history j.and national culture as well as modern requirements,
      '"for consolidating the policy of non-alignment in foreign policy and, finally, for restoring a Just peace in the country and.honor of the nation and securing the rights of the people."
                                                             xi
^
                                                                                        Vol.2, No.2-4
     October-1988-December, 1969 fllHHJlill                                              V0I.3,    Mo.l
       It is true that the founding members of this society* had not openly been associated vdth slavish Russian policies, but, alas, that they have not mentioned in their charter the 12 year old jehad of the Muslim people of Afghanistan which forced the Russian withdrawal. This charter have put the communist aggressors and traitors of the country and the mujaheddin/defending and saving the country on equal scales. Indeed their evaluation of events is unrealistic and unjust and an obvious transgression.
                                                         RUSSIAN’ WITH IRAWAL
       Russian efforts for"the survival of their puppet regime was still continuing when the timetable for the withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan had to be implemented in accordance'faith the Geneva agreement. The Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan not only was interpreted a big mUi* tary event in the history of the world, but had distinct political consequences and aftermaths.'As Martyr Ziaul Haq former President of Pakistan had termed the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan as a miracle of the 20th Centuryi the fact is that/the Russians had origlhallyf Invaded Afghanistan with an intention not to return. Because, they had already with them a 200 year old strategy aimed at reaching the warn waters of Indian ocean and to progress towards this objective step by step.
  It was a public saying that once the Russian put their foot somewhere, they never retreated. However history also bore witness that any aggressor who had dared to invade Afghanistan had to finally ■ leave this country with disgrace. And in the Afghan War Russian claim of unreversibility of communist revolution was declared null and void and once again it was confirmed that nobody could conquer the ’ land of the Muslim and of the brave.
       The withdrawal of .Russian forces from Afghanistan led to an unprecedented enthusiasm throughout i.thie world and!. Russian troops withdrawal from Afghanistan was followed by uprisings, tensions and unrest througout communist world. Because the Russian superpower, with its invasion of Afghanistan
   .* MEMBERS OP THE SOCIETY ARE:’
  1.  Prof. Muhammad Asghar, former Deputy DLrector Helmand Valley .Authority. Rector of Kabul University, Mayor of
       Kabul city and Minister of Justice, President of the society.                        j                     1
  i '     " ‘l         X        :                           ■  •    .     •    •       ■ ;
  2.  Dr. Mohammad Am an, foraur Chaizraan of Industilal Development Bank and Minister of Finance, Vies Chairman.
            • • * \ ; . ' ’ ' .
  3.  General (Retired) Abdul Hakim Katawazi, former Commandant of -Kabul Police, Vice Chairman.
  4.  Engineer Abdul Quddus Majeed, former Deputy Ministry of Mines and Industries Secretary.
  5.  ; Sheikh All Ahmad Fakkoor^ religious scholar and spiritual, Secretary.
  6.  Muhanmad Anwar Ziyaee, former Minister of Finance, member.
  7* Lt. General (Retired) Muhanmad Azeem, former Minister of Public Works, meniber.
                  1 ^ .
  8. Prof. Abdul Was eh SeraJ, Professor at law College, Kabul University, member.
  9* Trot, Muhanmad Anwar Arghandiwal, former Minister of Justice, presently professor in the Kabul University,member.
  10. Abdul Hakim, former Minister of Agriculture, member.
  11. Muhaimad Akbar Omar, former Minister of Commerce, member.
  12. Dr. Abdullah Wahedae, former Rector of Kabul University, and former Governor of Kabul, Province member.
  13. General (Retired) Usman, former Deputy Chief of Military Court, member. ,
  14. Lai Gul Faryad, former member of National Assembly, member.
  15. Haflzullah, former President of Bus Company, member.
                                                            13
                                                                           Vol.2, No.2p-4
    October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JIHAD                                Vol.3, Mo.l
 on the one handy unmasked its true colonial nature and, on the other hand, it became clear that worldly power and wealth was alWays apt to defeat by the forces of truth and followers of Almighty Allah. Therefore, although there were circles which related the unprecedented events in the communist world to Gorbachev reforms, the obvious truth has been that these developments had a direct relations with Afghan events and the jehad of a Muslim people. Both Soviet Asian republics and Russian East European sattelites had been following closely the Afghan events.Thus,in the wake of the withdrawal of Red Army from Afghanistan, bloody clashes took place in Arminia and Azerbaijan of the Soviet Union. People of these Republics clearly asked for independence from Moscow, Similar voices were raised from Soviet Baltic Republics. In Soviet East European sattelites, the movement first gained momentun in Poland where its government even dropped the socialist name from the official title .of the country; Czechoslovakia formed a government free of communist Influences;
 East Germany did away with the‘much hated Berlin wall and formed a' government based, to a great extent, on public will; Hugary moved further towards the establishment of a free government and Romania's President Ceausescu was disgraced and murdered and a national -government was established ' in that country. Even in China and Yugoslovla communist regimes faced people's resistance and protests.
                                           CLOSURE OF EMBASSIES IN KABUL
                    • ' • >' \
      With the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the capital city of Kabul faced fear and insecurity. Countries with embassies fearing diamages to their Offices closed their embassies one after the other. This in itself brought a marked change in thepolitical 'atmosphereof *the Afghanistan issue. In February, US, Britain, and France closed their embassies ip Kabul and^ West ■ Germany, Japan, Italy, Austria also followed suit. Even some East European countries 'such as’ Poland and Hungary also closed dovm their embassies irt Kabul.
                                    THE UN RESOLUTIONS
      Parellel to developments in the internal situation of Afghanistan, changes also occured in the ■ Afghan scenario at a!n-international level. In past years the UN General Assembly had eight times urged with overwhelming majorities the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan. The last of such resolutions was adopted with 123 votes in 1987* But the UN resolutions in 1988 and 1989 contained different forms and Contents,                                                           '
      The text of I988 resolution, prepared jointly by the Soviet Union and Pakistan, was adopted 3 November by acclamation. The resolution describes the Geneva accord as an important international■ document and urged the completion of Soviet troops within the timeframe of the Geneva Accord. The1 Afghans should lay the foundation of a broadbased government to enable the refugees to return to " their 'country, the resolution urge.
      The* UN General Assembly adopted more or less a similar resolution 1 November*,19:09, without debate or voting, although this resolution, due to an Iranian amendment, urged the establishment of "an Islamic'' broadbased government.
                                                      Ik
 (;)

 Octobar-198B-Dgeamber, 19S9 AfEHjlH JIHflB . yol.al Ho.
 Military Dimension:
 EASTERN, WESTERN SOUTHERN PROVINCES
 MAJOR SCENES OF WAR
    War in Afghanistan continued during the past 15 months, including bombardments on a defenseless people. However during this period fighting Was specially intensive in areas, as Nangarhar, Paktia, Kandahar, Herat and some northern provinces while there was ‘comparatively calm in central provinces allowing the people to follow a routine life in those areas.
    The followings are a summary of major military events during the past 15 months:
 1, Capturing of more provincial centers by the mujaheddin, 2. Induction of Scud missile in the war by the communists, 3» Withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, 4. Jalalabad battle, 5» Clashes between the mujaheddin in Takhar.
                       CONQUEST OF THE PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTERS
      Twelve years ago when the mujaheddin started their Jehad, they simultaneously began conquering the sub divisions as well. For example, the people of Nooristan, Laghman, for the first, time drove : . away 5 May, I97S, the local government from, Nandraj and did not accept the Khalqi Deputy Commission ner from the very beginning. The Khalqis formed a "center in exile" for Nooristan near the center ' of Laghman province and practicably it became impossible for them to adninister that area. The trend has'continued since that time.
      Taluqan, Thakher, was the first provincial headquarters which fell to the mujaheddin 15 August, ■; 1989, and its communist governor and officials had to flee the scene*
      In a joint operation, the mujaheddin captured Mahmood Raid., • provincial capital of Kapisa 27 September; Similarly, they captured 2 October, the center of Band.an killing a rnrnber of communists, Mariy others fled and the mujaheddin seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition.
      In a joint mujaheddin operation, Shairan, center of Paktika province was captured 7 October and the mujaheddin conquered Assadabad, the capital of Kunar 10 October,
    - Kalat, Center of Zabui, Maidanshar center of Wardak and the center of Kunduz were also liberated by the mujaheddin for some time. But the communists once again captured those places <after *
 massacring large number of people. Particularly for recapturing Kunduz, Soviet planes flew from the airbases inside the Soviet Union. This, however caused an international uproar and the Russians had to confess to their action. At present the centers of Takhar^ Kunar, Paktika , Kapisa and Bamian are under mujaheddin control.                                         ■  *
                                                             ’ 15.
                                                                         Vol.2, No.2-4
  ^J)ctober-198M)eqen^
                                                  SCUD MISSIIJB
       Scud is a long-range missile which was handed over to the Kabul regime by* 'the Soviets before their withdrawal from Afghanistan. Scuds can target Jalalabad, Faktia euntd even the Pakistan territory from .Kabul. These rockets have been launched since 3 November, 1988. They have martyred many ^people in Jalalabad and Paktia.
       The Russians supplied these rockets to boostup the morale of Kabul'regime.' Furthermore they' are aimed at: 1. demolishing the mujaheddin trenches, (ii) frightening Pakistan. But both objectives were'not achieved, as the mujaheddin positions could not he hit with these rockets arid even, in some cases, instead of hitting the mujaheddin trenches, the. rockets hit the Kabul regime military concentrations causing heavy losses to the Kabul troops.
                                         WITHIRAWAL OP S07KT TROOPS
  . Ibr the survival-of its puppet regime the Soviet Union several times threatened that if • opponents of the regime did not agree to observe the provision Of Geneva accords on Afghanistan, the Spylet .Union will delay the withdrawal of its troop's from Afghanistan. But on the eve of the time set forth in the Geneva accords for the withdrawal of their troops, the Russians started to pack up. Because the agreements were actually aimed at providing a face saving device for Soviet military • 'defeat ,; the Russians completed their withdrawal within the timeframe agreed upon in the Geneva . treaty. General Boris Gromov commander of Russian forces in Kabul was the last Russian soldier who crossed the Afghan border 15 February, through the so-called "Friendship Bridge" over the Qxus which was actually built for the invasion of Afghanistan., Gromov never looked back. .
       With the withdrawal of Soviet forces, from Afghanistan, the Soviet political invasion came to an end and the Russians, while earning worldwide disgrace and heavy .financial and human losses left Afghanistan in repent and defeat. They later called their invasion a mistake and, by the end of 1989, the Soviet parliament, too,, in a resolution condemned the invasion.
       However, the Russians despite their withdrawal from Afghanistan left their puppet regime with1 huge piles of arms and fake Currency notes intact and, for the survival of this disgraced regime,* also left behind thousands of their advisers.
                                              THE JALALABAD BATTLE
      Immediately following the Russian vdthdrawal, the mujaheddin of the Islamic government of Afghanistan began to establish itself and attempted to shift to the interior of Afghanistan. Fbr this reason the AIG tried to liberate an important province so as to establish its headquarters there. This important denter was to be Jalalabad. In the beginning, the mujaheddin achieved^successive. victories and captured all the areas between Torkham on the Aftfian-PakLstan border and the city of Jalalabad itself and on the 6 March, they concentrated their attack on Jalalabad. At the peak of Jalalabad battle, reports said that some 12,000 rounds of heavy shells were being showered daily on the city and even a part of Jalalabad was captured and flights between Kabul and Jalala bad were cut-off* The mujaheddin also captured the Samarkhel military headquarters. However, as this war actually meant a transition from the guerrilla warfare tactics to fighting a regular war,
            •the mujaheddin , who had foutfit only guerrilla wars, had to suffer large casualties in conduc- 1
                                                         16
                                                                                        Vol.2, No.2-4
                October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHiiNJfflflD                               Vol.3,  No.l
             .................... 1        ■■■>■■■■■«               I     11.       .....
             ting conventional battles.
 '-j            ’•          ...     '                               • • .  '•       .1
                  At the height of the Jalalabad battle, in addition to Russian propaganda, Western media1,too, claimed that the battle was masterminded by the Pakistani Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) and *           actually it was an imposed war. Such reports created despair among the mujaheddin and many of
 )          than refused to fLght.^ The Kabul-Jalalabad highway through which the communists were sending
 )          thjeir supplies, was until that time under the mujaheddin control. But mujaheddin groups from now
 I          on; abandoned their'vigil Over'the highway. However, what actually caused a slow down in the muja- :
 )          heddin advances was a virtual halt in their supply of arms.
 )          I           ‘          '    •'         ’    ’                     '             -
 j                                                 TAKA® MASSACRE
 |                In the summer of 1989* Sayyed Jamal, the commander at Hezb-e-Island Afghanistan Hekmatyar
 1          and his followers killed a nunber of commanders of the Jandat Island Afghanistan in ah ambush. The
             news spread by world media with great speed causing resentment and dismay among many mujaheddin and,-when the mujaheddin commander of Jandat-e-Islami in northern Afghanistan retaliated and 'later j           captured Sayyed Jamal,the mujaheddin dismay further increased. Many Afghans were killed in these
 |          clashes. The AIG lateir appointed a tribunal to try the case and iron out mujaheddin disputes over'>•
 \          the incident.
                                                THE OVERALL SITUATION
     The overall military situation in Afghanistan has been in favor of the mujaheddin and, virtually throughout these 15 months, the city of Kabul, seat of the puppet government, has been under •mujaheddin siege. According to a Kabul regime Foreign Ministry report, after the withdrawal of Soviet forces until the end of 1989 more than' 2000 rockets have hit the city killing 438 and wounding 1,308 people. During the same period, 81 people were killed and 79 injured as a result of bomb explosions* But the mujaheddin said they were not responsible for all the attacks and in an official communique explained that most of these rockets, which targetted busy centers of civilian population, were actually fired by the puppet regime in order to malign the mujaheddin.
     By the end of the year, the Afghan people were impatiently waiting for the AIG to topple the Kabul regime either through fighting or political means and, to do so, the mujaheddin leadership was-expected to mobilize and coordinate its entire resources.
                                                                                   \
 i
                                                                 ,
 \
 17
 >
October-198£-Decemberf 1989
Vol.2, No.2-4
Vol.3, No.l
     MAJOR DOCUMENTS !
     .             ■ ' . . ,  "/                   n ■  '!
 £ DOCUMENTS RELATED TO 1969 MUJAHEDDIN SHDORA;       19
   AIG'S POLICY STATEMENT}                            21
 0 AFGHAN ULAMA ISSUE VERDICT OF AIG; .               .23
 ^ AIG ISSUES DIRECTIVES TO MUJAHEDDIN;               24
 0 AIG AND INTERFIGHTINGS;                            26
 0AIG APPOINTS SPECIAL COURT CN TAKHAR INCIDENT; .    26
 0AIG ASSAILS MASSACRE OF PEOPLE BY KABUL REGIME;     28
 0AIG AND THE U.S. _ SOVIET CONTACTS CN AFGHANISTAN;  29
 0AIG REJECTS OUTSIDE PLANS CN AFGHANISTAN;           29
 0AIG WILL NOT HOLD TALKS WITH KABUL REGIME;          30
 A AIG AND ROCKET ATTACKS CN KABUL;                   31
 ^DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE AIG COWCIL OF MINISTERS;   32
 0AIG REJECTS MEDIATION EFFORTS BETWEEN ITSELF AND KABUL 34 ^AIG DECLARATION CN SUSPENSION OF TALKS. WITH USSR;  35
 0 DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT JEHAD ORGANIZATION CN UNITY; 36 0UN REPORTS CN HUMAN RIGHTS IN AFGHANISTAN;          38
 0 AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL AND AFGHANISTAN              41
                                     ■ :T 18
           MiMl     mZi
DOCUMENTS RELATED TO CONSULTATIVE SHOORA, 1989
   000000®®
   {■EDITCR^S NOTE: following; are six documents adopted diirittg the*'meetings bf 1 [the Consultative Assembly (Shoora) held from 10-22*. T^bruary-, 1^89» at Rawalpindi, resulting in the establishment of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG)1.
 ,<^10 (5'ddt9®d 0'0000 0 00000000000'0 0'00 00"d00'0000"000000000000000000000000000000
0000(0}
    n All the decisions taken by the 14 member commission bear the signatures of these 14 members'!
  (1) Mawlawi Jallaluddin Haqqani, (2) Meer Hamza, (3) Engn. Abdullah Seerat, (4) Deen Mohammad, (5) Mohammad Omar Babrakzai, (6) Mawlavd Sayyed Mohammad (7) Mohammad Yasser, (8) Dr. Najibullah Lufrai, (9) Sayyed Qasem, (10) Zabiullah Mujaddedi, (11) Mawlawi Mohammad Shah Arsalan (12) Abdul Qaddeer Karypb, (13) Mawlawi Mohamnad Shah Fazli, (14) Mohammad Nasim <'Akhundzada.•
                              IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
  * I. Leadership Councils mandate to the 14 member Commission
              "Indeed, God commands you to render back your trusts ;to those to whom they are due;and, when you judge between man and man, that you Judge with, excellence. (Prom the Holy Quran Sura IV, verse 58).
       On 19 February, 1989» ulama,'commanders and elders representing honorable members of the consultative shoora held a meeting at the ,'Medina-tul-HuJJaj and Mr. Jalaluddin Haqqani proposed on their behalf that for the sake of establishing a strong and stable interim government and ensuring > unity in the leadership of jehad, ok**, leaders should give their mandate to the Consultative Shooraytf We placed this proposal under consideration and adopted the following decision:
       For the .ultimate victory of the righteous Jehad of Afghanistan, implementing an Islamic sye- • tern, consolidating law and order in the country and, lastly, for the sake of our deep regard for' the honorable members of the Consultative Shoora, we the leaders of the seven Jehad organisations have unanimously decided that the Consultative Shoora (in consultation) with the leadership council members should work for a united leadership and formation of a strong interim government and what- 1 eyer decision is taken by the Consultative Shoora conspnant with the teachings of Islam in this connection,, would be accepted by us in its entirety and its implementation would be obligatory upon1 us and we expect the Consultative Shoora to abide by its decision.
       Signed by Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammad!, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf ,f, Engineer GulbuddLn Hekmatyar, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, PLr Sayyed Ahmad ].Gailani* (From Jehad Front Journal dated 11 March, 1989)*
    II.     Decisions adopted by the commission of the Shoora: 20 February, 1989 .1— Honorable Mr. Haqqani should reach a' specif!c understanding With the Leadership Council'-in
                                                                               Vol.2, No.2-4
     0ctober-1988-December, 1989 AFGHANJtHflB                                   Vol.3,   No.l
 •connection with adding other persons to this council*
 2-    The session of this commission will have a legal status when at least two third of its actual members-!, e. 10 members and one'member of each organization - be present at the session. Decision shall be legal'only \i^en‘tw third of iis actual membet^'apprbve’it. .
      In case both members of ah organization do not take pairt in two consecutive'sessiohs without any reason ordained by the shariat, the above mentioned members will'be reduced and this'nimbeh" alongwith the remaining number of the members will bi considered credible.
 * III. The following decisions were taken in the meeting of thie commission appointed by the ^consultative shoora 21 February, 1989.
 1-    The Afghan mujaheddin Islamic Alliance leaders ought to take part in performing important duties of the government,
 2-    Key posts of the state and government have been divided among the following seven divisions for the sake of a balanced 'distribution of power:
 (a)- i. Head of the State,-ii. Ministry of Health; (b)- i. Premiership, ii. Ministry of Tele-
                             : . • . ■:» ^ • ' communication; (c)-i. Supreme Court, ii. Ministry of Finance, iii. Minisj^1,of Education; (d)-
 i. Ministry of Defense, ii. Ministry of Scientific Research, iii. Ministry”5f Agriculture, (e)-
 i. Ministry of Interior, ii. Ministry of Haj and Auqaf, iii. Ministry of National Security, (f)~
 i. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ii. Ministry of National Frontiers, iii. Ministry of Justice, (g)*
 i. Ministry of Reconstruction, ii. Ministry of Islamic Preaching and Guidance (information), iii.V
 Ministry of Mines and Industries.                                                 "         \
      These seven divisions for seven organizations are divided in a manner explained In a separate election procedure,
      ' ' _ - • ' ‘ \
                       ' / ... •
 •N- IV*.'Decisions adopted 22 February, 1989 by the* Contnission:‘
      As regards the election procedure for the posts of Head of State and Head of government .and five other assignments which constitute seven divisions comprised of general and key posts divided . in the. light of a separata decision by this commission and classified on the basis of their importance, it-has been decided that:
 1)    Voting for seven main divisions takes place in one stage and on the basis of the votes cast by all the members of the Consultative Shoora representing seVen organizations of the IUAM.
 2) Each member of the Consultative Shoora has the right to cast two votes
 3-  The voters cannot cast both their votes to one single organization.
                                                                '  ,   f                      -
 4-    The above seven divisions, keeping in view their importance, would be allotted to the organizations proportionate with the votes obtained by them. For . example the winner of the. largest number of votes would be assigned with the division containing the post of the Head of State and in the same'manner the assignment of six other divisions will take place.
 5-    In order to ensure implementation of the voting procedure in accordance With the four-conditions setforth in-this document, a committee,1 consisting’ of the membefrs'or this' bommissioh, has been app- -ointed to formicate the required'suggestions1 subject to the appro^kl' of the' commission/. They are:
                                                   20
                                                                     Vol.2, No*2-4
    October-1988-December, I9Q9 flfEHflH JtHAB                       Vol.3i  No.l
 •i) Honorable justice Mohammad Qnar Babrakzai, ii) Honorable Abdul Qadeer Karyab, iii) Dr. Zabihul-lah Mujaddedi.                                                      »   -
 *V . Decision the elected commission for the formation of interim government' 22 February, 19 89.
           ■ ■  ’   *              r                                                            ■
 Various divisions wiU be determined in the following manner:-
•                                t                                                    ‘                 ' .4 .
 *  1- an. organization securing the largest nunber of votes would deserve the division allocated for the
 post of the Head of State.              •
 2-    an. organization securing the second largest, nunber of votes would deserve the division'allocated for the post of the Prime Minister but it would have the right to choose any other division in place of this division.
                              1                                                  '
 3-    an organization securing the third largest number of votes can select the division of its own choice. In the same manner the right of choice would be given to other bodies on the'basis of proportion' of votes obtained in the fourth, fifth and sixth grade. Ah organization securing the least' number ofvotes would deserve the last remaining division.
 * VI. 1 Decision dated February 22, 1989s
 1—   A committee or a board of heads of seven organizations of the IUAM is empowered to arrange for the assignment of the remaining ministries and appointment of the1 ministers.
 2-  The Interim Government and its administration should start functioning inside Afghan territory after'one month of its establishment.
 3- The interim government and its administration, after its transfer to the interior of ihe count— ought to seek vote of confidence from an elected shoora within one year. However, the formation
 of the'assembly would take place according to the previous decisions, of the leadership council.
 AIG’s Position on Major Issues
                                                           0.0.000 0.0.0 0 0 0 00000.00 00000000000000 000000 0000000 r.
00000000,'
      ! EDITORS NOTE: The following is the text of a declaration of the AIG explaining its position vis a vis national and international issues: [The text has been adopted from the "Subh-e-Pairuzee11 Journal, 9 September, 1989.
                                                            00.00.0.00 0.000                        u)_u) 0.0.0.0 L’J 0 r)r)rjrJCJLV<l)ll) r.l CJ 0 0 (0000000000 *'
      While continuing our armed jehad for our country's freedom and implementation of an Islamic sy- ' stem and the ever-increasing efforts for establishing the government of the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan, we declare once again that only those people have the. right of self-determination and decisionmaking regarding the future of Afghanistan who have suffered hardship and privations and have shed . their blood for its freedom.
                                        21
                                                                             Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1986-Decembery I9B9 >          111GUAM JIHAD                    Vol.3, No.l ,
      We believe that the only speedy solution of the Afghan problem is the recognition of the mujaheddin government and stopping the support of the puppet Kabul regime.
                                                 \  ^         7          •
      Our government would, without exaggeration) be the first ever government enjoying the highest
 proportion of national representation.
      People of the world should have no apprehensions regarding our government, because we have not committed aggression against anyone and neither are contemplating one. Everyone has seen that our jehad started and is continuing for the defense of our country's freedom and Islamic identity, forcing the J withdrawal of the aggressors and introducing a political system desired by our Muslim nation. We are ■ the oppressed. We are neither oppressors nor aggressors. In the future we desire to have good relations with our neighbours. Our relations with the Islamic states which have supported our cause, will be -I completely fraternal and our ties with Pakistan will enjoy a special status. Our ties with the free countries which have persistently endorsed our stand would grow. Even if the Russians refrain from aggression, respect our right of selfdetermination, freedom and the decision of the mujaheddin, recognise our government and discontinue supporting their agents henceforth, we are ready to establish good-neighbourly ties with them. The Russians and all the countries of the world should realize that it is futile to try to challenge the will pf a nation especially a nation blessed with jdivine support.
 The Russians should better ponder over their future and their relations with Afghanistan as well as this region and come to the conclusion that persistence in their present policy vis a vis Afghanistan I will be neither in their interest nor in the interest of their nation and will not benefit the region,
 , as a whole.
      Our government , in the future, will be one of the great champions of peace and tranquility in the world in accordance with its Islamic policy and will support any move for the welfare of humanity* at large and Will oppose any move intended to bring aboutoppression,; destruction or devastation of mankind.
      Our gbvernment will play a.-dominant role'in anti-narcotic campaigns, follow an active and positive neutral policy' in the framework of Islamic principles and support the rights of the oppressed and under privileged' people. ‘'
      A delegatibh' bf our government' led', by Mawlawi' Mbhbmmad' Yunus' Khales and' including' ‘Dr. Fhrooq Azam . and Mr. Mohammad' Yasser, is due'to visit NY and participate'in the meetings of the' foreign ministers of Islamic countries. It will demand from the UN that by . following the OIC example, it, too, should allot the Afghanistan seat in the UN to the mujaheddin government.
      On the' bther hand, an understanding on the question of inclusion of Afghan'groups in Iran in 1 . the AH is in process. Besides, other Islamic figures would also be included in the government.
      Meanwhile our efforts to come to an understanding with Brother'Hekmatyar are continuing and the ' existing difficulties, God willing, shall be resolved. The doors of the government and participation in (governmental) meetings are completely open fo^ him.
                                          22
 \
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2r-4
    October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JEHAD                        Vol.3, Ho.l
Afghan Religious Scholars Declaration on AIG
                         IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE.MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
                                                                                                           MM
 ^ ^ • * »■ » * ” * — » - » » — * » * - » - *" •* t* fT »»»w ,w |« |v |v fv |W |V)«^w |V|WfV
 I fcEDITOR’S NOTE: Following is the text of a joint fetwa; (Religions Dec- J
 ; l
 ijree) of the Ulajna of Afghanistan regarding the establishment of the *
 < Im                                                                           «
 ifAIG, published in the paper Ittehad-e-Islami 28 March, 1989:                  2
 !*—----------------...........................- -;.............................*
      Praise to God, the Cherisher and Sustainer of the Worlds. Blessing and greetings to the torch bearer of Prophets and massengers and the leader of mujaheddin our Prophet Mohammad and his entire followers.
      We are heartily grateful to God Almighty for selecting our Muslim and mujahed Afghan nation to safeguard the noble religion of Islam and to promote and glorify the Word of God through the Jehad for the cause of Allah and for bestowing this honor upon u3 that we should carry our Jehad and take a finn stand against the Russian beast and aggressor by the power of our faith and a strong and resolute belief and determination and then, with His Grace and-kindness, He gave us the strength, ]patience and perseverance to inflict the worst and the most ignimorous defeat on this satanic power on earth and to liberate our Islamic country from the clutches of these dirty athiests. While sending blessings and’greeting for the pure souls of the martyrs, we extend our greetings on the occasion of this glorious victory to the entire mujahed nation of Afghanistan and all the Muslims of the world. -
      Whereas the main aim of our jehad has been the establishment of a just and fair Islamic government for which our martyrs have laid down their lives in large numbers, hence it is the duty and obligation of each and every Muslim to struggle hard to achieve this noble aim.
      Fortunately according to the Quranic injunction of holding mutual consultation, presently a Consultative Shoora composed of the ahl-e-hal wa aqd (men of wisdom) of a number ulama, Jehad commanders and representatives of all the provinces of Afghanistan has been formed and consequently, after a series of discussions, the Consultative Shoora was able to appoint a President j a’Prime Minister and other ministers for an interim government.
      We, the ulama, while considering this step as a great success in giving a practical shape to the realization.of Islamic high goals, hereby issue the following declaration and^fetwa in this connection:                                                                                 ,
      1) We urge all the mfembers bf this Islamic government to devote greater attention to the great
 responSibiilties’ entihisted iipon 'themAnd'tb perfohn’' their heaVy dutdeis with complete sincerity, devotion, determination,a spirit'of sacrifice' ahd the power and zeal 6^ faith; We pray Alxnighty God to help them in this g*eat test so that’ they may^be able' to achieve’the same high level of success and honor which they have been able to achieve upto now.
 2) We ask the entire mujahid and Muslim nation of Afghanistan to obey this Islamic government of Jjheir own and to cooperate fully with it in the light of the Islamic shariat. ;
                                                         23
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2-4
    october-1988-Deceraber, 1989 AFGHAN ittHAD                      voi.3,  no.i
 3)    The entire Muslim Afghan nation in general and the mujaheddin and local commanders in particular are dutybound, according to shariat, to cooperate and actively participate vdth the Islamic government to overthrow the puppet and athiest Kabul regLme, root out every kind of evil and corruption and infidelity and ensure law and order.
 4)  ' It Is the Islamic duty of our Muslim nation to cooperate with the Islamic government for the revival of religLous values, implementation of Islamic injunctions and reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 5)    We call upon all those civil servants and officials who have cooperated with the athiest puppet regime duetto various compulsions and necessities, to repent for this and desist from doing so and to Join the ranks of their mujahed! brothers at the earliest and to perform their Islamic duty under the glorious and holy banner of Islam. The Islamic government announces general amnesty for such ’> persons-who should hasten to avail this opportunity.
 6)  Similarly all the military officers, soldiers, police and militia, etc; who have been forced or
 duped to side with the athiests are hereby informed to repent and sever their-ties with the athiests . and, verysoon Join their mujahed brothers in order to take advantage of the general amnesty .^otherwise thedr excuse will not be acceptable.          -
 7)    We call upon all the forces of Afghan Jehad to exert common -efforts to establish law and order, 1 to protect the lives and properties and honor of the Muslim people of Afghanistan, particularly those who have repented, severed their ties with ranks of infidels and authiests and have sought refuge under oiir protection.
      Those who have been ^iven custody , by one group of mujaheddin, come under the custody and protection of all the mujaheddin according to the shariat.
      This has been the fetwa of the Supreme Council of Afghan Ulama based on the verses'of the Holy Quran, teachings of the Holy Prophet, (peace be upon.him,, and the rules of Islamic Jurisprudence.
 >.■ Wassalam-o-Alaikun Wa Rahmatullah-erWa Barkatuh.
 Jehad Leaders Issue Instructions
     [EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a communique by leaders of [Afghan jehad organization to commanders and mujaheddin throughout the
     [country; The document, signed by the seven leaders, was published in
     [Subh-e-Pairuzee»pp           iQfl?.
                    IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL , Praise to God, the Charisher and Sutainer of the Worlds, Blessing and greeting-to the torch bearer of Prophets and massengers and leader of Mujaheddin.
      Thank God that Afghanistan's jehad started against infidelity and atheism and the faithful and • mujahed Afghan nation succeeded in this Jehad,by the Grace of God, by rendering -huriHreda of thousands •
                                                    24
                                                                      Vol.2, No.2-4
     October-1988-Deceraber, 1989 JUGHDN JIHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
  of martyrs and many1 other sacrifices, to inflict the most ignominous and shameful defeat >on a world infidel power and purified this land of Islam from those dirty blood-thirsty elements.
       Now that our faithful nation is engaged in war and Jehad to root out the remnants of infidelity and atheism, and declare the Word of Goto and establish a Just Islamic government in beloved Afghanistan, the infighting among the mujaheddin (definitely taking place as a result of alien conspiracies) has caused further anxiety and concern among us and the entire mujahed Muslim nation of Afghanistan,
       While considering these infightings contrary to teachings of Islam, we clearly and truthfully and with unanimity issue the following order to all dear commanders and mujaheddinj— •
  1- First of all an immediate ceasefire should be enforced among all fighting groups in all areas,
  : 2r- Farther efforts should be made to devote all Jehad forces towards the common enemy and to attack them.                         1
  3-   Creation of an atmosphere of peace and conciliation, sincerity and brotherhood among the mujaheddin and establishment of Joint shooras (consultative bodies) in concerned regions.
  4-   Settling of disputes peacefully and amicably under the guidance of the .revered,religious scholars
  and in the light of the shariat of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him. 1                         ,
  5-  . Keeping open the communication lines and protecting them to enable passage of the mujaheddin and the people in all the provinces and pulling down toll gates as well as refraining from collecting toll tax from the people. However the routes used for transporting essential goods to the enemy centers' be kept blocked and any commercial transaction with the atheist regime or its agents be strictly halted.
  6- 1 Ensuring cooperation among the ulema and well-wishing elders and the mujaheddin in every regLon and neighbouring areas to serve as forces for conciliation and establis ment of law and order,
  7-   judicial investigation missions havei been sent to some of these regions and are being sent to ;Other areas as well. At the earliest opportunity commissioners and Judges will be appointed in all the provinces to arrange for settling disputes in shariat courts and to punish violaters of laws.
  All the mujaheddin are obliged to obey their Islamic orders and decisions.
  6. If, despite these orders, the infighting does not stop or so e other fights take place,then It Would be evident that the aggressors are not from among the mujaheddin but are agents of the enemy »nd in view of the fact that their behaviour is harmful to the jehad and in the interest of the enemy,1 We all Jointly express our anger and resentment against such persons and they stand rejectied1 and condemned by us and the Muslim Afghan nation and shall receive due punishment.
              r Signed by. the leaders of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan, Jandat-^e-Islami Afghanistan*
  ' Hezb-fr-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar), Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Khales), Ittehad-e-IslamL Afghanistan, Jabha-e-Melli NeJat-e-Afghanistan, Mahaz-e-Melli Island Afghanistan.
 Octob er-1988-Dec ember, 19 89
 Vol.2,
 Vol.3, No.l^
  AIG Issues Statement on Inter ■‘Mujaheddin Clashes
       EDITOR* SNOTE: The following is the text of a declaration by the President of the AIG for resolving mutual mujaheddin hostilities. The declaration'was published by the "Subh-e-Pairuzee”, 11 September, .1989*
               ^ ^    r  mm r ^ i ^ ^ ^  '       • — r r
               IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
                                       '    ...        5           '
       Recently some unpleasant incidents resulting from interparty skirmishes among various groups in saue parts of the country caused anguish to all our Muslim and mujahed countrymen, and all friends of Afghan jehad. The jehad of the mujahed Afghan nation waged for the promulgation of the Word of God, driving out the aggressors from the country, establishment of Islamic government and annihilation,, -of infidelity and communism during the past decade, has now entered a delicate and decisive stage after great victories and driving out the aggressors from the country.
       Under such circumstances, it Is the duty of all mujaheddin fighting at the front and also our Muslim countrymen to refrain from personal and party conflicts and close their ranks against the puppet atheist regime,,
       Fortunately during thepast decade the entire Afghan Muslim nation and followers of both the Islamic Sects, endowed with the pure sentiments of Islamic and national brotherhood and sincerity, have waged a jehad against the infidels and communist aggression and this Islamic brotherhood and national bonds Will continue arid endure until complete victory culminating in the downfall of the puppet atheist regime and establishment of an Islamic government based on the will of the Afghan nation.
       Ohce again we request all the mujaheddin and the combatents for the sake of higher interests of the Afghan nation eschewi party differences and refrain from furthering it.
    AIG9s Statement on Takhar Incident
               mm
 r
 ^EDITOR'S NOTE; The following is the text of a declaration by the AIG
 D                                                                 <
 E in relation to the Takhar incidents and the establishment of shariat
 fc court to investigate the incident and issue a verdict. The text has {[been adopted from the Subh-e=-Pairuzee, 21 August, 1989*
a | «! is I
19 I •9 !.
v.
W !
31
          Dear Brothers Commanders and mujaheddin of the Takhar Province and Its vicinities Assalam^un-
                                                        26
                                                                              Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1988-Dec embery 1969 RfGHIlH JlHMl                                Vol.3, No.l
 ; Alaikum .
      We pray to Almighty Allah to bless us with the strength and determination to adjust our lives in the light of Islamic teachings and solve all our difficulties and differences in the light of divine decrees.
      Dear brothers, while we have resorted to our jehad for the annhilation of blasphemy and to erase its unholy remnants and to establish the glorious Islamic system and as our homeland has been devastated during our armed struggle for these objectives and more than 1.$ million people have been martyred and about 6 million have become refugees and hundreds of thousands have been rendered widow or orphan and we have borne thousands of other troubles and hardships in the course.of this struggle and at present, we are close to our objective and conditions are becoming favorable for the realization of our ideals and valuable ideals, let us not lose this favorable opportunity by involving ourselves in mutual 'differences and internal difficulties and throw away the hard-earned1 gains and benefits of all our hardships and sacrifices particularly under these critical conditions when' ‘ the enemies of Islam have collaborated to destroy our longstanding hopes and aspirations. At the same, time one billion other sympathetic Muslims aspiring for the fruitful conclusion of this jehad, are looking forward to the dawn of freedom so that the Muslim Ummah may lead their lives according to the injunctions of the Holy Quran. Therefore we all should extend the hand of brotherhood to each other and solve our internal differences and difficulties in accordance with the principles of the shariat of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him seek other solutions.
      While deeply grieved over the tragic Takhar incident and regarding it a painful tragedy in our jehad in,accordance with the Quranic injunction, we desire to solve it on the basis of Islamic shariat and for this purpose we have established a shariat court.
      We. undertake to obey the verdict of this shariat court established by our own free will and to implement it courageously. Hence we demand emphatically from all of you and rather order you to, extend the fullest cooperation to this court and prepare the grounds to enable it to correctly investigate and issue an appropriate verdict and hereby, we declare to you in the form’of a declaration that none has the right to incite each other and all should refrain from any action against' each other and do not resort to steps which might directly or indirectly fan (further) . disputes and tumult.
      Let U3 all wait for the verdict of this shariat court. The names of the members of the court are as unders-
      1.  CHAIRMAN: Mawlawi Qalander, 2. MEMBERS:1 Mawlawi Mohammad Sarwar, 3» Mawlawi Abdul Baseer,
 4, Mawlawi Abdul Rahim Chatrali, 5* Dr. Abdullah Ekam, 6. Ustad Sahar Gul , 7 /Mawlawi 'Moo ha Jan .
      We hope that this shariat court will ensure peace and tranquility and restore the'atmosphere'
 0/brotherhood among the mujaheddin of that regLon,                   ' *
                                Wa shalam-o-Alaikun Signed by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani and Gulbuddift HekfoatyaTi1
      This agreement has been reached under the supervision and with the consent of the government.
                                                        Sighed:   Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi
                                                               and A.R, Rasool Sayyaf
                                            27
  October-19BB-December , 19^9 AFGHAN JIHAD
Vol.2, No.2-4
Voi.3» No.l
AIG Assails Massacres By Kabul
EDITOR*S NOTE: The following is the text x>f a declaration of the AIG
j J| condemning the mas 3a:<
 j » The text was published in the "Jabha-e-Jehad** 6 May, 19^9*
 .k                   ’
4»

 , The atheist puppet Kabul regime, since its establishment 10 years ago, has added the blackest chapter to our history and has brought about nothing but,blooshed and devastation to the defenseless -and innocent Muslim nation of Afghanistan. Following the withdrawal of the aggressive Soviet troops, even now with an allout support of the Russians and with the cooperation, of Russian advisers and pilots who, in addition to supplying modem arms to their agents, are still bombing our defenseless
 people, the puppet regime is helping them in their barbaric attacks and has recently intensified
                                                                                         ^ ■ '
 its aerial bombing and ground attacks on our innocent people.
      In view of ruthless killing and injuring of large number of innocent people in all parts of Afghanistan particularly the recent barbaric bombardment in logar and Nangarhar, once again the world attention has been focussed on the fact that the Russians are not only not ready to discontinue supporting and defending the puppet regLme - which (once) they could not defend with more than1 200,000 soldiers of the Red Army - but are also inclined to commit any crime in order to impose. . this regime on our innocent and defenseless people and do not want to stop interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
      The AIG, which is a symbol of Unity, solidarity and firm determination of the mujahed and Muslim nation of Afghanistan, condemns the perpetuation of crimes by the Russians and their agents in Afghanistan and declares that the heroic Afghan mujaheddin would fight until total victory over the decadent Russian puppet regLme. Bombings and wanton attacks have never forced us bow down and surrender. The mujahed Afghan nation in a face-to-face war against thousands of Russian soldiers during the previous years fought a heroic war in the length and breadth of the country and defeated the aggressive Russian army and put them to flight and .forced them to quit Afghanistan. Now these.'
                                              . L-    ,        ••                   •_ ,         ,
 same mujaheddin will not spare the Russian-agents and will not allow them to continue their sabo- i tags and destruction inside Islamic Afghanistan.
      The AIG,'while condemning these barbaric attacks, requests brotherly Islamic countries, fidendly states and1 international bodies to exert further pressure on the Russians to stop supporting the puppet Kabul regime which is bound to fall and let the Afghan nation'^determine its future without any pressure and foreign interference. (Beware that the help of God is very near: The Holy Quran) 1
28
October-19BB-Deceinbor, 1989
Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
AIG’s Stand on Soviet-US Talks
About Afghanistan
 ; t ■                                                                            a |
 \ £ EDITOR’S NOTE: The following is the text of a declaration of the AIG about | ;
 j n ■
 J £ Soviet-American talks in regard- to the Afghan problem. The text of the jjj [
 ; *                                     -                                        I •
 i |document was published in the Subh-e-Pairuzee newspaper, the official organ? • j jjlof the AIG, 19 June, 1989.            _ . _               ___________ /.J L
      While demanding all peace-loving and freedom-loving countries of the world to support our right-1 ful cause and reasonable and truthful struggle for the total freedom of our country from the all forms of alien domination 1 we, hereby, declare that self-determination of the nation and a decision about the future of our homeland rests with the mujaheddin and nobody else.
      Everyone should know that we are the crusaders for the righteousness, for the way of Islam and for the cause of the freedom' and not mercenaries who fight only for the implementation of plans designed by others.Therefore let it be known to all that the Russians and the Americans who are today discussing the Afghan problem is Stockholm, have not been given any mandate by us and neither are we 'other people's slaves to allow them to decide the destiny of our nation.
AIG Rejects Outside Plans on Afghan Problem
[edITCR1 S NOTE: The' following is the'textof A’ cbmfhuhiqu'e by the' AlG rejecting4 the new plans about the future of Afghanistan .'The text hAsbeen published: in ;j w Ittehad—e—Islamii q June,' 1989*
 IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
                While appreciating the gesture of all those countries and individuals who have endorsed' bur
■!                           .                 .                                     . ‘t*.
 Jehad on the basis of religious considerations or humanitarian principles and lhave cooperated 'or intend to cooperate with us in future, we hereby declare to all that any decision regarding the future of Afghanistan, which is a product of the blood of 1.5 million martyrs and hundreds of thousands of disabled -persons and sufferings of hundreds of thousands of widows and orphans and displace^ ment of five million refugees and destruction of entire-Afghanistan and is directly linked with the '; worldly welfare and Hereafter of the crusading Afghan nation, belongs to the mujaheddin themselves.
                   The mujaheddin, by forming the interim government comprised of the representatives of the
                                                                29
                                                                           VBI.2, No.2-4
 • october-1988-Deeember, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                                 voi.3, »o.i
 nation, have taken their decision and hence nobody should now try to formulate new plans regarding the future government of Afghanistan, because such plans, contrary to the imagination of a sinne people who think they would be able to cheek bloodshed, would increase the bloodshed tenfold and, on the other hand, would be deemed a direct intervansion in the internal affairs of Afghanistan* Therefore all concerned should know that all the efforts, for the solution of the Afghan problem, contrary to the will and wished of the mujaheddin, would not only.be futile but would also have grave repercussions not be in the interest of Afghanistan or the region, as a.whole, and ultimately would be exploited by our enemies for their own ends.
      If the people of the world wish the Afghan issue to be resolved without the continuation of war and if they are genuinely sincere in their desire, they ought to put further pressure on the Russians to make them withdraw their support to a regime which is utterly unacceptable to the nation and, instead of endeavouring to make new plans for future government which would be completely unacce*
 table to the mujaheddin, they should strengthen the AIG. So that the problem may be solved quicker and according to the wishes of the nation*
      We, once again, ask all concerned to uphold the righteous cause of our mujahed nation persistently and respect the decisions of the mujaheddin in regards to our domestic issues and support them.
      In conclusion, it is worth' mentioning that'the AIG * is not only a panacea for all the ills of ' Afghanistan but is also the soie guarantee of creating an atmosphere of brotherhood, equality, and* good neighbourliness in the regLon and would forestall all kinds of macheavalian tactics'of the : enemy whose main aim wolild be to instigate one brother against the other, as evident from pre-*jehad' history.
                                            Professor Sayyaf, Prime Minister'of the AIG. ’'-
Mujaheddin Refuse Talks with Kabul Regime
     [EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of an AIG communique on the jUN General Assembly!s Resolution about the Afghan problem published in the Subh-e-Palruzee 6 November, 1989*

      The right of self-determination and decision concerning the future of Afghanistan belongs solely to the Muslim and mujahed nation of Afghanistan.
      Our demand from the UN has been and is that as regards the restoration of the right of a nation, th^y should back and endorse the cause of the Afghan nation and, instead of adopting contradictory ' decisions to the will of the mujaheddin and the demand of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan, it would be better to have due respect for the decision of the Afghan nation based on the formation of tbe ’ AIG and officially recognize this government.
                                                                            October-19BB-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2-4 Vo'1.3, No.l
      The government formed by us is representative of all the1 Muslim'factions and in regard to case those mujaheddin groups which'have'not so far not joined this government in practical terms, already some understanding has been achieved.
      If the UN decision based on "inter Afghan talks" refers to groups 'which have fought for the free-1 dom of the country and have rendered sacrifices in this war, then this step has been already taken de facto and is nearing completion. It goes without saying that the interim Islamic government fonned recently is also a concrete result of these efforts.
      But in case the term Tinter-Afghan talks" may 'cannot understanding and negotiations between the mujaheddin and the puppet Kabul regime, it is not acceptable to the mujaheddin and is neither right v nor logical. The Khalq Party has no right of participation in the future set-up of the country 1 because members of this party had already sold this country to others, for the liberation of which,•• the mujaheddin are waging this war.
      Undoubtedly the UN decision, maintaining the Islamic identity of Afghanistan, is a right step towards a realistic approach in connection with the Afghan problem.But, on the other handjthis lh;, itself negates every kind of understanding and meeting with the Non-Muslim elements and especially the hireling Kabul regime-because members’of this regime have lost their Islamic and Afghan identity and have a long record of animosity towards Islam.
      While drawing the attention of the UN and all freedom lovers and supporters of rightensness to our rightful cause, once again we emphatically ask from all the states and international forums to take a courageous step and acknowledge the mujaheddin's right. Such a gesture will i surely help • restoration of peace and tranquility in this region and also the entire world* •
                                                             Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf Prime Minister of the Interim Islamic Government of? Afghanistan.
 AIG’s Statement on Rocket Attacks on Kabul
 .©/EDITCR^S NOTE:'The following are the highlights of a communique issued by the Ministry of Information of AIG about the launching of rockets on|
 ’Ajlu Kabul city.The text has been adopted from the Ittehad—e-Islami117 Julyf/%%
 J?4|):                                                                           Ira
    1909,
      The responsibility of firing rockets towards the residential areas of Kabul lies.squarely on the shoulders of the Kabul regime.
                                        31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :
    October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
      On 9 May a number of rockets hit civil and military targets in Kabul city resulting in heavy casualties and damages.                                            '
      When rockes fires bu the mujaheddin hit an ammunition depot of the Kabul regime, very heavy explosions took place and the Kabul regime in order to malign the mujaheddin deliberately fired rockets towards various sections of the city of Kabul.             •
      The mujaheddin commanders have been emphatically instructed to avoid hitting the civilian targets and concentrate solely on the military targets. .
      Such incidents occurred during the presence of Russian forces as well ... towards the residential areas of Kabul and :they,too, put the blame on the mujaheddin
 Text of Decisions Adopted by AIG
     I
       EDITOR’S NOTEs The following is the text of two decisions of Ministerial]
     W I
     I! Council of the AIG published in Ittehad-e-Islami. The first decision has appeared in the/ June 19» 1989« and the second one in the *15 January,
     II 1989 edition of the paper.                                                        !
   (1) The Ministerial Council of. the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan has approved the following subjects in its meeting on, 31 May, 1989 regarding the transfer of the seat of government'ahd ^cjtivating the border posts and also the procedural program of the ministries.: -
        A-MINISTRY OF INECRMATION
   1-  take charge of the broadcasting station and its studies,                         ' •
 1 2- take necessary steps for the development and improvement of radio programs, •
   3-  start publishing an official newspaper immediately,
   4-  disseminate the official news, reports and handouts through its own broadcasting systems as well as international news agencies,
       B- THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.
   1-  devote its attention to ther appointment of commissioners, deputy commissioners and assistant commissioners,
 . 2- appoint security commanders in different regions,
   3-  . take steps to ensure laws and order in the liberated areas', 1
   4-  activate border posts and gandarmeries,
   5-  take necessary measures to print and distribute identity cards.
        C-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
   1-  take charge of educational institutions,
                                                32
                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JtHflD                    __________Vol.3, No.l
 2-    send inspection teams to survey schools and educational institutions inside the country and assess the requirements of each region,
 3-   activate educational administrations,
 4-    take necessary steps for uniformity of educational syllabus of all the schools and printing of text books,
 5-   ensure coordination among various organizations, schools and academics in neighbouring areas
 (within the country).                                  >
       D- MINISTRY OP DEFENSE .                                      „
 1-   prepare appropriate plan for the Kabul battle,
 2-    take measures for consolidation of command, in the first stage, in areas involved in the current war,
                                                                          >
 3-   take charge of military academies,
 4-   take steps for organizing a Joint army,
 5-   should arrange for supply of arms and military material,
      E-MINISTRY OF MINES AND INDUSTRIES
 1-   send teams to the interior of Afghanistan for surveying mineral resources,
 2-   take measures for activating potential industries.
 3-   utilize nri.nh3 with production potentials,
 4-   prepare long-term and short-term plans for taking advantage of rich mineral resources,
      F-MDJISERY OF AGRICULTURE. .
 1-   immediately bring under control public pastures and forests,
 2-    despatch teams for reactivating agricultural activities and extending help to farmers and land owners,
 3-   revive and restore agricultural courses in educational institutions.
 G    G-MINISTRY OF RE-CCNSTRUCTICN
 1-   construct and repair roads,
 2-   undertake comprehensive reconstruction projects.
       H-MINISTRY OF fUBLIC HEALTH
 1-   urgently take charge of medical institutions related with various (mujaheddin) organizations j'
 2-    establish first add centers behind the forward lines of the warj - 3- despatch medical teams to different parts of the country,
        I-MINiSTRY' OF FOREIGN' AFFAIRS
i 1— • establish diplomatic missions in the countries which have recognized, the Interim Government,
                                               33
                                                                                             VoX.2, No.2-/^
october-1988-December, 1989 MM Mi                            .  voi.3,  no.i
2—   persist in its compaign to ensure international recognition of the Interim Government,
3-   take necessary preemptory measures for countering diplomatic campaigns of Soviets and Kabul regime.
DECISIONS OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS
 (2) It was decided in the recent meeting of the Ministerial Council that henceforth no foreign institution has the right to interfere in our internal or external affairs. But in case any institution desires to serve our people in any field, it ought to get the consent of the, ministry concerned according to the rules and, on that basis, iseek permission from the Ministry of Interior and f after obtaining a written permission, ought to start work in a specified area. No individual or institution is authorized to initiate work (in Afghanistan) without such authorization. •
      Similarly it was resolved in the recent meeting of the Ministerial Council that henceforth jehad news and reports shall not be published on behalf of mujaheddin organizations. The Ministry 1 < of Information is authorized to cooperate with the ministers and members of the government in issuing statements or news releases on their behalf. However statements about the position and affairs of the government (as a whole), will be released by the Head of State, the Prime Minister or ,an . •official spokesman.
AIG Rejects Mujaheddin-Kabul Regime Mediation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ; g ft
  \ EDITOR'S NOTE; The following is the text of a statement of the Ministry of J i % Information of AIG pertaining to mediation by those who have opposed the         1 \
 < ft                                                                                J
 j g mujaheddin during the course of the jfeiad. The statement was issued on the *f
 ! fc
 ; | eve of a visit by PLO leader Yasser Arafat, to Pakistan* It was
*!
v!
II
m
m THE. NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIPUL
      Recently some circles expressed their desire to the mujaheddin that, if needed, they are ready to mediate for the restoration of peace in Afghanistan. The cabinet of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan discussed the subject in its meeting on 1 July (1989) and came to the following -conclusion.
      The mujaheddin stand vis-a-vis negotiations with the Kabul regime is quite evident. They would never like to have direct or indirect talks with the puppet regime. Therefore, there is no possi- 1 bility of mediation between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime',
     ' If anyohe wishes to mediate between the mujaheddin and Moscow subject' to the Cbnsent of the former*, naturally only those can play such'A’‘role who'has at least'remained1 neutral during the whr between the mujaheddin and Russians. Those who have endorsed the military presence of the Russians in Afghanistan and have dpposed the just cause of the mujaheddin, .can never play any mediatory rule.
34
                                          i                           Vol.2,  No.2-/>
    October-l^SS-December, 1989 fljEHflHJHiflB _______________________ Vol.3t  No.l
      The cabinet of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan in its 1 July (1989) meeting dis-cussed press reports based on the appointment of a special envoy from America for Afghanistan and concluded that so far no one has presented his credentials or informed us officially in this regard as to the specific purpose and mission of the special envoy# Therefore any discussion on this subject would be premature.
Mujaheddin Suspend Talks with Soviets
     EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of an IUAM statement regarding suspension of talks with the Russians* The text has been adopted from Shahadat f n January, 1989*
      We have participated in talks with the Russians with complete sincerity with a desire to find a durable, peaceful and honorable solution for the (Afghan) issue but the Russian delegation had no reasonable and practical proposals for solving the probltem and did not show readiness to refrain' "1 from its tyrannical interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and bring the war to an end;' On the contrary, it expected us to accept Moscow's terms for the future of Afghanistan and on the recommendation of Moscow accommodate in the future Afghan government the Najib ijunta which have been the cause of war and bear responsibility for the death and destruction of the country and martyrdom of 1.3 million people. It threatened that if the mujaheddin did not agree to terms proposed by Moscow, the war would continue and Moscow would equip the Najib regime with means not so far been used.
      Such bullying and aggressive tactics show that they intend to continue the war and bring mori death and destruction to our nation and seek to impose a government of their own liking on the Afghan people at any cost.
      Under the circumstances when the Russians resort to threat and bullying and are not prepared to realize the realities and have no respect for the right of self-determination of the Afghan people and instead of peace, have set their mind on war, then any kind of talks would be futile and useless.
      The Russians are responalbile for the discontinuation of talks. The mujaheddin will resune these talks only when the Russians withdraw their troops from Afghanistan unconditionally and do not try to help in the survival of the blood-thirsty and criminal (Kabul) regime, because this’regime '* has been imposed on the Afghan people at gun point. Instead they should let the Afghan people determine their future in the light of their own social conditions and beliefs.
      The Soviet delegation by promising freedom and autonomy to one party and, telling another party that if it Joined a coalition government, leadership would be their's (actually) seeks to sow seeds of dissent among them’ and clearly indicates that Afghanistan would plunge into a civil war and in the meantimeexplores ways and means of 'fanning the sparks of dissent into a full-fledged civil war'.
                                                      35
                                                                   Vol.2, No•2-4 '
    October-19^8-December, 1989 flfGHUNJtHflD                        Vol.3, No.l
 Therefore any meeting with the Russians would amount to providing them with propaganda material and . would only be tantamount to a waste of time and running around the bush. God willing, our wise and alert public would foil all enemy conspiracies and continue their armed crusade until the compete withdrawal of all the Russian forces from Afghanistan, downfall of the Najib regime and establishment of an Islamic government based on the will of the people in a free and independent Afghanistan.
                                                 Signed: sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the IUAM* ’
 Independent Jehad Organizations Issue Communique on Unity
    I EDITOR’S' NOTE: The following is the text of a joint coramhnique of the |
    I Coordination Council of the Islamic Independent Organization of Afghan- J • istan declaring their stand vis-a-vis fcurrent issues in Afghanistan. The I V text has been adopted from the paper "Wahdat-e-Islami11 25 July, 1989. j
     IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
     Lose not .heart,nor fall into dispair; for you must gain mastery if you are true in faith.
     (The Holy Quran Sura-e-Nessa Verse),
     In pursuance of the Islamic jehad and war of liberation by the proud and courageous Afghan nation against atheism, communism and the Red Army, we have now reached a delicate phase of the history of our Islamic country. The Red Anriy has fled from Afghanistan in shame and humiliation. The puppet Kabul regime is on the verge of complete collapse and our Islamic nation impatiently expects the installation of a just and fair Islamic government in Afghanistan blessed with complete unanimity and understanding of the forces of jehad. The righteous demand of the nation and the desire of the entire oppressed martyrs of Afghanistan is, unity vis-a-vis the Soviets and reaching a prln-’ cipled concensus of opinion. Hence on the basis of this legitimate demand and righteous will of the Muslim nation, leaders of the influential and authentic jehad organizations, after due consultations and a series of sessions have come to the following conclusion and announce their view points 7
 and stands'in regard to current Afghan problem:.
 1-  Our jehad shall continue until the complete downfall of the puppet Kabul regime,,"
 2-  We want to establish an Islamic, independent, free and non-alligned Afghanistan,- .
 3-   We reject all sorts of interference by foreign powers, under the pretext of solving the Afghan issue, with the ulterior motive of castigating the goals of the Islamic jehad
 4-   We agree with any efforts for finding a solution in consonance with the aims of our Islamic Jehad and preparing the ground for freedom and independence of our country and establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan,
 5-  An Islamic Afghanistan, in future, would under no condition whatsoever,' be an arena for the
                                                                                                         Vol.2, No.^
   October-^BB-December, 1989 IlfGHllWJtHUB________________________________ Vol.3t  No.l
rivalries and clashes of interests of super-powers.
6- The future government of Afghanistan would be an Islamic one based on Quran and Sunnat of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, and composed of all the forces of jehad.
                                Signed by:-
           1)  Zahedi, spokesman of the Revolutionary Council;
           2)  Judge Mohammad Amin Waqad, leader of .the Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujaheddin;
           3) Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansodr, leader of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan;
           4) Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzen, leader of Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan;
           5)  Mehdawi, representative of the Shura—e-Ittefaq—e—Inqelab—e-Ialami Afghanistan.
    October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JIHAD
Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No. 1
 Ermacora Reports on
Human Right in Afghanistan
 S  ’     •      ■
      EDITOR'S'NOTE:  The following is the text of the conclusions and re-
      commendations of a report submitted by the Prof. Felix Ermacora, Special, Rapporteur of the UN Commission on Human Rights, on human rights situation in Afghanistan in 1989* The numbers before each paragraphs are those of the Rapporteur.

                               CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
                                 A. CONCLUSIONS
 96. Pursuant to JtLs examination and scrupulous analysis of the information contained in the preceding chaptersy the Special Rapporteur is in a position to draw a number of conclusions reflecting his personal vieWs on the overall situation of human rights in Afghanistan, which remains a matter of deep concern even after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops.
 97* The withdrawal of the Soviet troops, which constitutes the first step towards the restoration of peace in the country, must be welcomed. However,peace has not been restored. An armed conflict between government forces and groups of the opposition movements continues unabated.
 98. The SCUD II missiles and cluster bombs being used by both belligerants, which are inflicting a disproportionately heavy toll on the civilian population, are of foreign origin.
 !99« The main towns and villages in Afghanistan are under government control. In March 1989» the Government declared a state of emergency, which strengthens the power of the President, who may sus-ipend hunan rights by simple presidential decree.
 ICO.’' Opponents of the regime are still being tried by special security courts and the procedural guarantees of the accused are not in conformity with international hunan rights instruments. There are still more than 3,000 political prisoners in Afghani st as. The conditions of prisoners awaiting trial or verdict are deplorable and particular attention should be paid to the juvenile rehabilitation center (Dar-El-Taadib).
 101.  It is to be regretted that IGRC has not so far had the opportunity to visit persons awaiting ►trial, in. accordance with its established criteria.
 102.  The tragic economic situation of the country does not guarantee the full enjoyment of economic and social.rights.
 103.  The-number of refugees totals more than 5 million. Because of the gravity of the hostilities,
                                                              3*
                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1988-Deeember, 1969 fllGHIWJIH1111                 _____________Vol.3, No.l
the nunber of refugees coming from combat areas is even increasing. The severity of the fighting, the existence of minefields and the composition of the present Government are still considered by the refugees as the main obstacles to their return. Despite the considerable efforts of the Afghan Government to receive returning refugees, their nunbers remain insignificant.
104.  The living conditions of the refugees are becoming increasingly difficult. International aid has diminished. The withdrawal of the Soviet troops has resulted in a reduction in the volune of international assistance to the refugees, particularly to recent arrivals. The situation of women and children in refugee camps in Pakistan appears to be more deplorable than that in the Islamic Republic of Iran a relatively high number of refugees live outside the camps and the integrated into the local population.
105.  The Special Rapporteur is of the opinion that a halt to the delivery of weapons from abroad would be a welcome step per set but would not alone end the conflict. Only a political solution can guarantee the enjoyment of all human rights, including the right to self-determination. Only a pb-' i litical solution can lead to the return of the refugees. A political solution requires a generally accepted initiative on the part of generally recognized personalities. It also requires other conditions, which reside in the particularities of the Afghan people and its political, tribal and religious forces. A political solution cannot be imposed. However, the international community is
able tq offer its gpod offices to create adequate conditions for a fair political solution. Should, a political solution not be found rapidly, the enjoyment of hunan rights would be further endangered at all levels.
                                      B.  RBCOMMEN DAT ION 5
106.  The Special Rapporteur would like to reiterate the following recommendations contained in his report to the Commission on Human Rights (E/CN•4/1989/24, paras. 80-86):
     "80. The right to self-determination must be considered as an inalienable right of the Afghan people as a whole, inside and outside the country. The return of all refugees must, therefore,' be facilitated in co-ordination with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for ' ' Refugees and with the full cooperation, of all parties concerned in order to create the neces-< sary conditions for the free exercise of the right to self-determination.
     "81. All efforts must be made to start clearing the mines as quickly as possible in ah organic zed manner in all areas in Afghanistan where mines have been laid. To this effect, all' mili-* 'f' tary conmanders should provide mining plans or specific indications with a view to facilitating the process of mine clearance. .
     "82. Persons belonging to the armed forces and the civil service should under no circumstances be subjected to arbitrary justice but should, if evidence of their guilt is produced* be put on fair trial on the individual basis.
     n83. The name of all political prisoners and detained Afghan soldiers should be transmitted by all parties to humanitarian organizations and, in particular, to the International Committee of the Red Cross. Prisoners of war should be released without delay and without asking for*1 • < reciprocity.
     "84. The fate of disappeared persons should be thoroughly investigated.
     "85. In this and other respects recourse might be had to the assistance of the advisory send-*
                                                      39
                                                                             Vol.2, No.2-4
     October-^gg-December, 1989             flfGHflNJfHAD                    Vol.3, No.l
       ces of the Centre for Human Rights.
       "86. No ban whatsoever on supplies of medicine and foodstuffs and other essential goods should be declared as a means of pressure against the civilian population. The Special Rapporteur recommends that the Commission on Human Rights should urgently appeal to all Member States and hunanitarian organizations to promote the humanitarian consensus required for the implementation of the projects envisaged by the Co-ordinator for United Nations Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan."
  107. In addition, since the Special Rapporteur has a specific mandate to make recommendations concerning hunan rights after the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan, he considers it appropriate to add or emphasize the following recommendations:
       (a) Humanitarian law should be respected by all parties to the conflict;
       (b) fighters should be recognized as combatants within the meaning of the Geneva Conventions of 1949;
  (c)  The use of weapons against the civilian population must be halted. Any such use must be qualified as terrorism;
  (d)  All political prisoners and detained soldiers should be released by both sides to the conflict and should not be held as hostages;
  (e)  Humanitarian assistance to the refugees should not be decreased or halted. On the contrary,
       it should be reinforced. In particular, the activities of the United Nations HLgh Commissioner for Refugees and those of the Office of the United Nations Co-ordinator for Afghanistan should not be subject to any financial cuts;                                    ^
  (f)  Amnesty decrees should apply equally to foreign detainees. The lot of prisoners awaiting trial should be improved; the period during which these prisoners await trial should be shortened to a reasonable length of time;
  (g)  The right to self-determination should also be respected by the opposition forces, who are as bound by human rights obligations a? any other party;
  (h)  The International Committee of the Red Cross should also be allowed access to all prisoners awaiting trial.
                                                     40
 i
                                                                  Vol.2, Ho.2-4
    0ctober-1988-Decanber, 1989 fttGHflN JtHflD .                  Vol.3, Ho.l
Amnesty International On
Afghanistan
  „uiuiuiiimiimiimiimmiiiiiiiimimimmmuiiimiuiuu_
   EDITOR'S NOTE: The following-is the text of a report by "Amnesty Inter-K
   national" on the status of Political prisoners in particular and condi- £
  5 tions of human .rights in general in Afghanistan in 1989* 5
  ftmNmrmnnnnnNniNnrmmnmmmnnmimrmnnmt
       Many hundreds of real or suspected opponents of the government were believed to be imprisoned, including possible prisoners of conscience. In September the government announced that they were holding 2,125 political prisonersy and that more than 7t600 others, most of whom had been held for political reasons, had been released since the beginning of 1938. Amnestly International could not confirm these figures but received reports suggesting that many of those released were transferred directly to military service. Some political prisoners were sentenced after trials by Special Revolutionary Courts which did not conform to international standards. There were reports of Torture and ill-treatment of prisoners, although on a lesser scale than in previous years. There were also reports of extra-judicial executions by Afghan security forces and Soviet troops.
       On 14 April the Geneva accords to settle the Afghan conflict were signed by the governments of Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.- The accords provided for the withdrawal of half the Soviet troops in Afghanistan by 15 August and the' remainder by 15 February 1989. They also required the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan to refrain from using force and engaging in subversive activities across each other's frontiers. The Afghan armed opposition groups, the Mujaheddin, however, were not a party to the accords and refused to be bound by them. Consequently, despite the phased withdrawal of Soviet troops, the conflict continued unabated with arms supplied to the mujaheddin by the USA and Pakistan, and to the Afghan Gov-'' eminent by the USSR. Between January and July over 100,000 Afghans were reported to have fled the' .fighting and entered Pakistan, although the government said almost 40,000 returned to Afghanistan between January and August under the official policy of national reconciliation. At the end of the year, over five million Afghans remained in exile, mostly in Pakistan and Iran. They constituted the largest refugee group in the world.
       Information about human rights violations continued to be difficult to obtain and corroborate, as a ,result of the war and social dislocation. . However, Professor Felix Ermacora, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human' rights in Afghanistan, was allowed to visit a nunber of detention centres and prisons, including his two visits to Afghanistan in January and September. The visits formed*
41
                                                                            Vol.2, No. 2*-/*
    October-^Bg-December, 1989 flfGHflN JtHflB                               Vol.3t  No.l
 basis of a report submitted to the UN Human Rights Comnission in March and of an interim report to * the UN General Assembly in October,
                The mujaheddin reportedly carried out a number of attacks which resulted in civilian deaths.
           They were also alleged to have killed several prisoners, For example, three wounded Soviet soldiers/-
           captured during an attack on a military convoy near the village of Dila.(Dahla) 'in Kandahar province,
                                                                                            \ ‘
 were reported to have been summarily killed.
      Among the political prisoners released by the government were 23 members of the Afghan Mellat, the Afghan Social Democratic Party, who had been held since 1983 and who may have been prisoners of conscience, Seven other members, however, were believed to be still held at the end of 1988 and re-* portedly included Abdullah Aziz and Ghulam Azam, both of whom have been held since 1983• A blind '• woman prisoner held since 1982, whose health had been of concern/was' reported1 in August 1988 to ■ have been released.
      The situation of some prisoners, such as Dr, Mohammad Younis/Akbari, a nuclear physicist under sentence of death since 1984, remained unclear. The government did not respond to repeated requests by Amnesty International for information about the place and conditions of his detention. The. government also failed to respond to requests for clarification of the situation of two Afghans,
           Syed Abdul Samad and Mohamm*»d Nazar, who were convicted in January of spying and counter-revolution- ■
 i                         .                    -
 ’ary activities after entering the country illegally with Alain .GuLllo, a French journalist. They 1 were sentenced to 16 yearst imprisonment. Alain Guillo, who had been sentenced to 10 years, was pardoned by President Najibullah and released in May in response to an appeal by President Mitterand of France.
      New information came to light about Shams Rahman, a 15-year-old schoolboy who had "disappeared* some months after his arrest in Kabul in June 1979* In November the Minister of Public Health informed Amnesty International that he had been executed in 1979 by the government of President Haflzullah Amin, However, there was no new information about the fate of other people who had reportedly "disappeared" in detention, 3uch as Zia-ul-Haq, a young army lieutenant who "disappeared" in early 1983 after being arrested in September 1981,
      Special Revolutionary Courts continued to impose sentences, including the death penalty, after sunnary trials conducted without defense counsel. Witnesses were rarely produced and the accused wera rarely produced and the accused were allowed only 15 to 30 minutes to defend themselves.
      There were reports'Of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners of security police interrogation centers/SarAndoi-paramilitary police headquarters, prisons and Soviet military posts. In one .case1, a former government employee said that after his'arrest in October, as a'suspected mujaheddin supporter, he was kept in a cage for 20 days at the Sarandoi headquarters in the Shar-e-Nau locality of Kabul. During the first three days, he was punched, kicked in the stomach, beaten with sticks and rlflebutts and threatened .with death by Sarandoi personnel. He was later released bub at the end of the year he was still suffering from injuries inflicted during his detention. Another prisoner, a . member of the mujaheddin who was captured in combat in May, was reportedly taken to Soviet military headquarters at Soor Kiala (Qala) in Parwan province,He was denied food for three days and then tortured repeatedly for three weeks. He was kLcked,punched and beaten with sticks and rlfle^butts during interrogation by Soviet military personnel. He was still suffering from psychological and physical injuries in October when he was at last able to obtain medical treatment.
                                                           42
                                                                                           Vol.2, Mo.2-4
October-1988-December, lyBy MUHiM JlliAD                      Vol.3,  No.l
     There were reports of extrajudicial executions by Afghan Government forces and Soviet troops. Che incident occurred at Kblalgu village in Paktia province where, according to survivors and eyewitnesses, Soviet and Afghan troops extra judicially executed nine captured mujaheddin on 16 January1 They forced 12 of them into the village mosque, placed explosives inside, then detonated them by " means of a cable. Nine of the 12 prisoners.were killed. The explosion also caused the deaths of seven children when an adjacent house collapsed on them.
      In May Amnesty International published a report, Afghanistan: Unlawful Killings and Torture. It described the Kolalgu incident and other extrajudicial executions of civilians in 19^7» including ' :-: some who were attempting to seek refuge abroad, reportedly committed by Afghan and Soviet forces.
 The report also detailed cases of alleged torture of prisoners by Afghan and Soviet personnel in 19&7*
      In April Amnesty International appealed to President Najibullah and to the Soviet authorities to ensure that allegations of torture and extra judicial executions would be fully and impartially investigated and that those found responsible be brought to Justice.

&
October.l98e-Decaiber( 19W ATGHAN JfflAD Vol.l',
            AFGHAN
      RECONSTRUCTION,
       REHABILITATION
^ FIFTEEN AFGHANS SPEAK CN POLITICAL ISSUES;                     45
AUi CHIEF HI ISLAMABAD INTERVIEWED (M AFGHAN REOCW3TRUCTICH; S3
                                                                                   \
§UN CONFERENCE IN GENEVA CN AEGEAN RECONSTRUCTION;               67
0 AFGHAN EXPERTS IN EUROPE COMMENT ON UN RECONSTRUCTION PLANS; 88
0AFGHANS, PAKISTANIS AND ARABS DISCUSS AEOHAN ECCNOMIC, '
   SOCIAL ISSUES IN PESHAWAR MEETING.                           107
October-1988-Deceraber, 1989
  Vol.2, No #2-4''.-Vol.3, No.l
Fifteen Afghans Discuss With "Afghan Jehad” Ways to End Present Deadlock
 i ft
 ; i
 it
 ;ft
 Vi
 ; l
 i I ; & it-i & ;ft ;ft ; ft J ft
 ; I
 •; ft ; ft
 ; £
 ; ft
 ; ft
 ■jt
 i &
 ;ft
 < i ; ft ;ft ; ft ; ft
 \i
 ; ft
 II
 II
 !t
 ! ft
 it
 ; ft
 ! ft
 ;ft
 ift
 < ft
 1 ft i ft
 ;*
 i ft
 ; ft
 ;ft
 i ft‘
 I ft {ft
 ; ft. :ft « ft I ft
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are answers by fifteen Afghans residing in J
                                            ’ *                            if
Paid.stan • and representing a cross section of views' regarding the Afghan - fj
issues. The* answers have been offered to specific questions put forward \
                   '                                                        a
by the Afghan Jfehad. Those who have answered are:
                                                                                        *! % t
                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                        «I
                                                                                        ;« I
                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                        * s
                                                                                        9 !
                                                                                        3 !
                                                                                        «l !
                                                                                        *;
                                                                                        a;
                                                                                        * !
                                                                                        «;
                                                                                        * !
                                                                                        1 ! * ! « :
                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                        1!
                                                                                        a r.
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                        * ! « ! « !
                                                                                        V  !
                                                                                        3 t
                                                                                        ?!
                                                                                        9 !
                                                                                        * \ 1 !
                                                                                        1 ;
 10. Qiamuddin Kashaf, Head of Cultural Affairs Committee of the Ittehad-e-Islami,      |j
                                                                                        11
 11.  Mawlawi Abdul Hameed Kodeekhel, Adviser, Ministry of Interior (Member of Hezb— 3 j
                                                                                        « *
                                                                                        li
                                                                                        ?!
                                                                                        a !
                                                                                        1 •
      of the Hezb-^-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar).                        ’            i S
                                                                                        1I
                                                                                        1 s
                                                                                        a !
                                                                                        1 !
                                                                                        a!
                                                                                        V :
                                                                                        ?!
                                                                                        d !
 1* Dr. Faizullah Kakar , Director <of >Research and Consultative Committee of the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar),
 2.  Abdul Qadeer Shahab, Adviser, Ministry of Interior,
 3.  Engineer Muhammad Amin Munsef, Deputy Chief of the Islamic Unity of the Afghan Mujaheddin
 4.  Dr. Muhammad Nazeef Shahrani, Professor of Anthropology in the US^frequently cooperating with the mujaheddin,
 5.  Haji Muhammad Amin Ferotan, General Secretary, Harakat-e-Inqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan (Mawlawi Mansoor),
 6.  Mawlawi Sakhidad Faez Cultural Director, Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan,
 7.  Fazl-a-Menallah-e-FazH, Adviser, Ministry of Interior,
 8.  Abdul Muqeem Rahmainzai, Member of the Educational Committee,
 9.  Dr. Zabihullah Mujaddedi, Deputy Chief of NLFA,
      ^-Island of Hekmatyar),
 12.  Sayyed All Javed, Deputy to Sheikh Muhammad Asef Muhseni,
 13.  Sayyed Ishaque ,Diijoe Hussaini, Head of the Culture and Publicity Committee
 14.  Wali Ahmad Sherzoy, former Professor of Law College and Political Science, Kabul University,
 15. Muhammad Alam Faiz-zad, member of the 13th National Assembly from Chah
      Aaab, Takhar,        .
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-December, 198? fiTGHANJEHAD                       Vol.3,  No.l
 QUESTION: WHAT ALTERNATIVES DO IOU SUGGEST FOR PREVENTING INTERNAL MUJAHEDDIN CONFLICTS AFFECTING NEGATIVELY THEIR ACTIVITIES?
 ANSWER:   Dr. Kakar: Leaders of the jehad should not heed biased people and should develop their
 ties with people endowed with a public spirit and known as good individuals. The intelligentsie and scholars should acquaint our people with Islamic culture and way of life.
 SHAHAB: There «re clear Quranic injunctions regarding such'differences which say that in case of such differences other Muslims should seek peace/among disputing parties . Restoring peace among them is a clear duty of mujaheddin organizations.
 MUNSEF: First of allt a‘uidted leadership and'organization' should be established. Later authoritative and powerful delegations should be sent’ to the interlor ofthe country for solving :the
                             r
 differences.
 SHAHRANI: Religious scholars should decide who should solve these differences. They should participate, in solving peoples problems and the net result ought to be the solving of internal problems. The previous Consultative Shoora not only failed to solve these problems but actually doubled them.
 FEROTAN:  Local   mujaheddin shooras ought to be established and shariat courts activated. All dis-
 putes ought to be resolved by joint judicial tribunals.
 FAEZ:   Offering   military, logistic and cash contributions to the leaders of seven parties has been
 the main reasons, for these disputes. These contributions should be made directly to the AIG and not to the parties.
 FAZLI:   Through understanding between  the mujaheddin themselves and efforts exerted by public spiri-
 ted Afghans and sincere Muslims as well as unbiased distinguished personalities or organizations. -The ulama and spirituals are also dutybound to help eliminate such differences.
 RAHMANZAI:   Leaders of the mujaheddin organizations should try to reach understanding among themsel-
 ves and workout etrategem for eliminating, their common enemy. In eliminating their differences, thsy may also use the good offices of elders.
 MUJADDEDI:  These   differences are actually not a major concern. The only party which does not co-
 operate with the AIG is Hekmatyar's Hezb-e-Islami. It is not too far fetched to have an opposition party. This is not determental to the government and does not entail political difficulties'.
 KASHAF:   Through  understanding and creating a peaceful atmosphere by an expression of sacrifice and
 i selflessness. If we furnish a single political order, such difficulties will automatically vanish. -
 KODEEKHEL:   If we resort to practical Islam and avoid selfishness and hegemony, these difflcul-- '
 ties will be eliminated. Actually having seven, groups in itseif is unlslamic because Islam, by itself, is a single and united party and, in it, even Islamic parties are not allowed to function separately.
 JAVED:    Such disputes have existed throughout our revolution resulting in the loss of lives of maiiy<
 mujaheddin. A high level goodwill mission, comprizing the Pakistan and Iran mujaheddin organize-tions, should be established and remain inside Afghanistan for one year to solve the differences.
i FAI&-ZAD: Public opinion can be an alternative.
                             '■            ■   .  46                   ’                ■  •
                                                                             Vol.2, No.2r-4
   October~1988~Decembery 1989 flfGHAfl JtHflD_________________               Vol.3,  No.l
 SHERZOY:  Complete unity  in. accordance with the dictates of the sacred religion of Islam and igno-
 ring personal and party interests.
 QUESTION: WHAT DO YOU SUGGEST FOR OVERCOMING THE DIFFICULTIES RELATED TO THE ALLIANCE OF MUJAHEDDIN BASED IN IRAN?
 ANSWER: Kakar: The' Iran based* hllihhce'i has given a much higher number for population of our Shia brothers inside Afghanistan than what the seven-party alliance or the majority of Afghan people think. Only elections can solve such a problem.
 SHAHAB: Through holding talks and reaching ah understanding.
 MUNSEF: Through creating a united leadership and an allout Islamic ordeir ahd agreeing to the legitimate rights of all the' fronts involved in our Islamic revolution.
 SHAHRANI: Principly there is no problem. They, too, are jehad organizations and have rendered sacrifices. They are entitled to participate in the government and are part of the Afghan nation and our brethren. •
 FEROTAN: The   Iranian alliance are our Muslim and mujahed brethren and, therefore, on the basis of
 their constant efforts and struggle, they should participate in the administration and decisions related to the future of our society.
 FAEZ: If the Irani-based parties and Afghan and foreign vested interests stop capitalizing on Afghan problems and allow the majority to fom a government, the problem will be solved.
 RAHMANZAI:   The  people of Afghanistan, wherever they are and to whatever religious sect or tribe
 they belong, are entitled to participate in deciding about the fate of Afghanistan. These differences are due to outside meddling. For earlier our people in Afghanistan did not have such disputes.
 MUJADDEDI:  Talks  for   solving this problem are underway. There is no. difficulty in solving it.
 Already agreement has been reached on the principles of the issue.
 KASHAF:  The  Afghans themselves should determine their future and this problem should be solved
 through talks and understanding.
 KODEEKHEL:   I must say that in Iran the number of Sunnis is higher than pur Shias. Therefore, if
 the government of Iran has given to its Sunni population the right of participation in the government, we will also grant such a right to our Shias. Otherwise, we do not have any obligation in this regard. Unity between us is not possible.
 JAVED:  The dispute between the Peshawar-based and Iranian-based organizations is over the extent
 of Shia participation in the AIG. However, the dispute has not been solved for the past one year. However, we have already supported the AIG.
 HUSSAINI:   They are our brethren. We do not hold any grudges against them. If they are for an •
 independent Afghanistan-which I am sure they are-they have the right to participate in the elections and elect "their representatives.                                                    '  .
                                                                               f              '
 FAIZ-ZAD: We should respect the right of all people with utmost selflessness and forebearance.
 SHERZOY: The dispute oan be solved by admitting that they, too, are our brothers in faith and have taken part in the jehad within their means.
                                                  • \ ' ■
                                                47 .    .
                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-19d8-December, 1989 AfCHANJEHAD                                   Vol.3,  No.l
 : QUESTION: IN CASE INTER-MUJAHEDDIN DIFFERENCES AND DISPUTES' CONTINUE^DO YOU SUGGEST ANY OTHER
            ALTERNATIVE FOR ACHIEVING COMPLETE VICTORY?
  ANSWER: KAKAR: All the organizations are in concord about the style of a future order for Afghanis*-tan and our scholars,'(writers and preachers should exploit this unity of views about the future order ■of the Afghan state and pave the way for national unity of our people.
 SHAHAB:  In case these  differences continue, the alternatives resty with a decision by the people
 of Afghanistan.
 jMUNSEF: If  the disputes continue, I am afraid to say that I do not foresee any other alternative
 for success.
 SHAHRANI: We are aware that decisions are not being taken by the people of Afghanistan themselves. ‘ There is foreign interference in the Afghan affairs. In my view, an immediate solution based’ on the interests of jehad and Islam does not exist.                                                     *
 FEROTAN: In case the mujaheddin differences continue, success and realization of Islamic sovereignty would have no meaning. The only alternative is to have unity among the mujaheddin and strike jointly at the enemy.
 FAEZ:  The disputes cannot continue for ever because our people will wait only for some time to Our
 leaders and, when they are disillusioned, they will make their own decisions and completely root out such differences.
 FAZLI:  I do not foresee any other alternative for the realization of the aspirations of true Mus-
 lims and we should not become disillussioned due to these differences, constant efforts will ultimately succeed.
 RAHMANZAI:  With  the prolongation of the Najib regime, differences will also persist. And these
 differences will have no other result than disaster. However, if the Najib government is toppled and an Islamic government takes over, the disputes will also vanish.
 MUJADDEDI: Differences   are not a cause for the weaknesses of the government. Differences over ele-
 ctidns are not serious because our people are politically mature.
 KASHAF: We had neither feared the Russians • nor fear the fact that somebody else will capture political power in Afghanistan. Our fear is due to the differences among the mujaheddin and if they continue • success will be impossible.
 KODEEKHEL:   In my view with the continuation of differences success will be impossible and, even if '
 there was success, it would not be in the interest of Muslims.
 JAVED: The Afghans were able to drive out the Russians despite there differences. We should-utilize that same zeal and determination in toppling the Kabul regime. This is possible despite our differences because we proved ourselves worthy in expelling the Russians.
 HUSSA1NI: If the differences continue, success will not be possible and in that’ case" others will assune power. The US and Russia both want the establishment of a weak government in the guise of Islam.                                                                                      i
 FAIZ-ZAD: "We should refer"to thehistOty' and find outhowpepple have solved such differences*
                                                               4S
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.&-4
October-1938-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
        SHERZOY:'' the UN shouldbe allowed'to help establish An interim government’ until we hold elections and determine the future order of Afghanistan. ’’
        QUESTION: WHAT ALTERNATIVES DO YOU SUGGEST FOR BRINGING THE KABUL REGIME TO A SPEEDY END?
        KAKAR:   Staging a coup. Because, a coup will involve minimun bloodshed. Of course, we urge that
        elections are to be held after the coup and also we want all the people to participation in all national and governmental affairs.
  v SHAHAB: The speediest way to bring an end to Kabul communist regime is unity among all mujaheddin organizations, otherwise it is not possible to end the communist regime and the martyrdom of thousands of our mujaheddin will prove to be futile.
        MUNSEF: The shortest way is to mobilize all jehad forces and resources under a united leadership within the framework of a planned system*
        SHAHRANI:   There are  no  shortcusts. The commanders ought to decide about their own tactics and aid
        giving sources should give up issuing orders. Coordination must be established between cultural and )       jehad activities  and the   government must issue a formal policy statement to the public.
        FERQTAN:  It can   be achieved through the unity of all jehad forces, strengthening of the AIG throu-,
        gh the participation of all jehad forces, concentration and coordination of mujaheddin military activities throughout the country.
i<      FAEZ:  The shortest way'would be a change in Russian policies. So they may give up their expansio-
        nist aims in Afghanistan. The second alternative is to provide logistical means to the mujaheddin and create a united military conmand throughput Afghanistan.
        FAZLI: Unity of Muslims at party as well as regional, linguistic and ethnical levels and specially complete unity of jehad leaders.
        RAHMANZAI: If the AIG exerts an all out coordinated pressure it will be effective for the toppling of Najib. This can be achieved also through peaceful means. FLrst of all there should be unity of
                                                                           h •
        thought and action between the mujaheddin and government and also the wrath of the people of Kabul could eliminate Najib.
        MUJADDEDI:   We  should not seek the shortest but rather the soundest way for this purpose. The solu-
        tion of Afghanistan issue is -not far away. We should consolidate first of all our government and then the elimination of the Kabul regime will be simple. We are in no hurry and will not seek 1 short and unsound solutions. '
        KASHAF: If we fight unitedly against the enemy, the government of Kabul will not last for more than a week and if we put the mujaheddin fronts under the joint command of the Ministry of defense, undoubtedly bur problems will be solved speedily.
        KODEEXHEL:   If these mujaheddin  leaders really claim to be Muslims, they should refrain from dis-
        putes. Unity of the seven parties is essential and also the people inside Afghanistan should rise’ like the Romanians and topple the Najib government.
        JAVED: Before the downfall of the Marxist regLme, the mujaheddin should unite.
        FAIZ-ZAD:’So farthere has been’ no other' altbmati'iris"thanthe continuation1 of jehad,
                                                            ■ 49
                                                                                     i
                                                                                 Vol.2, No.2-4
       October^-198$-December, 1989 AFGHANJ[HAD                                   Vol.3,  No.l
     SHERZOY: Gomplrte   unity  between the mujaheddiii and the refugees’ for'the'' estabiishfoent'.of a single1'
     government to substitute the Kabul regime.
     QUESTION s HOW SHOULD THE FUTURE GOVERNMENT IN AFGHANISTAN DEAL WITH MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY AND THEIR SUPPORTERS?
     ANSWER:  KAKAR:  Those who have committed murder, may'not remain in Afghanistan. However other mem-
     bers of the communist party, if they repent, should be pardoned in the tradition of oiir Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, after he conquered The Makkah.
     SHAHAB: The declaration of the AJG has made it completely clear that any member of the PDPA who
     sought refuge with the AIG will be pardoned. Otherwise, those who accept Islam are pardoned from
     ’ ' !
     execution but they are to be tried for their crimes.
     MUNSEF: We should deal with them' in accordance with the principles and injunctions of the Islamic shariat.-
     SHAHRANI:  They  should seek forgiveness and repent. Criminals will" not be pardoned and they should be
     be put on trial.
     FEROTAN: High ranking government and party officials who have had direct link with murder and crime • will be tried. However, low ranking officials will be pardoned and communist activities will also be banned.
     FAEZ: They are to be dealt with in accordance with the words and deeds of their own communist party.
     FAZLI:  The future Afghan state will be based on Islamic order and in such an order there will be
     no place for the communists and communism. Also in an Islamic order a multi-party system is unthinkable because Muslims are all followers of our religion.
     RAHMANZAI: Some members of the PDPA, who are murderers should be punished in answer to their deeds.
     MUJADDEDI: Those who give themselves up and repent will be pardoned. But those who have dipped their their hands in the blood of the people should be put on trial.
     KASHAF: The crimes committed by the communist party in Afghanistan is an issue which will be dealt
     with in accordance with the Islamic shariat. To pardon them now only means that they should not be tried until the establishment of an Islamic government.
     FEZ-ZAD: . Members of the PDPA can be categorized in two parts: Those who are murderers and have looted people's properties and those who have executed their duties in a normal manner. Murderers and looters and specially those'who have collaborated with the enemy must be tzled.
     SHERZOY:  Members of the communist  party and their supporters ought to be tried in accordance with
     their crimes.
     QUESTION S IN YOUR' VIEW' WHICH ELEMENTS SHOULD'BE INCLUDED' IN THE1 SOCALLED BROADBASED' GOVERNMENT' WHICH IS BEING URGED?f HOW CAN'WE ESTABLISH'SUCH A* BROADBASED GOVERNMENT?
     ANSWER:'1 SHAHAB: This government can include all Muslim citizens of ah Islamic state. They can form this government either-through a loya Jirgah or the decision of the ahl-e^hal-wa aqd (toen of wisdom).
     MUNSEF: Such a government ought to be at the mujaheddin level and include all people and* forceb'of
                                              .  .  50"   ,
                                                                         Vol.2, No.2-4
          0ctober-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JEHAD :                     Vol.3, No.l
         the ahl-e-hal' wa aqd.‘
         SHAHRANI: A broadbased government entails the participation of all mujaheddin organizations based in Pakistan and Iran as well as ottyer faithful and Muslim forces.                  *
         FEROTAN: Even if the present government is strengthened and. its defects rectified, it is possible'' to bring the present crisis to an end. The formation of ahl-e-hal wa aad shoora, comprized of all the’people elected by this shoora, is the only way for electing a government.
         FAEZ:' A broadbased government means the participation of Muslim, patriotic and God-loving people and not communist elements, and those supporting alien ideologies and the murderers of the Afghans and the ones who brought disaster to the country.
         FAZLI:   The broadbased  government does not mean to involve un-Islamic elements or those who are
         against the jehad. It should be comprized of mujaheddin who in turn should give to their other Muslim brethren the right to participate in the government.
         RAHMAtyZAI:   Technical and expert people and bureaucrats should be inducted to activate the govern-
         ment and resort to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Afghanistan. If by a broadbased government it is meant that the jehad organizations and Najib should serve in it, Ido hot accept it in this context. As a first step, the country needs the reconstruction. It needs experts and people of knowledge to do.the job.
         MUJADDEDI:   Our vision  about a broadbased government differs from that of the West. We mean an Isla-
         mic government supported by all our Muslim citizens and all groups that have participated in the struggle should serve in the cadres of this government and, after the inclusion of the Iranian coalition, the present AIG would become more or less this kind Of government.                           *
         KASHAF: Those who are Muslims and have participated in the jehad and have rendered sacrifices
         should form the future government. Broadbased government entails participation of mujaheddin,
         refugees, Muslims residing inside and outside Afghanistan as well as the Shias and all the tribes
         of Afghanistan, and not a joiifb government of the atheists and the Muslims.
                                      • / KODEEXHEL; All the Sunnis say that this government is an Islamic government. $0 talking about/ a
         broadbased government is irrelevant. If there is to be an Islamic government it cannot be broad-,
         based and vice versa. In an Islamic government all people are oriented towards one direction and, -
         in it, infidels and Muslims cannot share powers Even Islamic parties cannot have a separate place'-
         in an Islamic government.
         JAVED:   It  should include all Afghan strata and important tribes. Not talking about nationalities
         (tribes)jsind^ considering Afghanistan as one nation (tribe) would be unrealistic. All Muslim elements ■ inside and outside Afghanistan, including those in the'West, Nshouldpartlclpata'.
         HUSSAINIt From Soviet-nAmetlcah point of view a' broadbased' ^vbrnlnent' fa(9ahe''a tconglomoration of communists and'Others. 1 However', ' from our' point of view it it comprized'of struggling and rahjahed groups believing in Islamic mission and genuihness. Servants'of the East and the West cannot’have a part in such a government.
         FAIZ-ZAD: The government should'be appointed on the basis of lawful'elections. It is hot possible'1 to have a people who have shed their blood unite with murderers, looters antl traitars'-so easily^ An
                                                 51
                                                                            Vol.2, No.
       October-1986-December, 1989 flfGHflNJIHAD                             Vol.3,  No.l
     Islamic government able to enforce an acceptable constitution should be established. ■ 'Hie' law itself will clarify all the issues.
     SHERZOY: All the  elements who have preserved their Islamic and Afghan identity and have partici-
     pated directly or indirectly in the jehad and have an ability to work for the government, should .be included
                                                    52
                                                                      Vol.2, No.2-4
        October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHANJlfl                       tfol.3, No.  I
 UN CHIEF IN PAKISTAN
 DISCUSSES AFGHAN RECONSTRUCTION
         :EDITOR'S NOTE:  The following is the  text of an interview by the Afghan
         [Jehad with Martin Barber Head of the UNOGA about the activities of Opera-; [tion SALAM in Afghanistan.
       QUESTION: How much assistance has been offered by donating sources in cash and in kind since the establishment of the Office of the UN Coordinator for Humantarian and Economic Assistance relating to Afghanistan? Please list donors alongwith the amount of assistance offered by them in cash and kind.
      ANSWER! CONTRIBUTION IN KIND: Contribution  in kind by donors (has. consisted mostly of food aid
      directly to World Food Program, clothes, blankets, medical supplies, and transportation. Contributions of foodstuff, clothing and medical supplies from India and Mongolia have been distributed in Kabul and a consignment of medical and other supplies from Bulgaria has also been recently received.
      The Soviet contribution comprises assistance in the form of commodities rangLng from food and fertilizers to various types of household goods as well as machinery and equipment, to be utilized in (Afghanistan through the office of the coordinator (in the areas under the control of Kabul regime). One of the problems, that need to, be addressed is to match the identified needs in Afghanistan with the overall assistance of USSR which is more tuned to the supply of available goods than to actual demand.
                                                 CASH CONTRIBUTIONS
            Actual cash received by the Co-ordinator in the Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund 31 August, 19391 totalled $ 157.3 million of which $ 90.5 million was earmarked to specific agencies (($ 75*7 million)! and progrdms ($ 20.7 million) and $ 5.4 million to meet the direct expansions of the Co-ordinator’s Head Office and field offices (details of cash contributions and their allocations are shown in'.Table 3f Table 4 and Table 5) Cash received in the form of unearmarked contributions totalled $55.8.million but, of this $38.9 million was in the form of a so-called "reserve" and can only be allocated to programs with the concurrence of the donor. So far, $7.55 million of this "Reserve Fund” have been allocated. The signs are, however, that some donor governments are reluctant to consider further allocations in the absence of any substantial refugee return. The result is that much of the essential work of reconstruction without which the refugees may be unwilling to return is not being undertaken purely because of a lack of the necessary financial resources. The funds available for allocation solely at the discretion of the Co-ordinator have
                                                        53
                                                                                           Vol.2, No*2-4
OctoberT19B8-Decemberf 1989 fllGHAN JEHAD                      Vol.3, No.l
      totalled approximately $17 million, of whicn about 60 per cent has come from a single donor. Taken with the fact that many donors have earmarked so high a proportion of their' cash contributions and that so much has been contribited in-kind, the picture that emerges is one of an operation which, although seized of nearly$l billion in theory, has in practice never had more than a few million dollars at its disposal at any time*                    '
             The earmarked contributions have, of course, been extremely valuable and have greatly assisted some of the key agencies^ FAO, UNDP., UNHCR, UNICEF, WHO and WFP with which the work of Operation SALAM has been principally concerned. Approximately another $102 million have been paid by donors directly to UN agencies and other international or non-governmental organizations and, while never passing through the Co-ordinator’s Trust Fund, have been a welcome and valuable element of the response to the Secretary-General’.-’ appeal. Nevertheless, by September.,l989,f.the.Co-ordinator’s Office was in the anomalous position of having practically exhausted all the unearmarked funds available ■. for allocation without prior concurrence or approval from an external source,
            ; Donors and host countries, which have generously borne the burden of millions of refugees for many years, are understandably anxious to see those refugees return. But the fact that they have not yet done so in large numbers is no argunent against making funds available to Operation SALAM for the reconstruction and rehabilitation process. Indeed, as has already been pointed out, the. reverse Is certainly the case,'Refugees are not likely to return until they have evidence that essential life support systems for. their survival back home have been put in place. Some of the most, devastated areas, in Paktika Province, for example, are now at peace and have been so for many months, yet hardly a refugee has so far returned. If donors really wish to see the refugees go back, now is the moment to give their fullest and most generous support to reconstruction activities. Economic and social conditions will have to be created in Afghanistan to provide incentives to refugees and to the estimated two million or more internally displaced to return to their places of origin.
            Another unhappy feature of the present funding situation is that those who stayed behind have ' often suffered most, particularly the over two millioq internally displaced, life in a refugee village is hardly easy but those endured it have at;least benefltted from basic, foodstuffs and "shelter , as well as from the essential elements of health and community care,/The majority of those who re— ' mained in Afghanistan have had neither arid deserve all the support which the international community can provide.
      QUESTION: In which of the Afghan provinces has UNOCA established development programs? Please give us a breakdown of the provinces with the woYk done by UNOCA in each of these provinces and the total funds spent in all these' programs?
      ANSWER: At present UN agencies are involved in rehabilitation programs rather than development* A UN presence'has been'/established in Balkh, Herat, Kunar and Paktika, although projects are being . supported in almost all provinces of Afghanistan,
                                 GUIDING IflINCTPIOF UN ASSISTANCE United. Nations assistance to Afghanistan within the framework of Operation SALAM is guided by the following principles, as set out in the UN Plan of Action, 1969;
          (l)  All assistance will be provided on a purely humanitarian basis* It will be of a strictly
          V                                *       ■  54,
V
                                                                       Vol.2, Ho.2-4
       Ootober-19813-Decunbor, 19U9 AFGHAN JtHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
non-political and neutral character.
          (2)  There will be a degree of simultaneity, as appropriate, in the provision of assistance
               for emergency relief , rehabilitation and initial reconstruction programs.
              1 -
          (3)  United Nations assistance programs vdll be determined on the basis of a humanitarian
               consensus at the local level and shall not be used as a political tool by any group.
          (4)  Program activities inside Afghanistan vdll be at the community level. Aid allocations vdll be made on the basis of identified needs .as assessed by the United Nations and taking into account assistance from other sources.
          (5)  All unearmarked contributions in cash and kind to the United. Nations programs vdll be pooled together in order to emphasize their multilateral and non-political character. The Co-ordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs relating to Afghanistan shall decide, in consultation with the United Nations agencies concerned, the allocation of resources.
           (6) In order to alleviate population pressure on the cities and taking into account that the ■ majority of refugees and internally displaced are of rural origin, aid allocations to rural areas vdll receive priority. However, the needs of urban Renters' vdll also be reflected as they emerge.
           (7) United Nations assistance vdll be programmed and distributed so as to avoid creating conditions of long-term dependency on external assistance.
           (8) The established IMted Nations practices relating to monitoring and reporting-of the assistance programs vdll be followed while taking fully into account the prevailing conditions.
          (9)  Operational activities vdll be undertaken by various UN agencies in accordance vdth their respective mandates while the Co-ordinator's Office vdll ensure, in addition to its coordinating role, the implementation of those tasks not covered by the specific mandates of participating UN agencies and Programs.
                                                      SALAM MISSIONS
                Since the inception of "Operation SALAM", the dispatch of fact finding missions into Afghanistan has been a priority aim to ,assist the Coordinator in formulating strategies and programs for relief and rehabilitation. Between September I988 and July 1989* seven such missions have visited the country and their findings and assessments have been of immense value in the planning and co-ordination of IN assistance programs. Each mission has recommended specific strategies to rehabilitate the war-tom environment and create conditions for the return home of refugees and internally displaced persons. In general, they have all recommended that UN assistance programs should first be directed towards meeting the basic survival needs of the population including food, shelter, support to agriculture and medical facilities, along with improved security through the removal of mines and unexploded ordnance.
           The main task of each mission has been to identify the priority areas which call for urgent attention and follow up action. This involves: (i) an assessment of the extent of damage as a result of war; (ii) a study of the needs and problems in particular sectors such as agriculture, food,
                                                             55
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2^-4
   October-198B-December, 1989 AFGHANJ[HAB                         Vol.3, No.l
 health and education; (iii) an indication of the most urgent issues such as danger from mines, health and sanitation hazards or bottlenecks in transport and storage facilities; (iv) the identification of geographical areas requiring immediate attention and medical measures (against, for example, mal-nutritton or famine); (v) the provision of.recommendations for integrated action by the UN system.
 The (office of the Co-ordinator and the UN agencies concerned are responsible for preparing concrete follow-up measures based upon the recommendations of each SALAM Mission.
       The areas visited by the SALAM Missions are listed in Table(lll)
                                   FIELD MONITORING MISSIONS field Monitoring Missions are designed to. monitor the implementation of specific projects that agencies or organizations have already funded, and which need regular attention and periodic evaluation. The terms of reference of each mission empower it to conduct a detailed and comprehend sive survey of the progress of projects since their initiation.
       The composition of field Monitoring Missions is based on the technical expertise and field experience required since demands for planning, monitoring and evaluation vary from project' to project. For example, road construction projects require civil engineers to evaluate their progress, and health projects persons with medical expertise and skill.
       The terms of reference of the first monitoring mission to Kunar Province undertaken in June 19^9,were set out in a Letter of Understanding between the Reconstruction Authority for Afghanistan (RAFA) and the Co-ordinator’s Office. The tasks assigned to it were: to monitor projects begun by RAFA using WFP assistance for food-for-work, to examine health facilities in the light of plans for new hospitals as well as to prepare for the introduction of a SALAM Mobile Unit in the province.
       There have been four such field Monitoring Missions to various provinces in Afghanistan up to the end of August, 19&9(See table-III).These missions reported on the progress of projects funded by the UN, as well as issues relating to specific implementation modalities in the context of the local environment. They also provided updated assessments of the current situation in the areas visited. We can give you more detailed informations when UNIDATA is effectivly operated. UNIDATA is, a project of IN system.
 QUESTION: , In addition to financial difficulties, what are some other main hurdles in the way of implementing UNOCA programs?
 ANSWER:  The other main hurdles are twofold: (1) the continuation of conflict inside Afghanistan.
 Even in peaceful areas rehabilitation work is made more difficult by the existence of conflict elsewhere in the country. (2) The lack of a governmental structure with which the UN can cooperate. The UN normally operates with governments and because of the current situation in Afghanistan* the UN is not able to operate normally. So it has had to develop two other ways: (1) DLrect UN implementation^ (2) By implementing through NGOs, which have the necessary capacity. Still, the implementation of projects is difficult in both areas (war affected and peaceful).
 QUESTION:  One of the main hurdles in the way of implementing UNOCA programs is the existence of
 ■lllions of mines throughout Afghanistan. What has been done so far to eliminate this problem?
 ANSWER: The "Mine Clearance Program", initiated under the aegis of Operation SALAM in January 1989»
                   1                                                                         if
 aims to provide the Afghan peonle with the ability to recognize, and the skills to deal with' mines
                                                                56
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2r-4
    October-1988-December, 1989 A1GHAN JEHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
 and unexploded ordnance. This^aim is being achieved by the training of selected Afghan volunteers in mine clearance find relevant medical care, whilst simultaneously undertaking a mine av/areness program among Afghan refugees and displaced persons, in order to reduce future casual!ties and prepare for their return. The program is also intended to support UN projects being undertaken for the rehabilitation of disabled Afghans, which includes those injured by mines.
       Although training began in Pakistan, the initiation of mine clearance activities inside Af- , ghanistan is envisaged and here, as in other fields, stress is laid on the building of Afghan self-reliance and thus the capacity of Afghanistan to deal itself with the problem of mines and unexploded ordnance in years to come.                            '
       So far, investigations and field missions in Afghanistan have identified 26 types of mine. The UN, have acquired live specimens of most of the commonly used types* One of the gravest threats to civilians in the rural areas is'the plastic FMZ, otherwise known as “The Butterfly” - designed to maim rather than to kill - which was scattered in large quantities from the air and ^cannot be detected through available equipment which responds only to metallic objects. Although often easily visible, the green, brown or yellow-colored "butterfly" can be camouflaged by vegetation or covered in snow. It will be a long and expensive process to clear these and other mines and ordinance from Afghanistan so that widespread reconstruction can be pursued.
 .. .. ..                ♦             r            -•                            .  ■ * '
      In order to emphasize the humanitarian character of the program, activities are being implemented under an unbrella agreement signed in January, 1989, between the Pakistan Red Crescent Society (FRCS) and the Office of the Coordinator.
       With the arrival in January,1989 ,of demining teams and support staff totalling 68 persons from Prance, Turkey and the USA, a first training camp was set up at Risalpur, NWFP of Pakistan with the supervision of the Pakistani Army Engineer Corps, which is providing staff for security, catering and interpretation. A second training camp was later established at Beleli,'near Quetta in-Baluchistan. Additional teams from Norway, Canada, Italy and New Zealand arrived in March, among them a team of female deminers sent by the Government of Canada. Further teams from Australia and the United Kingdom joined the Program in July, 1989, and a new French contingent has replaced that which returned in early June, having completed its term of duty. New Zealand is also expected to replace its team*
                                             MINE CLEARANCE TRAINING (MCT)
       The standardized Program of Instriiction (POI) gLven in the two training camps to :Afghan volunteers, was elaborated by the first multinational teams. Lasting 15 days andv taught to classes of 30, the POI covers such aspects of mine clearance as recognition of mines, fuses, booby traps and other ordnance, identification of possible risk areas, extrication from minefields, destruction of mines arid the use of basic equipment. On completion of the course, each successful trainee receives a certificate 6f attendance, an identity card and a mine clearance and medical kit to be used in Afghanistan. Trainees also sign a solemn oath binding them to use the ■ skills acquired solely for humanitarian purposes. The returning Afghans also carry with them the printing materials provided under the Mine Awareness Program.
       Reports received by the UN indicate that Afghans who have returned to their provinces of ori-.. gin have been doing useful mine-clearing work. In due- course, their efforts should be supplemented
                                                           57
                                                                                           Vol.2, No,2-4
October-1988-Decembert 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
 by more systematic mine clearance on a wider scale. The trainees are of alll persuasions and from all areas of Afghanistan. They are selected by different Afghan groups and by other organizations directly involved in the welfare of displaced Afghans, such as the Office of the Commissioner of Afghan refugees in Pakistan and private voluntary organizations.
       The number of volunteers trained in the period January-August ,.1939, now stands at 3 >073 of whom 2,332 attended courses of RLsalpur and 741 at Beleli. In order to achieve the target figure of training 15,000 Afghans as quickly and efficiently as possible, new camps will be opened, the capacity of exiting camps increased, and more expatriate teams invited. Logistics arrangements have been made to increase the intake of Afghans to 500 students at Risalpur (for each course) and 200 at Beleli, and living and classroom tents have been provided. The establishment of a new camp near Peshawar is also under consideration.
      As regards the multinational teams, participation as of August 1909 is as follows!
                               t                                                    ■ '
       Mine Clearance - Multinational Teams and Participants, August 1909 TABLE-I
                  ui rci ouii9* 
Australia      2              9 
Canada         3             13 
France         4             20 
Italy          2              8 
New Zealand    1              5 
Norway         1              3 
United Kingdom 2              9 
USA            8             37 
Total          23         ‘ 104 
       A team from Turkey, comprising four persons, completed its work in early August, 1989* Negotiations are at present underway to include teams of other nationalities in the program and to
  •                                    i                                             • . .
 expand, to the extent possible, the program in Afghanistan an«^ Iran.
       While the foreign teams are provided by their countries as a contribution to the UN program, most of .their expenses at the duty station are borne by the Operation SALAM Program Budget for which earmarked funds have been received by the Coordinator. The status of members of foreign contingents is equated to that of UN experts in terms of their security and protection by the host country. They are, in principle,covered by the legal stipulations of the overall agreement between the IK and the Government of Pakistan. The Afghan trainees are provided with free board and lodging and receive a modest daily allowance during the training period.
       With a view to the eventual replacement of the multinational teams, the most qualified of the trainees, approximately 10 per cent, join the training program for Afghan Demining Instructors* However, due to various factors, including the level of literacy of the Afghan volunteers, the actual number of Afghan trainers is much lower than expected* At present there are 12 teams, comprising 39 qualified Afghan instructors who are paid local salaries by the UN •
       An Afghan demining instructor took part in the UN monitoring mission to Paktika in August,
                                      October-1988-Dec ember, 1989
Vol.2, No.2-4
Vol.3, No. I
 1989* and addressed local groups about the demining and mine awareness programs being run at Risal-pur and Beleli.
                                        MINE AWARENESS FROGRAM (MAP)
       This component of the program is aimed at reaching the maximum number of Afghans and teaching them to recognize and to avoid mines and other ordnance. Trainee Afghans are taught to recognize and mark minefields, dud artillery rounds and booby traps, emphasis being placed on anti-personnel mines and long emplaced mines which may have become hidden over time.
       Particular importance is attached to teaching women and children precautionary measures in order to avoid potential hazards. In this respect the team of Canadian women is of great value, working principally in refugee camps and using community centres^ schools or clinics for classes.
       At the same time, simple printed materials financed by the UN, such as posters, silkscreens, bags and handkerchiefs are being widely distributed in the camps as well as inside Afghanistan, through teachers and trainees who introduce these materials into regular programs such as primary schools, primary health care clinics and adult literacy classes.
       This campaign of mine awareness has been launched in co-ordination with the Office of UNHCR, NGOs, and the Office of the Commissioner of Afghan refugees.
 In addition radio broadcasts, including one by the BBC, and videos are being used to spread education in this area. Recently, an agreement was reached with the International Rescue Committee to develop a more systematic approach to mine awareness. A number of non-governmental organizations are also participating through the training of their own personnel and of Afghan volunteers, who include Afghan women.
       The total figures for Mine Awareness Program (MAP) training (to end of August 1989) are as follows:
MAP Training: number of beneficiaries TABLE-II
NGOs      Trainers Course          449  
          Basic MAP course         134  
REFUGEES  Basic MAP course         1022 
BRIEFINGS Expatriates and refugees 1961 
          Total:                   3566 
      The program, initially being carried out in neighbouring countries, will eventually be exten ded to cover all areas of Afghanistan where the problem of mines and unexploded ordnance exists.
                                        MINE CLBflRANCE PROGRAMS
      The Mine clearance problem is not identical in all areas. Its severity is different from 0 area to the other. Upto now, we have trained more than 6 ,000 persons 'in basic techniques'of dem zing. They are being equipped with demining kits and more sophisticated equipment will be added in the future. A pilot project for mine clearance has started in Kunar province, where a first group of 25 deminers is working.
                                                           59
                                                                                            Vol.2, No*2—4
October-1988-December, .1989 AFGHAN J[HA0                     Vol.,3, No.l
  QUESTION: To  what extent has the ongoing war in Afghanistan negatively affected the UNOCA program?
  ANSWER:  The Implementation of programs is seriously affected by the conflict- in the country. It
  is even making our operations in peaceful areas difficult.
  QUESTION: Is  the UNOCA satisfied with the recruitment of Afghan personnel in eventually taking
  charge of Afghan development programs in the near future? And has the UNOCA already launched a 'drive to recruit educated Afghans in development fields?
  ANSWER:  One of the key elements of our program is a Human Resources Development Project.
       The objective of this proposal is to promote self-sufficiency for the Afghan people in term's of skilled human resources. In order to ensure the operation of an efficient administrative infrastructure at all levels in the face of the formidable task of reconstruction, it is necessary to help Afghans to help themselves.
       A number of on-going activities, particularly with regard to skills training in the health and education fields, are at present being financed through multilateral, bilateral and NGO channels.
  The Afghan human resources component being an integral part of the implementation strategy of the United Nations support will be provided, where necessary, to the ongoing activities.
       It is proposed on the one hand to create incentives for trained Afghans living abroad to participate in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of their country. On the other, it is important to train Afghans in those fields where local human resources are lacking. This will be done either by strengthening existing facilities or by providing stipends and scholarships to deserving Afghans.
       A pre-requisite for implementation is a precise assessment of needs and of on-going activities as well as identification of existing opportunities. This process is currently underway. Consequently a modest allocation of US$ 2.0 million covering all areas of human resources development is proposed at this stage.
       Moreover, the UN needs professional staff. In normal conditions through government cooperation, it would arrange for the participation of Afghans in development programs. Now we are progressing in this field by helping others to employ them by organizing a partnership with other organisations. The main obstacle is low salary levels to attract educated Afghans specially those with, /families abroad.. The IOM (Inter-governmental Organisation for Migration , previously ICM) has now established a program to recruit Afghans from abroad. Under this program, the ICM will meet the living cost of (families , established abroad while local'expenses of recruited number will be-paid by UNOCA (within local levels).
 QUESTION: What  kind  of recruitment or training  programs has the UNOCA undertaken in the refugee
 camps?
  ANSWER:  To add to  what is said before, the UNHCR is separately supporting some training projects
  for refugees mainly through NGO's. The focus of UNOCA-'s program is to have training facilities inside Afghanistan to attract and encourage more refugees to return and to stop trained persons with newly acquired skills , going1, to other countries. For example, there is now an agricultural training program in Kunar, but some are reluctant to move in.             ,
  QUESTION: Has   the UNOCA  established a base of activity in Iran for repatriation of Afghan refu-
  gees from that country?
                                                                     Vol*2, No.2^/*.
   October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHANJtHAD                           Vol.3,  No.l
ANSWER:  We have now a similar ofiice in Teheran. The UN Coordinator Sadruddi'n Aga Khan visited
Iran in December, 1989. Activities have recently started.
 QUESTION:  There  are several dozens  of NGOs working for Afghan in socio-economic fields both for
 the refugees and for Afghans living inside that country. Has there been any effort to coordinate their activities with those of the UNOCA?
 ANSWER:  As  you have noticed  we are coordinating our activities with the NGOs. ' There are three
 coordinating bodies, through which we are cooperating with the NGOs. They are ACBAR (Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief), ICC (Islamic Coordination Committee), SWABAC (South and West Afghanistan Body for Agencies Coordination).' For example, when the FAO wants to distribute seeds and to have a uniform policy of distribution, such coordinating organizations can serve a very useful function in ensuing that all their members are aware of FAO's policy.
                                       El eld Monitoring Missions. 1989 TABLE-III
Field monitoring Mission Title              Participating  Place visited                      
missions                                    agencies                                          
Trip 1           First monitoring trip to   UNOCA WFP/ARRO Kunar province, (Cross Nawa pass,N 
                 Kunar Province             START          Chaghasarai, Chawki, Nangalam,     
                                                           Watapur, Asmar).                   
Trip 2           Second monitoring trip to  UNHCR          Kunar province.                    
                 Kunar Province             IN OCA         (Nawa pass, Chaghasarai, Aanar,    
                                            WHO            Peche, Barkende, Narang, Khas      
                                                           Kunar, Chowki).                    
Trip 3           Monitoring mission project UNOCA          Zabul, Shamolzai district,         
                 to Zabul                   wfp/arro       Darwazaghay (sub-district of       
                                                           Shinkai) Shemalzai sub¬            
                                                           district, Jehangir village.        
Trip 4           UN Mission 11 to Paktika   UNILOG         Angurada Pass, Sarobi, Urgoun,     
                                            UNOCA          Sharan, Zarghun Shar, Wazakhwa,    
                                            WFP            Gomal, Khand Pass.                 
                                                      61
October-19B8-December, 19S9
 VoX.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
     (Source: UNOCA, Geneva) TABLE-IV                                                           
Donor                   US $ Composition of Contribution "                                      
                        mil.                                                                    
Australia               14.0 Predominantly food aid: WFP and Australian NGO’s                   
Austria                  0.5 3,000 Metric tons of wheat and agricultural rehabilitation support 
                             materials.                                                         
Byelorussia              0.7 See detailed analysis (USSR)                                       
Bulgaria                 0.6 Drugs, clothes, blankets and transportation of goods.              
Canada                   2.5 Food aid (WFP)                                                     
EEC                     12.7 Food aid (WFP)                                                     
France                   5.8 Ebod aid (WFP)                                                     
Germany (PEG)          5.7 ' Food aid (WFP)                                                     
Greece                   2.0 10,000 tons of wheat.                                              
India                    3.V Food ai’d and medicine (US $0.6 million) part of which has been    
                             airlifted to IKOCA/Kabul; Miscellaneous (US $ 2.8 million)         
Italy                   12.0 Wheat and seed oil (WFP)                                           
Mongolia                 o.i Received in UNOCA/Kabul office for distribution.                   
Norway                   1.4 Pood aid (WFP)                                                     
                         2.0 Building and other materials.                                      
Turkey                   1.0 Food aid and de-mining.                                            
Ukraine SSE             13.0 See detailed analysis (USSR)                                       
USSR*                  600.0 See detailed analysis.                                             
USA                     16.7 Food aid (WFP)                                                     
Yugoslavia               0.2 Tents, clothing to be distributed through UNHCR                    
TOTAL                  694.3 Total contributions in kind                                        
* Equivalent of 400 million roubles at the rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the Pledging Conference in October 1968.
62
October-1988-December, 1989
Vol.2y No • 2^-4 Vol.3, No.l
Direct Cash Contributions, to 10s and NGOs '    '  TABLE-V
Donor              US $  . Comments                           
                   (mil)                                      
Canada             1.7   Canada fund, Islamabad               
Denmark                                                       
(a) Specific NGO's 4.8   ICRC, DACAAR                         
(b) Other NGO’s    0.8   Unspecified                          
EEC                                                           
(a) NGO’s          ‘ 4.7 ICRC                                 
(b) U.N. Agencies  7.4   UNHCR, UNDP, WFP Food Transportation 
France                                                        
(a) U.N. Agencies  0.3   UNICEF                               
(b) NGOs           3.6         Subject to donor clarification 
Germany (FRG)                                                 
(a) U.N. Agencies  0.3   UNICEF                               
(b) NGOs           1.6   ICRC and HELP                        
(c) Undecided      14.3        Subject to donor clarification 
Italy                                                       / 
(a) Interl. Orgs.  5.2         Subject to donor clarification 
(b) Other          1.0   Ministry of External Affairs         
(c) Unallocated    2.8         Subject to donor clarification 
j apan                                                        
(a) Initial Pledge 18.3. UNHCR/WFP Emergency Relief           
(b) Direct Aid     1.8   Emergency Disaster                   
Netherlands        0.2         Subject to donor clarification 
Norway             5.0   Various NGOs                         
Spain              0.1   UNICEF                               
Sweden             7.0         Subject to donor clarification 
United Kingdom                                                
(a) U.N. Agencies  13.4  UNHCR, UNICEF                        
(b) NGOs           5.6   ICRC and others                      
USA                2.0   Direct Funding (De-mining)           
TOTAL              101.9                                      
                                        63
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-Decemberf 1989      IlfGHANJEHAD                  Vol.3, No.l
                                SALAM Missions, inside Afghanistan 1986/89 , ■ TABLE-VI
SALAM         Mission title           Participating Places visited
missions                              agencies
SALAM 1  Across the Iranian     UNHCR INICEF     Herat province, 2 50 Km from the border to    
         border                 UNOCA WFP        jGhoiian and across the plains of Hari Rud    
                                                 river towards Herat.                          
SALAM 2  Interagency assessment UNDP, UNHCR,     From Kabul to Herat.                          
         mission to Herat.      UNICEF, UNOCA,                                                 
                                WFP.                                                           
SALAM 3  45 days in North-East  UNDP, UNHCR,     From Chitral in Pakistan, crossing the HLndu  
         Afghanistan            UNOCA, WFP       Kush mountains leading into Panjshir Valley.  
                                                 Visited Nuridtan, Badakhshan, Takhar,Kapisa,  
                                                 Bamyan, Wardak, Baghlan, Ghazni and Paktia.   
SALAM 4  Mission to the         ' UNHCR, UNICESF From Kabul to Suffian (3 Km south of          
         Panjshir                                Charikar in Parwan province).                 
SALAM 5  Mission to Kunar       FAO, UNDP,UNHCR, Kunar province (Nawa pass, SLrkanay,Asadabad, 
                                UNICEF, UNOCA,   Asmar, Watapur, Nagalam, Peche).              
                                WFP, WHO.                                                      
SALAM 6  400 Km through         FAO, UNHCR,      Paktika province (Angurada, Robat, Sarobi,    
         Paktika                UNOCA, WFP/      Tabut, Mushi Khel, Mist, Zarghun Shar,Malizi, 
                                UNILOG.          Bakka Khel, Gomal, Warsak point/Khand pass)   
SALAM 7. SALAM mission to       UNCHS (HABITAT)  Kandahar province (Maruf, Arghestan, Arghan-  
         Kandahar                                dab, Dahla, Khakrez, Silo, Panjwai).          

                                                64
                                                        ^       Vol.2, No.2^-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN J[HAD                        Vol.3, No.l
                       Cash Contributions Received or Pledged TABLE-VII          
                       Cash                                Unpaid       TOTAL    
                       Received                                 Pledges ($1,000) 
                       ($1,000)                           ($l,0t)0)              
Earmarked to Agencies:                                                           
Australia                                     2,094.9               0.0  2,094.9 
Canada - (CIDA)        2,172.5                                  4,237.3  6,409.8 
       - (CPHA)                                 801.8               0.0    801.8 
Germany (Fed. Rep. of) 3,197.5                                      0.0  3,197.5 
Finland                4,596.1                                      0.0  4,596.1 
France                                          906.5           2,145.0  3,051.5 
Ireland                                          95.0               0.0     95.0 
Itlay                                             0.0           7,037.0  7,037.0 
Japan                                        59,000.0               0.0 59,000.0 
Netherlands                                     403.2       750.0        1,153.2 
Norway                 1,192.8                                      0.0  1,192.8 
Switzerland            1,295.2                                      0.0  1,295.2 
Sub-total                                    75,755.5     14,169.3      89,924.8 
Earmarked to Programs                                                            
Australia                                       164.5               0.0    164.5 
Austria                                           0.0           1,500.0  1,500.0 
Canada                                          209.2             847.4  1,056.6 
ECC                                             798.3               0.0    798.3 
Finland                                           0.0             449.4    449.4 
France                 1,374.5                                    495.9  1,870.4 
Germany (Fed. Rep. of)                        1,150.9               0.0  1,150.9 
Japan                  5,000.0 .                                    0.0  5,000.0 
Netherlands                                   1,108.1               0.0  1,108.1 
Norway                                           14.0               0.0     14.0 
Spain                                           878.0               0.0    878.0 
USA                                          10,000.0           2,500.0 12,500.0 
Sub-total                                    20,697.5           5,792.7 26,490.2 
Unearmarked                                                                      
Bangladesh                                        5.0               0.0      5.0 
Cameroon                                          3.5               0.0      3.5 
Denmark                1,109.8                                      0.0  1,109.8 
Finland                1,059.1                                      0.0  1,059.1 
Holy See                                         10.0               0.0   " 10.0 
                                             65
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2—4
October-1988-Decemberf 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
Cash Contributions Received or Pledged     TABLE-VIII
                      Cash        Unpaid           
                      Received  Pledges  TOTAL     
                      ($1,000)  ($1,000) ($1,000)  
Iceland                     3.0      0.0 3.0       
Indonesia                  10.0      0.0      10.0 
Ireland                    10.5      0.0 10.5 ;    
                      -1,000.0"      0.0 1,000.0   
Italy                 ) • ■                        
Japan                  38,773.0      0.0 38,773.0  
Luxembourg                24O.O    24O.9     480.9 
OIC                        62.3 0.0      62.3      
Private individuals         1.5 0.0      1.5       
Norway                2,000.0   0.0      2,000.0   
Sweden ^               10,211.0 0.0      10,211.0  
Switzerland           1,295.2        0.0 1,295.2   
Sub-total              55,793.9    240.9 56,034.8  
Co-ordinator’s Office                              
Canada                    124.1      0.0     124.I 
SBC                       632.8    463.5 1,096.3   
France                    163.2    165.2     328.4 
Germany (FRG)             287.7 0.0          287.7 
Japan                 2,000.0        0.0 2,000.0   
Norway                    230.9      0.0     230.9 
Sweden                2,000.0   0.0      2,000.0   
Sub-total               5,438.7    628.7 6,067.4   
Unallocated Pledges:                               
Canada                      0.0  6,787.0 6,787.0   
Denmark                     0.0  2,651.4 2,651.4   
Italy                       0.0  2,777.8 2,777.8   
Norway •                    0.0  4,535.7 4,535.7   
Sub-total                   0.0 16,751.9  l6»751*9 
GRAND TOTAL           157,685.6 37,583.5 195,269.1 
                                                   66
                                 Vol.2, No• 2»-4r
 ( October-l^Doceinbor, 19A9 fllCHUNJtHflB VoUl, No.l
GENEVA MEETING DISCUSSES AFGHAN RECONSTRUCTION IN “SALAM” SEMINAR
    “EDITOR'S NOTE; In a seminar held by Operation SALAM on "the potential IQ 0 0 jQjfor recovery in Afghanistan and the role of international assistance" p
    pin Geneva May 4-6, 1989, participants were asked to point out in wri-
    Ejting important issues related to reconstruction and rehabilitation of D
              Afghanistan. Four experts, furthermore, read their papers for discus— jQ
 Qsion. The following is a summary prepared by the Afghan Jehad of both g ^categories of papers,
O
a
        FRINGE SAIRUDDIN AGA KHAN, UN CQQRDINATQR FOR HUMANITARIAN, AND ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FCR AFGHANISTAN in his statemant'tb the International Rescue Committee's Freedom Award - Dinner, .at. New York said 27 April 1969, that after the completion of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from'1 Afghanistan, the U.N. at the request of the Secretary General and under his (Aga Khan' a)coordina-. tion, launched operation SALAM to sow peace in Afghanistan's devastated valleys. He added, " „
  June, 1968, we appealed for $1.6 billion to. meet the challenge of peace. Most of this has been promised although regrettably not yet received”.
        He further declared that all recognize that only Afghans know how best to rebuild their country but, given the present degree of devastation, they will requLre assistance to become self-sufficient once again. The Soviet withdrawal has not led to a reduction of hostilities-,rather the conflict has intensified. Hence yesterday's international conflict is past becoming tomorrow's brutal civil war and US-Soviet relations would suffer a severe set-back if a solution is not found. Therefore, we must be ready to help these brave people and give peace a chance.
        PROF. P. CENTLIVRES (UNIVERSITY OF NEUCHATEL), IROF. G. ETIENNE (IUED), J.P. GCNTARD, HEAD OF PROJECT AND STUDIES(IUED) ADCNINI,SENIOR PROGRAMME OFFICER (UNOCA) M. NOTZ, PROGRAMME OFFICER: (UNOCA) at the conclusion of a meeting of the Organizing Committee of the Seminar on Afghanistan In Geneva, prepared an information note stating that. Afghan and foreign specialists discussed the best and quickest way to reconstruct and develop the country. On the other hand, Afghan and foreign . specialists and academics have to work together and collaborate on an equal footing. Swiss academics have already conducted action-oriented research on the subject since two years. The note says this Seminar will formulate guidelines and recommendations for the short-term relief, repatriation arid reconstruction and for the long-texm development in Afghanistan.
                                                       67
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-Deceraber, 1989 AfGHltNJEHAD                       Vol.3,  No.X
       JEAN JOSE (PUIG) PARIS, FRANCE in a research article entitled "Afghanistan and International Assistance" written in April, 1989, has suggested that assistance should be provided to the Afghan people on the basis of the following priority list:
       1.        People and families who stayed in their villages during the war, 2. Those who had to find shelter in neighbouring valleys or areas, 3. Those who had to find shelter in their provincial administrative centres, A* Those who moved to Kabul, 5* Those living in camps around Quetta, Zahedan, Chitral, Mianwali, Mashed or in other towns of Pakistan and Iran and those who emigrated to a third country.
       The writer views the output of SALAM assessment missions as, "very clear" and oriented to meet the following needs:
       1.        Food, 2. Reconstruction of private housing, 3. Seeds and (fertilizers, A. Fields reclaiming, 5* Orchards and plantations, 6. Animal husbandry.
       The main purpose of the U.N. assistance is to meet the basic needs of distressed Afghan populations and not to fulfill the requirements of donors. In many cases it would certainly be better to do nothing rather than be involved in action with important negative political side-^effects just to please a prominent actor in the Afghan crisis.
       The writer opines that some projects may be extreme useful through their side-effects, e.g. roads repairing and transport infrastructure reconstruction. Such projects may give local commanders an opportunity to count their men, to fix them on a given task and to prevent them to turn into social parasites. So it could also be a way to fill the gap between people and mujaheddin.
       The writer thinks it necessary to create good conditions in rural areas so that families forced to seek refugee in towns (especially Kabul) would be anxious to go back to their villages. On the other hand, it would be certainly among the lowest .priorities to improve services and facilities in Kabul.
       DR. LAURENCE LAUMONIER ICKX MEDICAL AND FIELD OPERATION ADVISOR, MANAGEMENT SCIENCES, FOR HEALTH, PESHAWAR pointed out certain issues and aspects of assistance to the Afghans for jbhe guidance of the donor states some of which are listed below:
 1.    Never forget that the main strength of the Afghan people will be to wake compromised among themselves to find solutions, 2, Interference by too many foreigners in Afghan affairs should be avoided and,those present in the field should be experienced and,skilled, 3. Aid for agriculture should be the first priority for the first three years. A. Responsibility for implementation of programs for women should be given to Afghan women (and not men)who have acquired recognition by their services during the war or because of their professional skills such as doctors, etq> 5* New Afghan executives should be trained particularly among those who have followed the cultural and political evolution of their countiy by living in it, since the beginning of the war.
       AMIR TAHERI (WRITER, JOURNALIST INTERNATIONAL PRESS INSTITUTE, ENGLAND) raised some issues likely to provide the main feature of life in Afghanistan during the coming decade, the salient paints of which were:
>- It appears unlikely that Afghanistan will enjoy political stability. Therefore,development
                                                             68
  i
                                                                 Vol.2, No.2^4
  0ctober-198B-December, 19^9 AfGHAN J[KAD                        Vol.3,No.l
 projects must be, at least in past, designed and implemented with a view to generating stability,
      -   It is essential to train an adequate police force, .preferably by enlisting the support of armed groups already present throughout the country,
      -   Fundamentalism which is hostile to development and modernization, could threaten develoi>-ment work especially where foreign assistance is involved,
      -   It is important to avoid any appearance of favoritism towards the refugees in planning development projects in order to forestall conflicts between the returning refugees and those who'stayed behind in the country,
      -   Intense activity by some groups-, often supported by foreign powers, could cause sectarian trouble,
      -   Afghanistan's immediate neighbours could help or hinder its reconstruction. None should be excluded from the country's development but none should be allowed a dominating position either.
      HOMAYOUN ELAHI, HEAD OF POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPARTMENT, UNIVERSITY OF TEHERAN:
      -   Small-scale and labor insentive projects should be designed and carried out principally by Afghans themselves. Priority should be given to agriculture and related industries.
      -   Construction of infrastructure, e.g., roads, communication, power and water supply is essential.
      -   In order to improve productivity, it is essential to develop irrigation system, education and national health service.
      NASIR A. SABERI, STRUCTURAL ENGINEER''suggested that future'recovery and development should -be based mainly on agriculture and revival of rural areas. Hence every kind of available data should be made the basis for such a program and traditional methods of construction and material be used in different areas. He also proposed that both in the planning as well as in the implementing stages local builders and educated Afghans should be persuaded to participate under the social and political protection of international agencies. And a massive training of Afghans to reconstruct their country is required. Shooras or councils elected by the people df a locality, should be the sole responsible body to implement projects.
      DR. PAUL ICKX (ASSOCIATE MEDICAL ADVISCR CN PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND CHILD SURVIVAL, MANAGEMENT SCIENCES FOR HEALTH)
      -   Assess what survived the war and reinforce them. Development as "changed should-be forgotten until the Afghan people have settled down.
      -   Implement programs asked for by the existing local administrations (e.g. shooras).
      -   Programs related to women should be family-centered. Do not exclude man from planning women-children' s programs.
                                                                                                                             I
      -   As &5% of the Afghan population are engaged in agriculture, priority should be given to distribution of seeds, fertilizer, adopted utensils, etc.
                                                              69
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2—4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JtHAD                       Voi.3! No.l
      -  Although general planning and supervision of health services have to be done by the government, actual implementation of basic health services should remain with the communities and local administrations.
        ER. M.I. SULEIMAN OF ISLAMIC RELIEF AGENCY has proposed:
        -  early involvement of the mujaheddin interim government in programs related to Afghanistan may help in enhancing stability and faster development of administrative system in Afghanistan.
        -  ultra modern methods to detect and diffuse mines may be taught through crash research pro-
            grams. Training should start now in Afghan refugee camps in Pakistan and Iran as it has to be done before repatriation.
        -  extensive training of health manpower is essential for mass vaccination of refugees prior to repatriation.
      M. NAZIF SHAHRANI, DEPARTMENT OF AUTHROPOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, LOS ANGELES, USA,,
 , pointed out the need for critical understanding and appreciation of the new and emerging political realities in Afghanistan together with effective utilization of new socio-cultural and political resources for reconstruction and development programs. He emphasised the significance of small-scale and quick return projects utilising local resources and skills during the -early years of recovery and also small scale land reclamation projects of least for first five years.
      BERNT GLATZER (AUTHROPOLOGIST AND SOCIOLOGIST, UNIVERSITY OF HEIDELBERG) in his article entitled "Social Aspects of Recovery in a Fragnented Society" highlighted the following peculiarities of the Afghan Society in order to prevent miscalculation and imbalanced assessment:
      -  As in most Islamic societies, women are discouraged and widely prevented from participation in public affairs, most development projects in Afghanistan have neglected women who should play an important part in national economy.
      -  Elders enjoy respect and have an important say in local affairs. Therefore, development projects are bound to fail without their consent. Resistance against present regime began when young activists disregarded this fact.
      -  In general, Afghanistan cannot be called a feudal society as it has partly developed a class system. .
      -  Unequal and maladopted education led to another rift within the society. Modem education* including the academic and military education, produced a foreign oriented elite which ofter suffers from mental and cognitive alienation from its own country. I see the failure of post 1978 reforms, partly as a result of this.
      -  Lateir developments indicate that the Shia-Sunniand other sectarian distinctions bear a highly explosive power and are serious threats to national unity and reconstruction than any other social division.
      -  Comparable political structures existed before 1976 such as political circles in the cities and blocks among eastern Pashtun tribes and spiritual leaders, etc. Such groupings were rather unstable and hardly could command calculated solidarity or long-time support of their
                                                             70
        / ■ ‘ •
       , #
                                                                     Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1988-December , 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                        Vol.3» No.l
         followers. Allegiance to one or another party was and Is decided by expediency. Many field commanders dependent on the parties because of arms supplies and they pay only Up service to them.
      -  In sane parts of the country, field commanders have set up a functioning administration whereas in other parts they rather seem to be a nuisance force.
      - If the present conflict continues, we shall have to deal with field commanders for’a long time and shall be able to supply aid only under their aegis. In case peace is restored,
         I expect some of the commanders to assune traditional roles as political and/or spiritual leaders. A severe problem will be the integration of their young followers (mujaheddin) who lack the skills needed for a civil life.
      A. UMNQR, RUSSIAN' WRITER (SCIENTIFIC * RESEARCHER, INSTITUTE OF WORLD ECONOMY AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, MOSCOW):            1
      -  The scholars generally divide all the Afghan people into two parts i.e. Kabul government and Islamic opposition. It seems to me that in practice, the situation is a little more complicated.
                                       . *1
      -  Afghanistan is more multi-ethnical than other country of the Middle East.
      -  Another very important division is its traditional tribal structure and fundamental!an. Although Islamic fundamentalism is a very interesting and important phenomenon nowadays, the scholars have not been able to find an exact definition for it. I see in fundamentalism a modem current of political movement in Muslim countries which, under the slogan of returning to pure Islam, tries to destroy traditional structures and create instead new structures of power, very totalitarian one (as in today's Iran) ... In Afghanistan it is represented by Hekmatyar. But there is another kind of fun dam entail am represented by Jalaluddin (Haqqani). There is a third kind of fundamentalism represented by Rabbani, behind which we see the same traditional structure without any modification. But the most desciplined, best equipped and Islamic party of Hekmatyar is the only opposition party which acts nationwide. They are fiercely opposed to Kabul government but at the same time they confront traditional structures.
      -  Parts of Afghan society, united under the nape of "Islamic opposition", are full of contra-dictions and they can go into open very soon. We may dislike the reality but it is there and we Russians may know it better than many others.
      MICHAEL BARRY, COCRDINATCR OF AFGHAN AND PAKISTANI MISSIONS, MEDEDINS DU MONDE, PARIS, was of the opinion that obvious priorities in Afghanistan are agriculture, stock-breeding, education and health. But Afghanistan remains very much a warrior-dominated society where so-called interior commanders" or autonomous warlords determine priorities according to their own lights , and interests, ultimately steering foreign assistance where they see fit, preferrably to boost their local political, standing.
      ROSANNE KLASS OF FREEDOM HOUSE, NEWTORK, (SPECIALIST ON AFGHANISTAN, DIRECTOR, AFGHANISTAN INFORMATION CENTER, FREEDOM HOUSE, NY, USA). Observed that the following two problems need serious attention in the planning of assistance programs:/
                                                               ■ 71
          ,                        '                                         t
                                                                     Vo1*2, N0.2-J*
   October-1988-Dec ember, 1989  At llH AN JtH All                  Vol.3, N°.l
      1-  The establishment of massive long-term rehabilitation and specialized training programs of adequate scope and state-of-art sophistication for the many thousands of amputees, blinded, burned and otherwise maimed victims of the war.
      2-  The development of adequate medical programs, both physical and especially psychological, for the large number of Afghan victims of torture and atrocities since 1978.
      IE. ABDUL H. TABIBI EDITOR, FIRMESTBCND MAGAZINE, VICE RESIDENT WORLD ISLAMIC CELL FOUNDATION OF GENEVA SWITZERLAND in a brief comment on the main agenda topics for the Geneva Saninar has suggested that all plans and programs for reconstruction depends upon the creation of peace and stability through an acceptable government which provides strong and sound constitution and cooperates with and facilitates the assistance offered by friendly countries and international organizations. The war has done its damage. One and a half million people have died and 600,000 wounded or permanently disabled.
      Although U.N. agencies - 'particularly operation SALAM and the UNHCR - have taken steps to , provide and store food and medical supplies but, unfortunately, due to lack of means of distribution and the danger of the millions of mines planted throughout the country, these supplies have not reached those in dire need. Since the resettlement and repatriation of six million external and two million internal, refugees will be a major task, operation SALAM programs should be coordinated with those of the UNHCR. Also there are a great number of Afghan experts and specialists above minds should be put to use.
      BERNT GLATZER (AUTHROPOLOGIST SOCIALOGIST, UNIVERSITY OF HEIDELBERG) in his paper on specialized animal husbandry states that 65$ of Afghanistan's territory is range land and ought to be used for herding only. Afghan pastoralism is highly market-oriented and sell live animals and their byproducts. The main obstacle for the recovery of pastoralism will be the security problem because millions of mines are scattered over vast areas of Afghanistan. Specialized pastoralists with their family members are estimated at a pre-war figure of around one million and about 90$ belong to the Pashtuns and the rest to other ethnic groups. Once pastures are free from mines and safe economic, social and political framework is established, Afghan animal husbandry will swiftly recover.
      FROFESSOR PIERRE CENTLIVRES (INSTITUT D'EfflNOLOGIE, UNIVffiSITE DE NEUCHATEL, FRANCE,) said in addition or in parellel to the main issues as mine clearance, food supply, village reconstruction, repatriation problem, improvement of roads and transportation and recovery of agricultural potential, one should also consider the evolution of the country and its inhabitants since 1978. Furthermore, one should balance the needs for draught animals in agriculture and the necessary development of a certain mechanization and be careful not to implement a complete mechanization, for instance the complete replacement of draught animals by tractors because'in the villages, bullocks and camals, etc. fulfil multiple functions.
      He added that aid programs ought to be coordinated with the reconstruction committees of the
  * '        'i
 resistance chief commanders especially for the re-building of roads, schools, irrigation canals and
 /                                                                                        I .
 small-scale industries. And one should evaluate the implications of the cooperation treaties signed between Afghan provinces and a number of Soviet republics, agriculture industries, trade and education.
                                                   72
                                                                     VO~L*^| wu#y
   October~19S6~Decembert 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                          Vol.3, Ho.l
       SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI (A FOUNDING MEMBER OF CULTURAL COUNCIL OF AFGHANISTAN RESISTANCE,ISLAMABAD PAKISTAN) presented an outline of Issues and suggestions to meet the demands of current educational problems of Afghanistan.
      He states that whether peace returns to Afghanistan sooner or later, the crisis of education in ;;the country is so acute that it requires special attention and hence we have to find novel ways to address the issue. In his opinion the traditional systems of education for children and offering of literacy courses for the adult population of the country also have to be revised, because war has created special problems for the Afghan youth.
       He writes, on the basis of statistics issued by Pakistan government^only about 100,,000 of the 1.5 million Afghan refugee children in Pakistan attend schools rim by the-'government-of Pakistan, ' Afghan resistance and international agencies. In the countryside inside Afghanistan probably 4-5$ of children attend schools in selective areas. In the urban areas, due to government attempts to draft the students into the army and their own tendency to flee the country to evade military service or due to dangers posed to their families, the number of male students in upper classes have dropped acutely. The situation among female children in rural areas and refugee camps is worse. Children between 6-11 years old in Pakistan and Iran as well as inside Afghanistan, born during the war, are virtually illiterate.
       In his opinion,the need of the hour is to start work immediately on writing new text books for all levels and start teachers' training programs,Special curriculums for children and adults between the ages of 8-18 should be worked out. For the older ones (12-17) the curriculum should emphasize functional literacy and vocational or technical training. Those between the ages of 18-27 ought to undergo shorter periods of training, not exceeding one or two years, in the technical or vocational disciplines.
   THOMAS E.GOUTTIERRE(DEAN, INTERNATIONAL STUDIES & FR0GRAMS, UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA,OMAHA,USA)posed tee the view that specific emphasis should be accorded to adult education programs to provide skill training combined with school (grades 1-12) equivalency program. These programs should provide skilled workers for support services related to resettlement and reconstruction, e.g. office work, transportation maintenance, etc. Teachers, engineers, doctors, public servants, Islamic scholars and others must be educated so that they may provide the professional infrastructure which has been destroyed.
 It is the University, which in the last analysis, must give the leadership in all fields. The planning envisioned would not require a huge outlay and would facilitate the eventual restoration of Kabul University. A forum of intellectuals, from former Kabul University employees perhaps 25 to 30 - should be identified and charged with developing plans for the revival of Kabul University.
       In the health sector, in his opinion, a cadre of physician assistants could be most effective in rural Afghanistan along the line of the "barefoot doctors" concept.
       M. S3DDIEQ NOORZOY (RESEARCH ASSOCIATE, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKLEY, USA,) in his paper on "Problem Awareness on Afghanistan" has listed a number of issues, out of which the following are the basic ones:                                   •
       - The detection and removal of millions of land mines and anti-personal devices throughout the country.
73
              -                                                              Vol.2,  No.2—4
   october-1988-December, 1969 flfGHflW JtHfiB                               voi,3, no.i
      -  Repatriation and resettlement of some seven million refugees in an appropriate manner.
      -  Offering long-term assistance to over 535»000 handicapped persons.
    SELIG S. HARRISON (SENIOR ASSOCIATE/fCARNEEE ENDOVMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE, WASHINGTON) in his paper on "Social Aspects of Recovery in a Fragmented Society" has said:
      -  The U.S. President Bush Administration is supporting the department of Inter Service Intelligence in Pakistan but the military stalemate in Jalalabad has aroused doubts in Congress.
      -  Wahabi efforts to intervene in local power struggle (e.g. Kunar).
                                   t
      -  Iran's efforts to promote Hazara and other Shia leadership in Afghanistan.
      -  China, until now a major^Pakistani ally in the Afghan*. war appears to be ready to terminate its aims sales as part of its changing relations with the Soviet Union, stressing the need for a "broadbased government" embracing the PDPA.
      In his view the most important social factors affecting the recovery process are:
      -  The desire for the autonomous assertion of 'qawm' identity and independence, free from centralized ~ule,
      -  Ghilzai-Durrani and Pushtun-Tajik tensions,
   * * *
      -  Tensions between traditional tribal leadership and new leadership especially the field commanders,
      -  Education and literacy programs for women.
      RAWAN FARHADI (PROFESSOR, CENTER OF MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES,UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKLEY,USA)
(A)  social aspects of recovery:
      -  As special mine-clearing missions will precede the repatriation of refugees, hence a special. department for training of personnel should be set up in the army,
      -  Utilization of studies for low costing houses in Kabul,
      -  Special educational centres with adequate vocational purposes for the illiterate teenagers^.
      -  centers for artificial limbs with international assistance,
      -  Plant for assembling wheelchairs and special tricycles for the invalids.
(B)  Agricultural and Rural Development:
      -  A water-pump assembly plant should be established in Kabul as a major private enterprise,
      -  Provincial and regional agricultural centers should be set up,
      -  Workshops on the basis of village communities for carpet and kilim weaving and other marketable handicrafts should be organized.         ■
(C)  Recovery in Economic Sector:
      -  Special international assistance for reconstruction of roads,
      -  Maximum utilization of the Afghan natural gas inside the country,
                                                74
                                                                                          Vol.2, No.2-4
0ctober-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JIRAB                       Vol.3, No.l
        —  Construction of pharmaceutical product plants with the assistance pf industrialized cbun— tries,
        -  Creation of a Chamber of Industry,
        —  Promotion of cottage industry as a private enterprises,
        -  Controlling inflation and floating of a new Afghan currency.
 (D) Languages
       -   There is an exceptional need for trilinguian only at the primary education level in districts, where a third language (e.g. Uzbeki/Turki) other than the two main languages, i.e.» Pashtu and Dari prevails among the inhabitants.
 (E.) Afghan Women:
       -   Special attention is needed for the education of Afghan women physicians and nurses,
       -   Women have to play special role in primary education in urban areas,
       -   Women need vocational training centers' in major towns,
       -   International assistance is required for securing the services of trained women from countries like Egypt as consultants.
 (F) Conclusion:
       The UN coordinator should approach industrial countries to convene study workshops on the recovery of Afghanistan in the auttmn of 1989.
       DR. EVELINE MARRY (MEDICAL DIRECTOR [MSF FRANCE] MEDICINE SANS FRONTIERS AFGHANISTAN MISSION, PESHAWAR, PAKISTAN) in her paper entitled "The Social Aspects of Recovery in a Fragmented Society** has cautioned the social workers to avoid ethnic discrimination while providing assistance; noninterference with religious and/or cultural behaviours; not to impose education of girls in schools, particularly at village level and to use influential people among the community to promote social and economic programs.
       As regards Afghan women, she suggested that education of girls should be promoted in large cities first; as many Afghan women as possible may be trained on priority basis in the camps before repatriation; rural handicraft programs should also be promoted among women folk; the traditional role of women in fanning household to raise livestock and to grow vegetables ought to be emphasized and in big cities as many educated Afghan women as possible should be employed in offices and hospitals , etc.
       EDWARD GIRARDET (AMERICAN JOURNALIST, CORRESPONDENT OF THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR BASED IN PARIS)in a memorandum has asked the aid coordinators to determine which areas are free of conflict because only)then they can institute long-term recovery programs. In his view they must be aware of the political situation so that they may decide which authorities may best represent the people in a gLven area. They must also be aware of foreign efforts to impose their politics or norms, ad any such alien interference could become a serious impediment to peace. They should create public awareness and guide them in locating and clearing of land mines. They should encourage qualified Afghans"^ return to their homeland.
                                                 *7*5
   October-19 68-Dec ember, 1969
 Vol.3, No.l
        IE. MICHELINE CENTLIVRES-DEMONT (OF NEUCHATEL, SWITZERLAND) has highlighted the following issues with regard to social recovery in Afghanistan:
        - We roust take into consideration the experience acquired by the Afghan refugees in Iran and Pakistan particularly technical skills or,those in the labor market.
      -  Afghan students educated in Kabul or USSR must be integrated.
      _ Parallel schooling arranged by UNHCR and by Afghans in Pakistan and Iran should be evaluated and continued.                 ■
      -  The young mujaheddin commanders, after .the end of war, should receive training inside
             / . •
         Afghanistan in administration, technical fields, technics of education.
      -  Women in Iran and Pakistan, have acquired formal and non-formal experiences, e.g., in vocational training, health programs and home skills, etc. Besides the post-studies professional experience of girl students trained in Kabul University or/and in USSR should be taken into account.
      EDEN NABY (PROFESSOR, HARVARD UNIVERSITY,) put forward these short and long term recommendations‘regarding the role ot international assistance for recovery in Afghanistan.
      -  In the countryside and urban areas social friction may delay economic reconstruction. Measures adopted in distribution of goods and services need to create confidence-building to
        . bridge ill-will and tendency to exclude segments of society that remained .aloof from the
      ^ political conflict.,
      -  Relief assistance should be categorized and made known widely to encourage self-help projects in local road improvements, canals, wells and similar projects requiring local specialized skills ,
      -  Reconstruction offers an opportunity to help develop the new sources of leadership that have emerged from the war years f
      -  One way to defuse ethnic and regional tensions would be to decentralize educational structure allowing regional entities to write and publish their own educational material as long as they meet general national standards ,
      -  Private long-term international relief organizations that have not operated in Afghanistan due to war conditions should be encouraged to lend their experience and resources to village and family level relief,
      -  Various measures, including religiously sanctioned ones, coupled with a census, will be needed to deal with the future population explosion tendency ,
      -  Afghan professionals for many years to come, will require foreign advanced training.,
      -  As regards Afghan cultural heritage, ancient sites like Herat, Ghazni and Hadda as well as . ..others need to be preserved. If such work falls outside the'ipurview of operation »SALAMH
         its concerned administration needs to call the attention of other organizations to stop destruction and pillage of the country*s antiquities.
      -  The plan for the creation of an International Institute for Afghan'Studies initiated in 1984 in Stockholm calls for its establishment to serve three purposes namely to promote
                                                             76
                                                                             Vo1.2, No#2-/*
   October-1988-Decemberf 1969 AfGHAN JEHAD                                   Vol.3,  No.l
       Afghan studies at the international level, to help Afghan scholars materially and profes- 1
       .sionally and to promote collaborative scholar efforts*
       ER. GOWHER RIZVI (OXFORD DIVERSITY) thinks that in the immediate arid short term periods, the most important priorities for the international agencies would be:
       -  rehabilitation of the displaced persons, 2. restoration of - agriculture, 3. industries and small scale manufacturing units, 4* clearing the minefields, 5. rehabilitation of the injured, disabled, orphaned and widowed, 6* control of lawlessness,
       ALFRED JANATA, (ARC-VIEIINA), has proposed the main issues to watch in agricultural and rural development, some salient points of which are:
       -  our main goal is to re-establish the self-sufficiency of the villagers,
       -  first step, in this connection, is the reconstruction of irrigation systems .f
                              I                     t 1                               .
       -  as a first measure, locally resistant seed crops must be farmed on the spot ,
       -  manure, wherever it is procurable, should be preferred to chemical fertilizers ,
       -  cash crops should be introduced in the second phase of agricultural rehabilitation and development i
       MRS. TAJWAR KAKAR (AFGHAN):
       -  Construction of houses for widows and establishment of orphanages.
       -  establishment of special handicraft and .cottage industry plants for widows and destitute women,
       - establishment of schools, including vocational training, for the teenagers,
       - establishment of a special center of psychotherapy for women suffering from war-related symptoms
       -  provision of mother and child clinics in major and small towns. Hospitals for women in main urban centers,
       -  initiation of nursing and midwifery courses in rural areas in addition to regular centf'kb,
       -  establishment of vocational training centers for the handicapped men and women
       -  formation of a multi-purpose Afghan Islamic Association of Women first at Peshawar and later in Afghanistan with educational, social and cultural purposes.
       JEAN-PIER RE GONTARD (HEAD OF STUDIES AND PROJECTS DEPARTMENT, INSTITUTE UNIVERSITAIRE D»
ETUDES DU D'EVELOFMFNT, GENEVA) brought out the following issues to be scientifically monitored during the next 10-20 years by the future Afghan authorities and has asked them to make best use of the data:
       -  Size and nature of foreign debt, strengthing of the professional capacity of the central technical and administrative services through competitive examination for new high ranking civil servants and on-the-job training for others.' '
      -   degree of sophistication of technology used for reconstruction programs “
                                                       77
                                                                 Vol.2, No*2-4
   Ootober-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JIHAD                      Vol.3,  No.i
       ■— size and quality of Afghan labor force abroad and preventing professionals braindrain,
       -  amou Darya river water: volune and chemical content,
       - volume^ and price of timber and fuelwood in rural and .urban markets,
       - export of ‘.mutton'to Middle East markets versus Australian, New Zealand and^EEC exports,
       -  poppy cultivation and trade.
       HANNEKE KOUWENBERG (AFGHAN EDUCATICN COMMITTEE,/SWEDISH) in her article on "education and training" states, in view of the ’importance of education for reconstruction in Afghanistan, the aid agencies should do their utmost to get Afghan intellectuals actively involved in their education programs and induce those who can,to'participate in the reconstruction of their country* This work should be done in Afghanistan or, if not possible, should be started in Pakistan*
       In her view, Afghan intellectuals and other knowledgeable persons must be stimulated to prepare a future education framework. Afghan female intellectuals have to be included in developing- " plans. Short term activities should start in Pakistan to clear a path fot* continuation in Afghanistan later. There is a great need for teacher training especially for primary level* Ibr the moment it looks that middle and high schools will be mainly concentrated in the liberated towns and cities* The Afghans should develop a proper system to run these schools. .
       As regards university education, concrete plans have to be developed for the restart of universities. Preferrably international standards should be used to make it possible to link up with foreign universities.
       For the future a library system, starting with school libraries9ought to be developed throughout the country. Afghan writers can be employed to write story books which can be easily reproduced and distributed with the school supplies.
       At present there is no real education structure existing in Afghanistan - but just local initiatives mainly supported by different NGOs who have built up experience throughout the years*
 For the time being they have to continue their work and should be supported until the time comes to hand over the work to a proper Afghan counterpart.
       ANTONIO’ DONINI (OFFICE OF THE COORDINATOR FOR U.N. HUMANITARIAN AND ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS RELATING TO AFGHANISTAN) has posed certain questions with regard to social recovery,which are:
    * - The war has resulted in a spectacular urbanization of Afghan society* At present perhaps more than two-thirds of the people live in an urban environment. Therefore, the question is what proportion will return to the agro-pastoral world and lifestyle,
      -  The extent to which land and property has been occupied and used by the resident population or by military commanders to sustain the war effort is not known* To. what extent will there be Conflict between returning refugees and residents who may have been fanning their land for 8-30 years?
      -  Uprooting and seeking refuge in another country obviously entails a dramatic change in life styles for the majority of refugees* T^iey have also beaefltted from the generosity of
78,
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1983-Deoember, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                      Vol.3, No.l
          the international community and host governments. How will the prospects of losing such assistance, influence their decision to go back? What will the mujaheddin and their commanders do when the war ends? The psychological dimensions of conversion to a civilian society will also have to be explored.
       The crisis that we are facing in Afghanistan is not only a problem of histerial reconstruction and economic development but also of existing internal divisionsy infights, ideological, ethnic, tribal and linguistic differences.
       When the Soviet military occupation ended in Afghanistan, the Islamic character of the resistance became more evident. To counter this Islamic character, the Kabul government has tried to give a moderate Islamic image for itself without giving up its secularism.
       As an outcome, the actual problems consist of:
                                 I                                                 *                  • *
       -  Overselling of Islamization by Kabul regime combined with changes occuiing in the Soviet Union,
       -  erroneous fear of western democracies in accepting a truely Islamic government by the . Afghan mujaheddin,
       -  the inevitable fall of the Kabul government, to be evaluated how long it will take, and the inability of resistance forces to fotmulate a realistic government at least in the face of a very slow rise of the foundations of an Islamic republic by mujaheddin leaders.
       Afghanistan is an Islamic country where the daily life of people, due to a dearth of laws and . administrative regulations, is based on traditions and teachings of Island shariat.
       All this bring us to underline the idea that if it is urgent to embark,upon the reconstruction of the country's economic infrastructure, it is also important to have in mind the cultural sensitivi-
              i i                                                                                     ,
 ties of the Muslims who have a different vision of the role of the state from those prescribed by western experts. The Afghan Constitution of 19&4 and the civil code of 1975 fall short of expectations because it was very difficult to narrow the distance between the principles of legality and , liberty envisaged in those docunents and the vague and non-systeraatic extent of traditions in the daily life of the people.
       Operation "SALAM” is certainly an act of construction but it has also to have a salutory color. Why not start projects of studies and reflexions over the chances of an Islamic imodernization- with the ambition to act inside a different spirituality and to take as an experimental cadre a country where Islamic yalues have served to defend liberty, and human rights.
       INGER W. BOESEN (DANISH REFUGEE COUNCIL, (COPENHAGEN):
       -  The problem of absorbing the widows and orphans in the Afghan society needs serious consideration,
      -   the health situation of women and children, including the mental rehabilitation of thou-
          sands of cases of war-psychosis, requires attention. In this connection special attention has to be paid to tire training, and education of girls and women,
    . •   •          *                                                         -   *      i
      -   international assistance in this field requires particular cultural sensitivity, knowledge-and respect of Afghan traditions and social‘structure.'
                                                  79
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
        REIDER GRENHAUG, DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF BERGEN, suggests that as pre-war Afghan economy was in many respects developing at a good rate, we should identify and promote the capacity for surplus production. Moreover, in view of the fact that reconstruction of market and agriculture and pastoralian, depend upon each other, we should think of them in terms of. an ; integrated whole.
        We should also stimulate entrepreneurs and people in general, capable of mobilizing labor in
 ■ order to promote positive economic repercussions.
                                         ....* 1 - ... *
        The writer adds that we should motivate Afghans in economic key roles (crafts, trades, services, etc.), staying, for example, in Iran, to return to their home regions and become economically active. We should stimulate earnings from Afghan labor abroad and also through export of goods in order to promote growth in the country.
        HANNE CHRISTENSEN OF THE UN RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (COPENHAGEN) has put forward the following proposals:
        -        Special programs and vocational training schemes for widows, orphans and disabled ought to be initiated and traditional health sector strengthened specially in rural areas. Hence more female health staff must be employed to ensure that women can be attended by female medical staff f
        -  she emphasizes increasing formal education facilities for boys and girls and male adults especially in moral areas. She is also in favor of strengthening women's traditional agricultural activities such as cultivation of vegetables and fruits and poultry breeding inside the compounds or nearby areas. Favorable credit schemes could be introduced to encourage women's products and cottage industry based on traditional women crafts should be encouraged. Women tailors, working in their homes, could play important role in clothing industry. Carpet making could be encouraged among Turkmen women.
        M. CASIMIR (TITLE NOT AVAILABLE) has suggested that a census should be carried out in Afghanistan and Pakistan in order to ascertain the number of pestoralists and also the livestock present in the country. Assistance should be given on priority basis to pastoral!sts living in Afghanistan.
        He, however, points out that the use of pastures is not possible as long as mines are not removed. Besides, veterinary services should be provided at fixed points along all major migration routes.
        In his opinion ways and means of developing a taxation system should be carefully considered to prevent overstocking and overgrazing in future. Draft animals must urgently be supplied to farming households who have lost theirs. Afforestation in and around villages should be treated on priority basis.
        NASSIM JAWAD, DIRECTOR, AUSTRALIAN RELIEF COMMITTEE, PESHAWAR considers these main issues noteworthy:
        -  Help Afghans to help themselves. Political differences and solutions should be left entire to the Afghans without outside interference,
        -  all agencies should immediately start massive and large-scale training programs for Afghans,
        -  if some of the educated and qualified Afghans presently in the West could be provided social
                                                    00
                                                                                            Vol.2, No«2->4
Oct6ber-198S-Decemberf 1989      AfGHAHj JEHAD                  Vol.3, No.I
          and political protection by international agencies, they may be willing to return, at least at the stage of training in Pakistan,
       -  UN and other international agencies should fund the cost of hiring professionals for training purposes,
       -  1 an education system on a nationalized scale, designed by Afghans, is needed and should be
          aided on by UN agencies,
       -  free food distribution must be discouraged and only food for work projects instituted f
       -  income-generating projects should be encouraged at the village level, including for women,
       -  shooras being the best representation of the people or jirgas should be used for implementation of projects,
       PAUL BUCHERER (DIRECTOR OF FOUIDATIGN BIBLIOTHECAY AFGHANICA)   conceives a nunber of issues
 to watch. They ares
       -  In order to avoid cultural colonization effects by the "UN humanitarian and economic assistance programs for Afghanistan" on the Afghan society, an advisory council, composed of recognized Afghans, should be formed,
       -  migration of the Afghan refugees should be mainly their own responsibility but it could, be facilitated by providing them pack animals and/or trucks, food-rations, tents, agricultural implements and draught-cattle, seeds, fertilizer and water,
       -  the main needs for settlement will be, cattle, sheep ' chicken; fuel for cooking and heatings, timber for roofs, doors and windows.
       -  It should be remembered that, compared with other nationals, Afghans are extremely initiative, independent minded, self-confident and stubborn.              '
       NANCY HATCH DUFftEE (AMERICAN): .
       -  Afghan women's voice must be heard and both rural and urban women should be given active roles in planning.
       -  more adequate coordination in gathering information on existing talent among women _ in the refugee population and inside Afghanistan and abroad, is an urgent need,
       -  women should be involved in preparing non-formal teaching aids, radio programming and other communication fields,
       -  the special nedds of widows and the handicapped need to be identified to integrate them into society economically and socially,
       -  programming should be family/community-oriented and implemented in small units avoiding over centralization,
       -  afghan. men should not be excluded from planning for women. To ignore them is to invite disaster.
       INGER BOESEN OF DANISH REFUGEE COUNCIL DENMARK in her discussion paper on the future role of Afghan women after throwing light on their traditional role, changing role in this century, the issue
                                                               81
   October-1988-Deceinbor, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
 of "purdah", their positive role in rural production, problems of widows, orphans, and disabled women and also their training and education, concludes that as a step towards future participation of Afghan*women in the reconstruction of their homeland, a special sub-committee named "Women*s Task Force" has been formed within the framework of ACBAR (Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief), which assists the people of Afghanistan with humanitarian aid.
       In her view, it is clear that the prospects of social participation of, as well as assistance to Afghan women, depend very much on the future government in Afghanistan and its attitude towards women's role in society. Hence if support programs for women are to be possible, they should be carefully planned with due respect towards their cultural sensivities. The planning of community programs for women in Afghanistan, as well as the eventual transfer of existing programs for refugee women, must be carried out in complete understanding with the local community structures and authorities (like jirgaha and shooras). At least initially, segregated activities for women, at the best separate but equal, will have to be accepted. Program staff, e.g., teachers, trainers and community health worker^ should be Afghan and, of course, female.
       Finally, the time-perspective of women’s programs will have to be long, in order to allow for a gradual recognition on the part of male Afghan society, of the benefits of educating girls and of the. development of the potentials of Afghan women to participate fully and actively in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
               - » »
       BERNARD DUPAIGNE OF MU SEE DE L HCMME, PARIS, has raised the following points concerning agrl-* culture and rural development:
       -  For quick reconstruction, increase agriculture production and food and bring seeds, fertilizers, cement, timber, petrol, diesel, tea and vegetable fat from Iran and Pakistan ‘
       -  repair asphalt and earth roads by local manpower and to get quicker results, by bulldozers,
       -  tractors will be necessary to increase wheat crops in 1989,
       -  repairing of irrigation canals must be done as quickly as possible. Open-wells equipped
                                   \ .
          with diesel yrater-pump will be useful at this stage,
 -  workshops for repairing trucks and tractors' should be installed,
 -  orchards and vineyards should’be repaired, new grape-vires should be planted in Kandahar,
   Logar and north of Kabul. Lebanese variety of apple trees, very successful in Wardak district, should be planted. Poplar trees should be planted along canals which would be a good source of income as timber for roofs,
 -  pesticides and sprays for fruit trees and sulfates and pulverisators for vineyards should
   be provided,                                                      1
 -  villagers, who entirely depend on animal husbandry, need veterinary care. Anti-parasite chemicals, vaccination, simple cross-breeding and artificial insemination would be very useful,
 -  protect pine-trees by reforestation in Paktia and stop its being smuggled to Pakistan^
 As regards recovery in other economic sectors, the following steps will be essentials
 -  repairing of concrete and earth roads,
                                                 82
                                                                           October-19^Q-December f I9B9
 Vol.2, NO*2-4 Vol.3, No.l '
 -  encouraging major agricultural export items like dried fruits and medical herbs,
 -  encourage cotton crops, one of the best in the world (Kunduz),
 -  encourage better selection and cross-breeding of Karakul sheep (astrakhan furs) in the north and reopen leather and for factories,
 -  encourage silk production,
 -  encourage carpet production fur export,
 -  encourage industrial production as coal and precious stones,
 -  use natural gas for fertilizer production and renegotiate prices for exporting gas to the USSR,
 -  prepare projects for better use of irrigation water from rivers crossing Afghanistan*
 The writer has listed the following social aspects of recovery:
 -  Help first those people who have remained in rural areas so that they may accept returning refugees,
 -  help internal refugees,
 -  use local' skills and manpower and local administrators,
 -  try to get the cooperation-of religious local authorities,
 -  give responsibilities and jobs ;for the local young technicians,
 - be cautious with employing technicians and administrators who have not been on the spot during the war and do not give them much higher salaries than the local staff.*
       NASIM JAWAD OF THE AUSTRIAN RELIEF COMMITTEE, PESHAWAR (IN HIS DISCUSSIONS PAPER) while discussing the social aspects of recovery in a fragmented society and the role of shooras or jirgahs is of the opinion that the Afghans are capable of solving their national problems if they are left alone. Therefore, if we all wish Afghanistan to become a. peaceful country again, we should leave the Afghans to solve their problems on their own. .
       After discussing the case of the returnees and. rural exodus due to pressure of war and economic reasons and after throwing light on.tribal, ethnioand religious' dimensions and problems of educating and training a whole generation deprived of educational facilities owing to the war, the writer concludes that 10 years of war and rootlessness in exile have pushed the Afghan nation backwards for many decades and have resulted in a number of social, political, economic and cultural changes* Moreover, ethnic and tribal differences have been reinforced by religious and political differences* On the other hand, a lot of positive changes have also taken place some of which are:
       -  War has brought different ethnic and tribal groups together and they have learned how to live on the basis of peaceful coexistence,
       -  in order to safeguard their social values, i.e., honor, dignity and pride, both refugees and residents have helped each other. For instance, beggary and prostitution which are common in other parts of the world in similar situations, are not existing among the refugees and inside Afghanistan,
       -  refugees in Iran and Pakistan had to face the outside world and accept and respect the
                                                              $3
                                                                                           Vol.2, No*2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHflN JEHAII                     Vol.3, No.l
          values, of the development of their host countries.
       The writer recommends, the most important principle, i.e., "Help Afghans to Help Themselves'*, because any plan made without active Afghan involvement may be hampered during the implementation.
 In view of the lack of qualified and trained. Afghans for the implementation of reconstruction programs, all the UN agencies, NSOs and other specialized organizations should immediately start massive and large-scale training programs. A large nunber of highly educated and qualified Afghans are presently residing in Europe, U.S.A, Australia and Canada. Many of them are reluctant to return because of political instability. If they are provided social and political protection by international agencies they may be willing to return at least at the stage of preparation and training in Pakistan. IN agencies can play an important role in this regard.
       In the writer's view, education is and will be the most sensitive field for recovery and the future plans. Therefore, UNICES and UNESCO should work on a nationalized educational system. We must also keep in mind that Afghanistan today is a more rural society than it was ten years ago. Hence primary education will certainly be a priority for the rural areas. Besides, any future educational system should be integrated according to the needs in the rural areas, i.e., agriculture, animal husbandry and health, etc. and should be designed by the Afghans themselves.
       -   Income generating projects on village level for the landless, and skilled workers and for ‘ women shpuld be created to essentially cover their own needs in the villages for the first
          phase of recovery. Special attention should be paid to women and in particular the widows with their available traditional skills, handicrafts, carpet (weaving^ home skills and animal nurseries,
       -  As Afghanistan is hot ready for large-scale mechanization of agriculture, it will have to ' be taken step by step into mechanization because of lack of trained manpower, infrastructure and other facilities.
       -  The pertinent question at the moment i s whom in the country we ought to use as partners for the implementation of our activities and plans. The answer is clearly for the shooras and/..or the jirgahs because they represent at least the majority of the population in a .particular area rather than one person. So there is a potential for developing these local councils into local administrative bodies which in the long term will build the base for local governments to be provided by the central government in the future.
       MOHAMMAD SIDDIEQ NOORZOY, CENTER FOR MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES, INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES, UNIVERSITY OF BERKELAY, CALIFORNIA, USA, in his discussion paper,' has highlighted the following issues and problems of social and economic recovery in Afghanistan:
       In addition to the lack of information on actual conditions in different sectors of the Afghan !economy a second problem is the immense task ahead involving the moppLng and removal of an estimated’ 30-50 million mines and anti-personnel devices sown largely by the Soviet Army, throughput the country. Moreover, one hears nothing about a mine “awareness” and clearing program for Afghan refugees in Iran, similar to the one in Pakistan. A continued discrepancy in this area can only lead to the obvious results, viz, lack of refugee repatriation from Iran and/or continued high losses in lives and injuries when unprepared refugees return. Many areas of the welfare ofvthe Afghan refugees in the Islamic Republic of Iran have not been docunented similar to the documentation carried out in Pakistan by UN-affiliated agencies, the government of Pakistan, international organizations and
                                       84
                                                                             Vol.2, No*2—4
 ___October-lytJB-Uecauboi', lyily AFGHANJFUAII                              Vol.'J, Mo.t
 large nunber of NGO's.
       If the Soviet Union wishes to normalize its relationship with the future free government in Afghanistan and with the Afghan peoplet it must carry out certain first steps and one of these is to fully cooperate in the matter of mines discovery and removal*
       As regards refugee repatriationy the writer believes that if 200,000 Afghan refugees be repatriated from Pakistan per month even then it will require 15 to nearly 18 months. The refugee repatriating and resettlement organizations will also have to consider the flow of repatriating refugees from Iran for the same period. The refugees in Pakistan are more accessible whereas Afghan refugees in Iran - more than two million - have remained isolated due to lack of contacts by similar organizations (except IHHGR) that exist in Pakistan. More access to the Afghan refugees ,jis required ' in Iran at least by the Afghan refugee organizations to assess their situation.
       There is an overall issue involved in whether the refugees will be compensated for the losses they have suffered and for enabling them to have a restart in their chosen preoccupations. Since evaluation of exact losses of each returning refugee will be difficult and time-consuming, it is suggested that the average refugee be paid a lump sum for such a purpose. Now for the payment of this monetary compensation, our argument here is that the Soviet Union, in facing its responsibilir* ties, should pay most of this compensation. This again is one of those steps that the Soviet Government should seriously consider as part of the recovery process in Afghanistan and an attempt to normalize relations with the free Afghan government and the Afghan people.
       It seems that this is an opportune time to arrange a complete survey of the water resources ' which has not been done in Afghanistan so far.
       With reference to transportation issue, the writer is of the view that with the exception of some air transport links for passengers and cargo before the war, all of the transportation needs of land-locked Afghanistan were being met through the road systems and, in some.cases, through railroads reaching Afghanistan borders. It is clear that the primary hardsurfaced road systems throughout the country have been damaged and, hence, an aerial survey can provide the needed information. '
       During the past eleven years Afghan export and import trade as well as transit trade have largely been diverted from the free world to the Soviet Union. As much as 68 percent of Afghan exports go to the USSR and some 40 percent of its imports are from that country. Approximately 20-'25 percent of the total* transit trade is carried out via the Soviet Union,raising the totals to near overwhelming levels of dependency. Obviously in'the postwar period such dependencies cannot continue for independent policy making, and hence such a situation must not be permitted to continue or develop
       A proposal for a research unit to survey and determine the feasibility of establishing new industries which might be financed by foreign private direct investment and private concerns^. Reference must be made to the Seven Year Plan (1976) in this regard which has outlined the establishment of a nunber of heavy industries as well as medium and light consumer-oriented industries. The last World Bank report on Afghan economy (1978) also had made a number of proposals for new industries.
       In view of the fact that Afghanistan imported significant amounts of geological equipment from the USSR - * valued at over $ 192 million - between 1979-84 above shows that the potential for development of mineral resources is highly significant and a major source of output and income for
                                           85
                                                                             Vol.2, No *2^-4.
     October-1988-December, 1989 MANJtHAD                                    Vol.3, No.l
 the country in the future.
       Given the massive destruction that has taken place in Afghanistan and the long gestation period requiredy it should not be surprising to state that a flow of assistance for rehabilitation will be required for a period of five to seven years before the economy can take over effectively.
       If we assume that the full rehabilitation and recovery cost of one hectare of agricultural land is $2,500 in terms of 1988/89 prices, it will cost $3.25 billion to bring about the full recovery of one-third of agricultural land in Afghanistan (i.e. 1.29 million hectares) normally under cultiva-:tioh but severely affected by the war. This, of course, covers only one aspect of agriculture. Vlhat will be required for full recovery of the livestock industry, the irrigation systems, the orchards and vineyards, reforestation and other aspects of the agricultural sector and the rural economy, will be much beyond this estimate. So far the estimates of 1-2 billion dollars assumed by the coordinator's office of IN are highly optimistic and do not meet but a fraction of the expected costs of these
                             t   .
 activities over the five to seven year period required to achieve full results.
       DR. MICHEAL J. CASIMIR, UNIVERSITE* DE NEUCHATEL, INSTITUT D'ETHNOLOGIB, GENEVA, in his discussion paper on animal husbandry and rural development in Afghanistan has stated that pastoral products have always been an important part of the local diet and the pastoral sphere has always provided major export items. Fbr instance, in 1969 Karakul fur3 fetched $13*1 million and carpet production brought in $6.2 million. Alongwith unprocessed wool which accounted for $6.7 million worth of exports ih 1969, these pastoral products made up 20# of the entire exports of Afghanistan. When drawing up plans for the future, these purely economic aspects must be kept in mind.
       One of the most important tasks before us is to evaluate the numbers of mobile animal husban-ders now living in Afghanistan, Pakistan and perhaps also in Iran and how many of them propose to return to Afghanistan as nomadic pastoralists. Many of them have occupied new pasture area in Pakistan and still others probably found new sources of income in Pakistan or Iran.
       The writer has already recommended setting up veterinary services and dispensaries with at least one attendant at certain points along the major migration routes.
       If we assume that most of the peasant refugees would like to go back to their villages, we must bear in mind that they would need grain and that grain production should be given priority.
 :Equally important are draught animals. It would be perhaps possible to obtain draught animals in Pakistan for this purpose. Besides, to diminish the effects of desertification in the vicinity of • villages, it would be prudent to take measures for afforestation which would, in the long run, also provide the rural population with firewood and fodder.
       OLIVIER ROY, FRENCH, SCHOLAR, in his discussion paper (No.4) pertaining to operation | SALAH has expressed the view that4today in Afghanistan, war is the main factor of social change, through migration of refugees to Pakistan and Iran, forced urbanization (at least in Kabul), new balance of power between ethnic groups and emergence of a new leadership. The war reemphasized the traditional rules of power game, giving it a new expression through political parties, but it brought also a politicization of the society, through these same parties and their political ideologies. At the same time, the traditional discrepancy between central state and countryside has been considerably enlarged and has added to the fact that there are presently two centres: Kabul and Peshawar.
       In the course of the war, a new leadership has already emerged originating mainly from the
                                                86 ■■
                                             i                                          Vo 1.2, No.2»-4
     Octobei--19tia-Ducombur, 1W AfGUANJEHAD                                   Vol.'), No.l
 young urban middle class intelligentsia. This new leadership is made of mujaheddin field commanders,
                                                                           I
 Peshawar-based bureaucrats and Kabul regime employees.
       Among the new leadership, one has to add also the"fighting ulemas" who lead mujaheddin groups where their religious status allows them to bypass the traditional tribal segmentation.
       The bureaucracy established, through foreign subsidies, by the Alliance in Peshawar, is manned by the new middle class, opposed both to the aristocracy and to the local powers. Even in the moderate parties, the new bureaucracy is made up of young educated, not of .khan or ulema.
       In camps and in Pakistani towns, thousands of young Afghans are now educated either through Western sponsored programs or through Wahabi madrassas. Trained as accountants, nurses, teachers, plerks, translators, mullas, etc, they have no future except as state employees.
       In ten years, most of the Kabuli civil servants never went to the countryside and, free of the pressures of the traditions, are now used to a secular and modem way of life. How these people will adopt to the future is not known. In these conditions the discrepancy has grown all along the war between the government elite and the mujaheddin elite in ideological terms, the latter has -become more fundamentalist and the former more westernized.
       On the other hand, exile to Pakistan or Iran means urbanization for many Afghan refugees. A lot of them are unlikely to go back to their former villages and will probably go to Kabul, if they return.
       In the case of a crisis between field commanders and any mujaheddin central state, based on the Peshawar bureaucracy, one of the possible scenarios might be the lebonization of Afghanistan, collapse of the central state and emergence of antagonistic communities whose identity is based on ethnic or religious references disguised under superficial contemporary political references.
 r
 i
 I
37
                                   VOX*
  _ 0ctober-1988-December, 1989 fl[[lHflN JtHflD Vol.3, Ho.l
  AFGHANS IN EUROPE SPELL OUT RECONSTRUCTION PLAN
                                                                                               &
   0 i EDITOR’S NOTE; The following is the text of recommendations by a group £j 8 of Afghan experts living in Europe about the reconstruction and rehabi- j®j 6 litation issues of Afghanistan .The recommendations were sent to the Pre- 03 0: sident of AIG in Peshawar, This conference was held 14-15 January and q 11-13 March, 1989, in University of Bochum, West Germany.
                                                       PART ONE
                                         AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDARY
       Before the 1978 April tragedy, more than 85% of Afghan population were farmers and animal hus-handers. Therefore, the revival of agriculture and animal husbandary will have a definite impact . on the living standard and improvement of social status of the people of this country. The following proposals are offered as complimentary to a UN report on the rehabilitation of agriculture and animal husbandary -in Afghanistan.
                                        A.  AGRICULTURE
  I. To complete and determine the present statistics oh existing cultivable land, irrigational system, hunan resources and cattle together with losses which have occured in this sector.
            XI. The formation of a "Green Fbrce" comprised of civil or military personnel under the supervision
  *                         I
  of agricultural and geological experts for the repair and^expansion of irrigational system, forestry and general plantation of the country.
  III. The following urgent assistance is required for the far.ners to enable them to improve agricultural land;                                     •   ■  -         •                          .
             1. Assistance offered by the '•Green Force" for repairing irrigational system, 2. distribution of
  primary agricultural equipment, 3. provision of improved seeds, immediate distribution of seeds for dry fanning regions, 4* distribution of manure and chemical fertilizer, 5* on the spot expert technical advice and agricultural extension and publicity about issues already mentioned by keeping in view environmental protection,
  JV. Drilling deep wells in regions where cultivable land exists but without surface water. Before drilling the wells^it is important to scientifically survey underground, water supply resources, the quality of soil, climate, the amount of precepation and needs of the people of the region living in the areas under plan.
                                                    88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i
               j
 i
                                                                             October-1988-Decanber, 1989
 Vol.3, No.l
 V* Maximum and economical use of water resources, sunshine and wind for'the production of power to activate different agricultural equipment and supply of water pumps for areas located in higher • elevations as well as other cultivable lands.
 VI.  For the implementation of agricultural rehabilitation and animal husbandary projects, priority should be given to the employment of Afghan experts.
 VII.  Extension and strengthening of agricultural cooperatives and making them effective in the framework of regional agricultural development programs with the participation of fanners and local population.
 VIII.  Creation of small scale manufacturing plants for the production and repair of primary agricultural tools taking in view the introduction of improved versions of these tools.
 IX.    Construction of cooling godowns and use of modern storing methods for vegetables and fresh fruits for meeting the needs of internal markets during all seasons of the year and for export to foreign markets.
 X.     Strengthening and expanding of Agricultural Bank to enable it to finance loans, modernize its administration and establish agencies at sub-divisional levels.
 XI.    Expansion and strengthening of rural development reconstruction programs envisaged in the UN report on Afghan repatriation and rehabilitation.
                                     B.  ANIMAL HUSBANDARY
 1.  Encouraging animal husbandary and providing of necessary means for the return of cattle.
 2.    Importing improved stocks of animals adapted to climatic conditions of Afghanistan, and their extension and distribution to farmers.
 3.    Strengthening and expanding of animal, husbandary in a scientific manner ana increasing the plumber of animals for increased meat and dairy products as well as building of storage .1 facilities. 4« Expansion of poultry fanning and fisheries.
 5.  Animal protection laws and hunting regulations.
 6.  Protection of pastures and creation of new ones to meet the needs of animal husbandary.
                                           C.  FORESTRY                                        '
 1.    Surveying and obtaining istatistics on forests together with establishing the scope of their de& struction as a result of war and unscientific exploitation.
 2.  Legislations for the protection of forests and an attempt to implement these rules.-
 3.  Snbarking upon programs aimed at rehabilitation and extension of forests.
 4*  Planting of trees on the aides of highways and thoroughfares.
 5f Rehabilitation of orchards and fruit trees with the help of people and mechanical and financial assistance of the government.
 6. Undertaking a vast program aimed at encouraging the public to increase greeneries.
                                                             89
                                                                          Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1988-Docanbor, I9O9 fl[(i||||||JIHAD                          Vol.3, No.I
                                          PART TWO INDUSTRIES
     Before the Communist coup and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, steps had been taken for the industrialisation of the country. Along with the plants built by the state, efforts had been made :to encourage the private sector end build up the economic infrastructure and implement the Capital Investment Law to attract domestic and foreign investment.
                                    A-CGTTAGE INDUSTRY
                                i                                                            •
     Traditional handicrafts, specially carpet weaving which have been a cultural and national heritage of Afghanistan were encouraged and extended to some extent and marketing possibilities in industrialized countries for our carpet products was being promoted with the extension of mechanized and manual industries and hiring and training of workers.
     With the arrival of Communist regime and as a result of ensuing war this process stopped. National investors were obliged to. abandon 'the country under persecution and prosecution and foreign investors generally halted their productive activities due to lack of favorable conditions. Skilled and unskilled labor forces were forced to migrate or to be enrolled in fighting forces and those who were not killed during the course of this war lasting for more than ten years mostly became disabled.
     Production infrastructures were mainly destroyed and productive capacity of plants fell by half, To reactivate the industrialization process, to attract labor forces in this sector specially the handicapped population, immediate and long term measures are needed. However, before offering proposals, a number of important points are to be mentioned:
     JSLjice Afghanistan is on the threshold of industrialization, errors committed in the industrialized and most developed countries ought to be avoided. Economic policies generally and industrial policies in particular must fit the cultural, historical and national particularities of the country, environmental and regional conditions have to be met and efforts should be made to obtain, as much as possible, the required raw material from the national resources of the country. In selecting the production processes, efforts ought to be made for the protection of environment and legislations ought to be enacted for this purpose.
                                                    A-LOCAL CRAFTS
 1.   Carpet, glem and felt: These industries have not only economic values but are also part of the Afghan culture and considered as a factor for social stability in various part % of Afghanistan. Assistance to those engaged in this sector embraces moral and material aspects of life.
    MORAL ASPECTS:
     Ehcouraging the return of artisans to the country, restitution of their rights and adoption of special measures for the return from Turkey of the Afghan carpet workers.
                                                   NATIONAL ASPECTS
     Providing and transporting of .their production implements, taking into consideration the introduction of new tools based on the ^initiative and advice of carpet weavers themselves,
     - establishment of assistance fund from UN contribution and distribution of aid on the basis ;
                                               90  ...
      '                                    ' ,                                Vol.2, No.2-4
     October-1988-Dec ember, 1989 flfGHUN JIHAD                               Vol.3, No.l
 Of production levels to carpet weaving families,
                                                                           I
      -       Providing raw material, specially wool, the shortage of which is of grave concern due to the annihiliation of cattle,,
      -       Adapting the activities of Carpet Exporting Association with present conditions and assistance by the UN to this association for finding markets,,
      -  Development and strengthending of other handicrafts prevelarft in other parts of Afghanistan,
      -       Adopting of similar measures as the ones mentioned for carpets, glem and felt and especially establishing of handicraft cooperatives for the encouragement of those engaged in these industries.
 3. Establishment of cooperatives through the initiatives of producers taking in view local traditions and habits. Those cooperatives should be established within the framework of existing laws and regulations and their duties should include procurement, production and sales.
 4* Strengthening and expandirig of Export Promotion Bank; restoring the legal status and sphere of activities of this bank into its original form.
      -       Soliciting financial, professional and personnel cooperation from similar banks in friendly countries, especially those of Islamic countries.
                                            B-POWER PRODUCTION INDUSTRIES
 1. Electric power.
      -       Hydro-electrical power: Restoration and modernization of large, medium and small hydro-electrical power plants alongwith their distribution networks.
     -      Construction of small hydro electrical power plants in the countryside and villages of Afghanistan. , For these plants can also provide power to flour mills, (Reference should be made to reports submitted earlier by Japanese, French and Canadian teams).
     -  Utilization of natural gas and oil, establishment of small scale thermo power plants for the
   I                                      /
 production of electricity, (natural gas and coal) and making use of existing bio-energy systems in villages within technical possibilities.
     -      Suitable utilization of natural gas in the country within the framework of short and long-term programs.
     -      Urgent measures for providing possibilities for the utilization of gas for public consumption in illuminating houses and for energy in northern provinces of the country. (For this purpose the establishment of a plant for purification and bottling of gas in Shebarghan is needed).
     -      IXNG-TEBM MEASURES: Research for building a project for the establishment of modern petrochemical industries to produce power, chemical fertilizers, and other related products and adopting measures for the training of Afghan personnel in this field.
     -      Surveying and planning for transporting of natural gas by pipelines to the capital through populated areas to produce electricity and energy and activate water pumps for irrigation.
     -      Attracting international technical, economic and financial cooperation for the extraction of oil and construction of a refinery plant.
                                                                     Vol.2,' No.2-4
     October-1908-Decembor, 1909 AfCIIANJEHAD                       Vo'1.3,  No.l
                                                          COAL
                                                          . 1
       Repairing and modernizing mines especially activating the Karrukh mine (Sabzak pass) so that cement and thermo-power plants of Herat may be revived.
       -  Survey and planning of solar energy to produce electricity.
       -  Utilization of wind power for electricity, water pumps and flour mills.
                                                 MACHINE INDUSTRIES
       In order to reactivation the existing productive capacities of the country and to attract private domestic and foreign investments, urgent and long-term measures are needed.
                                                     URGENT MEASURES
       Restoring of big plants such as Gulbahar and Pul-e-Khumri textile mills and restoring their legal status and administration to their original forms.
                              - I
       -  Procurement of raw material through free competition from domestic and foreign markets.
       -  Encouraging the return of Afghan technical workers from neighbouring and other countries.
       -       Reactivating small private industries and handing them over to their former owners in case they, had been forced to leave the country.
       -  Extending private investment laws to encourage national and international investors.
       -  Supplying of favorable cash capital and favorable short and long term loans.
                                                    LONG TERM MEASURES
       Expanding of economic infrastructures such as aupply of electrical power, construction of roads, establishment of industrial estates, establishment and development of credit banks-
       -       Providing necessary professional and technological knowledge in accordance with the needs and conditions of Afghanistan.
       -       Educating and training of administrative personnel in management, accounting, etc, and training of skilled workers inside the country and abroad specially with the help of . IN agencies.
                                              INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
       With the help of the World Bank and banks belonging to friendly countries^the activities and legal status of this bank should be reinstated to its original form.
       -       Enabling this bank to help the process of rehabilitation, development and expansion of industries specially the private sector.
       -  Modernizing banking transactions to the standard of similar banks in other countries.
       -       Encouragement of foreign investors to participate in the business transactions of this bank by opening current and saving accounts.
  ‘   -  Training of professional and technical personnel within the country and abroad in the fields
  of surveying of -projects.
       -  Training of banking personnel outside the country at different levels,
       -       Participation of advisers from similar banks in the third world industrialized countries in executing banking transactions.
                                                  92
                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1980-December, 1989 flfGHflNJEHAD                               Vol.3,  No.l.
                                                     PART THREE SERVICES A-CQMKERCE
     -  Submitting proposals to the UN General Assembly or its specialized agencies such as GATT,
 ITC for granting to Afghanistan1s exports, at least during the reconstruction period, a preferential country's status. These facilities should be in addition to the general facilities already provided to the developing countries.
     -       Exploring the possibilities of taking advantage of surplus products of the 'Common Market countries to compensate food shortages resulting fronij ’the war in Afghanistan.
     -  . Facilitating transit procedures in addition to those already existing for land-locked coun-
 tries
                                            BANKS AND INSURANCE COMPANIES
     Assistance by specialized institutions (such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund) to the Central Bank of Afghanistan to enable it to initiate a monetary reform and fight inflation.
 2,   Restoring to the Central Bank of Afghanistan its former status so that it,can function like Other Central Banks of countries with a free market system.
 3* Reviving the activities of ordinary transaction banks as well as those of specialized ones to their original foims as existed before Communist coup.
 4.  Expanding of banks and their networks to other parts of the country.
 5* Studying the possibilities of establishing social insurance institutions and other forms of insurance agencies in conformity with Afghan conditions for agricultural, animal husbandary, handicrafts, private and public properties.
                                                    TRANSPORTATION
     Reviving an strengthening of all Afghan transport institutions. belonging to the transportation of passengers and goods in the following manner:
     -       Facilitating the return of Afghan private transportation institutions and motor-vehicles from neighbouring countries.
     -       Granting of priviliges (including priority rights) to the transportation of refugees, construction material and foodstuff to the Afghan transportation institutions.
     -       Helping towards the establishment of technical and repair shops and technical overhauling of transportation facilities as well as technical training of personnel.
     -       Utilizing air transport for the transportation of urgent international aid to areas with difficult terrain.
     -       Repairing airports and restoring air services of national companies such as .Ariana Afghan Airlines for the transportation of urgent medical aid as well as passengers.
     -  Constructing new hotels and modernizing the present ones and making them suitable.
     -  Restoring and developing of .tourism.                         ,
93
                                                                         ' Vol.2f No.a-4 .
    October-1988-December, 1989 Ilf CHUN Jtljfljl                           Vol.3, No.l,
                                             PART POUR CONSTRUCTIONS' AND MONUMENTS
      In our view programs related to the planning and construction of villages, public buildings and communication infrastructures, the completion of which are considered as a primary condition for the return of refugees, have a direct impact on the future way of life and culture of the people of the country. The UN report in both of its phases, dealing with urgent and long-term programs, have mentioned these issues without details and even without offering introductory note or information. Therefore, it is necessary that the proposals offered by the Afghan specialists on planning and implementation of issues related to this subject should be given due attention.
      Contrary to.: many countries of the Third World, Afghanistan in most cases, is self reliant and i-t has not forsaken its own architectural systems as well as its cultural, historical and economic independence. Relying on special and natural conditions, based on indigenous products, has paved the way for special architectural styles in each region which manifest the experiences of our people for hundreds of years.
      The people of Afghanistan in the course of history by the constructing monuments, big and complex structures have proven their power and ability for construction and their two thousand year old art and culture bears witness to this fact.
      Unfortunately, during'the past several decades foreign and Afghan experts, without considering and keeping in view the historical-, and traditional^ culture and'traditions' of the' country/, have only paid attention to importing alien architectural principles and have utilized foreign construction material in building public sectors and even houses for the people, ■
      As to what- kind of program ought to be undertaken at this sensative phase so that, on the one hand, facilities are provided for the transportation and rehabilitation of the refugees to their
              homeland and, on the other hand, construction of shelters and public buildings are done in accor-r
    ! . /
  dance with the culture and traditional heritages of the people at a time when more than half of our villages, towns and cities have been either ruined or eliminated and, due to a heavy influx of returning refugees to their homeland, there is an urgent need for shelter, we offer the following ' proposals in a summarized form.
                                              A. ARCHITECTURAL MATTERS,
  1. At this juncture, big refugee programs are being undertaken by the UN and industrialized countries have pledged their financial and technical assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, Therefore a big danger is posed to the damaged regions of the country, because companies which are producing constructional material, as well as the house construction factories, may find a good market for solving this problem of Afghanistan and may offer deceiving1 and attractive proposals for - the construction of houses and buildings in a short period of time. This trend, if not stopped at the earliest, will pose a big danger to the future of the country from the point of view of loosing its culture and special architectural style of each region from the point of view of life style, social relations and mainly, . from the point of view of cultural and architectural principles. At the same time one must not forget, the special geographical and geological conditions of Afghanistan, yhich from the point of view of the altitude of its terrain is located between 400-7000 meters, and each region possesses unique conditions of its own as far as winds, earthquakes and climate are con-
                                        94
                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
    0ctober~19BS~December, 19B9 flfCHfWJtHAB                                 Vol.3t No.l
  cemed. The implementation of a project for building pre-fabricated houses in valleys from the point of the intensity of wind and land structures and altitude will not be a simple task and spending large sums of capital in this sector will result only to our further reliance on foreign imported material with very unfortunate and regretful consequences.
 2,   As regards to the resettlement of refugees, two possibilities were considered: (i) the refugees should be settled in new regions and bigger villages with proper planning and infrastructural facilities such as electricity, water, etc. or (ii) old villages and hamlets ought to be completely demolished and later rebuilt by the refugees themselves in accordance with local traditions and possibilities with new guidances related to improving housing and living conditions.
     The first possibility might bring about some conveniences .in the first stages and offering help to the people might become >a simpler job .But, since by doing so, the social and historical fabrics of our people based on the traditions of their houses, families, villages, tribes and regions will be ruined and will lead to a destruction of our national culture, therefore, the second possibility, envisagi- ' ng the revival of villages and hamlets in accordance with the traditions, habits and culture of each region, taking into consideration climatic and architectural condition, was supported.
     If this program is implemented in accordance with the wishes of the people of the areas coupled with necessary encouragements, it will prevent the refugee exodous towards big cities. Otherwise solving big city problems from the point of view of density of population, sanitation, etc. will create difficult socio-economic problems.
 3.   An attempt should be made to make a maximum use of present experiences and principles in utilizing solar energy, natural gases, wind energy and surface water both in providing for living facilities inside the households and for the production of power, supply of palatable water and in meeting social and industrial needs, (as an example, for the utilization of solar energy, in accordance with prevailing conditions in some parts of Afghanistan, a detailed scientific report is available which may be referred to).
 IV. For the promotion and improvement of construction techniques with clay and other natural construction material, experiences and a good deal of scientific know-how have now been attained in constructing domed structures and use of raw bricks, which should be introduced to the people in
 , the construction of villages.                                         .*
 V.   Extension • and popularization of precious trees such as pulp trees, willow, and eucalyptis for the construction of ceilings and prevention of losses and damages to natural forests are also necessary.
 VI.  In order to carry through and for the practical implementation of building and relief programs, at the first phase, necessary statistics and othqr information from the point of view of the mxnber of refugees in various regions should be secured so that, on the basis of this information, centers for offering them assistance and meeting their other requirements are established.
 VII. Refugees should take part in the development of their region. It is essential to establish small development centers'in devastated areas. These centers should have direct contact with the villages and their people. They should be, as far as possible,.staffed with the technical and administrative personnel belonging to the same region. Links between these local centers and regional and main centers for providing information, guidance and carrying aid to the people should
                                                95
                                                                          Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1988-Dccembor, 1989 flfCHJlNJIHAD                             Vol.3,  No.l
 be kept In mind.
 VIII.For the purpose of guidance of the people, it is vital to establish a number of technical and industrial schools for construction.
 EC* Possibilities for installation of factories for supply of building material should be considered.
                                             B-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
 1.   Necessary measures should be adopted in the implementation of water supply projects in Kabul and other cities. Some of these projects are already worked out and some others ought to be made ready.
 2,   Formulation of rules and regulations for utilizing surface as well as underground water and, in regard to potable water, controlling its contents in villages and cities are considered vital.
 3*‘ Extending special laws for the analysis and purification of non-potable waters and determining Of the style of drainage is necessary,
 4* As a first step, sewerage is deemed as essential for some big cities of Afghanistan, particularly the city of Kabul. Because, according to available information, the population of Kabul city, has exceeded two million. This number might possibly be reduced after the resettlement of refugees. But, even then, the number of Kabul citizens will remain, at a two million level. Thus, the presence of two million people in a city without drainage will directly affect the underground water resour- . ces and living environment. Since the entire'potable water in Kabul city is provided from deep ■ wells as such water pollution in the presence of open laterines and the lavatory wells is certain.
      As plans and projects for sewerage in Kabul city have already been prepared by Canadian companies, effective measures ought to be taken in the implementation of that project and strenuous efforts should also be made in the preparation of sewerage plans for other big cities of Afghanistan which'face this very problem of Kabul city.
                                       C. ROAD BUILDING
      With the establishment of relief centers, preparing and organizing a transportion plan will be a very urgent and necessary task. It is necessary that, at the first stage, a series of comparatively accurate statistics and information should be collected. To obtain these figures, eervices of unemployed Afghan youth in Iran and Pakistan may be utilized by giving them wages.This ;WiH, on the one hand, relievb the youth from unemployment and on the other hand, will be effective -'for collecting a series of statistics and information for organizing house construction, relief and road construction programs. Construction programs should be carried in two‘steps: urgent and longterm phases,
                                     I-  URGEMT PROGRAM
      Rendering services aimed at keeping open damaged roada for vehicular traffic.
                                     II-  LQNG-TERM PHASE
 i)   Basic repairs keeping in view the social and economic importance of the regions. This will, however, necessitate conducting surveys and preparing projects.
 ii)  As far as possible, local people should be engaged in the construction and repair of roads and, in regions where there is no population, the possibility of bringing, them from near-by areas should
                                               96                    \
                                                                           Vol.»2f No• 2—4
    0ctober-1988-December, 1989 flfGHflN JtHflD                            Vol.3, No.l
 be considered. As also anticipated in the UN report, these (local) people will be prepared to per- .
 form duties in exchange for wages.                                        ,
                           / ■ •
 (iii) In addition to utilizing human resources, road construction facilities ought to be completed
 and strengthened through the use of machines and tools.
                                                    ^RAILWAY PROJECT
                   A railway project can link land-locked Afghanistan with the free world and it can play an
 important role in the future development of the country. Construction documents have already been
 prepared by French companies and construction of some parts of this railway, which will be very
 effective from an economic point of view, may well begin. -With the implementation of this project,
 on the one hand, a large number of the people of Afghanistan will find jobs and, on the other hand,
               ✓
 it will prove effective in exploiting important minerals of the country such as iron, coal, etc.
                                                       D-MCNUMENTS
.                               I
      As during this 11 year long.war irreparable losses have occured in all segments of the Afghan life, the historical monuments of Afghanistan,too, have not been spared. On the basis of available information, most monuments in Afghanistan have been destroyed while some of them are about to be vanished. Relics placed in museums have been plundered, for which the future government of Afghanistan will have to conduct enquiry. But, in order to save the remaining monuments from further destruction, it is necessary to first of all secure accurate information and, based on that information, a two phased program ought to be implemented. In the first phase monuments should be immediately protected from further destruction and, in the second phase, plans should be undertaken for ' their repair. Similarly necessary studies and surveys should be conducted on the destruction of historic cities of Afghanistan. Monuments and historical sites are part of the national wealth of the people and all of them have a share in them; they are a manifestation of the joint artistic heritage of the people of Afghanistan and can be a source of income by attracting international tourism. Thus the following proposals are put -forward:
                                                     I-URGENT PLANS
 1.   Establishing of the number and estimate of the losses caused to monuments including Islamic monuments and holy shrines. .
 2.   Immediate promulgation of a decree and enacting of a law to check further destruction, elimination of monuments and interference in the affairs of preserving monuments.
 3« Constituting a small technical Afghan commission for taking decisions, in conformity with the' promulgated decree and enacted laws, on the protection of the remaining parts of monuments and historical sites.
 if. The characteristic and nature of the historic cities and the ancient villages should be restored and use of traditional material for rebuilding should! be kept in mind. New projects near the historic, buildings should be started in consultation with experts and engineers.
 5.» Architects, workers of tiles, engravers, stone cutters, carpenters and artisans experienced in the art of architecture and repair of historic buildings should be re-e-nployed and efforts should be exerted to also train the youth in these fields.             1
                                       97
                                             '                 Vol.2, No. 2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JfHAD                       Vol.3,  No.l
                                            II-IPNG TERM PHASE
 1.   Establishment of a scientific and technical association for the protection and repairs of monuments.
 2.  Classification of historical monuments based on their value.
 3# Protection and maintenance of buildings in accordance with their classification and providing maps for the monuments on the basis of their value.
 4« Preservatation of historic monuments from technical and ^methodological point of view.
 5*' Solution of issues related to monuments from legal anu economic point of view.
                                           PAHT> FIVE EDUCATION
      The crisis which have prevailed in the country in recent ten years with its bitter and undesirable consequences have brought about certain changes in regard to issues related to the education of the Afghan children. For rectifying the situation, .allout; efforts are needed on the part of all of us.
      Our education of today and tomorrow, besides social subject and natuiral isciences which are effective In developing the power of perception, comprehension and personality of the student, other subjects related to the national ideology, positive and useful traditions, Islamic values1history and culture of our people should also be included. So that our children,in addition to learning current knowledge^may also develop a spirit of devotion towards their country and people.' Because for establishing national unity, its people must show solidarity in' the task of the progress of their country and oppose such alien influences and trends that may hinder national unity.
      Bitter experiences of the past ten years have made it clear that our educational system had failed to cope with a number of issues and our youth had not been informed and enlightened sufficiently about these issues.
      Under present circumstances, when the reconstruction of Afghanistan is underway, special attention should’be devoted' to such' matters so that both our male’and female population are equipped -with a national and Islamic’ spirit, and are jointly enabled to face all kinds of foreign and alien onslaughts.
      Thus, in the course of present and future reconstruction and rehabilitation of Afghanistan, a
                              • \
.revision of school syllabus is necessary. In the curriculum, subjects related to a development of sense of respect to positive national traditions as well as introduction of ethical values based on the fundamentals of the sacred religion of Islam ought to be added. It is also essential that education throughout Afghanistan should be balanced. The following proposals are offered for the revival and improvement of education in Afghanistan.
                                    A. PRIMARY EDUCATION
      Primary education, like in the past, should be imparted in the village and primary schools and should be compulsory. Due to the population dispersions all over the country, the establishment of regular primary schools in every village and hamlet under the present circumstances in not practicable.
 2. Books and school supplies in all the primary grades should be freely distributed by the government like in the past.
                                              * 98
                                                                             Vol.2, No.2-4
 v October-1988-Decenber, 1989 MGHAN JIHAQ                                    Vol.3,   No.l
   .. 1 ..........  ■■                  ■■■■   ■ i ' ■ ' '■         ■  "V ?.                . • '■!■
      Similarly, supplementary books, printed and supplied by the education authorities, if not dis-tributed to each student should be made available in school libraries. '
 3.   Inclusion of vocational training and manual works, particularly local ones, in the second stage of primary grades is essential.
 A> Likewise, in areas where there is a larger nunber of students in proportion to school facilities and buildings schools ought to be^held on a double shift.
 5.   In vocational schools, priority should be given to the disabled and injured children and elderlies.
                                             B. SECONDABY EOJCATICM CLASSES
                                            I
 1.   Revision of the curriculum as well as teaching methods and number of teaching hours in a week is necessary for this level.
 2.   At the first phase of reconstruction, establishment and expansion of vocational and technical schools is strongly recommended to overcome the shortage of technical and skilled workers.
 3- Teaching of technical subjects and increasing . the hours of practical work for the students in the first years of secondary education are recommended, so. that students become familiar of the daily requirements of their parents, and take a first step for improving and increasing the production of local crafts.
 A* In the UN report, plans have been devised for the return of aH* refugees-both from inside1 and* abroad but enough light has not been thrpwn on another’ very'important' point: ' continuation1'of the educational programs of their children.                         ,
      Therefore, it is being proposed that immediately the mujaheddin families, educational'institutions or schools established by the international charity organisations insideV Afghanistan, should : be informed about'measures being cqntemplated so that they may prepare themselves for implementing-them. '
 5* Procuring dbcunents containing student records, nature of schools and languages of instruction will facilitate the registration process in schools inside Afghanistan. Such records should be put at the disposal of students right now. Similar procedures should be adopted vis a vis students and parents who were forced to migrate inside Afghanistan due to security reasons and the students were enrolled in new schools.
 6,  In the case of those Afghan children who alone or with their families have migrated to count-
 ries other than Pakistan or Iran, and have begun their studies in other languages and have lost knowledge of Afghan national languages, if they return to the country.before completing their prescribed terms of primary and secondary education, continuation of their education requires temporarily separate provisions and even special curriculum.                                   n
 7* For those Afghan children who have been taken forcefully and through alien aggressive interferences to the Soviet Union and East European countries for brain washing and education in sinister -Communist ideology, and who should be returned to the country, should be offered special educational .programs by the educational authorities of free Afghanistan aimed at orienting them to Afghan traditions and Islamic values and eradicating from their minds ‘.whatever they have been taught.
                            Of course addoption of such a measure will be one of the most important problems in eliminating
                                           99
                                                                                           Vol.2, No,2-4
October-1988-Decemberf.1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3» No.l
 the educational shortcomings of our children. Those responsible should be(foresighted and prudent people and with special knowledge about tutoring methods.
                                      C. HIGHER EDUCATION AND TEACHER'S TRAINING
 1.   Adopting new measures about revising the subjects taught at higher educational levels are also necessary. A definite innovation is needed in the type and essence of requirements of Afghanistan at this juncture when the crisis seems to be over. And, as the teachers had been the main cause of our educational crisis, therefore,present shortcoming in the training of teachers ought to be eliminated.
      Teacher training colleges (Cpllege of Science, literature, Geo-Science and Higher Teachers Training Institutes) should devote further attention in attaining for the teacher the art of theoretical and practical teaching, and should make the teachers fully aware of the changes and developments which have occured in their specialized fields during the past eleven years.                    '
 2.   As a number of our teachers have been martyred in fighting the enemy, and a large nunber of them have migrated and also a number of them have become old, education in free Afghanistan will have to face significant shortage of teachers in all the fields.
      Thus serious attention of the people interested in education is required to induce the indus-.trious students to adopt teaching as their profession and people responsible for the future finan- ", cial affairs of Afghanistan are expected to devote special attention to the provisions of their living standard particularly teachers who may work away from their homes so they may' hot'' quit" the'1 sacred profession of teaching due to financial difficulties.
 3.  InspLte of the fact that in the report compiled.by the UN, the number of the students in the
 higher education institutions has been' considered relatively satisfactory1 for meeting our present requlretfeh^           there*'’should” be' hb_ hindrances in the'normal development of universities and
 In fields such as teachers training, favorable conditions should be created to induce students to become teachers.And for meeting urgent needs,the shortage of teachers can be met by utilization of the services of gifted male and female students bf colleges which have normally provided teachers to schools, such as the Colleges of Science, Literature and;Education..  1
 1 4* Since''bcien£if£c research has been: considered asi a function.;of• institbtibhe of: highers learning'-:;'ii and the ' department A' erigaged ' in1 scientific research have direct link^^th 'ihdustrial' and' developmen- -tal institutions, it is, therefore, recommended that these centers should be once again made active and equipped with technical facilities and financial aid.
      Furthermore, it is necessary that contacts and overall cooperation should be established and promoted by Afghan universities and other institutions of high learning with those of friendly coun-'tries.
      The UN report has not mentioned the new Geo-Science College which, due to its special importance, have been separated from the Colleges of Science and literature.
      Tfejjls College has an important role to play in the infrastructure of reconstruction and implementation of short-term and long-term economic development plans.
      Therefore, evolving of this institution at a national level and its elevation to a regional international college with the help of W institutions will be extremely useful and effective.
                                                  100
                                                                          VaU2, No.2-4
    0ctober-19BS-December, 1909 fltCHflNJtHAB _____________________________ Vol.3, No.l
                                   D.  RELIGIOUS SCH00I5
      Since the very beginning of contemporary education in Afghanistan, religious subjects have been taught in religious (madrasq) as well as other schools. The style of teaching has not been quite satisfactory. Islam is not only the religion of more than 99# population of Afghanistan but it has so much penetrated in the daily lives of our people for centuries that it has also become a part of our historic genuineness and identity of our nation. The role played by religious scholars and Intellectuals of our nation in enlightening and guiding the God-worshipping people of our country and in the flourishment and expansion of Islam in the World is quite clear to everyone.
      Islam, since the time when our people accepted it as their religion, has been a source of our salvation and freedom. In the light of these realities, religious education in our country, in the short-term and in long-term,, should be organised in such a manner so that we may be able to provide staunch, poius, virtuous, learned and prudent Muslim men and women to our society; Education in free Afghanistan, which is to be brought about after an era of crisis and struggle between atheism and theian,. should devote special attention to the curriculum, education and preaching of the holy religion of Islam and to the training of competent teachers. * ' _
                                   £, TEACHING jLITERACX
      The opinion of UN* experts- about teaching literacy is endorsed" anditis added"thatliteracyis not directed bnly towards attaining an ability'-to read and write but' it should’ also-serve"as a*vehicle for meeting the daily needsof illiterate and send—literate-peoplW - -;
      In other words,1 literacy’is a vital need of our people-and"we canhelpthe" people in the improvement ' of their- daily activiti es by attracting the’ illiterates - and semi-literate people through" a distribution of material useful’to the public.
      It is also considered worth mentioning that those responsible for literacy affairs in the future should not only workout plans for the curriculum and supply of materials need for literacy course,’ but should’ keep in mind the various crafts common in every region in compiling the required texts.
                                                   WOOT’S AFFAIRS
      The role and participation of women in the short-term and long-term reconstruction of Afghanistan cannot be ignored. ' Not only their education and training should be expanded, but their ^participation, specially in social services, is also absolutely needed. In any measure adopted for the " enlightenment and education, of people, the share of women should be taken into account along with respecting the peculiarities of the female population.
      Establishment of women societies in the provinces, rendering of help to the elderly and war affected women who have mostly lost their husbands and sons in the last ten years of our struggle, should be. recognized as an individual and collective obligation of our people.
      If in the past education and training of our women were not developed to a great extent, due to certain reasons, they should from now be carried out in all levels in a balanced manner.
      Short term and long term reconstruction of independent Afghanistan should depend oh the
              ■ ■ 1 •                            ... i
 scientific, technical and administrative cadres of its youth. As such, especially at the present phase of reconstruction, of our Country, towards which, the UN report is mostly directed, preparing
                                          101
                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1988-Decemberf 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                                Vol.3,  No.l
 of cadres for technical administrative and other services is urgently needed. Preparation of technical, administrative and other services in urgently needed. Such a preparation should mostly be directed toward the young men who are presently living as refugees and are. not employed in any specific Job. Keeping in view the real requirements of education in Afghanistan, even at this phase of urgent reconstruction, towards which this report is specially directed allocation of Just *>2 million is indeed nominal.
                                                         PART SIX
                                                   HEALTH AFFAIRS
                    * ,
      The communist regime and invasion of Afghanistan by the Red Army plundered and destroyed whatever had been done for health sector of the country. Together with the devastation of villages, hamlets and cities, a large number of health centers were also turned into ashes and some of them have totally vanished. The elimination of basic health centers in the provinces, where various health services were rendered, is not only sorrowful and regretful but reactivating them also appears to be difficult.. In rebuilding our health establishments on the basis of geographical distribution and demographic conditions of the provinces, the views of health planning experts, should also be taken into account. But these experts, too, should have sufficient knowledge
 and authentic information about our environmental conditions.
                • • !
      It is possible that masses of people who were able to escape from Soviet and its hireling's
 barbarism and massacres, might return to their homeland within a few coming months. It is not a" pimple Job to settle such a large number of people keeping in view the destruction of the sites of their'former residences and other, regional, racial and linguistic problems. House shortages and ‘ residential sites, lack of sufficient means of living, will.defixiitely'create a number of health problems, end- we should hot lose- sight' of these problems, lest1 the epidemics of measles, scarlatina, smallpox, cholera,11 typhoid and Continued diarrhoea, etc." bring about" such" a situation that' the people at the1helm of affairs may have to ignore the performance of their basic duties and'their entire time, money' and energy may be consumed only to fight these diseases.
      Hidden focuses of tuberculosis,malaria, ^cholera, typhoid, leprosy, etc. do exist in our country and with new conditions, created as a result of the influx of population and lack of enough means to fight them, there is a fear of their explosion..
      It should be acknowledged that prevention of diseases and protecting people from the dangers* of fateful plagues is to a large extent correlated with the standard of living. Experience has shown that the graph of epidemics goes down with a raise in the living stand. Every family which, according to our own environmental conditions, owns a normal residence (personal or rental) with sufficient food, flowing water, electricity, potable water, a system for disposal of residuals remains safe to a great extent from falling victim to diseases.
      Therefore, improvements in other sectors of living have a direct bearing on the reduction of 'diseases. Health programs cannot be implemented in isolation but have strong correlation with other {developmental programs and should be carried out parallel to other projects.
                                                   A. URGENT PROGRAMS
                             1.    HtOTBCTIVE HEALTH PROGRAMS
      At the first phase, we have to pay closer attention to protective health programs than medical
                  - - • \ - >
                                               102
                                                                          Vol.2, No. 2—/*
    October-^SB-December, 1909          fltGHflNJIHflII                  Vol.3, No.I
 treatment.' Protective health programs, contrary to curative programs, concerns the comnunity as a whole. It relieves people from fatal diseases and entails comparatively less expenditure and fewer personnel.
      We assume more than BCffc of our people had been living in villages and hamlets in the past, and now they are expected to return to the country. It is not possible to provide an all hospitals with facilities and personnel for every few villages and every few hamlets. Therefore, as a first step, basic health centers should be established immediately.
                     2.  REPAIR AND REVIVAL OF BASIC HEAJLTH CENTERS
      For meeting health needs at primary level and meeting the primary needs, keeping in view the distance between the villages and the nunber of their population, basic health centers had already been functioning in most of the sub divisions. Now it is necessary that these health centers ought to be repaired and activated. tThey should be primarily responsible for meeting the preliminary health needs of the people and play an important role in the protection of health. Therefore vaccinations, control of hygenic conditions of water and food, distribution of milk and vitamins among • children and mothers in the framework of child and mother care programs, providing dressings for wounds and oliler primary health services may be organized in these centers.
      These centers do not have curative objectives and patients and their guardians should not ' consider them as hospitals. It should rather be treated as centers where professional staff-go periodically with all necessary equipment to meet the immediate heeds of the people.
      On the other hand,' these oenters ought to be utilized as points" for aUVhealth activities in the villages' at the'time bfdak-dutv'of a^diaieabeV-v,'‘
      In the past, there were categories of technical'' personnel for such centers/ 'such' as ^health workers, vaccinators, chemists, nurses, etc. At times it was even difficult to provide work' for them . and now we may be able to utilize their services at a vast scale. Such persons should be trained and training centers ought to be established in various localities and local people should be enrol-.led in them.
      A list of sub-divisions, where basic health centers are needed is attached'with this report. A nunber of sub-divisions have already such centers and others should be established in the'remaining sub-divisions. In the attached list, requirements for regional and city "'hospitals' havealso'been spelled out.
      Health centers should be equipped with telecommunications and transportion facilities.
      Furthermore, it is proposed that children upto 10 years of age, who are ready to be shifted to the interior of Afghanistan, should be vaccinated against measles, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, etc. In this respect the program worked out by the UN is supported by us and we advise that'this program ought to be implemented.
                   3.    IMPLEMENTING THE BASICS OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
      By utilizing the services of the WHO and Afghan experts, the implementation of basics environmental health programs at village level will guarantee the elimination of ‘types of the diseases laminating from water, food and environment. •
                                              103
                                                                             Vol.2, So.2^4
     October-1988-Decanber. 1989           MBMMI iff HUM                    yol.3, H6.1
      In as much as water has been, identified as the source of life, it is'also considered as an important factor in communicating'diseases. Among the dominant and epidemic diseases, cholera and typhoid Can be mentioned as examples. In order to prohibit people from taking water from the polluted streams -and canalsy digging of hygenic wells in every sub division is necessary. UNICEF had already launched a program in this respect and it is hoped that this program should be revived.
      Heaping up of dirt and residues in the open air causes abundance of flies and mosquitos (particularly malaria mosquitos) and accelerates the transfer and production of diseases and here, too, health conservation'plans and measures ought to be implemented.
                          ACTIVATING CHILD AND MOTHER CARE CENTERS Oh the basis of the WHO recomnendation, providing such centers with sufficient amount of powdered milk, vitamin and protein containing material is essential at* the beginning of* rehabilitation programs.- It is being recomnepded in this respect that the WHO and other organizations ought to undertake special and long term programs and act accordingly. .
                                                 B-LCNG TERM PROGRAMS
 1.   Equipping of present regional and city hospitals including medical and other facilities needed for a regular hospital. <
 2.   Rectifying the organizational structure of the Public Health Ministry in accordance with the environmental requirement s.
 3.   Rectifying the educational and training system both at college and vocational school levels, ■- -! and opening of urgent vocational- courses. •
 if. Remcfval of all post-dated medicines particularly the antibiotics.
 5.  Reviving and expanding of tablet and ampule, manufacturing laboratories to meet out domestic •
 needs.'                                                      ..
 6.  Reinstatement of the vaccine and Serun Manufacturing Institute.
 7*  - Amending and revising the national medical formuliar.
 Q. Seeking foreign assistance for- training' consultants and medical specialists abroad.
 9.  ‘ Strengthening of* the Orthopedy Center for manufacturing domestic material ds is done by the <
 CIRC.
 10.. ^Completing and expanding blood bank centers.
PROVINCES  REGIONAL HOSPITALS CITY HOSPITALS    BASIC HEALTH CENTERS         
Badakhshan        - ■         Faizabad          Zaibak, Wakhan, Ashkasham    
Baghlan    Baghlan Industrial Pul-e-Khunri /    Doshi, Talah Barfak, Khenjar 
1BadgfcLs  i ■ _              Qala-e-Naw        Marghab, Qades, Juwand       
Balkh      Mazar-e-Sharif                     - Balkh, Dawlatabad            
Bami^n             -                     BamLan Panjab, Kohmard, Yakawlang   
Chekhapsur         -          Asal-e^Chekhansur Charburjak, Zaranj           
                                            104 . ,                          
October-1968-December 9 1989  ttWUUI           Vol.2, No.2-4                
                                               Vol.3, No.l                  
PROVINCES REGIONAL HOSPITALS  CITY HOSPITALS   BASIC HEALTH CENTERS         
Parah     -                   Farah            Anar-darra, Shindand         
Paryab    Maimana             Andkhoi          Pashtunkote, Shlreen Tagab.  
, Ghazni                      Ghazni           Moqor, Katawaz, Ander,       
                                               Hahore, Jaghori, Karrabagh   
Ghor      - ■                 Cheghcheran      Shahrak, Lal-wa-Sar-Jangal,  
                                               Pasaband                     
Herat     Herat                      *         Ghorian, Gulran, Obah,       
                                               Zindajan, Karkh, Kohsan,     
                                               Aderakan                     
Helmand   Lashkargah <               -         Nehr Seraj, Kajaki, Nawzad,  
                                               N ad-e-Ali                   
Jauzjan   -                   Shejbarghan      Sang Charak, Sar~e-PulfAqcha 
Kabul     Aliabad, Ibn-e-Sina,                 CharasLaby Paghman,          
          Jamhooriat, Wazir Akbar Khan -       Astaleef, Dehsabz            
Kapisa                        Mahmood Iraqi    Tagab, First part of         
                                               Panjsher, Second part of     
                                               Panjsher, Sarobi             
Kandahar  Kandahar                   -         SpLnboldak, Khakrez, Arghan- 
                                               dab, Panjwaee, Band.         
Kunar                       - Asadabad         Khas Kunar, Sarkani,Kamdesh, 
                                               Darra-e-Pech                 
Kunduz                      - Kunduz, Khanabad Hazrat Imam, Archi,Qala Zal  
Laghman                   • - Mehtarlam        Karghaee, Alinagar           
Logar                       - Baraki Barak     Pul-e-Alam, Azroo,Charkh     
Nangarhar Jalalabad           -                Shinwar, Khogiani, Behsud    
                                               Hesarak                      
Paktia                        Gardez           Khost, Urgun, Jaji,Chamkani  
Parwan                        Charikar         Zuxraat                      
Samangan                      Aibak            Ghorband, Bagram, Jabal-e-   
                                               seraj, Surkh Parse'          
                                               Darra-e-Sawf, Khelm, ■       
                            -                  Roo-e-Duab .■                
Takhar                    --- Taluqah          Rustaky Ashkroashy Farkhar,  
                                               Khost and Farag              
Uruzgan                       Tireen           Dalkundl, Darra-e-ilaud      
105
* .____ ' t \ -                             Vol.2, No.2---4      
0ctober-198B-December. 1989  nun            Vol.3, No.l          
                                                                 
PROVINCES REGIONAL HOSPITALS CITY HOSPITALS BASIC HEALTH CENTERS 
Wardak    -                  Mai dan Shahr  Behsudf Sayyedabad   
Zabul     -                  Kalat          ShinkL, Shajoee      
       The hemes of a number of some sub-division might have been changed or might have been annexed to other provinces. City hospitals have been classified/as grade-I, grade-II and grade-III on the basis of their environmental requirements.
0ctober-X988-December, 1989
Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
PESHAWAR SEMINAR DISCUSSES SHORT, LONG
Muslims Participation
 |
 ft ~
 R
 R
 i
 R
 I
 ; r *.
 ; r
 i ft ; R
 ; R-
 ! R i ft
 l|
 i R ; ft
 is
 IS
 ; R ; R i R i R
 ; &
 ; R i ft,
 tf r a! a a s as at
 1! a * a s
 It
 If
  EDITOR'S NOTE; In a 'three day Seminar held under the auspices of 'Islpmic Rlief Agency (ISRA) and with the collaboration of the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Ministry of Afghan Interim Government 23-25 November, 19891 seven wbrkshops, attended by Afghan Pakistani and Arab specialists were held to report on short-tenn and long-term plans for Afghan reconstruction and rehabilitation* The seminar was opened by Prof* Burhanuddin.Rabbani, Minister for Reconstruction of the Interim Islamic Government of Afghanistan, The following is the text of Rabbani’s speech and of the reports submitted to the semipar by seven workshops set to deliberate on issues of reconstruction and rehabilitation. The text has been edited by. the Center for Asian Studies, Islamabad,
 a: a;
 a!
 3
 a !.
 it
 a; a f a : a:
 a
 a
 a
 a s
 7 ;

                     IN1HE NAME OF GODt MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL.
 ’                                 RABBANl's    SPEECH
      Praise be to: Allah, Lord of the Universe, ids peace and mercy be Upon Prophet Muhammad, his family, disciples and preachers of His call, and the Mujaheddin striving for His cause until the Day of Judgement.                                                             •
      Esteemed and dear brothers, respected ansars. Allah's peace and mercy be upon you!
      It is a source of great joy to me that our heroic and determined mujaheddin and the Afghan nation have achieved unparalleled success on the battlefront by defeating the Russiian Red Army. Undoubtedly, the defeat;and expulsion of Russian military forces by our faithful and oppressed na-
107
 <
                                                                              Vol.2, No*2-4
     October-1986-Pecember, 1989 flfGHilHittHAB                               Vol.3, No.V
  tlon represents an event of epic proportion in the history of the modern world. This unprecedented victory, gained by. the heroic efforts of our mujaheddin in the battlefields, represents a crucial step toward the7achievement of our ultimate goals, the freedom and independence of our country. However, aggression against the suffering people of Afghanistan has not ceased, and the tentacles of communism are not yet severed, since .the Russian puppet regime is still kept in power in our homeland, Under these circumstances, having taken the first major step toward final yictory, our heroic nation and our beloved and determined mujaheddin are ready to enter the next equally important pha-          1
  se of our struggle, the reconstruction and development of our country. We,are confident that with the vigilence and determination of our committed mujaheddin, the vestiges of Russian aggression in Afghanistan will be removed; and our Muslim nation will begin the phase of reconstruction with the same level of enthusiasm that they have shown during the military phase of our jehad. Repatriation of refugees, resettlement of internally displaced people, . rehabilitation and reconstruction of the      <  j
  country, provision of relief assistance to the needy, indigent and victims of war, assistance to       ,,     j
  the families of the martyrs, and finally, struggle and striving toward development and progress of        • ■ \
              .                1                                 ■  ■ •               '.                        I
  our country constitute another jehad challenge which also requires a victory and successful conclu-*         ;|
  sion from our nation. We are certain that oiir heroic nation, ^who responded with great enthusiasm            1
  to the public call for armed jehad, will once again express their commitment and willingness to the
  call for the mobilization of our nation for reconstruction and development of the country as a sac-           ]
  red duty.           .          >                            •,
       At this point, 1 would like to draw your attention, briefly, to the importance..of efforts         ;
  toward construction, social development and progress of human societies, and the utilization of the gifts of creation from the perspective of Islam. The Holy Qur^an (Sura 57:25) concerning the provision of resources for humanity points to the significance of the uses of iron in military, construction of dams and other necessary implements by stating that: "And we sent, down iron, in which is (material for) mighty war, as well as many benefits for mankind."
       The usefullness of iron in construction and industry and meeting human needs is certainly well understood. In another instance the Holy Qur'an (Sura 21:80) more specifically points but the role of iron in satisfying military needs: "It was We Who taught him the making of coats of mail for your benefit, to guard you from each other's violence."
       In relation to the use of iron in the construction of dams, the Qur'an says (Sura 18; 96-97):
  "Bring me blocks of iron ..."
       The Glorious Qur'an addressed not only the significance of iron, and the importance of indus-            j
  tries to the sustenance of hunan life, but also highlights many other factors and forces which play a crucial role in the development and progress of humanity. For instance, on the significance of ' lend and agricultural products Qur'an (Sura 55:10-12) states: "It is He Who has spread out the earth ■ for (His) creatures: Therein is fruit and date-palms, producing spathes (enclosing dates); also ^prn, with (its) leaves and stalk for fodder, and sweet-smelling plants."
       The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, saysf"Any Muslim who undertakes to cultivate a seedling or a plant, which can be eaten by a bird, a human being or a domestic animal, has given sadaqat (alms)i"; and such Muslims will be rewarded for their deeds. In another hadith the Prophet, (Peace be Upon Him) says "If you were witnessing the onset of the Doomsday and one of you has a palm shoot An his hands, plant it without hesitation."                 -
                                                ■ 108 ■

                                                                                            Vol.2, No *2—4
October-1988-December, 1989 AtGHANJEHAD                        Vol.3,  No.'l
            Imam Qartabi, a major translator and interpreter of Qur' anin his. Tafseer states that: "Agriculture and planting of trees are not something that can be ieft to wishes or whims of individuals, rather, it is the duty of the state and government to make sure that the people undertake such activities." In reference to commerce and financial matters, the Glorious Qur'an says the following: "...Others travelling through the land, seeking God's bounty; yet others fighting in God's Cause..." (Sura 73:20).
            It is significant to note that in this verse those who are engaged in the material and commercial activities are mentioned before those who are fighting on the battlefield, thus clearly demonstrating the high degree of importance accorded in the Qur'an to socio-economic activities. The Prophet (Peace be Upon Him) also says: "Those merchants who are honest in their business will be .standing at the same place as the martyrs on Doomsday." Now let us return to main topic of our discussion: the problems of reconstruction in our homeland.
            The decade long war has caused incredible destruction, damage and devastation to the country ■and it still continues. The long suffering peoples of Afghanistan and the mujaheddin government are faced with monumental difficulties and problems in their efforts to rebuild the country. . Here I
                           j                                                _
      would like to touch on some of these issues:                                           N
            1.        The destruction of irrigations systems; killing or displacement of farmers; rising numbers of agricultural disease and pests; spraying of poisonous chemicals; and the use of napalm and planting of mines have seriously affected agricultural production, resulting in food shortages which threaten the country. Because of. fighting in Afghanistan,' the natural course of life has been upset. Unemployment has increased. With the return of our refugees, if effective measures are not taken, the
      situation will become worse.
                                • 1 ■ • .• . *
            2.  The existing currency in Afghanistan is faced with a spiralling decline in its value.
      Given rapidly rising prices and depleted national reserves, the currency is likely to further dec-
      ' line or become internationally worthless.
            3.        The education system has been totally disrupted. Most of our youth and children have been deprived of an education. Those of our children and youth who are attending schools in the refugee camps, and those few who are studying in educational establishments, other than those sponsored by the mujaheddin organizations, are likely to encounter difficulties from problems; of languages of institution and cultural differences. We must begin, from this moment, to devise plans and programs.
      ■to overcome them. Also, the problem of those children and youth who were sent to Russia for educa- . lion, or have been subjected to brain washing, Marxist indoctrination and atheism inside Afghanistan.
            4.  The repatriation and settlement of refugees, in their devastated villages and cities, the
      provision of tents and the basic necessities of life.                                                  '
            5.        Supporting the families of martyrs, and assisting the many victims of war and the handicapped will be of high priority, particiilarly in the initial phases of rehabilitation,
            6.        Solving myriad health problems, fighting the various diseases, protecting the environment, preventing further spread of tuberculosis, mental illnesses, dermatological diseases, and other maladies which the refugees are likely to bring back with them to the country; and even more significant is the continued treatment and rehabilitation of those disabled and disfigured by ,the war,
                                                          109
                                                                       Vol.2, No*2f-4
        October-1988-December , 1989 MIO                               Vol.3,  No.t
            7.        The assurance of security from internal enemies, those who oppose Islam and national interests,
            8.  Proper control, management and solution of difficulties arising from the presence of many
      heavily armed groups and the various parties, and uniting and organizing them within the framework of a single Islamic armed forces,              ;
            9* The establishment of at central authority, guarantee of national unity, and operatioriali-.zation of a national administration,
            10* Effective and determined struggle against all interventionist powers and forces who are trying tirelessly to hinder the final - victory 6f mujaheddin in order to prevent the establish** ment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan,
         '  11. The development and proper utilization of our natural resources to further our national
      interests, 'and prevention of‘their exploitation by foreigners,
            Overcoming these complicated and difficult obstacles requires tremendous cooperation, willingness to accept responsibilities, and dedication on the part of all Afghans to participate in . the processes, of rehabilitation, reconstruction and development of' the country.
            Despite these monumental'problajis'confronting us, at this,pointin our discussion, it is critical to take note of the fact that we are'^fortunate'io have'access to some very important cultural resources and basic principles within our national' heritage* These strong and lasting forces have -enabled,us in the past to overcome problems, achieve our cherished goals, and accomplish great tasks. Among them, one may recall the following:.
            1.  The richly endowed and comprehensive civilization of Islam which is. the driving force of
                        1 . - ' { fundieunental changes and social transformations, the principal means for solving our problems, and
      achievement of our goals.
            2.        The heroic spirit of national resistance which has proven its effectiveness through the total mobilization of our people during the period of jehad. Our nation has passed'the test,' gaining valuable experiences in organization and administration, becoming aware of the urgent national needs and international climate. These .are all major elements which will undoubtedly be of important help in reconstruction efforts.
            3.        The considerable natural resources in our country that have either not been utilized in the past or have been exploited by foreigners,
           1 4. The revolutionary leadership that has arisen and developed from the heart of our revolutionary and goal-oriented society during the jehad is also one of the main components in assuring the successful implementation of our rehabilitation and reconstruction programs.
            5.        The fundamental transformations in the thoughts and attitudes of the people affected during the revolution has helped prepare them, mentally and practically, for implementing significant changes and undertaking reconstruction projects and programs.
            6.        The deep sense'of responsibility felt by the mujaheddin for the families of our martyrs, who gave theij: lives.for the cause of Islamic revolution, will ensure the safety of their trust and encourage us to strive for the speedy and effective reconstruction and development of our country.
           ; / '• ' : ■ ' '110
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
October-19B8-December, 1989 AFGHANJIHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
               At this pointj it is important to note that, in the process of planning for the reconstruction of our. nation and the resolution of the myriad problems following the end of the war, close attention to the following priorities and concerns and addressing these should be uppermost in our minds:
               1.        In undertaking the reconstruction, all facets and areas of our task should be planned strictly in the light of the glorious teachings of Islam, and in conformity with the national identity and Islamic values and traditions of our Afghan society.
               2.        The spirit of resistance and struggle which has so strongly evolved during the period of jehad must be nurtured and sustained during the reconstruction phase. In other words, the task of national mobilization during the reconstruction must be firmly built upon the positive attitudinal changes and social transformation which were brought about during the jehad.
               3.  In the reconstruction efforts, those forces and individuals among mujaheddin who have
         demonstrated perseverance in their battlefield experiences, well-established records of order and
                                      •            ;      f   .          (         ’         •. 1        i
         discipline, and have passed the test of self-sacrifice and determination should accept the responsibilities of reconstruction in the first instance. Then, those talented and skilled Afghans who have | been away from the battle front should be mobilized, followed by professionals from the Muslim and non-Muslim countries, as they are needed. /■
               4.  Special attention must be paid to the development of skilled njanpower in the reconstruction
         of our country since utilization of modem technology without adequate knowledge and understanding would not be possible.             >
               5.        Voluntary work and assistance must be promoted and encouraged to help actualize the Qur'anic principle of WATA'AWANU ALALBERRI WAL-TAQWA.
               6.        Participation of all people through shoora in the determination of their destiny and administration of the country at the national level and providing them access to the management and , reconstruction efforts by means of. establishing jehad shooras at the level of military fronts and local administrative centers appears to be critical to the success of all reconstruction programs..
               7* Forging unity among all segments 0f the population, parties and jehad organizations as well as political forces is one of the vital and necessary factors in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of our country.
               8.        Ensuring security through the strengthening of mujaheddin government, and participation of all peoples in the determination of the future of their nation, is a critical factor for the Successful implementation of all reconstruction programs.
               9.        In a well balanced, appropriate and wholesome reconstruction program for the resolution of existing problems, shariah rules and regulations'must replace non-Islamic codes of laws and traditio*--nal customs and practices,
             10.       Our' educational goals must be and remain faithful to Islamic ideals. Our youth should be raised as exaraplary Muslims (mu'min) both in their thoughts and-actions. Because, as the Holy Qur'an (Sura 13:11) says: "Verily never will God change the condition of a people until they change it themselves (with their own souls)". That is, no significant and meaningful change in the society is pos— sible, without individuals first undergoing a basic change.
                                                             Ill
                                                                           Volt. 2, No • 2--4
         Ootober-1988-December, 1989 AFGHANJfHAD                           Vol.3,  No.l
            11.       Coordination of theoretical knowledge and education with practical experience in the reconstruction processes of the country is particularly important.          „  •
            12.       Attention to vocational education and short term training programs would help accelerate the reconstruction process.
            13* In the industrialization of the country, priority should be given to the use of the country*s natural resources whenever conditions permit.
            14.       The construction of communication links and development of light industries, particularly national cottage industries, should have priority over the establishment of heavy industries.
            15.       We must rely ort the use of modern technologies. However, especially in the early phases of reconstruction, we must, avoid the use of excessively complicated technologies since doing so may result only in high costs, delay in work, and may promote our dependency on others. In most Third World countries, the application of technology, followed by fads and fashion or major names, both in urban development or other areas of social services, have resulted in heavy indebtedness, intruptions in work and constant delays.
            16.       A policy which discourages the excessive use of domestic raw materials for consumer goods and eneourages their greater utilization for the productive capital goods would be essential for the development of domestic resources.
            17.       In regards to agricultural development, it should be pointed out that: based on certain statistical information concerning agricultural lands, if the lands were cultivated, and improved correctly, food supply would be sufficient for 70 million .people. Unfortunately, in the past, we always had to import food from outside. Mechanization of agriculture, mine clearance, use of chemical fertilizers, application of improved seeds, availability of necessary information to the farmers through.
      . extension services, and their encouragement through offers of.material incentives and purchase'of their produce for reasonable prices could help alleviate the problem of food shortages in the country, Undoubtedly, agricultural experts, who are present here, will have further suggestions and thoughts on this matter.                                     v
            18.       Most of the forests in the country have been either destroyed or seriously damaged because, of the war. During the reconstruction of our nation, it is imperative that attention should be given to them.
            19- Much of the livestock, which is one of the most important ’ elements of our national resources* has either perished or been greatly reduced in numbers. To help remedy this appalling situation, special attention must be paid to the improvement of animal breeds, provision of veterinary services and protection and improvement of pasturelands.
            20. In the field of health, the spread of diseases must be halted. Appropriate measure must be taken to control the spread of'germs and germ carrying insects from the living habitat. Public health information must be disseminated through the electronic and print media as wtell as organization of conferences in villages and centers of population concentration. Public health must take priority over the curative and clinical approaches to health care,
               ■                                   •                       '     •                    1       tv
       /    21. In the field of information and culture, the newspapers, (periodical^, radio and television
      jBhould provide guidance to our people toward the achievement of the goals of the Islamic government
                                                                                                                          112
                                                                                     Vol.2, No.2-4
            Qctober-1988-December, 1989            11(11111111 JEHAD                 Vol.3» No.l
           « .* •» and the reconstruction and development of our country.
              22. For the reconstruction of the country, reliance on trained national manpower and use of our domestic i*aw materials is absolutely essential and necessary.
              23,. We must utilize the foreign assistance extended to us toward’the establishment of the kinds of enterprises that produce essential goods and avoid expenditure in acquiring luxury goods.
         It is my understanding that two countries were the principal beneficiaries of the Marshall Plan following World War II: The Islamic nation of Turkey and Germany. Both countries had received substantial funds for reconstruction of their wartom nations. Germany used its donated funds for the \ establishment of productive infrastructure, she is at present among the economically most prosperous ' and powerful industrialized countries of the world. Turkey, on the other hand, used all donated and borrowed funds at its disposal toward the purchase and manufacture of consumer goods. The Turkish nation is still carrying the burden of paying the heavy interest rates from those loans.
              24.       We must pay special attention to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of villages and rural aneas which have sustained serious damage during the war in order to prevent the oxodus of rural people from the villages to the cities. Rural-urban migration results in halting production of primary subsistence goods and raw materials, causes excessive urban congestion, produces social tensions and class conflicts between recent rural migrants and long-time urbanites which we all have.witnessed in our own homeland. As you might recall,the Marxists usied such discrepancies between the lifestyles of the urban poor in the Shore Bazaar district with those of Shahr-e-Nau of Kabul,
         as, part of their deceitful anti-Islamic propoganda, alleging that such differences were the product of Islamic system of justice.        ^                                                  ,
              25.       In rebuilding our cities, we must strictly avoid the construction of superficially modem cities. Because in some developing countries, for example Nigeria, in building their national capital, Lagos, they spent some $16 billion to construct, an ultra modem city. In reality, however, one sees that only a short distance from the edge of town are the most delapitated ghettos and individuals who live in mountain caves.In Afghanistan we must prevent the development of the so-'’
        • called resort towns which have become so fashionable in the Third World countries.
              26.       pi the reconstruction of Afghanistan, Islamic architectural styles must be revived because^, in addition to rebuilding our country, we will help preserve our significant Islamic heritage.
              27.        In obtaining assistance towards the reconstruction of our country, we should seek help from many different foreign countries. We must be, however, very careful not to accept loans with .very high premiuns since such activity will not only result in future social and economic difficul-
                                        , 4 ■                                                             i
         ties but it could also threaten the very fabric of our national political freedom and liberty.
              Given all the problems we have mentioned do far, and in view of all the major principles which we must consider in addressing these problems, we must then ask ourselves what plans and programs ought to be devised for the purposes of repatriating refugees, and the rebuilding of Afghan society and economy? It is my conviction that in the first instance we should take advantage of the useful experiences of those countries who have in the past engaged in reconstruction efforts following devastation of wars. Following the saying, khaz ma safa d*d» ma kaddar (take the true or -pure and leave the blemished or the wrong)} I believe, our basic orientation should be to try to
                                                                                                       J
         improve upon the experiences of others, while attempting to address the specific problems facing us*
                                                         113
                                                                                                 Vol.2, Ho.Z-k
October-1988-Deceiiiber, 1989 mGHANJEHAD                            Vol.3, No.l
       As our Prophet, (Peace be Upon Hun), has stated: "Allah likes if any one of you puts a work to execution, He perfects it,"
      I Now, allow me to explain my views on repatriation and rehabilitation of the refugees, and the reconstruction of our country. From my perspective, one could divide the processes of rehabilitation, resettlement and assistance to. our refugees into three main stages or phases;;
             The first phase should consist of the provision of emergency help and assistance' to rescue those facing serious problems, the resettlement of refugees living outside the country and those who have been displaced within Afghanistan, to their original places of residence. This phase will take from one year to two and p. half-years. In this first stage, for the purposes of resettling the refugees| we will need provisions of adequate'food supplies, medicines and tents. Prior to the' returns of refugees and construction of their homes, it would be necessary to set upvcamps and temporary centers using tents or alternative inexpensive forms of shelter for returnees. Based on our . previous experiences of life in refugee camps, we should be able to anticipate that these camps must be equipped with such facilities as medical personnel and supplies, madrasa and other conveniences. . for several villages Or camps an hospital or other necessary facilities should be planned. We must mobilize Afghan physicians in Iran, Pakistan and elsewhere to Start joining us from this moment, so as to avoid the. possible epidemics or food shortages, and other difficulties among the returning refugees which could result in the development of a negative-attitude toward Islamic government.
       It is important to ensure that the shortcomings pertaining to the management of jehad are not wrongfully attributed to the Islamic , system.'
             For the orphans- and disabled, specific places should be reserved. Their specific .future medical and financial requirements should be taken into account to avoid prolonged. dependence on handouts and to help them move toward long-term viable self-reliance.
            Before any large scale resettlement of the refugees inside the country can begin, an extensive mine clearance program has.to be undertaken in order to reduce as far as possible the possibility of losses of human life at the time of repatriation. Serious drinking water and fuel shortages |Will also be major problems facing the returnees since forests and trees in most parts of the country have been totally destroyed. Our natural gas, which has been exploited by the Russians, continues to be under their control. During the early years, following the control of our natural gas,
      1 We may not be able to effectively utilize it. due to the absense of the. necessary pipe lines and other dificulties. Therefore, plans to provide drinking water and fuel must be given top priority for'the repatriation process. For this purpose, accurate counts of refugees with the help of Pakistan Office of High Commissioner for the Refugees and the Iranian authorities will be essential.
             Statistics concerning the number of refugees in Pakistan and Iran who can be expected to return need to be prepared in advance so that the necessary transportation arrangements can be made. All necessities, such as vehicles, medicines.and food need to be provided in advance. In addition to the . efforts of Interim Government, authorities, and other relevant institutions, a-jconcerted effort must be made to encourage voluntary participation of the people in the first stage of resettlement. Thus, • in accordance with the Qur*anic verse wa ta»awanu *alal berri waltaow (render help towards) we should' begin an all out collective and voluntary action towards repatriation of the Afghan muhajezin. •
       , The second stage could be called a phase of limited improvement and development of social and
                                                                                        Vol.2, No.2-4
               0ctober-1988-December, 1989 flfEHAHJtHflD                                Vol.3, No.l
1 . ' >> - . and the reconstruction and development of our country.
                 22,       For the reconstruction of the country, reliance on trained national manpower and use of our domestic raw materials is absolutely essential and necessary.
                 23.. We must utilize the foreign assistance extended tq us toward’the establishment of the kinds of enterprises that produce essential goods and avoid expenditure in acquiring luxury goods.
            It is my understanding that two countries were the principal beneficiaries of the Marshall Plan following World War IIs The Islamic nation of Turkey and Germany. Both countries had received sub—
1          stantial funds for reconstruction of their wartom nations. Germany used its donated funds for the
          v establishment of productive infrastructure, she is at present among the economically most prosperous 1 and powerful industrialized countries of the world. Turkey, on the other hand, used all donated and borrowed funds at its disposal toward the purchase and manufacture of consumer goods. The Turkish nation is still carrying the tyurden of paying the heavy interest rates from those loans.
                 24.       We must pay special attention to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of villages and rural aseas which have sustained serious damage during the war in order to prevent the oxodus of rural people from the villages to the cities; Rural-urban migration results in halting production of primary subsistance goods and raw materials, causes excessive urban congestion, produces social tensions and class conflicts between recent rural migrants and long-time urbanites which we all have.witnessed in our own homeland. As you might recall, the Marxists used such discrepancies between the lifestyles of the urban poor in the Shore Bazaar district with those of Shahr-e-Nau of Kabul,
            as part of their deceitful anti-Islamic propoganda, alleging that such differences were the product of Islamic system of justice.        ^
                 25,  In rebuilding our cities, we must strictly avoid the construction of superficially modern
i          cities. Because in some developing countries, for example Nigeria, in building theirnational capi-
            tal, Lagos, they spent some $16 billion to construct, an ultra modern city. In reality, however,
I          one sees that only a short distance from the edge of town are the most delapitated ghettos and
;          individuals who live in mountain caves.in Afghanistan we must prevent the development of the so- ''
          • called resort towns which have become so fashionable in the Third World countries,
j   ■      ■                                                               '     '          •
                 26.1n the reconstruction of Afghanistan, Islamic architectural styles must be revived because^ i          in addition to rebuilding our country, we will help preserve our significant Islamic heritage.
I               27. In obtaining assistance towards the reconstruction of our country, we should seek help
            from many different foreign countries. We must be, however, Very careful not to accept loans with j          .very high premiums since such activity will not only result in future social and economic difficul-
            ties but it could also threaten the very fabric of our national political freedom and liberty. -
                 Given all the problems we have mentioned do far, and in view of. all the major principles |          which we must consider in addressing these problems, we must then ask ourselves what plans and
|          programs ought to be devised for the purposes of repatriating refugees, and the rebuilding of
            Afghan society and economy? It is my conviction that in the first instance we should take advantage j          of the useful experiences of those countries who have in the past engaged in reconstruction efforts
            following devastation of wars. Following the saying, khaz ma safa d'a* ma kaddar (take the true or ]          pure and leave the blemished or the wrong); I believe, our basic orientation should be to try to
I          improve upon the experiences of others-, while attempting to address the specific problems facing us.
                                                           113 ■
                                                                                              Vol.2, No*2—4
0ctober-1988-Deceraber, 1989 flfGHANJtHAD                         Vol.3, No.l
          As our Prophet, (Peace be Upon Him), has stated: "Allah likes if any one of you puts a work to execution, He perfects it."
         (      Now, allow me  to explain my views on repatriation and rehabilitation of the refugees, and
          the reconstruction of our country. From my perspective, one could divide the processes of rehabilitation, resettlement and assistance to our refugees into three< main stages or phases^
                The first phase should consist of the provision of emergency help and assistance to rescue those facing serious problems, the resettlement of refugees living outside the country and those who have been displaced within Afghanistan, to their original places of residence. This phase will take from one year to two and a half.years. In this first stage, for the purposes of resettling the refugees/we will need provisions of adequate food supplies, medicines and tents. Prior to the return of refugees and construction of their homes, it would be necessary to set up,camps and temporary centers using tents or alternative inexpensive forms of shelter for returnees. Based on our previous experiences of life in refugee camps, we should be able to anticipate that these camps must be equipped with such facilities as medical personnel and supplies, madrasa and other conveniences* For several villages or camps an hospital or other necessary facilities should be planned. We must mobilize Afghan physicians in Iran, Pakistan and elsewhere to start joining us from this moment, so as to avoid the possible epidemics or food shortages, and other difficulties among the returning refugees which could result in the development of a negative attitude toward Islamic government.
          It is important to ensure that the shortcomings pertaining to the management of jehad are not wrongfully attributed to the Islamic system.'
                For the orphans and disabled, specific places should be reserved. Their specific ..future medical and financial requirements should be taken into account to avoid prolonged dependence on handouts and to help them move toward long-term viable self-reliance.
               Before any large scale resettlement of the refugees inside the country can begin, an extensive mine clearance program has.to be undertaken in order to reduce as far as possible the possibility of losses of human life at the time of repatriation. Serious drinking water and fuel shortages (will also beWjor problems facing the returnees since forests and trees in most parts of the country have been totally destroyed. Our natural gas, which has been exploited by the Russians, continues to be under their control. During the early years, following the control of our natural gas,
         ■ We may not be able to effectively utilize it.- due to the absense of the. necessary pipe lines and other dificulties. Therefore, plans to provide drinking water and fuel must be given top priority for the repatriation process. For this purpose, accurate counts of refugees with the help of Pakistan Office of High Commissioner for the Refugees and the Iranian authorities will be essential.
                Statistics concerning the number of refugees in Pakistan and Iran who can be expected to return need to be prepared in advance so that the necessary transportation arrangements can bp made. All necessities, such as vehicles, medicines and food need to be provided in advance. In addition to the efforts of Interim Government, authorities, and other relevant institutions, a ^concerted effort must be made to encourage voluntary participation of the people in the first stage of resettlement. Thus, . in accordance with the Qur'anic verse wa ta«awanu *alal berri waltaqw (render help towards) we should begin an all out collective and voluntary action towards repatriation of the Afghan muhajerin.
                The second stage cpuld be called a phase of limited improvement and development of social and
                                                114
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
0otober-1988-December, 1989 AFGHANJtHAfl                      tfol.3, No.l
          economic institutions or a phase of emergency and necessary reconstruction involving a nunber of short term tasks. Immediately following the relocation and settlement of thie returning refugees, we cannot expect to start full scale economic activities such as constructing factories, building dams, and undertaking major agricultural projects. Rather, during this phase, we can begin to lay a firm foundation for the economic and social developments. We may properly refer to this period as the preparatory phase to industrial development and progress. Then we must ask what specific tasks have to be completed?
                 In tMsi'phase,' all surface roads, asphalted and otherwise, which were built before the war must be repaired or reconstructed. In order to accomplish this task, from this moment, the Ministry of ^.©construction together with the help of friendly countries and humanitarian organizations must • draw-up plans for road construction. Also, to the degree possible, dams and other economic and agricultural projects which existed in the past and have sustained damage during the war should be rehabilitated. Furthermore, during this stage, we will require considerable humanitarian assistance so that we may be able to care for the disabled, the families of the shuhada (martyrs), and the orphans in order to help than become self-reliant during the later stages.
                 The third phase could be defined as the phase of national movement toward social and economic development and progress in the country. While we estimate the second phase to be completed within . about two and a half years, the third phase, however, should be considered to last po less than five years and could be carried in terms of five or ten years development plans. In this phase, the rapid economic growth and development of our nation, as I stated at the beginning, requires the kind of motivational force, devotion and commitment which our people have demonstrated during the Islamic aimed struggle, jehad. In this third stage of reconstruction, our nation's peoples must prove that the heroic determination, persistence and tenacity which they have shown in the battlefield, can also be directed toward social and economic growth and development in order to enable us to stand- at par with the rest of developed countries or at least among the developing nations. To accomplish our objectives in this important phase, we need the assistance and diligence of the ‘brightest and most thoughtful Afghan professionals and specialists as well as those of the Islamic and other friendly nations. Their sincere and close cooperation is essential through all phases of planning and implementation. After the collection of accurate statistical information, study, and utilization of the experiences of wartom countries after World War I and World War H, the comprehensive master plan should be formulated with close attention to our Islamic and national values and aspirations. We must also benefit from the knowledge, experiences and insights of international scholars in the planning and implementation processes of the reconstruction of Afghanistan. In this regard I would also like to draw the attention of the interim government to the prevention of brain drain from our country. We must also find ways to attract the return of Afghan professionals from     /
          abroad. We ought to be careful in this matter. Some of the people may have been away from the jehad; for a while or may have not shot guns with us yesterday, but today they may be able to play a critical and effective role in the reconstruction of their country. If we begin to call them names and shame them, it would constitute a serious and dangerous mistake that we must avoid. We must welcome all of our knowledgeable and capable people, wherever they may be, show respect and encourage them to join hands with us and to feel safe and secure among us. We must also help create the conditions--in which they could put their innovative and creative thoughts and ideals into practice. We should ‘ pay'heed;to the following verse of the great (Persian) poet Hafez, who says;
                                                     115
 I
                                                                                October-1988-Decem.ber, 19 89
Vol.3, No.l
          O'Hafiz, your job is to Just say the prayers Don't worry about whether anyone heard t|riem or not.
          This means we should not simply let them write plans and -say things to which no one will pay , attention. Let no one say that, because they were away from the war front, they should have no part jin the future of our nation. We must not repeat such mistakes since one of the most serious problems iof the Third World countries today is brain drain. Other countries train scholars, we unfortunately !are chasing them away and denying them the chance to utilize their creative energies. We must seriously oppose this trend. In the phase of general mobilization of our people, we need to makie use of all resources of the country. All possibilities must be employed, and I am certain that the* \cill be.
                                  The Proceedings
           After the inauguration, introduction, appraisal of pre-and post-invasion Afghanistan, and various suggested proposals about post-war reconstruction, the workshop was divided into the following seven groups to discuss sectoral proposals and make recommendations:
           1.      Industries, Commerce and Natural Resources, 2. Communication and Transportation, 3. Urban Planning and Development, 4* Irrigation, Agriculture and Rural Development, 5. Education, Mass Media and Human Resources, 6. Health and Social Welfare, 7« Administration, Organization and Financial Resources.
           After two days of intensive discussions and deliberations, the seven groups prepared and presented their proposed recommendations during the concluding session of the workshop. These policy .recommendations are given below. ’
                                  Recommendations
                        INDUSTRIES, COMMERCE, NATURAL RESOURCES
          The group was divided into three sub-groups to make separate recommendations on each of the sub-sectors: industry, commerce and natural resources.
                                            INDUSTRY,
           1.      Some of the industrial units which existed before the Russian invasion should be rehabilitated to the basic level of productivity which existed in 1978. Unfeasible units should be considered for replacement by new viable units. If possible, the equipment of such units should be used in feasible projects to make their rehabilitation more economical.
           2. A start should b.e made in rural areas by setting up small technical workshops equipped with basic machine tools to develop local technical skill and capability for production of components of locally used equipment, such as agricultural machinery and tools, civil construction equipment, water supply equipment, etc.
           3.      Since Afghanistan has an economy more that BOffo based on agriculture, AGRO-BASED industries ; should be given top priority. They may include industries like cotton ginning, sugar, fruit and
      I vegetable processing, carpet making etc.
           L. Establishment of anall industries catering to civil reconstruction of the country such as^
        ■ the manufacture of reinforced concrete products, cement, mechanised mud^locks, drinking water supply,
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHJ1NJEHAD . / Vol.3, No.I
          prefabricated construction material and renewable resources of energy for domestic use .should be pro-
                                                                                   I
          moted.
                5. A team of experts should visit industrial units in the neighboring countries of Pakistan
          and Iran to study the possibilities of technical anu economic collaboration in different industrial fields.                                                 ,
                6. Establishment of industrial norms and standards should be considered,
                7.       Study of existing rural area cottage industry and development of carpet manufacturing, cloth weaving on looms, etc, should be encouraged by the Government.
                8.       The AIG should provide incentives to start some anall scale industries, such as fruit drying, leather processing, and soap making, and should establish some technical workshops and arrange for the supply of drinking water in the already liberated areas,
                                             NATURAL RESOURCES
                Natural resources of Afghanistan can be divided into four main categories.
                1. Forest and vegetation:
                The process of desertification has been speeded up in recent years. The Interim Government should collect all previous studies and initiate programs for reforestation by large scale planting 'of forest trees, discouraging the cutting of trees and wood trading. A campaign could be started to this effect by educating people through the mass media, such as radio programs, distribution of pamphlets in local languages, etc.
                Alternative sources of fuel and energy should be found to preserve wood and vegetation; for example by importing/locally producing coal, kerosene, L.P.G., etc. Afghanistan could seek technical assistance from Pakistan and/or Iran in this area.
                Biogas technology should be used wherever possible. Wild life should be protected,
                2. Rivers.
                Maximum use of rivers should be made for power generation and irrigation. New feasibility • studies should be prepared for establishing power plants and irrigation systems after consulting previous. studies.
                     hydro-power plants should be set up similar to those in the Punjsher Valley. Ponds/ water reservoirs should be constructed to collect seasonal water in already liberated areas.
                3. Underground Resources:
                Guidlines should be prepared for proper exploitation of precious stones and other underground
                        r            *                                                   ■        , -
          resources. Feasibility studies establishing industries based on these minerals should be prepared in the light of available information.                                                           ■ i
                AIG should prepare proposals for the levy of taxes and regulations on export of these products.
                Hydrocarbon is another item to which special attention should be paid.
                AIG should start training young Afghans in the field of Hydrocarbon industry with the help of Pakistan, Iran and the Gulf States.
                                                    11?
 October-1988-Deeember, 1989
Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
                                                     COMMERCE
      1. The present status of trade and commerce , together with the trade contracts with other countri es executed by the present* and the previous Afghan governments should be reviewed.
      2.  Transportation systems of roads, and air services should be improved to facilitate and
 promote internal as well as external trade.                                           *
      3.        ITC and GATT should be contacted to collect their literature for study and training of AIG personnel who will be involved in the Trade Ministry later on.
      4* Statistics Should be prepared by the AIG regarding present areas of internal and external trade to determine new markets.
      5.  Trade with neighbouring countries such as Pakistan and Iran should be increased.
      6.  Imports should be restricted to the minimum.*
      7.       Possibilities of barter trade with some countries should be examined and items and countries for such trade earmarked.
      6. Possibilities of Establishing AIG banks in the liberated areas of Afghanistan should be studied which could form the basis of setting up a Central Bank of liberated Islamic Afghanistan.
 This Central Bank could be associated with the World Bank and the I.M.F.
      9. Insurance schemes for covering life and private and public property should be worked out, and possibly, an Insurance Corporation set up.
      10.       The Islamic Development Bank should be approached to seek its help in supporting the above program, and in trading with Islamic countries. The advice of the Islamic Chamber of Commerce • ■ and Commodity Exchange in Karachi should also he sought.
      11.       Present status of the entire balance of payments, including-invisibles, should be reviewed.
                                       COMMUNICATIONS, TRANSPORT,
                                              COMMUNICATIONS
      1.  It is proposed that radio telephone be activated in the liberated areas of Afghanistan.
      2.  The Radio Relay System which is with the Mujaheddin should be repaired and made active.
      3.       Communication through artificial satellite system is possible and should be considered . and made active.
      4.  Telephone communication through exchange is simple and should be activated. ,
      5.  The communication system; between Peshawar, Tbrkhun, Kabul and Islam Qila were erected
• before the so-called Saur Revolution but the completion of the work was postponed by the Communists, Efforts should be made to activate the system.
      6.        A postal service should be started from Peshawar by the Islamic Interim Government or . Afghanistan to help the muhajerin in Pakistan send letter ^) relatives in Afghanistan.

h
  . 'I
118
                                                                                           Vol.2, No*2-4
dctober-1988-December, 19B9 AIGHANJEHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
        7.        In Afghanistany the postal service operation between the centers of woliswalis (subdivisions) and wilayats (provinces) should be activated with the help of technical and administrative personnel.'
        8.        Communication was possible up to five kilometers by means of walkie-talkies. This should be extended to meet zonal requirements.
        9.        The simplest means of communication should be implemented first in the liberated areas by the Islamic Government of Afghanistan, and more sophisticated methods and systems can be introduced in the future.
                                                        TRANSPORT
       Road transportation between various parts of the country for the movement of passengers and goods can be divided into four categories:
       Category A - Highways, paved or concrete, such as:
       (i) Kabul-Kandahar, (ii) Kandahar-Herat, (iii) Islam QLla-Turghundy, (iv) Kabul-Gardiz, (v) Kandahar-Speen Buldac, (vi) Kabul-Torkham, (vii) Puli Khumri-Hairatan, (viii) Kdbul-Shir Khan Bandar
       Category B - Includes better and functioning roads (not paved) which join provincial capitals,
' such .as:
       (i) Kandahar-Tarinkot, (ii) Faryah-Badghis, (iii) Parwan-Bamian, (iv) Mai dan Shahr-e-Behsood, (v) Bamyan-Chighcheran, (vi) Farah-Chakharan, (vii) Herat-Qala-i-Nau.
       Category C - Roads which connect the centres of the Provinces to the woliswalis. A number of bridges and sub-bridges are hot well constructed but it is possible for traffic to utilize them throughout the year.
       Category D - The roads which connect the centres of woliswalis to alaqadaries (districts) and villages. Their sub-bridges are good and traffic passes on these throughout the year, except in special instances.
       Categories A and B are the responsibility of the Ministry of Reconstruction to establish, construct, and maintain them. These roads are used for heavy traffic. At present, manpower is not sufficient or efficient enough for construction purposes and their economic impact is limited.
#hese roads call for considerable technical and material resources and only companies can undertake the job of construction. Construction and maintenance of Category 0 roads is the job of village ; development authorities. These roads will have to be repaired and constructed and maintained by the .Villagers in return for wages in cash or kind.
       The maintenance of Category A and B roads and some C roads is in a deplorable condition and repairs should be done as soon as possible. Any delay in the maintenance work will prevent the smooth flow of road traffic. Maintenance of Category D roads and some Category C roads are the responsibility of the people. There are some difficulties in the smooth flow of traffic on these roads. The repair and maintenance of such4roads do not require sophisticated equipment or skilled manpower, The work can be carried out by unskilled labourers. Such roads built in Afghanistan before the Saur coup totalled 2,600 kilometers. Some of these are paved with foundation. Bridges and drainage have been designed by engineers.
                                                      119
                                                                  Vol.2, NO.2-4
   October-1988-Decemberf 1989 AIGHAN JEHAD                      Vo'1.3, No.l
       For reference, it may be pointed out that Kabul Kandahar road was constructed by the Morrison (Khudson) company, which has maps and technical specification of roads, water flow, bridges, and drainage systems. Maps and specifications are available in the library of the University of Nebraska, Qnaha, Nebraska, U.S.A. and can be consulted there at any time.
       The Kandahar-Herat road (built by the Soviet) was built at a high costs, much more than the traffic warranted, and it took a considerable time. Total cost was $130 million, which was beyond the economic means of Afghanistan at that time. The road was suitable for heavy traffic which was not the type needed for the area.
       To, facilitate the return of muhajirin to Afghanistan and their resettlement in villages, the Islamic Government of Afghanistan should immediately arrange the repair and maintenance of categories C and D roads. These would handle the smooth return of muhajireen and the provision of supplies needed by the people. These roads are closely connected with the day-to-day social and economic activities of the people ...
       Resting (on the availability of) government employees for roads in categories A and B and their reconstruction and maintenance is important. The damaged areas should be repaired. The repair and maintenance of roads in categories C and D will require prior demining of the area, which can only be done by the government. Some of the mines were laid by the Russians and others by the mujaheddin, maps of which are not available.
       Before the return of the muhajirin, it is essential to organize a construction committee under the Ministry of Reconstruction to study the sub-roads and the problems of repair and maintenance.
 In the meantime, another committee should be set up to study the question of road construction and the salary scales of skilled and unskilled workers engaged in road construction ano repairs. 'The committee should see that salaries paid to the workers of equal skills in other fields are the same so that there are no inequities. ‘         .
       In order to make life easier for returning muhajireen, arrangements should be made by the AIG for the transportation of supplies of consumer goods from commercial centers to villages, and in exchange the conveyance of agricultural and livestock products from rural areas to urban centers.
 In the absence of such arrangements, the returning muhajireen will not be able to settle in the villages and vd.il migrate to urban centers and create problems for the urban population and the government.
       A railway system is also needed in Afghanistan, but before that, sub-roads should be constructed, followed by major roads and then the railway system.
       As the air bases, including those needed for civil aviation, are at present under the Najib-ullah Government, the AIG cannot take any action with regard to them, but when the AIG takes control Of the entire country, matters regarding airports should be dealt with.
                                                 URBAN PLANNING;
       • A detailed policy for urban development, and planning should be made with the following guide-* lines and objectives in views
                                                                 Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-December, 1989      AFGHANJIHAD                  Vol.3,  No.l
       1. Islamic identity and ideology;
       2i Total self-reliance and self-dependence. Outside aid should be sought only under very special circumstances,                                       >
       3.        Priority should be given to the rehabilitation of the uprooted population in different regions, particularly in rural areas, until the people are able to stand on their own feet by:
       (a) Redeveloping and reclaiming the devastated areas, (b) Construction of new shelters/houses, (c) Providing infrastructure, basic amenities and means of livelihood to the people.
       4* Long term planning of towns and cities should be carried out and the future needs of the country prioritized:
       (a) Establishment of new, planned towns/cities, (b) Redevelopment of existing towns/cities in a scientifically planned manner so that these can cater to the existing and future needs of the population, (c) Small towns with agro-based industries should be preferred. Promotion of Islamic brotherhood through community centers attached to mosques should be encouraged at the district level, (e) Historical monuments should be preserved.
       5. Health facilities:
       (a) Proper land use planning on modem lines, (b) Privacy of the residents to be maintained,
 (c) No multi-storied buildings should be constructed, (d) Multi storyed buildings should be constructed only in commercial areas of urban centers, (e) Proper legislation for the use of city lands should be prepared and enforced.
                                                       Strategies
       1.        A planning commission should be set up. Information data bases should be prepared by collecting data from such sources as:
       (a) City plans prepared prior to the Russian invasion, (b) Government reports prepared before the invasion regarding the socio-economic structure of the various parts of the country, (c) Reports prepared by various agencies during the last decade, (d) Surveys ought be carried out to produce first hand data on the present condition regarding housing and traffic needs and growth patterns on a region to region basis.
       2.  A comprehensive master plan should be prepared for future urban planning and development.
       3.  Standards regarding the following should be fixed:
       (a) House sizes-, (b) Average, number of persons per room, (c) Provision of amenities/for each settlement, (d) Hierarachy of settlement, (e) Size and quality of roads (and streets).
       4.  Trained personnel should be employed in the Planning.
       5.  Local population should also participate in planning processes to incorporate the local
 sodo-geographical conditions in planning and development.
                                           • .
       6.  Industries are to be aligned with settlements to provide:                          ' '
        \  :                                     -    .                                         y
       (a) Job opportunities to the population, (b) Certain materials such as cement, fabricated
                                                             121
                                                                               Vol.2, No.2-4
      October-1988-Decembor, 1989 AfGHANJ[HA0                                  Vo'1.3, No.l
                       ^ ,.i- B. ■                                             V.     ‘
  cement blocks, etc, for house construction.
        7* The use of local skills and local raw materials such as muds, stone, wood, thatch, etc. as construction materials should be encouraged as much as possible.
        8.  Demining should be one of the most important priorities,
        9.        Provision of capital for various development purposes should be encouraged. Mobilization should be through internal as well as acceptable external resources.
      10.  Estimates of demand for, as well as supply of, resources should be worked out.
      11. Development should proceed simultaneously in cities and villages.
      12. Training should be given to people in the refugee camps in Pakistan and Iran to teach the skills of house construction using various construction materials.
  *v 13* Newly planned and redeveloped cities should be modern with regard to the provision of amenities and facilities. . v
      14». Planning of. large cities should be avoided.
      15* Neo-colonialism should be avoided.
      16. Town planning offices should be established in (vious) parts of the country, especially in provincial capitals, which can look after the reconstruction programs/projects and identify new projects in consultation with the local population.
      17* Unification and coordination of the activities of the various research organizations and committed consulting engineering groups should be arranged.
      18* In areas where there is no fighting now the mujaheddin should be involved in reconstruction activities*
      19• ; .Financial assistance should be obtained only from friendly nations, especially Muslim countries, without any ties or interest payments, preferably on a grant basis or a profit and loss sharing System*
      20.  Rural-urban migration should be discouraged by all possible means.
      21.        Afghan engineers and planners should be extensively involved in the construction and reconstruction work.
      22.  Local manpower, should be involved as extensively as possible as local contractors, engineers,
 supervisors, foremen and workers. • •
      23.        Both new cities/towns and old cities should be developed on a scientifically planned basts*
      24.        Roads between different regions, cities, towns and villages should be developed in the first instance.
      25.        Schools, hospitals, sewage disposal, electricity, employment opportunities should be included in urban development.
      26* Existing settlements should be reconstructed on a priority basis and then new sites
                                                               122
    Oc tob er-1988-Dec emb er f 1989 AFGHAN JtHAD
  Vol.2, No•2—4 /Vol.3, No.l
should be developed.
        27.        Special institutions such as colleges, universities and technical institutes should be : provided in all regions to the extent possible.
        28.  Health facilities should be provided in all regions.
        29.  Islamic ideology in house design should be ensured in terms of the following:
        (a) Privacy, (b) Security, (c) Height of walls, (d) Stores, (e) Haraj
        30.        Cities should be planned bearing in mind the needs of the next AO-50 years, and the following should be provided:
        (a) Wide roads and streets, (b) Separate parks for men and women and children, (c) Playgrounds and stadiums, (d) Mosques properly placed and community centers made available for celebrating various occasions, (e) Water supply for parks, trees and gardens, (fj Housing projects for the disabled, orphans, etc. should be constructed on a priority basis.
               IRRIGATION, AGRICULTURE, NATURAL RESOURCES
       Afghanistan is an agricultural country. According to prewar statistics about 85$ of the popur-lation depended on agriculture. In fact, the country*s economy up to 1978 was primarily based on agricultural products.
       During the decades up to 1973 Afghanistan was a wheat importing country which averaged about 115,000 tons annually. By 1974 the country was not only self sufficient but was also an exporter of agricultural commodities, with exports increasing yearly up to 1978.
      The on-going Afghan-Soviet war over the last ten years has directly and indirectly devastated agricultural production because of a combination of factors such as the inadequacy of irrigation water, insufficient farm power, breakdown of improved seed production and distribution, disruption Of fertilizer sales to farmers, and administrative chaos caused by the war, as well as direct destruction by Soviet military action. In addition to these-disruptions in the agricultural system, natural crop enemies such as insects, diseases, and even birds have become more prevalent and have reached epidemio proportions in certain regions.
       The cause of these disasters will remain as long as the war continues in the country. Naturally, settlement of the political struggle is the ultimate necessity, but short of that, the importation Of food and agricultural, inputs for those areas of Afghanistan which are controlled by the mujaheddin is essential if the country and people are to survive.                     /
       The biggest challenge regarding agricultural production lies ahead when about seven million internal and external refugees return to their home villages. Statistics collected through the Agricultural Survey of Afghanistan show that the country at present can produce just enough food to
  feei about eight million people; about two-thirds of the estimated 12 million population living in the country. The country is already importing about 500,000 tons of wheat. As soon as the situation .is favourable for the safe and honourable return of the five million external refugees, the country jid.ll have a food deficit for about 9 million people. How fast this deficit can be overcome depends on how quickly the returning refugees are able to rehabilitate their own agriculture.
                                          , . I 23
                                                                  Vol.2, No,2-4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHANJ(HA0                        Vol.3,  No.l
       In light of these problems, the group came up with the following recommendations on a priority
 basis:
       1. Reconstruction of the Irrigation systems.
       Afghanistan has a continental climate. The high mountain ranges, rivers and plains have led to the development of traditional irrigation systems on a level not surpassed by any other country.
 The limited available surface water is largely snow-fed.
       Besides streams and canals, a considerable amount of land (about 35,5000 hectares) is irrigated by the springs and karez system. The karez system was developed centuries ago and consists of a series of vertical holes about 50 feet apart, dug in a line through an underground channel beginning on a hillside and going to a lower elevation. About 12,000 hectares is irrigated by Persian wells.
       Recent surveys conducted by the Agricultural Survey of Afghanistan show that over 30$ of the * farmers irrigations systems have been-destroyed in one way or another. Since almost all of the important crops in the country are grown under irrigation, reconstruction of the irrigation system, especially streams, canals and karezes and water management must be given top priority. In other words, nothing can be done with the soil (except weed control) unless it is first irrigated.
       2. Farm power.
       Before the war, about 90$ of the farmers were.using oxen for land cultivation. About 70$ had their own exen and another 15$ shared their one animal with/another farmers. About 5$ of the farmers hired ploughmen and oxen. About 3«5$ had their own tractors, and about 5$ hired tractors. The remainder used no animal or mechanical power for their farming operations, often because they had orchard crops. In the north and north-eatft it was traditional for farmers to use horses for ploughing, though oxen were predominant. On some of the smaller fields in the east-central region donkeys •were sometimes also used. Camels were occasionally used in the north and west.
       A recent survey conducted both in the refugee camps and inside Afghanistan estimates that about 250,000 pairs of oxen would be needed to make up the shortfall and to reach pre-war level. It !is further estimated that if the only way of achieving this goal is by natural increase, it would Itake 17 years at a 3$ growth rate.
       Can the land ' be left uncultivated for such a' long period? Clearly not. On the other hand, the logistics of importing large nunbers of animals from Pakistan or Iran are prohibitively difficult and may not be feasible. The cost of the delivered animals, the cost of seed, and the risk of diseases should also be taken into consideration. Some.NGO's that have delivered animals have faced considerable logistical and other problems.
      • Based on these conditions and problems, the group puts more emphasis on the use of tractors, especially in the areas where tractors were used before the war. Animals should be considered primarily for areas where farm sizes are small or the land is steeply sloped or terraced. The use of
  stationary threadbare should also be encouraged.                                         .
       The use of hand tools of better quality should also be emphasized. Supply of hand tools at the
                                               124
October-
                                                       Vol.2, No.2—4
 198S-Decemberf 1989 AfGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3,  No.l
 beginning of the repatriation phase may. have to be arranged from outside as local blacksmiths will not be able to meet demand.
       3# Training.
       The objectives of the future self sufficiency of the country can be achieved by expanding the acreage of cultivated'land and increasing production per unit of area. The first option seems to be impossible because it requires a relatively longer period as well as a large financial investment which the country may not be able to afford at this critical stage. The second option can be achie-r ved through the use of certain improved transferable technologies which were available to some extent before the war. Therefore, emphasis should be placed oh training qualified extension workers .and the establishment of service under which the appropriate technology is extended to the farmers. They can also play a feed-back role to researchers in relation to the farming problems experienced within the country.
       Many of the returning refugees, being away from the farms for so many years, may also face different problems in their farming operations. Shortage of qualified mechanics, tractor, operators, carpenters, and blacksmiths may also become a problem in the years to come.
       The group, therefore, puts much* emphasis on training at different levels, starting from a very simple farming operation to the technical' and scientific field. The Director of Pakistan Nuclear Institute for Food and Agriculture has offered his cooperation in training Afghan refugees in
 various fields from simple woodwork to highly technical fields. This possibility, along with the services of other Pakistani institutions, should be explored. Meanwhile the Ministry of Agriculture can also formulate training programs based on the future needs of the country.
          Seed and fertilizer.
      Seed is probably the most important of all inputs. The benefit of using other inputs cannot be realized unless the seed has the genetic capacity of making use of the inputs, etc. The so-called improved wheat varieties grown by the farmers in Afghanistan have degenerated. They have become susceptible to diseases and have lost their high yielding potential and, in some cases, even their identity. These should have been replaced by new improved varieties many years back. It i3 certain that the introduction of inappropriate seed can be a detrimental factor in. a farm economy. A variety must be tested in the locality before it is distributed to the fanners. The group recommends that more emphasis should be placed on agricultural research in the development of high yielding and better quality crop varieties.
       The potential of improved crop varieties cannot be fully utilized unless it receives proper kinds and amounts of fertilizers. Two main types of fertilizers are in regular use in the country: diammoniun phosphate, also^ known as grey fertilizer, which is used at or before seeding; nitrogen fertilizer or Urea, colloquially known as white fertilizer, which is used at seeding and on the growing crop.
       Presently both seed and fertilizer are distributed by several NGO's with no clear cut policies. Some are distributing them free, others are selling them for cash, whil? still others are giving them on credit basis. In many cases, the highly costly seed, instead of being planted,is
                                                125
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2—4
    October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JEHAO                      Vol.3,  No. I
taken to flour mills and used as food. Fertilizer,. as well as the seed, is sometimes distributed
                                                                             I     '
to people with no land who then resell it in the market or to neighboring farmers.
       The group, therefore, recommends that proper policies regarding the introduction and distri-•bution of seed and fertilizers be formulated. Free distribution should be discouraged as much as possible. It is further recommended that the Ministry of Agriculture should establish Agricultural Offices inside the country to facilitate distribution of these commodities.
       5. Agro-Chemicals,
       As mentioned earlier, natural enemies are becoming serious threats to certain crops in different parts of the country. Weeds and rodents‘in various regions, locust and suhpest in the northern provinces, cut worms, borers, aphids and many other insects in almost the entire country are damaging the crops through yield reduction and also as a result reducing their overall production.
       Agro-chemicals are probably the most hazardous commodities for the farmers and their unchecked use must be avoided as much as possible. Any mistake in the use of their proper dosages or at the inappropriate time of growth of plants causes tremendous damage to crops. Specific chemicals used on wrong plants (such as 2, 4-D on orchard trees) can kill the trees and can wipe out the whole orchard. On the other hand, despite their hazardous nature we cannot avoid using them.
       The group recommends that policies should be made with regard to the specific chemicals introduced into the country for specific purposes* Their use should be restricted to only those people who have received proper training in their safe use.
      6/ Animal husbandry.
                        , Animal husbandry was a very important industry in the country. It was a vital buffer against poor harvests when animals were sold to buy grain. Ordinary and karakul sheep and goats, estimated
 * .       ....                                        '        i  .
 *at 25 million before the war, were primary sources of meat, wool, and skin. Cattle were estimated at 3*6 ^million and were mainly used for draught, milk and meat. Camels, horses, and donkeys, in all about 2 million, were the main means of transport in different terrains.
       Recently conducted surveys show that between 1978 and 1987 there has been e. decline of about 67# in the number of karakul sheep, ordinary sheep, and goats. The decline in the number of cattle '^las been about 50J5. SLrailar reductions have occurred in the number of horses (27#), donkeys (6$) and mules (2Z$),
        In addition due to the direct effects of war, animal diseases are frequently reported by farmers as one of their biggest fanning problems. This is to be expected with the increased and ■ ■ uncontrolled movement of animals and non-availability of veterinary services.
        The group recommends further investigation of animal diseases through further focus surveys.
  The group also recommends the establishment of veterinary clinics on provincial and distric levels. Attention should also be fdcussed on breeding of animals for the regeneration of animals as well as
                          genetic improvements. Special attention need*; to be directed toward poultry both for meat and egg
 (production.
                                           126
                                                                    VOX*        v
   Oetober-1988-Deeaiiber, 1989 MCHMJtHflfl                          Vol.3,  No.l
      7.  Village and district level surveys;
      For accurate and more precise planning a comprehensive survey of the level of destruction of houses, roads, bridges and irrigation systems is needed. Precise needs for the agricultural inputs can also be determined by village and district surveys. The group recommends such surveys be conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture.
      8.  Cash or food for work program:
      Many returning refugees vd.ll require food for work, or at least food support, for the first season. In some cases they will also require cash-for-work in order to pay.for their other needs.'
      The group recommends that an organization should be established within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Peopie should be trained, preferably 15 to 20 persons per district. ,
      9.  Forests.
      Forests are essential to the economic and social wellbeing of rural people in Afghanistan. Forests provide energy, industrial wood products, food, fodder and medicinal herbs. These are ^Lso priceless ecological resources, protecting land and water resources,controlling floods, warding t>ff wind erosion, and providing habitats for wildlife. Yet, they are being degraded and'destroyed at an increasing and alarming rate. The causes and contingencies of this destruction are well known but, unfortunately, there has been no solution. The real obstacle is the carelessness of the people, and lack of political, financial and institutional support.
       What is needed is a political commitment to practical responses, strategies for reforestation rand forest management. Strategies must be involved for the hundreds of thousands of people who live within and besides the forests and depend upon them to help satisfy their needs. Local committees must be set up as this is in their interest. In this respect the Ministry of Agriculture and certain NGO's have an important role to play. Reforestation and agro-forestation of damaged areas and establishment of tree nurseries would be important steps taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and NGO's.
      10.       The group recommends that for a more precise and prioritized planning an Agricultural Advisory Council made up of qualified experts should be formed within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture.
                 EDUCATION, MASS MEDIAVHUMAN RESOURCES
       Education should aim to produce a good Muslim in faith, in culture, values, and in practical behavior and readiness to follow the Islamic jehad. It should also enhance the intellectual powers
                                                            ,            • *            I,
 of the student and give him/her practical knowledge to help the country and earn himself a living, finally, education should develop body and mind by sports, and by establishing relevant associations for competitition in creative activities.
       1.        The educational policy of Islamic Afghanistan should'be the result of the Islamic principles of Shoora. At the local level, in the elementary cycle, the Shoora should be composed of parents, teachers, and professionals.
       2. Equal educational opportunity should be accorded to all Afghans because acquiring knowledge
                                              127
                                                                 Vo1*2, No.2—4a
   0ctober-1988-Decembert 1909 A(GUANJEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
 is an Islamic duty. Education should be compulsory and universal for all male and female Afghans.
                                                      POLICY.
       1.       Education should be run by the Ministry of Education of the AIG and by the Afghan Government in the future. The Ministry of Education should develop the curicullum, train teachers! and increase enrollment and educational facilities. However, local Shooras should make the major decisions concerning the language of instruction, site, and sex of the schools. Parents should also be consulted in the running and management of the schools.
       2.       The AIG should immediately establish a group of professionals on education to undertake th< task of planning, programming and implementing government educational policies for the Islamic Afghanistan of the future.
       3.       The present technical training and educational programs must be accelerated, strengthened, and expanded. Provisions should be made to establish more training and educational institutions to
                             t       -
 /satisfy the immediate reconstruction and rehabilitation requirements of professionals in Afghanistan.
                                          LANGUAGE OF INSTRUCTION s
       When economic circumstances allow, children of varying ethnic groups, comprising a certain percent of the Afghan population, should be taught in their mother tongue up to the 4th grade. However, along with this, children should be made proficient in one of the official languages of the country so that they may face little difficulty in pursuing their education at a higher level. The present instructional languages of Afghanistan should remain intact.
                                                     PESHAWAR
       The AIG has to take immediate action to solve the present educational crisis prevailing in. the refugee community. This state of collapse is the result of transfer of administration of schools from various resistance parties to the Ministry of Education of the AIG.
                                                  MASS MEDIA,
       Freedom of thought and expression is considered an integral part of Islamic society, for without it man cannot fulfil his role as willed by Allah.
       Allah has given free will to mankind and has made him his vice-genemd, or Khalifa, on earth. In order to fulfill both these tasks man must have freedom. This freedom must be universal and not Confined to any special group or persons for to be able to carry out one's duties as Allah's Khalifa pn earth one must have access to free sources of information. The multi-media carry out that task in contemporary, complex societies.
       1.       For the establishment of an effective media in the country we should take into consideration two points: (l) How we can create institutions which have the right and opportunity to enjoy freedom of the press. (2) How to ensure that these institutions do not abuse the freedoms with which they are endowed.
       In order to achieve this we can (a) create private institutions and work out a system of laws and regulations to prevent violations, or (b) on the basis of specific laws we can establish these
                                         128
                                                                                               Vol.2, No.a-4
October-198ft-December, 1989        AfGHANJEHAD                  yol.3, No.l
 institutions within the framework of the state in such a way that various organs of the state may not interfere in the affairs of the media for their own end3. This makes the media the "Fourth Estate."
       2.        Radio and television should not be privately controlled because of inherent problems in developing countries. However, even when functioning under the auspicies of the government, specific provisions should be made to avoid misuse.
       3, Not only in.the media field, but also in other fields, it is not necessary when a new government is established, committed to an Islamic order, that everything must start from scratch as far as material and human resources are concerned. In the field of media we will have at our disposal:
       (a) Printing plants in Kabul and the provincial centers, (b) established newspapers, operated by the government, which can be changed to propogate Islamic aims and objectives, (c) radio and television studios and transmitters in Kabul and major provincial centers, (d) a faculty or College of Journalism at Kabul University, (e) hundreds of staff working for these institutions, the majority of whom are not communists or sympathizers. What has to be done is to (i) mobilize these forces and facilities for our own Islamic aims, and (ii) improve and develop these human resources.
      5* A. As far as the functioning of mass media during the present period is concerned, the radio and news agencies as well as audio-visual methods should play a major role in the reconstruction and rehabilitation activities by reporting, informing and guiding the public, especially in agriculture, livestock, frestation, mining, education and technology, public health and other fields,
    < B, The AIG should also put emphasis on training of journalists with an Islamic orientation both for serving the immediate needs of our society as well as the long term objectives of the nation.
       C. The AIG ought to make special efforts to make its activities and the activities of the people heard throughout Afghanistan via both radio and audio-visual mathods. For this, the government will have to take immediate steps to establish a national radio station within Afghanistan.
                                                HUMAN RESOURCES
      Not available.
                              HEALTH, SOCIAL WELFARE,
       The group on Health and Social Welfare was attended by the following:
       Dr, Barakzai, Deputy Minister of Health, AIG, Chairman, Dr. (Rtd.) Air Vice Marshal Aslara Khan JTSRA, Dr. Murad All Shah, Professor Meer Ashraf-ud-Din Ansari, Dr. Abdul Haie, Dr. Nazif Shahrani, Dr, Pervaiz Khalil, ISRA, Dr. Sajjad Mumtaz, Dr. M. Nasim Siddiqi, Dr. Haider, Dr. Asmatullah Haya.
       1. Dr, Barakzai presented a working paper which provided guidelines for further discussion.
 A paper of Dr. Faizullah Kakar was circulated entitled as "An Inter-Sectoral Approach to Health for Post-War Afghanistan." Dr. Abdul Haie of Kuwait Red Crescent Society presented a paper outling the
 i health problems and some statistics on health problems in Afghanistan.
       2,        After thorough discussion the following areas related to health needs and problems were
 identified:
     October-1988-December, 1989 AIGHffiN J[HAD
Vol.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
         (a) Infant mortality and maternal care, (b) Disability problems, (c) Infectious diseases,
   (d) Immunization, '(e) Rehabilitation of war wounded, (f) Health problems of rural areas, (g) Primary i health care, (h) Health education, (i) Health manpower development, (j) Collection of statistical Information for health planning, (k) Health organization, its infrastructure and sectoral co-ordination, (1) Local remedies, herbal medicines and traditional healing systems.
   i 3. The group considered that before a discussion of the needs and problems outlined above, the basic question to be discussed is "what is the responsibility of an Islamic State regarding the health of its people?" Moreover, what should be the cardinal principles of health policy in an Islamic government.
         The group came to the following conclusions:
         (a) It is the responsibility of an Islamic government to provide health facilities to its people, (b) health facilities should be provided free of cost and maximum health facilities should be provided to the maximum number of people, (c) no health procedure which is against the teachings of the Quran and Sunnah will be followed or permitted, (d) as,far as possible, separate medical facilities (and teaching and training) should be provided for males and females in order to preserve their honojj and he jab, (e) preventive medicine should have the highest priority, (f) private practice, if allowed, should be strictly regulated by the government, (g) primary health care should be the vehicle of the health delivery system, (h) traditional medical systems and services will be assimilated in the overall health and education system.
         In light of the above, the following recommendations are given:
         I. To provide health facilities to the population at the grassroots level, primary health care centers should be developed in'the rural areas. For a population of approximately 20,000 a health center of type A, run by doctors and paramedic staff, shall be provided. For a population of approximately 10,000 to 13,000 a type B health center run by a doctor together’with paramedics shall be provided. In each such area, a health post for a population of 3,000 to 5,000 persons, run by a qualified health worker and supervised by the doctors working in the health center shall be provided.
         These centers and posts will simultaneously work toward the cure and prevention of malaria, tuberculosis control, safe drinking water supply, sanitation, vaccination, health education aqd
   social welfare work.
          / ,
         These health centres will also work as referral points and will be provided with ambulances and vehicles.
         II.        At the District level a 40-60 bed hospital, run by a surgeon, physician, obstetrician, pediatrician, medical officers and paramedics shall be established, which will be responsible for the needs of the whole population of the district.
         III.       At the Provincial level, a 200 to 250 bed hospital shall be established. The number of beds will be based on the population density. This hospital shall be provided with all possible specialities and sub-specialities. Diagnostic centers, blood banks, rehabilitation centres with good prosthesis workshops, and physiotheray facilities shall be developed.
         IV.  The following cadres of health personnel shall be trained as required by the future heal-
                                               '■ 130 ' _ ■ . ,
                                                                                                   Vd'1.2, No.2—4
 October-1988-Deceraber, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                           Vol.3, No.l
 th delivery systems
       (a) basic health workers (multi-purpose), (b) mid—lev.el health workers, (c) assistant doctors, (e) technicians for various sub—specialities, (f) pharmacy assistants, (g) qualified nurses, (h) dentists, (i) doctors, (j) specialists.
       V.        The curricula for training different health cadres shall be prepared by a special committee of the university of health of the AIG in consultation with various NGO*s, WHO and experts.
       VI.       The AIG shall initiate mass immunisation and large scale anti-malaria programs inside Afghanistan as a first step to implementing preventive health care programs.
       VII.       A detailed survey should be initiated to enlist all the clinics and medical facilities provided by NGO's, Jehad organizations and others iqside Afghanistan in order to assess future needs and also to monitor their activities and output.
       VIII. The Social Welfare Department shall provide vocational training to those disabled and handicapped as a result of the jehad so as to enable them to become productive, self-sufficient citizens.                                      •
       IX.   Medical research institutes shall be developed for:
       (a) Epidemiology, (b) Local herbal medicine, (c) Specific diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, cancer, (d) Translation of latest medical literature into English, Pashtu and Dari.
       X.        Specialized central laboratories and nuclear medicine centers shall be established as resources become available.
                            ADMINISTRATION, ORGANIZATION, FINANCIAL RESOURCES
       The following participated:
       M. Abdullah — Chairman, Abdul Wadood Zafari, Mahmood Karam, Kamal Halbawi, Habibullah Ghalib, Syed Daud Hashemi, Shireen BL1 Safi, Abu Ahmad, Pervaiz Ahmad, Fatehur Rehraan.
       The group discussed the extant administrative structure prior to and following the Russian invasion, including the existing administrative arrangement of the Mujaheddin in the liberated drees of Afghanistan.
       The group is of the opinion that we should retain whatever exists on the ground or has been there before, provided it does not conflict with Islamic values and the overall interest of the country. However, the group is also firmly of the opinion that ill-intentioned administrative experiments conducted by the Communists should be completely discarded, including the division of Afghanistan into five zones, because these measures were meant to promote divisive tendencies among the
 people of Afghanistan. The overriding objective of the Islamic State of Afghanistan would be to ensure unity, justice, peace, reconstruction and development of war ravaged Afghanistan. While performing these functions, it will also be ensured that the spirit of jehad and the Islamic character of the administration should permeate the entire administration. This will require the active involvement of the population, at every level in collaboration with functionaries of the government with a view to attaining politico-economic freedom.
                                                                            Vol.2, No.2^4
    October-19B8-Decembcrf 1989 MCMMJIHM)                                   Vol.3, No.l
                          The system of administration, therefore, should start at the grass roots level, i.e. the village.
       1. The mosque should become the center of activities of the local people. It is suggested that local administration should be organized at the level of the mosque. A representative local leader, assisted by a committee, should be responsible for planning and setting priorities based on the needs of the local community. Suitable jamia mosque congregational can be selected as the basic unit for the mobilization and participation of the local community for the socio-economic activities ensuring the Islamic character of the institutional set up.
       2.        Representatives from the local mosque councils should be elected for a similar committee and Shoora at the district level. Later, representatives from the district should elect from the Shoora at the provincial level-known as the Provincial Shoora.
       3.        An effective coordination arrangement between the Shoora and government of the province should be worked out.
       4.        ‘ The existing AIG structure should be reinforced by the organization of the departments from the Central government down to the district level. The Planning Ministry should be assigned
 the responsibility for planning, and human resource 4evelopment, apart from the normal socio-economic planning for development.
       $. The group unanimously proposes that an effective system for training and career planning for the functionaries of the government at all levels should be introduced. The group proposed the establishment of a Central Institute, preferably patterned after Staff Colleges (of Pakistan),where senior officers of the government can be sent for higher management training. Similarly, small institutions should be organized at the provincial level for training lower functionaries, emphasizing the acquisition of skills.
       6.        During the pro—service or inservice training the Islamic character of the training activities must be ensured at all levels.
       7.  A formal selection board should be constituted in each Ministry.
                                                                               /
       8.        A properly selected and trained cadre of civil servants should be maintained in order to ensure continuity of administration.
                                               FINANCIAL RESOURCES
       1.  While discussing the financial resources, the group was guiaed by two institutions of
 Islamic financial and economic management: "Zakat" and "Takafol". Once the principle of takafol is accepted~a variety of economic and financial institutions can be established retaining their Islamic character at every stage.                                               . /
       2.        The group is of the opinion that the Islamic countries and Islamic Development Bank should be approached for interest free loans and assistance on a grant basis.
           Private individuals from all Muslim countries should be encouraged and induced to invest . capital in Afghanistan.
       4* War damages and reparation payments should be claimed from the Russians.
        5* Unconditional interest free loans or grants may be accepted from favourable sources. The S^up, however, is of the opinion that these resources should be accepted with great caution.
                                                            132
                                       October-19B8-December, 1989
 (Vol.2, No.2-4
  Vol.3, No.l
                     BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
                                   GENEVA ACCORDS (DARI)
                       PLAYING) WITH THE FATE OF AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
     Author; Rossanne KLass; Translated by Prof. Dr. Klmi; Published by Bureau of Translation of Works on Afghan Jehad; 1988; 72 pages.
     It is a critical analysis of the Geneva accords. The translator has also rendered the
 .accords: in Persian.
                     WRITERS' WHO HAVE DEFENDED OUR TRENCHES (DARI)
     CompLled by Yusuf Nangial; Published by: Jehad Culture .; 1988, AO pages.
     It is a collection of biographical data of more than a hundred writers on the resistance with a foreword by the writer himself.
               AFGHANISTAN, POLITICAL AND MILITARY REPORTS (1977-1987) (DARI)
      Compiled by -Prof. Dr. Elmi; Published by Bureau of Translation of Jehad Works; 1988; 264 pages.
      A precise choronology of ten years of jehad events in Afghanistan.
                               THE MUJAHBD NATION OF AFGHANISTAN ON THE THRESHOLD OF TRIUMPH (DARI)
      Compiled by Muzaffari Takhari; Published by NIFA; 1988; 49 pages.
      Rnntjrf na ipformation about pro-Xslamic as well as post—Islamic Afghanistan. It also studies the jehad situation and conies out with certain conclusions about the future of Afghanistan.
                    THE BALLADS OF CHISHTI (PASHTO)
      Poet; Ghulam Farouk Chishti; 1988; 465 pages.
      It is a collection of mystic, devotional and jeha&Nasllads by Chishti who has rendered the . verses of Khushal Khattak, Rahman Baba and Amir Hamza Shinwaxi into ballads. It also contains ballads in Dari.
                ORPHAN IN AN ISLAMIC SOCIETY (DARI)
                             Compiled by Mawlawi Nizamuddin Nafay; Published by the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resis-
tance; 1988; 183 pages.
                                            133
                                                                                            Vol.2, No.2—4
October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JtliAD                      Vol.3,  No.l
     Reviews the legal status and Islamic rights of orphans and also covers information about the orphans in Afghanistan; It also offers proposals for meeting the needs of Afghan orphan community.
                            THE POUR COMPANIONS OF THE HOLY PROPHET,
                                   PEACE BE UPON HIM (PASHTU)'
      Author:. Muhammad Ismail Ibrahim; Translated by Ghulam Muhammad Farouk; Published by Taj Mahal Company Peshawar, 1988; 195 pages.
      Highlights virtues and blessings of the era of the four companions of Prophet Mohammad tpeace 'be upon him, ^who succeeded him one after the other.
                       THE LIFE OF MOHAMMAD, PEACE BE UPON HIM, (DARI)
      Compiled by Muhammad Shah Ershad; Published by Taj Mahal Company Peshawar; 1988; 1367 pages.
      Highlights the salient features of the life of Mohammad, peace be upon him ,and contains .details from his childhood to his Prophethood and his migration to Madina (The book was earlier published in Afghanistan).
                               GENEVA ACCORDS ON AFGHANISTAN (PASHTU)
      Author: Prof. Dr. Hassan Kakar; Published by WUFA; 1988; 231 pages. .
      It reviews the 12 phases of the DR sponsored Geneva talks on Afghanistan.
                                      ASHQARI'a POETRY (DARI)
      Poet: Mystic poet Ashqari; Preface by Nisar Ahmad Noori; Published by Taj Mahal Company Peshawar; 1988; 211 pages.
      It is an anthology of Dari verses by late mystic poet Ashqari containing mystic rhymes. •
                                JEHAD FCR THE CAUSE OF GOD (DARI)
      Compiled by Esmatullah Roohani; Published by WUFA; 1988; 314 pages.
      1. Literary and idiomatic analysis of Jehad, 2. miscellaneous issues related to Jehad, 3. The martyre, /y Bouty, .5* Battles and victories are its main topics.
                                 ISLAMIC POLITICAL SYSTEM (DARI)
      Compiled by Abu Tailq; Published by Hanolre Gazzette. a series of Islamic teachings; 19885
  314 pages.
                                           134
                                                                                            VoX.2, No,2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AHlHAN JtHAl)                      Vo 1.3, No.l
       The political system of Islam, Prophethood, nation, Caliphate, Government, foundation of . people’s leadership, who is sovereign, the people of wisdom ^the rule of Islamic jurisprudence, the limits of the rule of Caliph are the main topics of the book.
                                  THE PORTRESS OF JEHAD (PASHTO)
     Poets Eazl Wali Nagar; Published by the Hezb-fr-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 144 pages* •
  It is a collection of verses and ballads on Jehad, belief and revolution.
                       WHERE THERE IS NO DOCTOR            (PASHTO)
  CompLled by David Werner; Translated by Dr. Abdul Rahman Zamani; (third edition) I988; 570 pages. Contains details about.diseases and their first aid. It also contains a glossary of terms.
     THE DAY OF RESURRECTION AND RECKONING OF OUR DEEDS (DARI)
      Compiled by A. Mudafay; Published by the Memoire Gazzette; A series of Islamic teachings;
  1988;. 46 pages.
     The day of Resurrection and the reckoning of our deeds; do we believe in the Day of Resurrection? Prelude to the Day of Resurrection, the day of Resurrection and ancient people and the way to salvation, are. the main topics of the book.
                       THE JEHAD ANNUAL (DARI AND PASHTO)
     Compiled by CCAR; Published by CCAR; 1988; 108 pages.
     A compilation of the resistance chronology covering last months of 1985 consisting of radio broadcasts and newspaper coverage of the Afghan-Soviet War. -
                             EVERLASTING VIRTUE (FIRST VOLUME - DARI)
     Author! Al-HaJ Mulla Akhtar Muhammad Al-Hanafi Al-Maqahbandi; Published by NIFAj 1988; 187 pages.
     Studies matters of jehad, migration, peace, defense, bouty and contacts with" ; infidels. It
  has also material on proper types of dress.
                              CCNTINUED VIRTUE (SECOND VOLUME - DARI)
      It deals with matters pertaining to pullution, menstrual course, child birth, purity of water, secrets of the Kalima-e-Shahadat (There is no God but Allah and Mohammad is his Prophet), minor sins, directives on TV, VCR, and Cinema, prohibition of music and issues related to Bismillah(Prayer recited by a Muslim when he or she.begins with a job) prayer, etc.
                          PROPER WAYS OF "IJTEHAD" AND "TAQLEED" (DARI)
      Compiled by Mawlawi Muhammad Azam; Published by NLFA, Jamiat-ul-Ulema Muhammadi; 1988; 38 pages Islamic./exegesis on matters of theology and jurisprudence and limitation.
                                          135
                                                                       Vol.2, No*2-4
      Oetober-1988-December, 1989 fl[GHAN JtHAfl_______________________Vol.3, Mo.l
                      MESSAGE OP MAWLAWI MUHAMMAD YOUNUS KHALES’ (DARI)
        Aubhor; Mawlawi Muhammad YdUnus Khales; Published by Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Khales); 1988; 16 pages.
        It contains a message of Mawlawi Muhammad Younus Khales addressed to Afghan nation specifying the characteristics of the future leadership in Afghanistan.
                     GENERAL MUHAMMAD ZIAUL HAQ, THE MARTYRE OF AFGHANISTAN RESISTANCE ! (DARI)
        Compiled and published by^Cultural Committee of NLFA; 1968; 16 pages.
        About the services of the President of Pakistan Zia—ul>4iaq explaining his sympathies with the Afghan refugees and his support to the mujaheddin.
                                      THE SUFFERINGS (PASHTU)
    Compiled by Muhammad. Ayub Ghazgiwal; 1988; 220 pages.
    A collection of verses by the author written in folkloric and colloquial forms.
                                      SURROUND THE ENEMY (DARI)
        Compiled by Muhammad Bilal Nairam; Published by Jundullah Base of Kabul Province; 1988; (first [edition published in 1986) 162 pages.
        The mujahed commander narrates guerrilla tactics of besieging the enemy in the light of his own experience.
                                 THE LOST LOVE (PASHTU)
    Poet: Abdul Bari Jahani; 1988; 185 pages.
    A collection of resistance, national and devotion verses by the poet.
                     MEMOIRES OF PUL-E-CHARKHI PRISON:. (DARI):
        By S*N* Hussain!; Published by CCAR; 1988; 172 pages.
        The author was in the Pul-e-Charkhi prison^ during Tarakai and Hafizullah Amin and has brought into limelight his memories about the catastrophes perpetrated upon Muslims by cbmmunists.
                                  HAILSTGRM AND BULLETS (PASHTU)
        Poet: Habibullah Rafie; published by Aman Kitab; 1988; 272 pages.
        A collection of ten year nationalistic and resistance verses written by the poet during past 10 years.
                                             136
                                                                   Vol.2, No• 2-/*
   October-198&-December,: 1989 RUSHAN JIHAD                       Vol.3,  Mo.l
                             PAKISTANI AND AFGHAN RELIGIOUS SCHOLAR'S RULING ON.ELECTIONS (PASHTU)
     Published by Cultural Department, Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Khales); 1988; 14 pages. ,
     The verdict describes un-Islamic the appointment of a leader through general elections and brands it as an imported ideology of the East and the West.
                                INTERVIEW WITH AH1AD SHAH MASOOD (DARI)
     Reporter Abdul Hafeez; published by Jamiat—e-Islarai Afghanistan, Parwan office; Kapisa; 1988;
 8 pages.
     Commander Masood answers to questions about Geneva agreement, Advisory Council, fonnation of an Islamic Army and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
                        KGB,' SOVIET INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION (PASHTU)
     Author Moosa Khan Jalalzai; 'Published by Taj Mahal Co; 1988; 208 pages.
     Provides information on the KGB, its history and an account : of crimes it has comnitted in Afghanistan.
                                     THE BIRTH OF LIGHT (DARI)
     Speech of Prof. Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; Published by the Meesaq-e-Khoon Magazine, Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 78 pages.
     It is about the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. The speech also throws light on the present situation of jehad.
                                      THE CRY OF REVOLUTION (PASHTU)
      Poet Deedar Ahmadzai; 1988; 103 pages.
      Religious and resistance poems. It has also verses on the life of refugees.
                    CHARACTERISTICS OF'DAH3HAKA MACHINE GUN, ITS TECHNIQUE,
                                      AND HOW TO USE IT (DARI)
     Compiled by Senior Captein, Nasrullah Khan and Senior Captain Abdul Fatah Zahed; PubUahed by NIFA, 1988; 16 pages.
                THREE MAIN HtOBLEMS OF THE RESISTANCE AND OUR STAND (PASHTU)
     Speech by Hekmatyar; Compiled by the Hezb-o-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 78 pages.
                                                                 v
     The problems of leadership, solution of the Afghan problem and :issues related to religioq3/fac— ttonism are the three main points of the speech.
                                          137
                                                                  Vol.2, No*2—4
   October-1988-Deconber, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3,  No.l
                                       THE NS MM CANON (DARI)
            Compiled by Senior Captains Ghulam Rabi and Abdul Fatah Zahed; Published by NIFA, 1988, 32 pages.
  It provides details about the use and components of this canon.
                                        THE TEMPEST (PASHTU)
     Poet Latif Jan. Babi ; 1980; 33 pages.                  ’
     It is a collection of verses written by the poet about jehad and patriotism.
                       LEARNING 'ABOUT GROUND-TO-GROUND MISSILES-107-R,
                                       HOW TO USE IT? (DARI)
     Compiled by Senior Captaiii Abdul Fatah Zahed; Published by NIFA; 1988; 199 pages.
                                      CHIEF AND WOE (PASHTU)
     Poet: Latif Jari Babi; 1988; 114 pages.
     A collection of poems on resistance, patriotism, and an allout condemnation of 1 Soviet barba-rlsm ;
                                 AFGHANISTAN, 1986-1987} (DARI)
     ITS INTERNATIONAL POSITION AND SOVIETIZATION OF THE COUNTRY'
     Authorv(: Albert; Translator Sayyed Faqir .Alawi Published by the Bureau of Translation and Works on Afghanistan Resistance; 1988; 76 pages plus pictures and appendixes.
     Important topics are: Revolution, regional strategy, military operations during 1986-1987,'. Soviet! zation of Afghanistan, Islam and resistance movement, measures anti operations undertaken by the mujaheddin, people and their future, and the mujaheddin.
                                           MEMORIAL (DARI)
     Poet: Latif Jan Babi; 1988;: 148 pages.
     A collection of elegy on the demise of his young brother Abdul Hadi Babi in the jehad.
                                                                         /
                  RECITATION OF HOLY QURAN AND ITS IMPACT ON LIFE (DARI)
     Translator: A. Ashrati; Published by Islamic Invitation Association; 1988; 119 pages.
     Contains authentic discussions on virtues, blessings, attiquettes and impact, of the recitation of the Holy Quran.
                                GROANING AND'LAMENTATION (PASHTU)
  Poet: Latif Jan Babi; 1988; 109 pages.
      A collection of jehad and patriotic poems.
                                PLANNING FOR THE HEREAFTER (DARI)
  Speech by Hekmatyar; Published by the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 42 pages.
                                             <4
                                         138
                                                                                           VoX.2, Bo.2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN J[HAQ                       Vol.3, No.l
     The pamphlet refers to the teachings of Islam about resurrection and what should man do to prepare for that promised day.
                         CHRIST, A SERVANT AND MESSENGER OF GOD (PASHTO)
     Compiled by Muhammad Siddiq Rashed Saljuki; Translated by Mawlawi Mahmud Darawal; Published by CQAR; 79 pages.
     Studies the life of this great Prophet in the light of Quranic teachings and sayings of the Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, and Islamic beliefs which refute the claim that Christ was a son of God.
                         THE HOLY QURAN 5 TRANSLATION AND INTERPRETATION:
                                  THIRD VOLUME-PARAS 11-15 (DARI)
     By Abdullah Yousuf Ali; translated by Sabahuddin Kushkaki; Published by CCAR; 1988; 422 pages.
                     UNDER THE SHADOWS OF QURAN VOLUME II AND III (DARI)
     By Sayyed Qutub; translated by Muhammad Siddiq Bashed Saljuki; Published by CCAR; 1988 (second edition); 347 pages .
     Translation of the verses of the Holy Quran and detailed up-to-date commentary by the renowried leader of Ikhwan-ul-Muslimin^Sayyed Qutub.
                                   THE SPIRIT OF FREEDOM (PASHTO)
      Compiler and Poet: Muhammad Ibrahim Takar Jaji; 1988; 190 pages*
      A collection of jehad poems,
                    ANNALS OF AFGHAN HISTORY IN THE 19TH CEJTURr (PASHTU)
     Compiled by: M.J. Sayal Muhmand; Published by University Book Agency Peshawar; 1988; 77 pages.
     Narrates events related to the rule of Amir Sher Ali Khan until the death of Amir Abdul Rahman /as well as the 20th century,
                            PHASES TOWARDS REACHING OUR GOAL (PASHTO)
  Poet: Al-Haj Nangial; Published by Jaraiat-e-Islami of Afghanistan; 1988; 80 pages.
  80 pages.
      latest collection of the verses of the poet on jehad.
                         THE LIFE OF PROPHET MOHAMMAD, PEACE BE'UPCN HIM (SECOND VOLUME-THIRD SECTION) (DARI)
      Translated by Muhammad Shah Ershad; Published by Taj Mahal Co. 1988; .515 pages.
                          JALALUDDIN HAQQANI AND THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN (RASHTU)
     Published by the office of 'Menhajul Jehad" Magazine; 1988; 43 pages. -
                                          139
    October-1988-Dec ember, 1989 AfllHAN JfHM)
      Text of an interview with Mawlana Haqqani about the formation, duties and term of office of the AIG. •
                      TEXT OF A SPEECH BX COMMANDER MUHAMMAD ISMAIL (DARI)
      Published by the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 30 pages.
      Text of a speech by Senior Captain Muhammad Ismail Commander of Herat Front addressed to the-Afghan refugees in Iran explaining the situation of jehad and enemy plots against it.
                                         THE BIG EVENT (PASHTU)
     Poet: Abdullah Ghamkhor; 1989; 324 pages.
     Collection of jehad verses as well as those dealing with social events written by the poet, published for the second time with new additions.              <
                                       THE MADINA BLOSSOMS (DARI)
     It is collection of an epithetic poetry of late Qari 'Ghulam Hazrat, preacher at Pul—e-Kheshti, Mosque of Kabul.
                                        MARTXRE MAHMOOD (PASHTU)
     Author Habibullah Rafie; Published by Research Center-of Afghanistan Resistance, 1989; 98 pages
     Biography of marytre hero Mullah Mahm.oodzada, Also contains his- historic memoires and resistance poetry. (
    \ . ....
                        THE FATE OF RESOLUTION IN THE WAKE OF CONSPIRACIES
                                           AND CONFLICTS (DARI)
     Speech by Prof. Rabbani; Published by the Jandat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 44 pages.
     About uprising of 22nd of February, 1900 in Kabul.
                                       THE MORNING'STAR (PASHTU)
     Poet: Ghulam Hazrat Seemsar; Published by Ghulam Haider Seemsar; 1988; 130 pages.
     A collection of love and resistance poems.
                                  THE LIFE OF IMAM A*A2AM (DARI)
     By Allama Shebli Nomani; Translated by Muhammad Saadat; Published by NLFA; 1988; 176 pages.
     A biography of Imam Abu Hanifa. (lmam Aa'zam)and of his pupils.
                                    FLOWERS OF ONE GARDEN (PASHTU)
          pompiled by Muhammad Yaqiib Sharafat; Published by Hezb-e-Islarai Afghanistan (Khales)i 1989* 43 pages.
      A BRIEF'SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF MARTYRE NAIK MUHAMMAD (DARI)
      Published by Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1989; 23 pages.
      Recalls the heroism and valour demonstrated by martyre Naik Muhammad, Jamiat Commander in BadghLs province.
Vol.2, No.2-4
Vol.3, No.l
                                           140
                                                                  Vol.2, No.£-4
   october-1988-December, 1939 AFGHAN JE8AB                       voi.3, no.i
                   SOCIETY OF "THE AWAKENED YOUTH" (WEESHZAIMIAN) (PASHTU)
     Author; Ghulam Mohluddin Zarmalwalj Published by the Organization of Muslim Mujaheddin of Afghanistan; 1988; 10 pages.
     Details the aims and objectives of the Society of "THE AWAKENED YOUTH" founded in 1945*
   '    - • • : .. 5 ‘                                    .
                                   THE CARAVAN OF VICTORY (PASHTU)
     Compiled and published by Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 330 pages.
     Contains reports on the meetings held by Hekmatyar with the mujaheddin in Kandahar, as well as texts of his conferences which he held in the Baluchistan refugee camps.
                              SEPARATIONS AND PERSECUTIONS (PASHTU)
                        • I .
     Poet: Abdul Mateen Taskeen; 1988; 1-8 pages.
     Collection of the patriotic verses by the poet in praise of the country and of jehad and the objective of migration for a noble cause.
                             MARTYRE AND HIS HISTORICAL H0X*B (DARI)
 Speech by Prof. Rabbani; Published by Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan; 1988 ; 28 pages.
     A speech in connection with the general uprising of the 15 March, 1978, in Herat.
                                            PEARL (PASHTU)
     Author Dr. Mohammad Akbar Akbar; 1989; -106 pages.
     A collection of short stories about jehad.
                        INTERVIEWS WITH EXPERTS CM THE RECONSTRUCTION
                                      of Afghanistan (dari)
 Compiled and published by the office of Dari service, VQA; 1989; 61 pages.
     Contains interviews taken with Afghan and foreign experts on issues related to the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
                                      THE REFUGEE (PASHTU)
     Poet; Sayy.ed Muhammad Omar Shaheed; Publisher, not mentioned; 1988; 37 pages.
     A collection of verses on jehad and life as a refugee.
                                       ISLAM AND WOMEN (PASHTU)
     Compiled by; Sayyed Abul Aala Mawdoodi; Translated by Mawlawi Zahidi Ahraadzai; Published by t-he office of IKHLAS magazine; 1988; 54 pages.
     Explains the responsibilities and duties of women in Islamic society.
                                  ENLIGHTENMENT OF THE PUBLIC (DARI)
     Author: Mia Gul Sahebzada; 1989; HO pages;
     Critical and resistance verses in Pashtu and Dari.
                                             141
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2-4
   Ootober-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JtHAO               -________Vol.3, Mo.l
                      EDUCATION AND TRAINING OF CHILDREN IN CHAK DIVISION OPMAIDAN PROVINCE (PASHTU)
      Author M.Z. Shafiqee; Published by the Education and Training Department of Chak Division (Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan); 198$; 62 pages .and 16 pages of pictures. •
                                 BROTHERHOOD AND FRATERNITY (DARI)
      Translated by A. Ashrati; Published by Islamic Invitation Associationt as a series of Islamic teachings; 1988; 17 pages.
      It is a collection of Islamic guidances for the consolidation' of Islamic brotherhood and fraternity.
                              FIERI SONGS AND VERSES OF LIFE (PASHTU)
    . Compiled by Al-Haj Nangial; Published by Jehad Culture; 1989; 24 pages.
      A collection of poems written by NWFP and Baluchistan poets about Afghan jehad and in support of Afghan nation, with an introduction.
                     REASONS KB COMMUNIST TAKEOVER IN AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
      Authors Muhammad Ikram Andeshmand; 1988; 199 pages.
      The formation of communist societies and a historical portray of communism in Afghanistan and factors which helped the flourishmont and domination of communism,
                                  THE BEACONS OF BLOOD (PASHTU)
      Poets Toryaley Jaji; Published by Jehad Culture; 1988; 59 pages.
      First collection of jehad verses by the poet narrating the events, views and glories of jehad in a literary form.
                                SECOND AEGHAN-BRITISH WAR (DARI)
      By Dr, Hassan Published by NIFA; 1988; 157 pages.
                                THE CONQUEST OF MAIDANSHAR (PASHTU)
      Authors M.Z. Shafiq; Published by Hezb-^-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 47 pages and 32 pages of pictures.
      Gives an account of events and military operations during in 1989 leading to the capture of, Maidanshar, Wardak Province.
                                             PEARLS (PASHTU)
    Compiled by S.K. Kemal Shinwari; Published by NIFA; 1989; 368 pages.
    A collection of quotations from and about Prophets, religious scholars, mystics, learned people, and wise men of the Islamic world.
                                          142
                                                                    Vol.,2, No.2^4
 ' 0ctober-198B-December, 1989 AFBIMNJHIAB                          VoT.3, No.I
                                     POETICAL WORKS BY MAZHAR (DARI)
     Poet: Jan-e-Janan; Foreword by Nisar Ahmad Noori; Published by Taj Mahal Co. 1988; 135 pages.
     A collection of love and mystical poems of Jan-e-Janan.
                                                VEIN (PASHTO)
     Poet; Dr. Muhammad Akbar Akbar; 1989 ; 38 pages.
     A collection of resistance, social and love verses by the poet.
                        THE SAYINGS OF OLFAT (PASHTO)
     Poet: Late Gul Pacha Ulfat; Published by Dr. Abdul Rahman Ulfat; 1988; 169 pages.
                        I
     Collection of verses of late Gul Pacha Ulfat written just before his death. Depict sublime thinking . Also contains important political points and forecasts.
            DELIBERATIONS OF THE CONSULTATIVE COUNCIL OF AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
     Compiled by t<M.« 1989; 125 pages.
     It contains reports on the proceedings of the Consultative Council of the mujaheddin in Rawalpindi convened February, 1989. The author says he was present in the meetings of the council.
     IS AFGHAN WAR A WAR BETWEEN THE US AND THE USSR? (PASHTU)
   Speech by Al-Haj Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani; Compiled by Abdul Hadi Mullakhel; Published by the office of Al-Jehad; 1989; (Second Edition) 34 pages. ' ,
                 It refutes the propaganda of the enemies of jehad who say that the war is a Soviet-US war.
                                    KNOWLEDGE AND RESISTANCE (DARI)
     By Fazluilah Mojaddedi; 1988; 22 pages.
                                                               1
     The mujahed who is always at his trench, in a speech, explains to the compatriots about the virtues of jehad.
                                             MESSAGE ('DARI)
     By Muhammad Hashem Mojaddedi; 1989; 19 pages.
     It is an address to the mujaheddin, refugees and the entire Muslim nation of Afghanistan urging them for the consolidation of unity and solidarity and in this context his interview, with the .jfehda't newspaper of Peshawar has also been published,
                 FACTCBS AND CONSEQUENCES OF THE AHtIL COUP (19.78) (DARI)
     Compiled by Niazi Chiaidwari; Published by WUFA; 1989; 192 pages.
     A birds eyeview on Afghan political movements, adoption of the Constitution, communist, activities, coup of 27 April, invasion of Afghanistan by the Red Army, Russian problems after its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan.        .
                                           143
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AtGHANJ[HAD                          Vol.3,  No*1
                        REFORMS AND REVOLUTION (DARI)
   By Leon/ Poullada; Translated by Dr. Baqi Yousafzai; 1989 ; 305 pages.
   Deals with political, social and economic developments of the King Amanullah period.
                                           THE NCMAD (PASHTU)
   Author Khan Khadem, 1989; 3&8 pages;
   Deals with the life and culture of nomads and relates stories about their heroism and valour.
                                WHAT WE SAW WE ACCEPTED IT (PASHIU)
     Compiled by Abdullah Gul Qiyan; 1989; 69 pages.
                        I
     Main topics: Central Asia, Russian expasionist designs^hurdles in the way of Soviet expansion!an, destruction of mosques and elimination of religious figures, KGB and its tortures.
                              TALES ERCM THE JEHAD TRENCHES (PASHTU)
      Compiled by Muhammad Ibrahim Kakar; 1988; 103 pages.
      A collection of jehad events rendered as stories. It has material on the martyrdom of the mujaheddin and Russian barbarism.
               ESTABLISHMENT OF AFGHAN RULE IN INDIA, PERSIA AND AFGHANISTAN (PASHTU)
      ft
     By Dr, Muhammad Hassan Kakar; Published by WAFA; '1988; 143 pages.
     Aryana, Iran, Kabul, Khorasan, Afghanistan, Roa'a Pashtunkhwa, Pathan, Afghan, Pashtun, Paktiaf} Paktika, Afghan are the important topics of this book. Later it deals with the Afghan Empire in India and the Hotaki and Abdali rule.
      WAR BETWEEN ISLAM AND INFIDELITY IN AFGHANISTAN (PASHTU)
     Author not mentioned, Published; By the Rabita-e-Alam-e-Islarai; Translated by Abdul Barr Ghairat; 1988; 44 pages.
     Its main topics are: brief introduction of Afghanistan; Afghan events in 1973-1978, Communist military coup, Soviet military imperialism in Afghanistan, international reaction, a look at present situation in Afghanistan, the future of jehad in Afghanistan and Afghan refugees.
     WHERE PHILANTHROPY PREVAILS OVER MOTHERLY AFFECTION (DARI)
     By S.N* Hussaini; Published by CCAR; 1988; 31 pages.
     It is a story pertaining to the treatment of a mujahed - Abdul Qader - whose 80 percent body was burnt by Nepalm bomb in Afghanistan. He (was taken for treatment to West Germany where he’comes acrosi a mother whose son had just died in an accident. The mother donates her son's skin to Abdul Qader, who began his new life in the skin of her son. The German mother then developes love and
                                         144
                                                                    Vol.2, No»2r-4
    october-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                        voi.3, no.i
  affection for the Afghan mujahed Justus he was her own son.
                                  THOSE WHO DO NOT DIE (PASHTU)^
      By Al-Haj Nangial; Published by the Janri.at-e-1slami Afghanistan; 1988; 162 pages.
      Research on the life and ideas of the former President of Pakistan, General Muhammad Ziaul Haq and his love and devotion for the Afghan cause.
                                THE LION AND THE SWCRD OP GOD (DARI)
       Written and Published by Muhammad Hanif Balkhi; 1988; 221 pages.
      Deals with the heroism and valour demonstrated by Hazrat All and Khaled Bin Waleed during the early days of Islam.
                                 DARE PATH AND BRIGHT RAYS (PASHTO)
      Author Al-Haj Nangial; Published by the J ami a t-e-I slami Afghanistan; 1988; 126 pages.
      A collection of stories on jehad in a literary and artistic style.
                          REVOLUTION AND OUR RESPONSIBILITIES (DARI)
       Speech by Prof. Burhanuudin Rabbani; Published by the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan; 1988; 55 pages.
               Text of a speech by Prof. Rabani delivered to officials of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan,
  31 December 1988. In it he has urged a consolidation of mujaheddin ranks.
                             A LOOK AT THE PUL-E-CHARKHI PRISON (DARI)
     Author N, Hussaini, Haripur; 1989 ; 89 pages.
     These are the memories of the writer about his detention when he was arrested by the Russians during a combat in 1987. The author explains his memories of the prison and the barbarism perpetrated on him and other prisoners.
                                 ZEKU-I MACHINE GW TECHNIQUE AND ITS USE (DARI)
     Compiled by senior captain Nasrullah and senior captain'Abdul Fatah Zahid; Published by Education and Training Department, Directorate of Military Committee, NIFA; 1988; 16 pages.
     It explains the composition, use and components of ZEKU-I machine gun.
                                          145
                  inn :s::r
 A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICALS
EDITOR'S NOTE; Since the AFGHAN JEHAD did not appear for the last 15 months, in this issue we have tried to present the digest of official \T^ newspapers of seven Peshawar based mujaheddin organizations. It is /j hoped that, from next issue on, we will present the salient points of all mujaheddin publications. Also in our digest we have avoided repor- /j ting articles and stories on mujaheddin interfightings,                .   (h
October-19BB-December, 1989
Vo 1.2, No.2-4 Vol.3, No.l
 Ittehad-e-Islami
   September 1988
                        23
REPORT) Engineer Ahmad Shah, President of the Interim Government of the mujaheddin, while addressing graduates of the War Academy of the Afghan mujaheddin, said, "You will be the first batch of commanders of the Interum Government and the great mandate of this jehad would be entrusted upon you."
                     October
 speech in a meeting commemorating the death anniversary of Sheikh Al-Hadith Abdul Haq and supporting the Afghan jehad held at Jinnah Park, Peshawar, 15 October, declared: "All the Ulema in Pakistan are with you. Therefore, you should never think that you are alone because, if necessary, we are ready to go with you to the active trenches of jehad and fight against the Russians and their agents side-by-side with you."
                          November
1
4
 REPCRT: Mohammad Yasser Minister of Islamic guidance of the Mujaheddin Interim Government in a statement issued to the organizers of the exhibition •'Victory Week" held in the Mardan Town Hall by the Jamiat Tulaba-e-Islami, declared:
 "The success of the Afghan mujaheddin does not depend on foreign aid but is a product of their own invincible faith."
 REPCRT: Burhanuddin Rabt?ani, Head of the IUAM' speaking at a conference on the occassioh of the birth anniversary of Prophet Muhammad peace be upon him, held at the Jamiat-e-Islami Secretariat on 28 October, said "All the strong* holds and doors of our jehad are open to those, whose hands are not an eared with the blood of our nation and who have not betrayed their nation."
17
11
 REPCRT: Mohammad Yasser, Minister of Islamic Guidance, of the Interim Government of Afghan mujaheddin in a statement issued to the Conference on Afghan Jehad Solidarity held at Jinnah park, Peshawar, on 6 October said that ’Now that the Russians and their hirelings have suffered a defeat at the hands of the mujaheddin on the war front, they are trying to achieve their sinister aim through political designs -■•and ■ manoeuvring."
 REPCRT:  Prof. Sayyaf,  leader of the Afghan
 Islamic Alliance speaking in a three-day train-
                             *
 ing seminar for the offico-bearers held on 4 November, expressed the opinion, "While enemy has been defeated, the jehad is passing through a sensitive and dangerous stage. Hence these .days of our jehad are so fragile that even a minor mistake, God forbid, would amount to a destruction and dishonor of the jehad. *?-
22
18
 REPCRT: Maulana Sarai-ul-Haq, Secretary General of Jamiat—ul-Uletiia-e-Islam, Pakistan in his
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf, leader of the Afghan Islamic Alliance in an interview with the correspondent of the Weekly "Ittehad-e-lslami f1, stated with reference to direct talks between Russians .and the mujaheddin, that: "In view of/ the presence of the Russians in Afghanistan, we consider direct talks with them a dishonorable step and any secret contacts with them as a treason."
 147
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2~4
   October-19B8-December, 1989 AfGHflN JEHAD                      Vol.3,  No.l
                  29
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf, leader of the Afghan
 Islamic Alliance in a speech during a memorial service for five students of the, "Jehad and D'awat University" who achieved martyrdom during their holidays, said: "We are Afghans and Muslims and are defending our homeland by sacrificing our lives. And none, except ourselves, has the right to decide the fate of our country"
                                        December
                   6
 EDITORIAL: Writing about the Islamic government it says: "This is a mujahed nation and
 needs the mujaheddin leadership and a government formed by the mujaheddin. It can accept
 neither a sinful and debauch leadership nor a
 coalition government with the murderer of Musl-
 ems."
                  13
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf, Leader of the Islamic Alliance of Afghanistan, commenting to the correspondent of the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami, on Soviet leader Gorbachev's proposals stated: "The mujaheddin reject Gorbachev proposals regarding 'ceasefire and the establishment of a IN peace force in Afghanistan." 9n
                  20
 REPCRT: Prof. Sayyaf leader of the Islamic All-
 iance of Afghanistan speaking in a training seminar for the Jehad and Da'wat University students held 15-17 December, declared, "When we Beek to mould our lives according to Islam,then we need the people who know the meaning of , Islam. "
                  27
 MESSAGE: Prof. Sayyaf, in his massage on the Black, Day of 6 Jaddi (27 December) said, 'fly message and advice to the guardians of the dignity and honor of the Islamic Ummah is, i.h&t
 they should show adequate perseverance and .steadfastness in safeguarding the fruits and achievements of their victory."
                                         January 1989
                    3
 INTERVIEW: Ehgineer Ahmed Shah, President of
 the Islamic Interim Government commenting to the correspondent of Ittehad-e-Islam on the ceasefire declaration by Najib said; 'Wow that the time of reaping the fruits of our great sacrifices has come, we should devote all our legitimate resources and energies with full determination and seriousness to achieve a united leadership."
                   17
 INTERVIEW: The President of the-Mujaheddin Islamic Interim Government in replying to the correspondent of Ittehad-e-Islami regarding the recent visit of Eduard Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister to Kabul, declared: "Our jehad has now entered its final stage of victory. The Soviet puppet Kabul regime will collapse at the feet of the mujaheddin in the not too distant future and quite possibly this process may accelerate after the withdrawal of the Russian army. In my opinion the visit of the Russian foreign Minister to Kabul at such a sensitive juncture means nothing more than expressing his condolence to his defeated friends."
                   24
 INTERVIEW: Rahmani, After the liberation of Paktika Province the commander of Orgoon, in reply to the correspondent of Ittehad-e-Islarai
 has said: "After the conquest of Paktika, a large number of mujaheddin left for Gardez and Ghazni to strengthen their strongholds of jehad ,
 in these regions ... Our jehad will continue till the complete annihilation of communists
 and establishment of an Islamic system of government in our country."
148
 October-1988-Decemberf 1989
 Vol.2, No,2f-4
 Vol.3, No.l
30
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf leader of the Islamic . Alliance of Afghanistan addressing a group 25 January said; "Now the entire world has accepted this reality that in Afghanistan only the mujaheddin have the right to rule."
7
 REPCRT; Ehg, Ahmed Shah leader of the IUAM government, addressing a large gathering 3
                                    I
 February at the Tttehad-e-Islami Center stated: 'Clod willing, all enemy conspiracies and designs will be frustrated and the Muslems in Afghanistan shall succeed in forming an Islamic government."
14
 REPCRT:  Prof. Sayyaf, official spokesman of
 the Consultative Shoora, refuting adverse broadcasts against the Assembly during his speech in a press conference at Islamabad Hotel, said: "Members of the Consultative Shoora of Afghanistan are valuable and prominent personalities of the jehad' who have gathered to give practical shape to the cause of 1.3 million martyrs and ensure the right of self-determination'of our combatant nation."
18
 REPCRT: Prof. Sayyaf, spokesman of the Consultative Assembly, addressing a press conference at Madinat-ul-Hujjaj, Rawalpindi 16 February declared, "The Russians have vacated Afghanistan in ignominy. The savage Russian forces have not been compelled to withdraw from Afghanistan due to Geneva accords but at theCbehest of the force of faith, steadfastness and iron determination of the Muslim Afghanistan."
28
 fETKKIAL:    "Establishment   an   Island.b state
 and government of the mujaheddin?' • • . Now that
by the Grace of God the Interim State and Government of Afghanistan have been formed, it is the desire of the Muslem Afghan nation and entire Islamic Ummah that the puppet Kabul regime may collapse and replaced by a mujaheddin government."
                                            March
                                                7
INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf, Prime Minister of the
AIG in an interview with the weekly "Ittehad-e-Islami", said: "Soon the first AIG cabinet meeting would be held at the independent and free land of Afghanistan because all the organizatr-tion's are contented and happy with this government."
14
REPCRT: The first cabinet meeting of the AlG was held 11 March at Sheewah, .Khost in Paktia Province of Afghanistan. 1
27
INTERVIEW:  Prof.  Sayyaf, Prime Minister of the
AIG, during an interview with the correspondent of Ittehad-e-Islami, expressing his views on the recent events, said: "We never wanted to declare Jalalabad as our capital. The seat of our government and the capital of the country will be Kabul and,God willing,Kabul will be liberated in the near future."
30
REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar .Foreign Minister of
the AIG, after occupying the Afghan seat at the
      . ' » * ;
OIC 17 March said in a speech: "Allocation of
the Afghan seat at the OIC to the AIG is tantamount to a collective recognition of the existence of this government."
3
 149
INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf, Prime Minister of the
                                                                                   SHAH M. BOOK CO.
              P.0. Box 1328, Kabul, Afghanistan Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25886
 October-1988-December, 1989
 Vo1.21 No,2-4
 Vol.3, No.l
 ters and once myself, went tp the interior of
 AIG said in an interview with the Arabic magazine Al-jphad: "By the middle of the Holy Month pf Ramadan most of the work of our ministries would start in the liberated areas of the country ... We hope that the Afghan refugees in Iran should also participate in our interim government."
                   10
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf, Prime Minister of
 AIG, replying to the Ittehad-e-Islami correspondent in connection with the recent runours, stated: "It is a baseless allegation that Pakistani soldiers are supporting us in the battle fronts. When at the time of the presence of Russian soldiers, we did not seek Mlp from anyone, why would we do so now?"
                   24
 INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi, Defense Minister of the AIG in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami has declared:' "God willing, the many scattered commands of the mujaheddin would be unified under a united military leadership 4-n .the near future."
                   28
 REPORTS: Prof. Sayyaf, Prime Minister of the AXG has urged the UN Secretary General in a message: "The illegal Kabul regime has no right to ask for convening a meeting of the UN Security Council, On the contrary it ought to be Immediately expelled, from the UN."
                                              May
                    3
 INTERVIEW: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of AIG in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami has said: "Thank God everything is proceeding properly. The ministries have completed their organizational structures and these structures have been approved by the ministries concerned, Brother Prof, Sayyaf, some of the mini s-
 Afghanistan and selected such venues (for the government headquarters) which are important and proper from the strategic viewpoint and accessible to all the people."
                    15
 EDITORIAL: Russian forces in Afghan Disguise".
 If the barbarous Russian forces have apparently vacated our land, instead thousands of Tajik soldiers are fighting side by side with the puppet Kabul regime forces against the mujaheddin. These soldiers speak in Afghan language, dress like the Afghans and their manners and ^gestures' resemble those of the Afghans,
                    22
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf the Prime Minister of
 the AIG in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami, said: "The flow of the flood of jehad is so fast that the sand wall erected by the Kabul regime will not be able to stop it.
                    29
 INTERVIEW: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President ' of the AIG in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami has stated: "The AIG ,ministers ■ will start functioning this week inside Afghanistan."
 INTERVIEW: Dr. Najibullah Lafrai, Minister of
 Islamic. Guidance of the AIG in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami has said: "The Ministry of Islamic Guidance will enact a press law aimed at coordinating the cultural activities of the mujaheddin organizations as well as publications not affiliated with these organizations,"
                     12
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG has said, in a speech on the occasion of the
150
 October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2-4
 Vol.3., No.l
                    August
 fourth convocation of the Mujaheddin War Academy Graduates': "hearts illuminated with the light of faith and men brought up in Islamic traditions, never succumb to events and intrigues hatched by the enemy."
                     13
 REPORT: Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of Jama’at-e-
 Islami, Pakistan, speaking in a public meeting at Quetta, declared: "It is.a result of the resistance and jehad of the heroic Afghan mujaheddin that people throughout Russia are staging demonstrations and have started resistance for the cause of freedom* and their civil rights."
                     25
 'INTERVIEW: Engineer Ahmed Shah, Communications
 interior of Afghanistan, has said in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Islami: ••Ground has been prepared now for the mujaheddin government to function inside Afghan territory and facilities for reconstruction work has been specially provided."
                                                   July
                     3
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf» Prime Minister of the
 A&. has said in an interview with the Weekly Ittehad-e-Xslami in connection with some of the .mediators: "Those who want to mediate between us and our enemies i.e. between us and the Kabul regime, should know, that we reject it totally because we do not recognize the lackeys of the Kabul regLme and their government."
                     7
 PRESS RELEASE: A press communique of the Ministry of Islamic Guidance of the AIG states: Rocket attacks on residential areas of Kabul are not carried out by the mujaheddin but by the Kabul regime to discredit the mujaheddin."
                  7
 REPORT;Prof.Sayyaf the Prime Minister of the AIG in an interview with the Weekly "Al-Mujtama", has observed: "All intellectual forces are on the side of our enemy. Hence the Muslems are duty bound to come in open in support of their religion and defense of jehad."
                 14
 MESSAGE:Prof.Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG in a message has called on all the mujaheddin to leave aside all their differences leading to dissent, and, for realizing the hopes and aspirations of one billion (World) Muslems coop-stand shoulder to shoulder in a single front and strike hard and severe blows on the enemy.
                                    September
                 16
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister, of the AIG
 declared at a press, conference 3,2 September "Afghanistan is our homeland and any decision in regard (to the solution of the Afghan problem) rests with us only and has nothing tq do either with USA or others."
                 25
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG
 in a Training Seminar held 21 September remarked: "We can benefit from the advantages and teachings of Islam only when we mould our lives, behaviour and attitudes in accordance with Islamic teachings."
                                      October
                   9
 REPORT; Mawlawi Yunus Khales, Interior Minister, of the AIG in a speech at a meeting of Islamic
Minister of the AIG subsequent to his visit to the erate like brothers,
October-1988-December, 1989
                                                                            Vol.2, No.a-r/v
                                                                            Vol.3, Ho.l
 scholars and distinguished personalities of Waziristan held at the Conference Hall of the Afghan Mujaheddin'Islamic Alliance, observed 26 September: "Enemies of our jehad have launched a ({campaign to prevent the establishment of Islamic system of government in Afghanistan, by hook or by crook."
                30
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the
 AIG in an interview has stated: "We have sent our delegation to .the UN so the World public opinion may become aware of the goals of our jehad, and not that the UN may determine our future."
            _        t       ^
                                 November
                6
 EDITORIAL: "During the past 11 years of jehad, although some good alliances came into being they were dissolved on one or another pretext due to personal interests. Now that We have formed and announced a government since eight months and power has been distributed among seven organizations involved in the je-jiad, a suitable and proper alliance has not come into being.Statements issued by our leaders are contradictory and we have no simple and Specific political spokesman . . . Therefore,
 ,one wonders whether we should complain against pthers or against ourselves?" 1
                27
 REPCRT: "A famous scholar, religious missio-
 nary and mujahed of Islamic world Sheikh Abdullah Azzam and his two sons Mohammad and Ibrahim have been martyred as a result of a remote-
 controlled bomb explosion carried out by the enepies of Afghan jehad".
                                                     Jabha-e-Jehad
                               October 1988
                20
 ARTICLES; "The sacred religion of Islam and
 loya Jirgah" by M. Takharestani ".,. Large number of religious scholars have said that the Quranic inj-unction of holding consultation in executing the affairs of the' state is (mandatory However Island, sharia has not instituted any specific and definite method of consultation.
 The form of consultation and its means of implementation are not prescribed ... The group of
                                ,     I
 competent people, who have the duty at electing the khalifa and the right to make decisions on vital issues of Islamic community, in accordance with the Islamic jurisprudence, is comprised of distinguished Muslims having vast knowledge, wis-dam and experience in administrative affairs.In fact such group constitutes the real representatives of Muslims who can elect the leader of the people by taking into account the interests of Islam.
    The Constitutions of Afghanistan, prior to the occupation of the country by the Soviet Union, were mostly approved by loya jirgahs which were defined in those constitutions. But, regardless of this, the loya jirgah among our people was commonly understood to be a gathering of knowledgeable people, comprising religious scholars, tribal chiefs, influential figures and high ranking military and civil officials who adopted important decisions on vital issues such as election of the president of the state, approval of the constitution, etc.
                                         November
                   21
 INTERVIEW: Professor SebghatuHah Mojaddedi
 President of AIG, after his return from a trip to Afghanistan, in an interview with the VOA said "Our leaders have so far not agreed to elect a single leader. Elections for appointing 3^ich a leader is done on. the basis of sharia^ which says that the leader or head of the state should be elected by the ahl-e-hal wa aqd (men of wisdom). People are usually in contact with religious scholars, and influential figures and, *•
152
 October-1988-Decejnber,.. 1989
 Vol.3, No.l
 at present, it also includes field commanders. Furthermore, we have our traditional loya jir-gahs. The history of Afghanistan has shown that, whenever the country has faced a problem -political or social - the loya jirgah has come forward to solve it. However, at present the loya Jirgah is also not being accepted by some quarters* So holding elections is necessary and we are preparing for elections.
                                March 1989
20
 MESSAGE:   The Islamic Council of Europe in a
 message has congratulated the successful conclusion of the consultantive shoora and the election of Professor Sebghatullah Mojaddodi'as President of the AIG and has declared its firm sup^ port for the AIG.
27
 MESSAGE:  Sebghatullah Mbjaddedi,  President of
 'the AIG, in a message on the occasioh of the Afghan New Year has said the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, which with the grace of Almighty God was the result of utter Russian •failure and. definite defeat and has taken place Without conditions, is tantamount to a victory of the Afghan mujahed nation, a victory having, few precedents in history.
                         April
          6
 (MESSAGE: Prof  essor Sebghatullah Mo jaddedi, Pre-
 sident of the AIG, in a message on the occasaion of the 11th anniversary of the April coup has said: The Government of Afghanistan should be pased on a free and balanced participation of all tribes and strata of our society. Responsibility for the reconstruction and rehabilitation is put on the shoulders of all of us. No individual- of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan should
 be deprived of taking part in the political and administrative reconstruction of the.country.
        14
EDITORIAL: "Preserving the honor of the nation." It is a universal fact and known to all that the basic cause and real factor for the prolongation of aggression of Soviet troops in Afghanistan and the remaining in office of an urlawful Russian puppet government haye been .partisanship and lack of unity among us, ^
    Following a period Of ten Hard and tragic
years and bitter experience in discord and partisanship, we have now achieved unity of leadership. If, God forbid, once, again we relapse to discord and partisanship, the words and resolutions of our mujahed nation will become meaningless to the people of the world.
        10
  Professor Sebghatullah MoJaddedi, President Of the AIG, in a condolence meeting of Martyred Qari Abdul Qader Mojaddedi said: As much as the position of martyrdom is high in Islam, shedding the blood of one Muslim by another is also considered a great sin."
                                                  Haqeeqat-ul-
                                Islam
    November 1988
             to
INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohamraadi Amir
of Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-dslami Afghanistan in an interview with the daily Wahdat of Peshawar has said: "Our organization is not only a political organization but a scholarly and religious soci-, ety as well, the foundation of which was laid down 1A00 years ago.
 153
                                                                             Oc tob er-1988-De cmb er, 1989
 Vol.2, No*2-4
 Vol.3, No.l
                                                                  January 1989
                                                                                  24
 REPORT: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi leader of Harkat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan has said: bloc, have also attained a great and historic
 Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan and Minister of Defense in a message to those who perform the annual pilgrimage to Makkah has said: the victorious Afghan nation, by defeating the blood-thirsty Russians and the entire communist
 In order to fight enemy conspiracies and plots, we should keep our ranks solid and united.
       24
 REPORT: Mawlawi Mohammed Nabi Mohammadi,leader of Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami of Afghanistan in a
 J                                r ■'
 speech which he delivered in a gathering of students of Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami of Afghanistan said, "Strengthening of the AIG is the duty of every member of our nation and anybody who acts against this government will be actually considered an enemy of Almighty God and His Prophet.
        27
 Mawlawi Mohammadi leader of Harakat-e-Ehqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan and Minister Of Defense of the AIG, on a visit In Kandar, while observing the remnants of enemy vehicles and tanks said: Russians claim that they have withdrawn from Afghanistan on the basis of Geneva agreement, but the fact is that they vfere scandlously defeated with all their military strength in the hands of the Muslim Afghan nation." Referring to crippled tank,and vehicles, he said: This scene and hundred others throughout our country bear _clear witness to Russian defeat in the hands of our nation.
        25
 'MESSAGE: Mawlawi Mohammadi leader of Harakat-e**
pride for the entire Muslims of the world.
                  24
'INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Baridad, the provincial head' of the Kunduz province of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan in an interview with the Jam-iat students said: "In the future Islamic government we will not allow the participation of those who have stained their hands with our blood and are busy eating our flesh."
                               The Islamic
EDITOR'S NOTE: Following are excerpts from the Islamic Government Journal the publication organ of the Islariiie Interim .Government headed by Ehgineef Ahmad Shah. This Journal appeared 27 June and continued until 27 December,
1988. Later it resumed its publication under the name of the Dawn of Victory 1 (Subh-e-Pairuzi) and served as a publication orgari of th,e . AIG.
     September 1988
                23
MESSAGE: Ehg. Ahmad Shah Head of the Interim Government of mujaheddin has urged the IjN Secretary General that "our government should be recognized as the sole representative of the refugees, immigrants and entire nation of Afghanistan and should be admitted as £he official member of the UN".
154
                                                                ? Vol.2, No.2—4
October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHANJIHAD                           Vol.3, No.l
 deep regret on the martyrdom of mujaheddin killed by Sayyed Jamal in Takhar valley and has asked the AIG to immediately turn over the case to a court of justice for a verdict based on
October
  27
 REPORT} Regulations pertaining to elections for the Islamic Council of Afghanistan has been approved. Ehumerating the authority of the council the regulations say:
   1. electing president of the state for a prescribed term, 2. Voting for the interim government, 3. Working out and approving laws in accordance with the Islamic shariat. 4. Preparing government budget, 5. Approving ceasefire and international treaties.
                                November
               to
  INTERVIEW: In an interview Eng. Ahmad Shah
  Prime Minister of the Interim Government of Mujaheddin has said: "the Najib proposal for ceasefire, terminating the delivery of arms to the mujaheddin and holding international conference on Afghanistan are pretexts for intensification and prolongation of communist aggression and a last satanic attempt by Russians towards thwarting the imminent success of our jehad."
  Subh-e-Pairuzee
                                 July 1989
                9
 REPCRT: Prof. Sebghatullah Mujadded!, President of the AIG, after meeting an unofficial Russian delegation, said: *if the Russians are prepared to return 40,000 missing mujaheddin we would also be prepared to unconditionally set free Russian prisoners."
               24
 ANNOUNCEMENT: The council of the Ministry of Information in an announcement has expressed
 shariat.
                   31
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,. President of the AIG in an interview with Siibh-e-Pairuzee has said: The Russians have so far not withdrawan totally from Afghanistan. If negotiation are to take place for the political solution of the Afghan issue, they would not be with the Russian installed regime. They will, be only carried out with the Russians."
                                              August
                    7
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG in an interview with Subh-e-Pairuzee said:
 Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan is not a real withdrawal. In practice the Russian interference in the internal affairs of our country is conti-nuine. We established our government from the scratch. And, taking into account the ongoing war and other difficulties, "time is need for
                       ~      ■ c ' * .
 making the government functional."
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani Minister of Rehabilitation in a seminar of the Institute of Strategic , Studies of Pakistan said in Islamabad: "The danger to our movement is not. in the cessation of assistance but in its linkage with outside assistance."
                   21
 EDITORIAL: "WAYS TO STRENGTHEN THE AIG". "We should do away with monoply of power because all Muslim people of Afghanistan have taken part in jehad. The Islamic government has to demonstrate thd will of the entire Afghan mujahed nation and respect the rights of all Muslim people.— .
                   28
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG
155
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2—4
    October-19B6-Decemberf 1969 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
 in connection with recent proposal put forward by Najib said: Najib should confess to,his crimes and turn in himself along with his 'comrades to the AIG.               '
                                       September
                  4
 MESSAGE: Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi president
 of the AIG' in a message to the President of Yugoslavia and chairman of the conference of non-aligned countries has demanded that the Afghan seat in the conference should.be allocated to the AIG. The holding of Afghanistan seat by a puppet regime is not legal and is unjust.
                  11
 'ANNOUNCEMENT: In an announcement in connection with mujaheddin interfighting in some parts of the country, the AIG has urged the mujaheddin to avoid party differences for the sake of high Afghan causes.’
                  18
 EDITORIAL: Commenting on the talks between Zaher Shah and the US envoy on the settlement of Afghan issue, the editorial concludes: "Therefore, the talks between US envoy and former'King of Afghanistan are improper. And the willingness of Zaher Shah to head the country at present juncture when already an Islamic interim government is in existence is irrevelent.
 EDITCRIAL: At the present phase of jehad why there are talks about.holding a loya jirga and a return of Zaher Shah?
      The question is answered as follows:
 The enemies of jehad and of Afghan mujahed nation raise the question of returning Zaher Shah to power in order to create further differences between the mujaheddin and other forces of jehad.
                                                                                                                       156
                 25
 REPORT: Yahya Nawroz Deputy Defense Minister of the AIG in a press conference has said: "Eventhough logistical supplies have not been delivered on time to most of the commanders, they have faithfully carried out their mission against the Kabul puppet and atheist regime.'
                                       October
                                             9
 INTERVIEW: Fir Sayyed Ahmad Gialani President of Supreme Court of AIG in a press interview has said: The resistance of Afghan people will continue until at) Islamic regime replaces the non-Islamic government imposed by force.
                 16
 REPCRT: Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, after attending an international-seminar on Afghanistan and holding talks with the authorities of Islamic Republic of Iran in Teheran, returned to Peshawar and held talks with the leaders of Afghan mujaheddin. Upon his arrival, he said these points were endorsed in the seminar: (1) In principle the AIG was reaffirmed (2) A commission of the representatives of the AIG and Islamic Coalition of Afghanistan will be set up to discuss-the participation of 'this Coalition in the AIG. (3)Effective measures will be adopted to strengthen the foundation of the AIG and facilitate the participation of ' all forces of jehad and the entire Afghan nation-in it.
                 23
 ARTICLE: "ARE ELECTIONS LEGAL OR NOT? (By Mawlavd Khales). The article says that general elections have no basis in the shariat. (The paper says it has published the article because it reflects the personal view of Mawlawi-Khales).
                 30
 EDITORIAL: "WHO IS RESPONSIBLE PGR OUR WEAKNESS
October-1988-December, 1989
Vol.2, No.2r-4
Vol.3, No.1
 OP TOE AIG.Nine months have passed since the establishment of the AIG. Expectations and hppes were, pinned on this body. Criticism contes more from the mujaheddin organizations which comprise the government ... "We are all dutybound to consolidate (and make effective) this government in practice ...
   "We should not forget that forming another government - whether through elections or appointment - would also come from .these very organizations iwith one person as its president."
                                November
                6
 EDITORIAL: "AFGHANISTAN AND THE UN: An address to the UN: "Your cooperation with the Russians foy beginning- and concluding the Geneva talks according to their wishes is enough. You have also provided all the facilities for the withdrawal of the savage Red Army from Afghanistan. It is sufficient for the Afghan Muslim and mujahed nation that you gave the Russians the right to send one scud rocket, against each soldier withdrawn from Afghanistan. Now, leave the oppressed, and^ war-striken Afghan nation ;alpne to determine their own destiny ..."
13
 ■REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG in a talk with scholars, commanders and tribal .chiefs 7 November said: "No matter how we broaden our government, it will not be supported toy enemies until it functions according to their wishes."
         19
 !REPORT: The UN Secretary General has told an AIG
 i    *     .        *.    '          ’    •
 'delegation headed by Dr. Farooq Azam .Minister
 i •        ‘
 of Education: "My meeting with the official delegation of the mujaheddin means that the Kabul regime cannot represent Afghanistan in :the UN Headquarters."/
                  22
 REPORT: Eng. ELshan Jan Areef, AIG Minister of Mines and Industries said: His Ministry will take necessary measures to exploit mines inside the country in the near future.
                  26
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, AIG, Minister of Rehabilitation has said: "People's participate in the administration and determining the destiny of the country through taking part in an Ahl-e-hal wa aqd (men of wisdom), shoora and at a national level is important and essential for successful reconstruction."
                  29
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani President of the Supreme Court and Acting President of the AIG in a function marking the release of two Russian POWs,said: Although our armed struggle still continues, we set free two Soviet prisoners to express our humanitarian jmotives and the goodwill of mujaheddin. The release takes place - at a time when thousands of mujaheddin are in Kabul regime and Russian Jails. Thousands of our children have been sent to Russia against the wishes of their families and the Muslim nation of Afghanistan,
 REPCRT:   The International conference of soli-
 darity with the people of Afghanistan, conve-need in Jakarta, Indonesia, 24 August in a resolution emphasized that (efforts should be stepped up to introduce the Russians as aggressors and violators of international laws. The conference discussed different aspects of the Afghan issue.
157
 October-1988-December, 1989
                                                                    Vol.2,
                                                                    Vol.3» No.l
                                   October
                1
 INTERVIEW: Sayyed Noorullah Enad, Secretary of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and AIG Minister of Interior Affairs in an Interview with Mu.lahed Journal commenting on a plan prepared by the UN mediator Diego Cordevez asking a number of Afghans to pave the way for formation of a government has said: Can 30 fugitives achieve anything by holding meetings?"
8
 REPORT: Eng. Faridullah, of the Jamiat-e-Islami of Afghanistan who is recently released from Pul-e-Charkhi prison has disclosed in an interview: "hundreds of innocent children and Muslim girls are tortured and condemned to long terms of imprisonment. The Russians were issuing the final verdit about Muslim prisoners."
                     15
 REPORT: The Kunar Province has been finally conquered by mujaheddin after a 12 month siege. Four hundred and fifty government soldiers and officers have surrendered to the mujaheddin and the mujaheddin have seized 20? trucks, tanks
 and ambulances.
22
 |REPCRT: Prof. Rabbani, leader of Jaraiat-i-Isla-• mi Afghanistan lit a Press conference in Islamabad said: ,lWe are prepared to sit down with the 'Russians and discuss matters of mutual interest. .Following the withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghani stani, the future Afghan government' will be an Islamic| independent and neutral."
                    29
 REPORT: Sayyed Noorullah Bnad, AIG Minister of Interior Affairs, addressing a gathering in Chagha Sail a, Kunar, said: 'Wow your region has {become an example of the mujaheddin administration. You should keenly seek the consolidation and stability of this administration and work
towards strengthening the bonds of brotherhood iand maintain security'and justice and demonstrate to Cordovez, the Russians and the Americans that the mujaheddin are able to rule their own country."
                                  November
                5
REPCRT: Prof. Rabbani leader of IUAM in a press conference in Islamabad said: Ebr the transfer of power and restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan elections will be held in all divisions ^and sub-divisions.
        12
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Rabbani, leader of the IUAM in an interview with the VQA has said: We call on the UN to compel the Russians to support the peace which is going to be brought about by IUAM in Afghanistan.
26
REPORT: The Ghazni, mujaheddin have conquered the SardehDam military establishment. The commander
i—       '          .             ,r
of the establishment was arrested end 200 pieces of weapons and a large amount of immunition were seized.
                                        December
                 11          ,
ARTICLE: ."POLITICAL VICTORY OF JEHAD" (BY Shamsar-
rahman Shams). "... The direct talks between the mujaheddin and Russians are considered as the dawn of freedom and a political victory over Russians."
                        IS
 ARTICLE:  After returning from Taif,  Saudi
 Arabia, Prof. Rabbani leader of the IUAM in a press conference said: "We told the Russians that the presence of Russian troops, and the existence of the Kabul regime are the two main factor for continued war in Afghanistan and until these two factors exist,,toar will conti-,
 158
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2—4
October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHANJEHAD                        Vol,3, No.l
 nue and talks will have no sense.
                  27
 ARTICLE: "THE TELLSM EVENTUALLY BROKE” By Prof. R^fcbani. "... Now that we are in the treshold of the formation of an independent Islamic state, and the day when over the proud heights of our country, the glorious banner of Islam will be hoisted we should all think about things which we are going -to bring along as a gift to our berleved muslim nation after the defeat of the enemy."
        Prof. Rabbani leader of IUAM, commenting on the ceasefire declared by the Kabul regime, said: "Our jehad will continue until the complete fall of the communist regime in Kabul and full establishment of Islamic government by the mujaheddin."
                                       January 1989
                  14
 REPCRT: Prof.: Rabbani, leader of Jaraiat-e-Islami, in a condolence meeting for (j ami at commander, oartyre Tareq, pointing out,to events in Afghanistan said: We should endeavour hard to establish a strong and powerful government because a weak government cannot maintain peace."
                  21
 EDITORIAL: "DANGER OP DEFEAT IN THE WAKE OF VICTORY." Now that the Russians have ^been forced .to leave Afghanistan, the future of the country will be an important issue because it is feared that due to a lack of political unity among the mujaheddin, Russian military defeat would be compensated. -
                  25
 Prof. Rabbani,leader of the Jaroiat-e-Islami in a speech in a seminar on Afghanistan in Teheran said: The Afghan youth have martyred themselves to saved the world of Islam from the dangers of colonialism.
                                                    29
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with the BBC, Prof.
 Rabbani leader of the IUAM has said: The Russians want to protend that they were not defea-. ted in the war with the mujaheddin. Therefore, they resorted to a barbaric operation and massacre of people in the country.    .
 EDITORIAL: "RUSSIAN OBJECTIVES IN BOMBING SALANG AREA." "... In a radio report to Peshawar, Ahmad Shah Masood has said: the Russian defense minister on arrival in Kabul informed him that he was ready to hold talk with him and pay him any amount of money he wanted and offer him any position in the future Afghan government. But brother Ahmad Shah Masood rejected the satanic Russia plot and said he was
 not prepared to carryout direct talks with them. Consequently, the Russian air and land forces resorted to pounding the battle fronts of the Supervisory Council in northern Afghanistan and regions under Ahmad Shah's control.
                      8
 EDITORIAL: "RUSSIAN TROOPS ARE LEAVE THE AFGHANISTAN WITH THEIR BLOODY BAYONETS." The editorial, shedding light on the Russian crimes by martyring •600 civilians and mujaheddin in Salang before ' their withdrawal, says: The attak took place despite the Jamiat-e-Islami's announced that the mujaheddin would retaliate only if the Russians attacked first.
                      12
 REPORT:  Prof. Rabbani leader of the Jamiat-e-
 Islami in a function explaining the stand of his organization said: "Unless a powerful Islamic state is established the present government: 4s liable to fall soon."
                                                        15
 EDITORIAL:''"M’REAL'MEANING''OF• POWER: SHOULD
159
                                                                     Vol.2, No.
    October-19887-December, 1989 AIGHANJEHAD                         Vol.3, No.l
 IT BASED ON NUMBERS'OR ON REALITIES OF POWER."
 The editorial says that in the future Islamic shoora allocation of seats for each group will not be based on numbers but, rather, on the extent of their power and influence in the country. It there has to be a differences between numbers and power. In numbers one may rely on tribes and affinities but in case of power one has to rely on realities. In Afghanistan all Islamic parties do not enjoy equal military, political and social power.
 There are parties which have only offices but no trenches and lack military, political and social presence inside the country ... However these very parties have,had equal shares with the biggest jelxad organization of the country... Until this false and misleading equilibrixm ’is eliminated and justice is restored in allocating seats, there is no possibility for achieving positives reasonable and fruitful results."
 EDITORIAL: "THE NEED FDR ESTABLISHING A MUJAHEDDIN GOVERNMENT:" Enumerating the requirements for the establishment of a mujaheddin government, the editorial concludes; "In order to curb the establishment of the AIG, the enemies of Islam function in different ways. The future of Afghanistan belongs to the mujaheddin and the establishment of a political power (by the mujaheddin) is a logical result of the outcome of military power. We can say with certainty that plots hatched outside the country and appointment of weak persons with no links with the Jehad, will have no other result than , . undoing the gains achieved during the. ten-year3 Jehad.
                      19
 INTERVIEW: Mohammad Abbas Mushfeq vice Chairman of the Cultural Committee of Jamiat-e-Islami and member of the consultative shoora told our correspondent: "shoora is necessary for overcoming difficulties and achieving our objectives. Shoora not only prevents personal decisions
160
 and sentiments but also bars people from taking biased decisions and action based on regional sentiments,"
                                            March
                   1
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami in a meeting marking the martyrdom of people killed in Kabul 22 February, 1979»said: Islam is dearer to us than the positions we hold or the region where we live. .
                   5
 EDITORIAL: "IF THE RUSSIAN COULD NOT RESIST HOW CAN THE HINDUS RESIST US?" "Now in the place of disgraced and defeated Russian advisers Indian advisers are working in Afghanistan.
 But communist Gandhi has not yet realized that while a great power could not remain in Afghanistan how the army of a country which was once, defeated in Somanat by the Afghan monarch Sultan Mahraood Ghaznavi could persist in'this country."
                                               15
 EDITORIAL: "A GLANCE AT THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT". Commenting on mujaheddin government, the editorial writes: "the formation of the AIG ha3 brought about national and international reactions. While the Afghan jehad enjoyed full political prestige and the world officially recognized in defacto the state of Afghanistan, it was expected friendly countries would immediately recognize the AIG. But it is possible that, due to the existance of some individuals in the AIG, other governments might have refrained from recognizing the mujaheddin government.
                                              April
                   5
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-
 e-Islami in a gathering marking the uprising and martyrdom of people 1$ March, 1979» in
 Herat said: "Afghanistan today is not the Afghanistan of yesterday in which a regime or a system could be brought about by a temper of the moment and then this government can be allowed to rule the people despotically and arbirarily."
                  13
 REPCRT: In a speech, leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Prof. Rabbani said; The main purpose of the Jamiat is to bring about a true Muslim individual, family, society and government. Jehad enthusiasm will not end only with the withdrawal of the Russian trqops but will continue until the fall of Russian mercenaries . and the formation of a powerful Islamic government which could safeguard the gains of our Islamic revolution."
                                           June
 REPORT: Prof Rabbani, leader of Jamiat in a meeting with President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Khamenai said: 'Under present circumstances we need to have our nation united. The present Juncture is very decisive in life of the
 people of Afghanistan and we hope cooperation will continue between our two rauslim' nations."
                 22
 MESSAGE: On the occasion of the demise of Imam' Khomaini, Prof. Rabbani, leader of the Jamiat-e-'Islami in a message to brother Sayyed Ali Khamenai said: "All (Islamic) political and religious figures belong to the world of Islam. Imam Khomaini rejected both capitalism and communism and sought the salvation of humanity only in adhering to the lofty teachings of Islam".
                                    September
                 19
 REPORT: In a function marking the merger of education committee of Jamiat-e-Islami with the'
A3G Prof. Rabbani leader of Jamiat said: '"No house should remain dark as a result of lack of knowledge and science ..."
   '•The education committee should implement an Islamic Plan in Afghanistan. In addition to training.engineers, doctors and experts we should realize that these people must be good Muslims as well.
                                   Mahaz
                              September 1988
              29
INTERVIEW: Pir Sayyed Ahfnad Gailani leader of NIFA in an interview with the Editor of Heywad of Pakistan, 23 September, said: "As the. president of IUAM I tell you that we need national unity. To achieve this we need an elected shoora."
                                   October
              21
EDITORIAL: "Confession of communist criminals".
The editorial comments on the British Commercial TV film based on the crimes of Russian soldiers and officers in Afghanistan. In this film we hear from a Russian general saying "in the future, when we are going to take a decision to solve an international issue by resorting to force, we should think about it hundred times."
                                December
               1
EDITORIAL: "THE KABUL REGIME IS FALLING A PART," Enumerating the weaknesses and crimes committed by the Kabul regime the editorial concludes: " These criminals and looters are not people's representatives, Their regime is falling apart. The mujahed Afghan nation continues its Jehad until the Russians withdraw from our beloved country and the puppet Kabul regime is toppled.
 October-1988-Decemberf 1989
 Vol.,2, No* ^-4
 Vol.3i No.l
161
October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2—4
 Vol.3, No.l
 and replaced by an elected national and Islamic regime,"
                27
 EDITORIAL: "27 DECEMBER, AN CMINOUS DAY IN AFGHAN HISTORY." "27 December will remain as a dark and ominous day in the minds of future Afghan generations. Those responsible for the tragedies of this day will be considered by our people as criminals with black faces."
                                January 1989
         8
 REPORT: Bycotting the meetings of the Executive
 council due to the lack of the spirit of unity
 and an agenda the NIFA in a message to the IUAM
 leader has declared that the meetings of the | • " executive council were contrary to the spirit
 of unity and understanding among the mujaheddin
 organizations and fundamental principles of the
 NIFA."
        23
 REPORT: PLr Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA in a speech in Islamabad told the Consultative shoora, "I am not sure whether the Ahmad Shah government will be able to play an effective role in Afghanistan or be able to rule the country in the future.. Therefore, I do not want to participate in such a government and introduce my candidates to serve, as ministers in it."
24
 REPORT: "THE SHAIWA DISTRICT OF NANGARHAR PROVINCE was conquered 6 January after a joint operations by the NIFA and other mujaheddin organizations.
     I         ,                          '
     Similarly, the Go.shta district of Nangarhar province was conquered by the mujaheddin after a severe battle.
 ANNOUNCEMENT: The NIFA considers two objectives as its main principles: (1) a broadbased government representing the entire people of Afghan*?
istan (2) The government or system established . by the consultative shoora should prepare the grounds for free elections in 6-8 months. Otherwise the NIFA will not participate in the government.
                                    March 1989
                 9
EDITCRIAL: "ON. THE OCCASION OF 91ST DEATH ANNIVERSARY OF SAYYED JAMAL-UD-DIN AFGHANI." "... the Afghan Muslim people is proud to follow the path of their mujahed .forefathers and sacrifice their lives just as they sacrified their lives* Our nation is proud not to bow to anybody and to preserve its faith and territorial integrity at any cost •"
                        April
         20
EDITORIAL: "GOVERNMENT IS THE SERVANT AND NOT THE MASTER OF THE NATION." "The AIG will become an usherer of peace, security, progress and prosperity for the war-striken people of Afghanistan. With the establishment of such a government we will reach and embrace the angel of tranquility and prosperity and the souls of martyrs who were waiting for such a day will rest in peace."
       27
REPORT: According to a decree issued by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani leader of the NIFA 5 April,
126 soldiers who were kept as prisoners of war were released. -                            ;
                  May
       29
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed'Ahmad’ Gailani leader of NIFA in a press conference attended by Pakistani and Afghani journalists, 20 April, said: "I accepted the post of the President of Supreme Court because the forthcoming elections will be held under the supervision of the
162
                                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-Docanbor, 1989 AIGHANlliHAO                       Vol.3,  No.l
 Supreme Court ... Our jehad is necessary against Kabul communists because they are atheists and anyone who obeys their order is their friends ..."
                                June
             24
 INTERVIEW: RLr Sayyed Ahmad Gailani in an interview with the VOA said 21 June: "the simple way for the formation of a neutral government is to do away with the Kabul regime and replace it by neutral persons. Then we will establish a broadbased government on th'e'basis of mutual dialogue."
                                July
             17
 REPORT: On the basis of a decree by Fir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the NIFA released 130 officers and soldiers arrested during the Jalalabad war. They were also given cash assistance.
                            November
             18
 REPORT: A condolence meeting for martyr Haji Abdul Latif was held in Quetta, 25 August, 1909» by the NIFA leadership. Sayyed Hamid Gailani on behalf of Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani called on all commanders and WIFA mujaheddin to follow the path of martyr Haji Latif. After a ceremony tie put a burdan on the head of Latif's elder son, commander Gul Aqa, and promoted him to 'epiace his father.
                     *
                            Shahadat
                        September 1988
             28
 iDITGRIAL: The visit of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,
 leader of Hezb-e-Islami, to southwest fronts of
                      f
 jehad and refugee camps refuted rumours that, due to anrinfluence by nationalist elements, grounds have been paved for the return of Zahir Shah.
 REPCRT: Hekmatyar, Leader of Hezb-e-Islami, in a press conference held in the guest house of the party 25 September said: We had a large meeting in the Alizayee Camp of Baluchistan. However it was regretfully reported in some newspapers and radio stations that I was prevented to hold a session in the Gerdi Jungle of Alizayee Camp and only after an interference by Pakistan soldiers a confrontation was averted.
 REPCRT: The mujaheddin conquered 12 posts of
 Darqad district of YangL Qala, Takhar province 18 August and seized 80 pieces of different weapons. It is further reported that 80 Kabul government soldiers also joined the mujaheddin ; ranks.
 REPORT: As a result of successive mujaheddin
 operations in Kunar province, several security 1
 posts of the Kabul government have been conquer* •
                                                                                                                   ... \
 red. It is further reported that the mujaheddin
 also conquered security posts of Ghar-e-Koh,
 Sera Taq Farsh and Dir, captured 25 soldiers
 and six military officers and prisoners, and
 seized 80 klashenkovs and one "P" macbingun. REPORT: The mujaheddin shot down one Russian
 helicopter 19 September in Ghazni province.
                                                   October
                      4
 REPORT: Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in a conference said: "a government that receives a vote of confidence from real and elected representatives of its people can win the support of our Muslim nation. Any government which assumes power through other means will be undurable and shortliving.
                      9
 LETTER: In a letter, addressed to UN Secretary*
163
                                                                                           Vol.2, No. £-4
 October-1988-December, 19B9 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3» No.l
 General Perez de Cuellar, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islarai Afghanistan has complained Of the selfish mediation of Cordovez and has rejected the list of 30 impartial Afghans prepared by him. He has urged from de Cuellar to take urgent measures aimed.at ending the bloody war in Afghanistan.
                                                          12
 BDITORlALt • Under the title of "The Wear future1**, it says, ” ... It is a resolution of our nation i that the government of Muslim mujaheddin in Afghanistan is a reality of our time. But ; conditions and the demands by Afghan nation is that leaders of jehad ought to reach a consen-'sus and thus this great revolution of our vic-toriors nation should remain immune from political stebacks at this final juncture of our struggle,”
 REPORT: Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in the guest house of the party said 8 October i**I advise all the mujaheddin organizations and Qther groups of Afghan nation that they should avoid taking separate decisions and should not . ..
 ,attempt through collusions to have a share in !{Uture governments.
                                                       19
 REPORT: Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami i delivering a speech in the Gerdi Jungle Camp said: nj ara thankful to God Almighty, that both anti-Islamic forces are disappointed about me and do not expect me tp do anything for them.
 £ would have been unhappy if the enemies of JSlam had expected me to do things for them and would not have considered me their enemy. ” ,
                                                       25
 fUSPGRT;' Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami in
 ay conference 19 October in Seryab Road, Quetta liflaid: "Whoever wins the Pakistan elections he
 Will continue the present Pakistani policy
 •towards Afghanistan. All Pakistani patriotic
 fortes have realized that it was our mujahed-
                                                                                                                164
'din who at the cost of their blood halted the • • red storm. Had it not' been for the strongholds of mujaheddin on the heights of Hlndukush, God knows, what might have happened in Pakistan today.”
                                       November
                                              9
INTERVIEW: Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami in an interview with the BBC said in London "Russians can neither solve the Afghan issue on the basis of their own wishes or desire nor ! through & delay in the withdrawal of their soldiers or through delivery of new arms.”
                                             27
REPORT: In a press conference Hekmatyar said:
Those who oppose elections, in fact, seek to eliminate the interim government* Those who;
(1) oppose with words the interim government,
(2) delay or oppose the elections (3) are not prepared to get the elected shoora organized are (in fact) willing to dissolve this interim government.”
                                           39
REPORT; Hekmatyar leader of Hezb-e-Islami in a press conference on the shoora said 12 October; ”We wanted an elected representative should be .sent from each sub-division.to powerful shoora and that this powerful shoora, representing the entire Afghan nation and not (merely) the > parties of Pakistan and^lran - the alliance of seven and the alliance of eight - should, take decisions on national issues as .powerful authority." *
                                     December
                 3
EDITORIAL: • • • "The world considers the ushuring of direct talks between the mujaheddin and Russians as a great political achievement for the Afghan Muslim nation and the Islamic reyo-
                                                                                           Vol.2, No *2-4.
October-1988-Decembert 1989 AfGHflNJtHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
 lution of Afghanistan. This ist indeed, a considerable success in the destiny and struggle of the Afghan nation."
                     10
 REPORT: Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, in a speech 10 December said: "While we are not (ready) to halt the war, we are not prepared either to accept Russian conditions. Russians are (now) prepared to degrade themselves and sit on the negotiating table with the mujahed-
 REPQRT: In his Friday speech on elections,
 leader of Hezb-e-I slami Hekmatyar said: "We don't want to rule our nation by force. I want to convey my word to all that we will not give any opportunity to anyone to rule our nation through collusion, war and >0010)■
                     14
 REPORT: Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami
 in a press conference held in the office of the Advisory Board of the party, said 10 December: "The Russians could not achieve their objective by secret collusions and conciliations ..."
                                       In his Friday speech Hekmatyar had said:
 "If we setup a full Islamic government in Afghanistan, we would (still) allow the people
                                          x
 to remain armed.'»
                     18
 REPORT: In a training seminar of commanders, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar,answering a ,question^said: For the purpose of further understanding we deem contacts and talks necessary with those commanders who, to a certain degree, can think freely.
                     30
 INTERVIEW: Hekmatyar leader of Hezb-e-Islami
 in an interview with the correspondent of Ital-
 ian Television said: "we are trying to bring the war to an end in the shortest time and establish peace and freedom ..." He added, 'Russians should leave Afghanistan and, with their withdrawal,the government of Najib will fall immediately. The Russian cannot guarantee the survival of the Najib government by delivering to him all kinds of weapons."
                    27
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with the Shahadat
 journal Hekmatyar leaders of the Hezb-e-Islami' said 21 December: The Shias of Afghanistan are
 an' integral part of our nation and they fully enjoy all Islamic and civil rights, as members of a single nation. They will be given with- ' out any descrimination equal rights as the Sunnis.
                                          January 1989
                                                     1
 INTERVIEW: Condemning the Russian invassion
 of Afghanistan 27 December, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar in a speech has said: "We ■ do not allow anyone to declare Afghanistan as a non-military zone and prevent our nation from exercizing its power and authority to defend itself. We would consider such a decis-’ * ion deterimental to the national sovereignty of our nation."
                    4
 EDITORIAL: The editorial considers the formation of 140-member shoora of the leadership organizations a failure because it is based on equal rights for all parties and with each party, sending one representative and having equal status and authority with others.
 REPORT: In a roundtable conference 28 December leader of Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar pointed out: Islam has laid down the basis of elections. It is Islam which says that until people express dynamic and free allegiance '
165
October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2-4
 Vol.3, No.l
 to their leader, hi a government vd.ll not be legal.                     g January,  1989
8
 REPORT: Concerning the Afghan parties based
                     t
 in Pakistan and Iran, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar has said: "We are citizens and followers of a single nation. We should not divide the nation on the basis of Shia and Sunni.
 Shias and Sunni are in fact members of the
      religion.We should not allocate percentages for the Shia or Sunni populations and percentages based on ethnical consideration. Why should we disintegrate our nation on'such premises. All of our people are members of the same nation and followers of Islam."-
15
 REPORT: Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, Prime Minister during Zaher Shah, now living in Europe in a meeting with the leader-of Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar has. said: "We know that you deserve (the leader-ship position). I have been saying for years that those who carryout jehad have higher status than others.. I am not a man of jehad nor my age allows me to carry out jehad ... But if we sit silent here and don't talk about jehad, it would be tantamount to committing a {sin."
      Hekmatyar answered: "We expect you to defend the jehad ... i mean that you should express your consensus with the course adopted by the Afghan nation. We hope you would not clash with this trend.«
      Dr. Yousuf in return said: "I am in har-money with this trend and do not clash with . it ..."
        17
 INTERVIEW: Answering questions in a roundtable inference leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Hekmatyar said 1 January:
        Proportional representative system is better than free elections because -in the farmer
 the question of the(candidacy of a individual is not raised. In the proportional representative system votes are given on the basis of party plans, its past achievements and policy with due attention to measures undertaken by its members.
        19
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial considers  the fail-
 ure of talks^between the mujaheddin and Russians as another Russian defeated.
 INTERVIEW:  In an interview with  daily Jang of
 Pakistan, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said: "A' spirit of understanding prevails among our ranks and file. Our aim is identical and . all of us fight for Islam."
        23
 INTERVIEW:  Hekmatyar, leader of  the Hezb-e-
 Islami in an interview with the Pakistan Rigest about the (history of) organized Islamic movements in Afghanistan has said: "Prior to 1968 there was no Islamic movement in Afghanistan. Now it has become a powerful, movement throughout the world. At that time everyone wanted to become involved in this movement but it was the students who pioneered it in an organized manner ... The first session of the Islamic Movement was attended by 12 students ... At this time I felt that I could not cope with respon-.sibilities related to the movement. Therefore,
 I embarked upon this struggle collectively ...
 I also worked on my own making aware my friend:, of communist ideas ..."
       25
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial  deals with the exis-
 ting problems of the mujaheddin and the formation of a shoora on the basis of proposals [put forward by the Hezb. It comments on problems-of Pakistani-based mujaheddin organizations holding 60 seats each and Iran alliance of
 eight also having 60 seats altogether.
 166
                                                                                            Vol.2, Ko.2-4
Ootober-1986-December, 1989     IIIGIUINJIHAD                  Vol.3, No.l
                   27
 EDITORIAL: The editorial studies the rumors which it says may be close to reality. Okie rumor says the East and the West have been trying to weaken the genuine force of jehad and bring forth a paper tiger of their own.
 The editorial also deals with a rumor saying the East and the West are trying to untuask all political forces now in the guise of mujaheddin and that the Russians were willing to pass on the power to a rnmber of personalities in a redicullous and dramatic form.
                                          February
                   10
 REPORT: Abaidulla Seerat Vice President of Hezb-e-Islami in a press conference in connection with recent events has said: "The IDAM of has undertaken full measures for the capture of all towns and cities, maintenance of peace and security and despatch of food under difficult conditions of vilnter. Shooras have been or will be set up in all provinces.
                   11
 REPORT; Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, answering questions in Islamabad told newsmen about the tasks of the consultative shoora: "The shoora has the duty to appoint' an interim government and give it a vote of confidence. This government will (also) take over after the fall of Najib government. This government of muja-
 i
 heddin vdll inevitably-be established." ‘'
                   15
 EDITORIAL; "PEOPLE'S EXPECTATIONS FROM YOU."
 In the same manner as our nation defeated the enemy on the military front, we also expect the consultative shoora will also have the power to take unanimous decisions on the future of Afghanistan.
                                                    19
   REPORT: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and '
   Eng. Ahmad Shah have been-, appointed by the Consultative Shoora.as- President-of the Supreme. Council' of the TUAM and -Prime'Minister of the government respectively.
                            February,' 19.89'.
   NEWS: The leadership council-has delegated its authority'about the (appointment) of members of the cabinet to a 14-member consultative.t 'commission. The decision of this body will be final and binding.          # MaTV,h naaa
                                                March 8
      After meeting Afghan iShias in Iran, 1 Jan- 1 uary Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami, in a press conference said: "We cannot accept principles which would result in disintegration and sewing of discord In our nation. We do not agree with divisions based on sect,11 language, ■ etc. and-we’ do1 not <want'to devide fourfnation into groups and:strata•*
                                                    10
   REPORT: Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in an i.<fcrview with the Frontier Post said: We will hold talks with the Russians when they give up their demand to include Na jib and.his supporter in the shoora."
                                                    12
     ___   t
   INTERVIEW: In a press conference Hekmatyar,
   leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said: Mujaheddin accord on the formation of the interim government is a historic victory ... Now, all sides are. aware of the importance and need of elections
                                                                                                            • f
   and have accepted elections as a practical principle. In the Consultative Shoora, elections, were carried out in practice and, from now on an end will be put to differences.
167
October-19SB-Decemberf 1989 mm
 Vol.2, No.2^4
 Vol.3, No.l
                    21
  REFGRT: Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami,
  addressing the QIC said: 1 declare from this stage once again that the gpvernment of mujaheddin, after full control of the country and putting an end to tfye war, will follow a policy based on 'fimensty and compassion. He wLU pardon all those who were drawn purposely or by mistake, intentionally or unintentionally in the army alongwith foreign aggressive forces to fight against our nation.
                    28
  REPORT: Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in a graduation ceremony said: "We are standing firmly behind the interim government provided it carries out the decisions adopted what the shoora •
                                              April
                    11
  ARTICLES:"Talking Pashtu from British Radip"
  (By Mohammad Zaman Mozammel):
      If someone studies BBC broadcasts for the :last ten years he will be convinced that the BBC is the great satan of the 20th ceptury sowing discord among people.
                    25
  REPORT: After returning from his tour of eight .Asian countries, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said in a condolence meeting for the martyres of Jalalabad: "It seems the enemy has not learned a lesson and we have to bring an end to the war by striking our last blows at this isnemy."
                                              May
                     3
  REFGRT: Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in a meeting held to condemn the April coup of
 1987: "Where are those-who considered the Afghan war as a Russian-American war? They should be ashamed of what they have been saying. Isn't the prevailing situation sufficient for them?
 The ominous intensified propaganda by the Western media and the non-recognition of the interim government of mujaheddin by the west show that we were alone in this war and that we fought it on haais of the dictate of our faith.
 We were free in making our decisions and resolutions.
                                                                               "This war was an Afghan-Russian War and -pur
                                             \
 war will guarantee peace in the future."
                               17 May 1989
 REPORT: Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in a speech in Nasrat Maine congrational Mosque on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fetr-' said: "Some of them still wear masks for creating discord. How God Almighty wants to unwash than. Those who are plotting against our sacred Jehad Join hands with the enemy to help it achieve victory over our nation. They should understand that their • end will also be evil."
 lay, 1989
 REPORT: Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the AIG in an interviewed from Indonesia with the VQA said*.
 . "My present mission has begun in a difficult ; time. However, I am still hopeful. You. will hear the news of the official recognition accorded to our government by some countries."
                      31
 EDITORIAL: 'How we should act with a new spirit on the basis of our new experiences. The details of enemy collusions ought to be discussed in the framework of logic. No expediency should be allowed. We should clear the minds of the peopLe about ominous plots hatched by the Russians, Americans, Israels, HLndus and other reactionary forces against Islam and Jehad. In order to fight these plots, we should give a new spirit
168
a I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                            Vol.2, No*2-4
0ctober-1968-December, 1989      AfGHANJEHAD                   Vol.3,  No.l
                                      June
                 7
 REPORT s After returning from a trip to the hot trenches of jehad in Jalalabad, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in a press conference said: Western news agencies have launched an intense compaign against martyred Zia-ul-Haq, Inter Service Intellegence (of Pakistan) ■and me.Let us see what is the will of God and
 what will happen to me. However, we will continue with our Islamic mission without any concern and fear. We are ready to accept every hardship for our cause.,
                  11
 EDITORIAL: "Almost three months have elapsed since the establishment of the AIG headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. But, in its broad sense, the work,of this government is not satisfactory to the supporters of the Islamic government.
                  17
 INTERVIEW: Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami in ah interview with the Shahadat has said: "Our Muslim nation considers Zaher Shah : as the main figure for our entire disasters and painful tragedies. My understanding is that how America is trying to change the policy of Pakistan ..."
                      21
 REPORT; Prof. Sayyaf Prime Minister of the AIG has said: "A government comprised of technocrats and neutals is unacceptable for Afghanistan."
                      28 June’, 19B9 REPORT:  In an interview with the mothers of
 Russian Prisoners, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said: "By seeing your tears I recall the tears of my mother and those of thousands of other Afghan mothers who have also lost their beloved sons."
                                                 July
                    5
 REPORT: In a large gathering in Khoggani,
 Nangarhar, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said: "It is sufficient to rely on God Almighty. Who could think that a barbaric armed forces, equipped with sophisticated weapons, would be defeated disgracefully by the mujaheddin with outdated rifles and would withdraw from Afghanistan.
                    11
 REPORT; "Talks between PLO leader Yasser Arafat and Hekmatyar." In the framework of his mediatory mission had brought along a proposal that former monarch Zaher Shah should serve hemporaiily as the head of the interim government of Afghanistan .
     Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb—e—Islami,responding clearly has said:"The return of Zaher Shah to Afghanistan was not the return of an individual but the return of a regime. The Afghan nation have passed through many stages and will pass through more stage. There is no '.place for another monarchy in Afghanistan.There is no place for Zaher Shah."
                                              August
                    2
 REPORT: Brother Seerat Vice President of the
 Hezb-»-Islaroi, commenting in a press conference
 on recent events said: Regretfully the AIG is weak and has failed to carryout any of its
 promises. An elected’ shoora has not. came into existence and the government has not been shifted inside the country. The government does not proceed ahead. On the contrary obstacles are created against it.
 August 1989
 REPORT: Concerning the internal clashes betweet mujaheddin in Parwan, Hekmatyar leader of the
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHANJ[HAD                        Vol.3, No.l
       6
 Hezb-e-lslami in a message has said: Foreign powers have no right to take side in the internal differences of mujaheddin and defend their favorite groups injustiflably and thus fan the flame of war with their slanderous propaganda. Afghans have the power to settle their internal problems. They do not need foreign mediators.
                      9
 REPORT; Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-lslami in a speech in Jehad University said: Since our people have been victims bullets for defending
                           I
 their country, therefore .they have the right to determine their own destiny. He said such a way of thinking is part of our faith.
                      16
 'REPORT; After returning from a visit to eight provinces, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-lslami told the VGA in Peshawar: "In order to prevent the reoccurence of events such as the on which took jxLace in Takhar the only alternative i3' to cut short the hands of others by holding elections ..."
                      23
 REPORT: In  a gathering held in Warsak for rene-
 wal of pledges and commitments, Hekmatyar leader !of the Hezb-e-lslami said: "We strongly condemn
 internal clashes and want unity and brotherhood ■among the mujaheddin. It is for this reason that the emphasize elections.Elections are the only alternatives for the solution or problem...
                      30
 EDITORIAL: "WHY DOES HEKMATYAR WANT ELECTIONS?"
    . Hekmatyar,leader of Hezb-e-lslami says: "From every mosque this voice should be raised: Oh you the party leaders, trust your nation,
 fear the resolve of the people and let your nation elect a Muslim leadership for themselves ...p
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with the Shahadat
 about the important issues related to the revolution, Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-lslami once again repented his intention not to participated in non-elected government.
                    13
 INTERVIEW: Hekmatyar leader of the Hezb-e-
 Islami,shedding light on current Afghan events r told an audience in the Nasrat tyaina congregational Mosque," said:. ... Brotherq,you defeated the Russians and now Americans have taken their place and will act against you with only one difference. The former sent their troops and had communist- (agents) inside Afghanistan.But the latter have no recognized front as communists and, therefore, they push forward their agents in the guise of Islam to fight against you.
                                                                                            20 September, 1989
 REPORT: Leader of Hezb-e-lslami Hekmatyar in a speech has said: "It is our wish that our brethren fulfill their pledges and honor their signatures. We do not want to put an end to this government but rather we want to strengthen it. When want an elected shoora for this government."
 September, 1989
 ARTICLE: "Colonial runours about the return of
 Zaher Shah" translated by Nakar. "America and
 Russia both cannot tolerate successful transitions in different phases of jehad and the
 emergence of a powerful and pure Islamic nation
 as a result of these transitions.
                                                October
                      3
 ARTICLE: "A GLANCE AT MAOSIM AT THE SERVICE OF
October^l968-Decemberf 1989     AFGHAN JEHAD
  i^MiRICA". "...With the start of jehad in Afghanistan Maoists, due to their long hostility with Russia and Russian puppets resorted to aimed '
  .struggle under different names and to penertrdte
                                       i
  .into the Islamic movement. But, as our people had risen up for the promotion of Islam, they were not ready to accept their hyporcitical Islamic slogan! Jindlly the real faces of Maoists were gradually unmasket and rejected by our people.n
       It has been.pointed out that, under an atmoshere of anti-communist spirit in Afghanistan, there was no alternative for Maoists than to serve both Russia and America.••"
                       11
  REPORT:  In his Friday speech Hekmatyar leader
  of the Hezb-e-Islami said: "We used to tell our people if an Islamic government is established, justice and security would prevail* And then .you would see changes. We have not fulfilled even one percent of the expectations of the people since we have formed this government. And,’ thus, one may ask: What kind of a status and prestige, the mujaheddin organizations can have (in the eyes of the people)?. We put stress on elections because our brothers once showed rea- . diness for establishing an elected governraent and giving up the narrow-minded party interests and preferred the order of God Almighty and the national interests of our country.",
                       18
  REPCRT: Throwing light on the prevailing situation Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islaroi said:
  U**I have now reached the conclusion that if , at this phase, any one says even one word Against
  me or my party, I would respond with two words.
  Because, at this phase, I consider such a deci-
  ,sive and revolutionary policy necessary. We
  should dedsively defend the revolution, cut
  short ’ ,• selfish hands and shut the enemy
  mouth so no one may have the courage to look
  with an evil eye against Afghanistan."
 Vol.2, No .2—4 Vol.3t No*1
 25
 REPCRT: In a speech Hekmatyar, leader of the
 Hezb-e-Islami said: This is not the war between Hezb and Jaraiat. We respect Jamiat. They are our brothers. We share their pains and * sorrows."
                                   November
               22
 REPCRT:. In a press conference in Islamabad »" Hekmatyar, leader of the Hezb-e-Islami said: If‘ Russians are prepared not to send arms to Afghanistan, not to support their.desirable regime and they give up supporting the government imposed by military force, we would then i guarantee that no interference would take place from any other quarters in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. In case such an interference took place we would fight against'it.**
 EDITORIAL:  "Cordovez*s New Mischief". The UN ,
 special envoy on Afghanistan -Diego Gordovez ... .has prepared a list of 30 impartial Afghans who are asked to decide the future of Afghanistan. Gordovez throughout his assignment has never taken into account the interest of the Afghans nor has he bothered about 1.5 million martyrs of this tortured and slaughtered nation ...
 Those who assume the role of impartiality or favor a communist regime for the sake of just one seat in the pavilion of power, are considered by us*as condemned and enemies of jehad ...
 It goes without saying that this new mischief oh the part of Cordovez is also doomed to failure.
 ARTICLES: "Afghanistan and Pakistan have Common Interests*/ (KHALIS). The Russians invaded Afr-
                                                                                                      171
V
                AhNoor
  December 1988
       23
October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2-4
 Vol.3, No.l
 ghanistan but Pakistan welcomed the refugees with open azms.and accommodated them. What is the reason? ... The answer is that these two countries have common interests. If , God forbid, one of them suffers a set-back, naturally it would amount to an injury, to the other ... For example, in case a communist regime takes over in Afghanistan, it would mean snakes and scorpions have taken permanent abode near Pakistan. Hence the social consciousness of the Pakistani nation requires that the Muslim nation of Afghanistan should have an independent life and, therefore, they fool obligated to support them ... Whichever party may govern Pakistan, it should keep in mind the interests and sentiments of this nation, otherwise it would not have smooth sailing.
                                           October
                     8
 EDITCRIAL: "What do the Russians Want". When the Soviet military might faced defeat as a result of the strong resistance of the Afghan people in our dear fatherland, the Russian political leadership resorted to various tactics in order to defeat the mujaheddin on political front ... As is evident from day-to-day developments, the Neutral Government Plan worked out by (UN mediator) Cordovez or selection of 30 so-called impartial Afghans have been, in the first place, approved by Kremlin and later on introduced as a solution of the Afghan problem ... In our view, the only solution to the problem is, the continuation of Jehad.            ,
 ARTICLES; 'Vagoma-Karabagh and the Russians".
 (By Madayar). This article in its foreward says spldLers despatched from the Asian colonies in Russia to Afghanistan, felt an awakening here, and then it concludes," If we say that the Islamic Revolution of Afghanistan has transcended $be boundaries and its affects have penetrated Into Russian territory in the form of a jehad, it < would not be far from reality, if today the
demand of Nagoma-Karabagh has come into open, tomorrow, God willing, the demand of Panjdeh would attract attention and, the day after, the Russians would realize that their existance in the Central Asian republics is no longer possible."
                     23
EDITORIAL; "True Commemoration of the Holy Prophet' s Birth Anniversary" ... In the same ’
                            •      .. j       , v
way as Prophet Mohammad, ;peace be upon him ,. faced all kinds of hardships for the cause of propagation of the Divine Religion and did not care for the worldly comfort, we the Afghan mujaheddin too, should not bow down or waver in promoting the cause of our jehad which means that we ought not accede to ministership or presidency in exchange for the Divine Religion.
Al-Noor                                  '
ARTICLES:   "Al-Noor". Al-Noor is the name of
this very journal being published for the last nine-years by Hezb-e-l3lami ... On the inaug-ration of this journal we had promised that it would promote the aims of Hezb-e-Islami by promoting the cause of jehad and by increasing its scholarly articles, which it has done ...
But we can point out certain other publications by Muslims who eventhough find themselves duty * bound' to propagate Islam, contain more lies than truth and consider politics no more than deceit and crookedness and act likewise ... Those who have no other duty than sabotage, call others as saboteurs and are so brazen-faced that they want to put the blame on others. Such magazines or publications can work for such people but from the viewpoint of a person devoted and ' committed to Islam, such publications may well tarnish the image of an organizations ... Also we saw contradictory during the course of these years publications. But the Al-Noor never published such material because it is a publication of Hezb-e-Islami and adhered into public, cation Islamic spirit. It was not the property
172
 October-1938-Decemtter, 1989
 , Vol.2, No.2-4
   Vol.3, No.l
 of an individual and has not served as a vehicle for his contradictory opinions.
                                    November
                 7
 EDITORIAL; "What is the Meaning of a Broadbased Government"?... The broadbased government proposed by "them" means a coalition government including the communists and other indesirable elements ... No true Afghan wants that murderers of. the nation and the blood-thirsty wolves become masters of this heroic nation's destiny.
 ARTICLES: "General Elections or another Gift by the West" (KHALIS). General' Elections from the Islamic point of view is contrary to. social Justice because on the basis of the Holy Quran a scholar and an ignorant person, a siuner and a pious man and finally man and women are never equal whereas in general elections these principles jof social justice are ignored.
        22
 EDITORIAL: "We and the Communists". Seven major mujaheddin parties have repeatedly and decisively declared that they will never and in any form, participate in a government which may include even one communist because they had in fact started this jehad, just to eliminate these evil elements/i.e., the communists. Therefore how would it be possible now that the mujaheddin should accept communist eleme-
Afghanistan, we will also not allow Pakistan to change the course of our jehad from 1 its Islamic path to an Afghan one. Hezb-e-Islami will continue its armed jehad till the establish-, ment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
                             December
        7
EDITORIAL: "Direct Talks with the Russians and Voice of Conscience"... One of the satanic tactics of the Russians has been a meeting by Russian ambassador with a number of leaders of our Islamic jehad in Saudi Arabia. These so called direct talks did not take place in accordance with a decision of the Supreme Council of the!-IUAM. Hence the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan is not responsible for its unpleasant consequences and rejects any decision that has been approved.
ARTICLES: "What sort of a Muslim Are You?". I and you remember the day very clearly when we were fleeing from the followers of the Khalq and Parcham parties and their spies. We had no other alternative but to suddenly leave everything behind and migrate ... The agents of the Khalq Party bombed our houses and many of our defenseless women and children were slaughtered mercilessly. •• Now I wonder why you do not feel ashamed and with your greybeard you are knocldng this or that door to recommend the case of these very partisons of Khalq, Parcham and the militia who have been instrumental in bringing calamity and disaster at the doorstep of Afghanistan.
 , ,nts too in their government.
   4BTICUSi "Our Jehad is I aland c and not Afghani", EDImm/ »SanU«entaUty or Coolndndedneaa". Nowadays ... efforts are made to change the course Of Afghanistan's Islamic jehad ... For this purpose the Russians have collaborated with the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan ... They have presented a plan to the UN to hold an inter-Afghan discussion for stopping bloodshed in Afghanistan so that all the Afghans should take part in the ' formation of an Afghan government ... As we have (already refused to give the Russians the right of interference in the internal affairs of
The importance of military sector has been explained side by side with the political sector and i talks with the Russians have been considered permissible only on the condition that: " "Moscow should announce, in advance an open agenda which should favor the mujaheddin. Only then there would be a possibility of negotiations with the Soviets. Yet we again recommend that now we should take every step with cool calculation and not with haste and avoid rea-
m
October-198S-December, 1969 AfGHAN JIHAD
                                                                       Vol.2, No • 2^-4 Vol.3, No.l
    chihg at decisions based on emotion.v* ■
                                                           7
    EDITORIAL: "Reasons for Russian intervention and our Jehad Against it." "... ft is now time to know whether.the USA is really concerned about the oppression of the Muslim people of Afghanistan and0helps us puts an end to others oppression ... or they are secretly trying to convince the Russians to tolerate the exi stance of American agents in the future government of Kabul.
    As it is being commonly said, plans for the establishment of a coalition government of Russian agents and people opposed to Russia will certainly be brought qbout. And if this is true| then we must admit that America, in the guise of helping the mujaheddin,actually wanted to have a share in the prey which the Russians had caught. And also we will recognize those, who, under the name of Islamic jehad and freedom pf Afghanistan, were actually trying to fulfil American objectives and were supporting an un-Islamic and unfair political settlement and sell Afghanistan not only to one super power but to. both of them •.."
    MESSAGE: On the occasion of the December 27,
    a message by the leader of Hezb-e-Islami Af-
                                    /
    ghanistan has been published which urges, (i) withdrawal of all Russian forces from Afghanistan, (ii) electing a leader by the ahl-e-hal •wa aad (people of wisdom), (ijli) Formation of a partyless Islamic government, (IV) Rejection of election systems, (V) Being Islamic in words and deeds (vl) Rejecting a leader who is not knowledgeable in religion and Slacks piety,, (vii) Rejection of a mixed government, (viiij Proclamation of jehad in case of intervention by any foreign power, (ix) Rejection of international colonial designs and compromises, (x)
    ' Russian refrain from all kinds of military land political intervention in Afghanistan, (xi) Accepting assistance without strings attached to it from all quarters, (12) promotion of an alliance among all those who accept these ob-*
jectives.
        January 1989
                                                        6
EDITCRIAL: ANOTHER FUTILE CEASEFIRE OF NAJIB
"After the rejection of recent proposal put forward by Mikhail Gorbachev by the Afghan mujaheddin and freedom loving people of the world, Najib offered a unilateral ceasefire to the mujaheddin 3 January, 1988. However not only this offer was rejected by the mujaheddin at that time but the mujaheddin continued their onslaughts on the' Kabul regime positions.»• The editorial urges the mujaheddin to be aware of enemy plots and tricks.
REPORT: Fresidentof the UJAM, Prof. Sebghat-
Ullah Mojaddedi has said the IUAM will soon establish a shoora fifty percent of which willb comprized of the jehad commanders.
                                                       21
EDITORIAL: "TRUE ISLAMIC LEADERSHIP". "... We . find it our obligation that for the establishment of an Islamic government and leadership we will continue our serious efforts and, at . the same time, for the establishment of an .• Islamic leadership, we ought to select: good and alert mujaheddin, discard political ,and regional discrimination. Because the fate of each Muslim Afghan is dependent on a true Islamic leadership." .
MESSAGE: "The leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in a message from the Jehad trench has said: "all Afghans should bear witness that neither I nor my party seeks a leadership position and neither we are contemplating such a thing (in the future). My objective is
the establishment of an Islamic government and ary Muslim Afghan who is aware of religion and practices Islam is acceptable to us as our leader and we are ready to put our facilities at his disposal."
174
      Mawlawi Khales in another message has rejected general elections, adding, 'General elections in which the vote of a lewd person or a former communist Is equivalent to the vote of a real Muslim, has no foundation in Islam. And such elections are actually a gift of the west in which ability, competence and piety are being ignored and trampled. We proclaim to the entire world that the selection of a leader for Muslims is only within the power of pious, alert, knowledgeable and scholarly Muslims. Therefore, we are strongly opposed to general elections.in
 Afghanistan and urge that the future leadership
 ! ) ■
 should be established only through Islamic ways
 and not through ideas.promoted by the West or
 the. East.
 EDITORIALS "SHOQRA AND THE WISHES OF THE NATION". "... Our nation wishes that the proposed shoora which will dlfinitely convene 11 February, take steps with complete faith and devotion for preserving our religious and national honors and manifest the aspirations of^ our Muslim nation so that our nation may survive and live forever under the banner of Islam".
 REPORTS During the past year dur Muslim mujaheddin have destroyed 447 enemy tanks.
 VERDICT: A verdict by the Afghan and Pakistani religious scholars has termed holding of elections a§ unislamic practice.
                                                                                                     20 1 February, 1988
 EDITORIAL: "THE RUSSIANS HAVE ESCAPED". "The Afghan war became very expensive for the Russians ... The Russians by occupying Afghanistan were thinking of Hungary, Poland and other Countries. But they run away from Afghanistan
 epch a way that the commander of Russian Army
 Gromov hardly looked back.
ARTICLE: "CONSULTATIVE COUNCIL OR EXECUTIVE COUNCIL?". "...We are sure that the consultative shoora and our leaders, by realizing their Islami obligations, will adopt strong measures and prove that this consultative shoora.is not ,a scapegoat but a place for adopting important decisions and, as such, we can call it not only a consultative shoora but also an executive and dynamic shoora."
                                                 March
                                                    7
EDITORIAL: "WE AND OUR GOVERNMENT." The edito- , rial has supported the government established by the consultative shoora and has condemned its. opponents by writing "under present circumstances this interim government is legal and the only vehicle for solving present difficulties and this very government will bring about peace and tranquillity under the banner of Islam to our beloved country."
INTERVIEW: Haji Deen Muhammad, Minister for
National Security, has given the following explanation about the work of a 14-member commission appointed by the shoora in which he himself was member.              i
               • l    '         (
    "Representatives of different strata of the people such as the mujaheddin, elder-lies, scholars, commanders and officials of mujaheddin organizations gathered in Rawalpindi to establish a united leadership. After talks stretching several days, our representatives were not able to solve issues referred to them and, therefore, in order to end the deadlock, a 14-member commission was established under the chairmanship of Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani. The commission met continuously for three days and came out with a plan Which was unanimously accepted and on the basis of this plan elections were held and duties were assigned to every one."
175
                                                                             October-1988-December t 1989
 Vol.2, No.
 Vol.3, No.l
                                                                               Vol.2, No.2-/i
October-1988-Decanber, 1989 AUlHflN J1HAU ___________ Vol.3, Mo.l
                                                 May
                    5
 ARTICLE* "WHY INDIAN INTERFERENCE?" BY SHARAFAT. "■•I We can conclude; (i) The governments of Muhammad Zaher Shah and Muhammad Daoud, for the sake of their friendship with India and animosity with Pakistan,} resorted to many measures, (ii) India is not ready to accept a Muslim, powerful and stable‘Afghanistan, (iii) one should not rule out Indian interference in Afghanistan and it is possible that India, under the guise of assistance, will send military advisers and . troops for consolidating the Najib government in Afghanistan. But if India will become such a fopl, its fate will be worse and more disgraceful than that of Russia."
                                                April
                                                25
 EDITORIALS "UN FUTILE EFFORTS ‘VIS A VIS .AFGHAN ISSUE." "...The world is completely aware that '903& of Afghan territory is controlled by ' the powerful Afghan mujaheddin forces and very soon the UN will find out that in their own way they will also capture the big cities of Afghanistan and finally an Islamic government will be-established over the- entire territory of the beloved Afghanistan. We do not consider pru- y 'dent! the UN interference in the Afghanistan issue and if the UN desires to implement any plan it should hold talks with the AIG."
 VERDICT: "COMMAND BASED ON SHARIAT FOR ATTACKING THE CITIES." In regions where infidels reside* Muslims are not obliged to refrain from attacking that area for the sake of the existence of some imprisoned Muslims or merchants. Also if the enemy offers Muslim children or prisoners las shields, Muslims 'are hot supposed to terminate fighting and should continue their attacks on the enemy and should intend killing infidels." (Prom Hedaya, Chapter on 'MATURE OF FIGHTING").
                     6
 ARTICLE* "THE MINOR JEHAD AND GREATER JEHAD" BY KHALES. The article speaks about the "great jehad" which is the jehad of soul and the "minor jehad" which is the jehad against infidels. It quotes from a sayings of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, and then refers to the defiance of some mujaheddin and leaders of jehad
      . - ..     /            m V .
 from the great jehad and concludes: "in the greater jehad main refrains from using his . gains on the battle field for wielding power but use the gains for the establishment of the rule of God."
                                                  June
                     6
 EDITORIAL: "ALL JEHAD ORGANIZATIONS SHOULD BE MERGED INTO THE AIG." "... Now several months have passed since the formation of the AIG. However, unfortunately, still all offices are continuing their affairs with old party spirits. Their publications have not been merged, the Ministry of Defense has no means at its disposal and in each Ministry so far work has been delegated only to party members. We are urging the President, Prime Minister and members of the cabinet to effectively resort to the unification of offices and other affairs ... We proclaim that our party will positively respond to all measures*.taken.for achieving this aim and we will, put all our facilities at the disposal of the government."
 ARTICLES: "In case of holding Islamic kind of elections, there is no reason for continued fighting in Afghanistan. If general elections are allowed in an Islamic order, then Najib and Russians, too had held general elections in Afghanistan and those who are advocating general elections should not condemn Najib on this issue? And agreeing on a quota for the Shias
                                                                                  J
                                                                            bctober-^B^-Doccinbor, 19B9
»i
 Vo'1.3, No.l
        23
 of Afghanistan will be tantamount to laying the first comer stone for spliting Afghanistan into various parts will be laid down*"
                     22
 EDITORIAL: "WHO IS BETTER? ... AEGHAN MOTHERS OR RUSSIAN MOTHERS. The newspaper in commenting on a trip made by the mothers of Russian POWs to Peshawar writes "according to some news, thousands of Afghans have been taken to Siberia and other parts of Russia for doing hard labor. We are of the opinion that the Afghan mothers are more virtuous and better than the Russians mothers and it is not possible to compair the two. Until the sons of our mothers are not freed from Russians jails or by their puppets V- and at
 least Moscow does not show readiness for the
                                    i
 release of all of them, expression of sympathy towards Russian mothers will be tantamount to a big Cruelty towards the mothers of our marty-:res and prisoners of war." ■
 EDITORIAL: «THE REAL NEED OF THE AIG". It says that it is important that "all Islamic organisations should put their facilities at the disposal of the AIG and all members of these Islamic organizations should render their helping hands with complete sincerity for the implementation of the programs undertaken by AIG.." ARTICLES: "THE QUESTION OF IMAMAT" " ... Now that, with the~help and grace of Almighty God, the Muslim mujaheddin as a result of their Islamic valour have achieved victory after 11 years of their continuous jehad by defeating ' the Russians and atheist devils and have hoisted the white flag of peace and Islam and have established the Islamic interim government to replace the puppet government of the infidels. |U •ifor more than anything else, it is necessa- •• ry that they should build new Mosques and appoint for them Imams (those who lead the prayer.s.)"
                                                      7
 EDITORIAL: "EVEN MORE IMPORTANT THAN THIS." It has elaborated on slogans raised by Kabul communists about Islam and ask: "even more important than this is the issue of those ,mullahs who during the past ten years in sermons, radio speeches and newspaper articles supported Tara-, kai, Amin, jCarmal and Najib and have been telling the public they, as a religious scholars, -considered the Najib government legal and Islamic and now these very people have come to Pe-phawar ... It is regrettable and surprising that the same people today are being appointed as supervisors over a mujahed who has fought for ten years the communists ..."
 ARTICLES: "THE RUSSIANS ARE REVENGING THEIR • DEFEAT THROUGH ZAHIR SHAH" BY AHMAD MAHMUD. The article considers the return of Zaher Shah to Afghanistan as, . part of Russian program."
                       7
                                                             i
EDITORIAL: 'NEITHER AEGHAN NCR MUSLIM".
     From both sides of the present Afghan conflict, only Afghans are killed and by the massacring of large number' of Afghans, even of Najib, Gorbachev wants to show himself justified for his policies in Russia. This is a plan which the Russians are intent to implement even with further financial expenses ... We are looking with hatred to these illegal Russian iriterfer-ences and, if there, will be an opportunity, we are going to ask about the fate of Tarakai, Amin and others as well.
     The fact that a number of women are raising tha name of Islam and complain about their lack of participation in the government or that some people, under the pretext of a broadbased government, show inclinations towards a government in which athie8tf Shias and other filthy ele-
177
 merits may also participate, all these(are tan-’ tamount to making Islam a tool for their own selfish ends and manilist their uni eland, c sentiments. "
                     23
 REPCRT: Leader of the Hezb-e-Islami and the
 AIG Interior Minister, in a speech over "RADIO
 MUJAHED" has said "We are suggesting to our
 raujahed brethren that now that the end of the
 atheist regime is in sight,»we should realize
 all its tricks and to all those who are trying
 to convene loya jirgahs in opposition to your
 Islamic government teach the kind ot lesson which you have already taught to Najib and his Russian masters."
                     7
 EDITORIAL: "AL-NOQR STOPS PUBLICATION." During the past ten years of its publication the Al-Noor journal always supported real alliance
     f
 of the mujaheddin and played an active role in ;evolving a complete authority for the consulta-" tive shoora to form an interim government ... While the Hezb-e-Islami remains intact and has a cultural department of its own, due to positive and resolute stand taken by Mawlawi Khales, leader of the Hezb, this newspaper proclaims itself dissolved and puts all its publication facilities and personnel at the disposal of the Ministry of Information, so that all the scattered publications of the mujaheddin are merged together in the /interest of Islamic Revolution and are forwarded to our compatriots and people of the world as a single and united media."
                    ,                                          Vol.2, No*2-4 ’
October-1988-Dec ember, 1989 AfGHANJIHAD ;                     Vol.3, No.l
_______________________ AFGHAN
                                    EVENTS
                  October,1988 — December, 1989
 EDITOR*S NOTE: The following chronology is compiled from major Pakistani English and Urdu papers aimed at covering the important events of tne last 15 months during which the Afghan Jehad was not published.
                                  October 1988
                                            1
 *  The Islamic Foreign Ministers conference concluded 29 September after unanimously approving a ' draft resolution on Afghanistan stressing an intra-Afghan dialogue for the establishment of a
 broadbased government in Kabul* The text worked out by Pakistan in consultation with the Soviet 'Union was recommended 28 September by the OIC’s Afghanistan committee (APP/PT).
 * In a message to Kabul citizens, leader of Hezb-e-Islami, Engineer Gulbuddin HekmatyarVas quoted by ANAfexpressed concern over the flurry of missiles strikes in Kabul city and blamed the Kabul .regime and Russians for the catastrophe (PT).
 * After capturing the Asadabad airport/in the provincial capital of Kunar, the mujaheddin continue heavy shelling on that city's cantonment and other military targets (AAP/PT).
 * In a big explosion at an arms depot of the Kabul regime in Samarkhel, Jalalabad, 40 Kabul troops were killed and 200 others injured (MIM). . ' ' . '
                                   .. 2 . '
 * Asmar, a strategically crucial zone in Kunar province fell to mujaheddin 30 September after a
 jtwq months siege (MIM/ANA).
 * The Afghan mujaheddin announced 30 people were killed as a result of the downing of a Kabul regime military helicopter in Paktia late September (PT).
 * Pakistan firmly rejected 30 September Kabul's allegations in the General Assembly, that it Was
 violating the Geneva accords, saying the UN observers were empowered to investigate such complaints* 1                                                               (MIM).
 * The IN Secretary General's envoy on Afghanistan issue, Diego Cordovez has expressed concern and astonishment over the allegations levelled by the Soviet, Union against the UNGOMAP (jG).
                                           179
14418279
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2—4
    October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
                                          3
 * Mujaheddin captured a Kabfcl regime military base in Darqad, • a Kilometre from Takhar. They also seized a huge quantity of arms and ammunition “(MWf).
 River Amu
 (Qxus)
 *  At the request of the uNf, three British military experts on explosives have been sent to Pakistan. During their stay, they will evaluate the work on sweeping defusing mines for the return of Afghan refugees to their homes (NWT).
                                                5
 *  American businessman and self-appointed peace envoy Arthur Hammond again flew into Kabul October 4 and met Kabul regime leader Najibullah. According to Radio Kabul, Najibullah tolcT Hammond his government is ready to hold talks with its armed opponents and the Peshawar-based leadership anywhere and any time to restore peace in Afghanistan (MIM).
                                                6
 *  Radio Kabul reported that 13 persons were killed' and 24 injured when mujaheddin fired rockets on Kabul city 5 September (MIM).
                                          1
 •*. pir Sayyed Ahmad Gilani leader of NLFA has announced any member of the Communist band who joined nearest mujaheddin base under his party banner or turned his weapons on his communist superiors, would be pardoned (EN).
 *   Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Hekmatyar currently visiting the recently liberated Asmar, ►Kunar, has said elections is the only solution of Afghanistan issue (JG).
 *   A leader of Afghan mujaheddin, Rehmatullah Safi has said the mujaheddin are in urgent need for the^ American ground-to-air Stinger missiles. He added that 900. Soviet planes have been shot down with Stinger missiles between 1936-1988 (JG).
 *  As many as 13 persons were killed and 24 others injured when mujaheddin fired several ground-to-ground rockets in Kabul-city 5 October, Radio Kabul reported (MIM)
                                                7        '■
 *  Brigadier General Abdullah Khan of Kabul regime has defected and arrived in Zhob with his family members. Besides',seven Kabul troops defected from Kandahar and have reached Chaman (JG).
 ** US Department of State spokesperson Phyllis Oakley said $ Ootober mujaheddin have recently scoped important gains against Kabul troops (DN).
                                                8
 *  Fbreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan in talks J.th UN Secretary General,.Perez De Cuellar 7 October underlined the need for the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan acceptable tQ the Afghan people (PT).
 > .. *
 *  The US will send bomb-disposal experts and training material to Pakistan to teach Afghan refugees to disarm and destroy millions of mines and booby traps scattered over the Afghan countryside, a senior Reagan administration official said 7 October (NWT).
                                                ISO
                                                                                            Vol.2, No,2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JIHAD                       Vol.3,  No.l
 *  Speaking at a press conference in NY, the US Secretary of State, Shultz said the Geneva accords were being violated by Soviet and Afghan planes intruding deep into Pakistan air space (MIM).
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have gained full control over Paktika province after heavy fighting with Kabul troops, reports VGA (PT).
                                            9
 *  Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said in Peshawar 8 October no government could be formed in Afghanistan without the support of Hezb-e-Islami. He added that now there was no difference among the parties of alliance on holding elections (JG).
                                            10
 *  A report from Kunar states that Kabul troops deployed in the border cantonment of Aanar had surrendered to the mujaheddin 2 October (PT).
                                            11
 *  The mujaheddin have shot down three Kabul regime helicopters. They were carrying supply goods for the beseiged Kabul troops in Helmand province (NWT).
 *  Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Hekmatyar has said elections in Pakistan will have no bearing on the Afghan problem (NWT),
 *  The IUAM Supreme Council is considering soundings received from the Soviet Union that it was willing to enter into direct talks with the Peshawar-based seven party alliance without the participation of the Kabul administration. Engineer Hekmatyar disclosed this to The Pakistan Times in an exclusive interview in Peshawar 9 October (PT),
                                            12
 *  Afghan mujaheddin have claimed to have captured the entire Kunar province, reports ANA (MIN),
                                            13
 *  Addressing the IN General Assembly,the Japanese envoy to the UN announced that his government will provide $60 millions aid to the Afghan' refugees (JG).
 *  At a news briefing 12 October, UNOCA Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan has said the Soviet Union has pledged equivalent of $600 million for rebuilding Afghanistan (PT).
                                            14
 *  Seven army commanders,who recently surrendered to the mujaheddin in Asmar division of Afghanis-tan,predicted fall of the Najib government as soon as Soviet troops stepped of that country (IN),
 *  Soviet Union announced the appointment of First Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov, who played a key role in negotiating the Geneva accords,as its Ambassador in Kabul (DN),
 *  Kabul premier Muhammad Hassan Sharq at a press conference in Kabul 12 October invited former (King Zahir and other exiled leaders to meet him for talks aimed at ending the Afghan war. He claimed people have no more confidence in the PDPA than they had in the mujaheddin leadership (DN).
              •                      ' v' ' 181
 Vol.2. No.2p-4
 * The mujaheddin captured the Paktika Governorf Saheb Jan Waziri, Chief of KHAD, Shafiq and other communist party members 3 October (PT).
                                       15
  * Former King Zahir Shah has turned down a dialogue offer made by Prime Minister Muhammad Hassan • Sharq saying the future of Afghanistan cannot be determined according to the wishes of a few persons. He said only the Afghan people have the right to decide about the fate of Afghanistan (JG).
   * According to Zahedan Radio, Afghan mujaheddin have shot down eight Kabul regime helicopters in Wardak, Ghazni and Helmand during the last week (JG).
* The US will probably contribute about $150 million for tan in 1909f the White House said on 13 October (PT).
  i
the (post-war reconstruction of Afghani s-
   * At a press conference 17 October in Islamabad, Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and current IUAM head said the IUAM has rejected the joint resolution which Pakistan and the Soviet Union intend to present before the November session of IN General Assembly , for the creation of a broadbased government in Kabul. He said the mujaheddin are against calls for the inclusion of communists in a future government in Kabul (Mm).
  * Addressing a press conference 17 October, in Islamabad, current IUAM head Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani said Afghan mujaheddin have liberated five provinces and more than 80 towns while Kandahar is soon to be captured (JG).                                                  1
                                       20
    In a meeting 19 October in Peshawar with.the IUAM head, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the US Ambassador to Pakistan,. Robert Oakley said his country has four objectives in view in Afghanistan issue; withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan; ending the communist party government; restoration of right of self determination to the people of Afghanistan and return of Afghan refugees to their country in honour (NWT).
                                       21
   * In a statement 20 October in Peshawar, the ANP leader Abdul Wali Khan expressed concern over increased bomb explosions and asked the provincial government of NWFP to oppose Federal Government*s Afgjhan Policy (NWT).
   *  According to reports from Kabul, President Najib has refused to go abroad for the treatment Of his
    » • .1 '
   kidney because he has lost confidence in his close associates with the apprehension that they might take over the reins of power during his absence (NWT).
   ’* Kabul Radio reported PDPA dismissed 19 October, Saleh Muhammad Zairey and Zahoor Razmjoo from the Politburo (APj •                                                                               , • .
   *  Kabul airport was shut down 19 October amidst a rocket attack that left 15 people dead and the ' terminal building damaged, diplomatic sources said in Kabul (MIM).
                                                             182' ■
      October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN J[HAD
                                         22
   *  The head of the interim government of Afghan mujaheddin Engineer Ahmad Shah has said new initiatives have, been taken as part of diplomatic efforts to urge the Islamic and friendly countries to recognize the IUAM (DN).
                                         24
   *  Parents and relatives of children sent to Soviet Union for training staged demonstrations in Kabul 23 October demanding an early return of their children (NWT).
                                         25
   *  Kabul regime president Najibullah has offered to negotiate an . end to his country's nine year old war with the Afghan mujaheddin, reports VOA. He said he is ready to hold such talks in Makkah, Afghanistan or anywhere in the world agreeable to the mujaheddin (EN).
   *  Mahmood Raqi, the provincial headquarters of Kapisa province, has fallen to the Afghan mujaheddin, an ANA report said (PT).
                                         27
   * President Najibullah of Afghanistan has accused some members of the ruling party of conspiring to seize power. According to Radio Kabul and BBC, he has said despite purge in the party in March and Central Committee in July, opponents of national reconciliation have been involved in provocations within the armed forces (PT).
   *  West German President Richard Von Weizsacker has appealed to President Najibullah for the release of two West Geman medical workers detained in Afghanistan for almost eight weeks (PT).
   *  The mujaheddin fired 25 October 15 missiles into Kabul city, killing or injuring a number of persons (NWT).
                                         30
   *  The USSR has deployed about 30 advanced ground attack planes in Afghanistan that are meant for offensive operations, th$ NYT reported 29 October (MIM).
   * A spokesman for former King Zaher Shah 29 October denied reports that an envoy of the Kabul government was on his way to Rome to try to convince the ex-Monarch to return to his country (MLM).
   *  The US has denied reports suggesting US officials were helping the Afghan mujaheddin. A US State Department spokesman said 27 October that there are only thosp US officials who are performing their duties inside the Bnbassy in connection with Afghanistan (JG).
                                        November
                                          1
   * At a press conference in Islamabad 31 October, the IUAM Chairman, Burhanuddin Rabbani announced th6 Supreme Council of the IUAM has decided to constitute a 400-member Islamic Council of Afghan--istan through direct or indirect elections (PT).
                                               1$3 ;
VoX.2, No.£-4
Vol.3, No.l
       October-1988-December, 1989
 Vo1.2, No.2-4
 Vol.3, No.l
     *  UN Secretary General Perez De Cuellar was quoted 31 October, as saying the Soviet Union and the Kabul government were showing signs of nervousness about the lack of the implementation of Geneva accords (FT).
     *  Radio Kabul reported that Major General Sayyed Ghani, Army Chief in Kandahar was killed 30 October -in a mujaheddin attack (M1M).
                  2
     * Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has asked the IN Secretary General to remove his special envoy on Afghanistan Diego Cordovez and replace him with ;a person "more cautious who does not make him a party to the issue" (M1M).
3
     * A Peshawar-based Afghan news agency claimed that the mujaheddin have captured the border village of Torkham inside Afghanistan as 11 officers and 130 soldiers of the Kabul regime deployed there surrendered November 2 (MIM).
4
     *  The US envoy to the UN has accused the USSR of responsibility for air raids in Afghanistan. He added the USSR should enter direct dialogue with the mujaheddin for the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan. This was stated by him in a meeting with the delegation of IUAM in NY (JG).
     *   The Afghan mujaheddin have captured the Torkham post with complete control over Torkham-Jalalabad ‘highway after several hours battle 2 November (PT).
                     5
     *  Acting by consensus, the UN General Assembly called 4 November for the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva accords (MIM).
     *  The Soviet decision to suspend further troops withdrawal from Afghanistan has evoked a strong ■reaction from official end mujaheddin circles in Pakistan, including Pakistan's Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan, who described it as a matter of concern and disappointment for Pakistan (MlM).
6
* In a statement 5 November, China expressed hope that the /Soviet Union will earnestly implement the Geneva accords by withdrawing all its troops from Afghanistan as scheduled instead of finding pretexts for delaying its troops withdrawal (PT).
                  7
     * Three Soviet-made rockets SS-l, 'which had been fired from Kabul 4 November hit the' Sarkanu valley, Kunar, according to a IUAM press release in Islamabad. 6 November (FT).
                   8
    * In a meeting 7 November, with the Soviet Ambassador-in Islamabad, Victor Yakunin, on the eve of 71st anniversary of October Revolution, the Pakistan President Ghulam Ishaq Khan has expressed
                                                  m
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
0ctober-1988-Decemberf 19B9 AFGHAN JHIAO                       Vol.3, No.l
 confidence that a new era of relationship between Pakistan and Soviet Union will be ushered after the solution of Afghanistan issue (NUT).
   • * Three Kabul regime generals have been killed in fighting with mujaheddin in Kandahar and B ami an „ General Amir Muhammad, Commander of Kabul troops in Kandahar died during the last week of October and was later buried in Kabul, the AMEC said. General Ghani was wounded in fighting in Kandahar and succunbed to injuries in the hospital, and General Fatah was killed in fighting in Bamian province, Radio Kabul announced (PT).
   *  President Najib has appointed Interior Minister Sayyed Muhammad Gulabzoi as Afghan Ambassador in Moscow (PT).
                                               11
                              -                 I           ,                             ■ •
   *  At a news briefing 9 November, a Soviet Foreign office spokesman said the Soviet Union aimed at completing its troops withdrawal from Afghanistan by the middle of February, 1909 » despite a recent surge in activity by the mujaheddin (PT).
                                               12
   *  The IUAM Chairman, Burhanuddin Rabbani said 10 November in NY, the mujaheddin would cooperate With the UN process td bring peace to Afghanistan, Rabbani,,who conferred with UN Secretary General Perez De Cuellar for an hour', told newsmen that they are ready to talk to the Russians and it is upto them to choose between war and peace (MIM).
      Moscow has delivered more long-range SS-1 Scud missiles to Kabul, Western diplomatic sources in Islamabad said 11 November (PT).
                                               14
   *  Speaking at a dinner hosted by President Najibullah in Kabul 12 November, a top Soviet (Defense. /Industry official, Qles Baklanov pledged that Kremlin would continue to aid Afghan military forces but he again stressed that the last Soviet troops would leave by February 1989 (MIM).
   *  Nearly 10,000 Afghan families have crossed over into Pakistan and taken refugee following •severe air bombardment and shelling in Nangarhar province, according to ANS (MIM).
                                               16
   * The Soviet Union has said that 10 of its soldiers were killed and 11 injured in an attack on Kabul airport by the mujaheddin. The Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman, Gennady Grasimov told a press conference in Moscow 15 November that the casualties occured when the fighters opened fire on a civilian plane (DN).
   *  In an interview to Soviet daily The Izyestia. Deputy Prime Minister of Kabul regime, Sarwar Mangal has said the situation in Afghanistan is very tense and fierce fighting is expected during next few months (NWT).
                  I                    •                                            .
   *  Direct talks between the Soviet Union and Afghan mujaheddin will take place within a fortnight, it was confirmed by the UN diplomatic circles 13 November (NWT).
   *  .In a joint Afghan mujaheddin offensive, Samarkhel near Jalalabad, Nangarhar, fell to the Afghan mujaheddin ll November (NWT).
                                                         135
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2-4
      October-19Ba-Decemberf 1989 AFGHAN JlHJlll                    Vol.3, No.l
    *  In a meeting with the IK Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar, at the IK Headquarters • 13 Novem-
    ber, the OIC Secretary General Sharifuddin Rirzada stressed the need for the implementation of mujaheddin's proposal for the establishment of a broadbased government in Afghanistan (JG). ‘
                                              19
    *  The Kabul administration suffered a severe shock 9 November when its two senior diplomats, Deputy Foreign Minister, Abdul Ghafar . Lakanwal and a senior Foreign Qffice official, Sayyed Kemaluddin sought political asylum with the US. The two officers had accompanied Prime Minister Hassan Sharq for participation in the IN General Assembly session (JG).
    * In a report of the UN Human Rights Commission, it was stated 17 November that more than five million Afghan refugees have refused to return to their country so long as the Soviet troops are there and the Kabul regime is in power (NWT).
                                              20
    *  Mujaheddin sources have said Soviet—Kabul forces used chemical weapons against the mujaheddin
    for recapturing an important post on the highway between Pakistan and Afghanistan a few days ago (DN).
    *  An Afghan plane, believed to be a military transport aircraft, which intruded into Pakistan territory in Kurram Agency 19 November, was shot down by Pakistani forces (MI24).
                                              21
    *  Indian Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi said the Soviet Union is in favor of the formation of a broadbased government in Afghanistan, Speaking at the Indian Parliament 20 November after the completion of Gorbachev's three day visit to New Delhi, Rajiv Gandhi said Soviet leader Gorbachev was deeply concerned over the violations of Geneva accords (NWT).
                                              22
    *  An American woman journalist Karin Qmbekkar who died in Afghanistan a few days ago is the 11th foreign Journalist killed in the Afghan war. Her body was brought to Peshawar 21 November to be flown to US (MIM).
    '* Kabul war-planes are reported to have bombed a military hospital in Kandahar city ' 14 November, killing about 100 patients, doctors, nurses and other hospital officials, the AMRC said in Peshawar 21 November (EN).
                                              26
    *   Military officers in. Kandahar province made a coup attempt this week but it was defeated by Jloyal Kabul troops, TASS reported 24 November (PT).
    i                    _                                         -          '
    *  Afghan mujaheddin have regained control of a 45—kilometer road stretch from Pakistani border to the city of Jalalabad, mujaheddin sources claimed 24 November (EN).
                                                       186
                                                                      Vol.2, No.2-4
       October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAO                       Vol.3, No.l
                                            27
    *  Three Soviet POWs were exchanged with 30 mujaheddin prisoners 17 November in Baghlan province, according to AMRC (PT).
    *  The IUAM Chairman, Burhanuddin Rabbani told the VOA that mujaheddin have learned of a Soviet conspiracy aimed at dividing Afghanistan. He said the mujaheddin will never allow such Soviet heinous designs to succeed (JG).
                                            28
    *  The first ever official contact between the Soviet Union and the mujaheddin since the Afghan war was made in the Pakistan Foreign Ministry in Islamabad 27 November, when Soviet embassy officials and the IUAM representatives met to discuss the release of Soviet POWs held by the mujaheddin (UN).
    *  In an interview with -the NIT 27 November, Kabul Minister- for Rural Rehabilitation and Development, Asef Zaher praised the mujaheddin struggle since the 1979 Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. He said "I give them credit for their sacrifices for the last 10 years" (PT).
                                          December
                                            4
    *  At a press conference in Rawalpindi 3 December, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto ruled out any major changes in Pakistan's foreign policy, particularly in regard to the Afghanistan issue (DN).
    *  A five-member IUAM delegation left 2 December Pakistan for Saudi Arabia to hold talks with the Soviet First Deputy Foreign Minister Yuli Vorontsov. The talks will commence 4 December and continue until 6 December in Taif city (MIM).
                                            5
    *  According to reports, Afghan mujaheddin have stepped up their operations between Jalalabad and Samarkhel to narrow the encirclement of Jalalabad (PT).
    *  Soviet officials and IUAM leaders held informal talks in Taif, Saudi Arabia^ December (PT).
    *  The ICRC is considering plans to set up first-aid posts in border provinces of Afghanistan to provide prompt medical care to war-wounded Afghans (MIM).
    *  A ’ Kabul army colonel, Abdullah Khan who deserted hi3 unit in Paktia, has reached Miranshah and sought asylum in Pakistan (MIM).
                                            6
    *  A militia commander of Kabul regime, Muhammad Nasim surrendered to the mujaheddin alongwith a hunber of militiamen and a big quantity of arms and ammunition, reported AN A..(The paper had not given any venue for this surrender|(pr).
                                            187
                                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-Dec ember, 1989 AfGHAN JIHAD                      Vol.3,  No.l
 *  In his meeting with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, 6 December, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov described the Taif talks with the mujaheddin as beneficial. He told the Saudi leader that Moscow will withdraw its troops from Afghanistan by mid-February and is in favor of a new broadly based government in Kabul (MIM).
                                            8
 *  Addressing IN General Assembly 7 December, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev called for a complete ceasefire in Afghanistan from 1 January, 1989, to enable the establishment of a broadbased government (EM). '
 *  BBC reported 7 December that Soviet Ambassador in Kabul Yuli Vorontsov told newsmen in Cairo
 /                           I
 6 December that time had now come for settling the Afghan conflict in order to establish a government in Kabul which reflected the will of the Muslim people of Afghanistan (DM).
                                            11
 *  Addressing a televised news conference, 10 December, in Washington, President Ronald Reagan urged the Kabul regime to step down so that the Afghan people could establish a government they want. Reagan did not endorse Soviet leader Gorbachev's appeal to the UN for a suspension of military supplies to all sides in Afghanistan (MIM),
  *  Kabul Air Force pilot Captain Asadullah flew his aircraft to Pakistan and landed in Miranshah 9 December. He surrendered himself to the Pakistani authorities (JG).
 *  In a meeting with UJAM representatives in Teheran 8 December, the Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati said only the Afghans have‘the right to determine the future of their country (NWT).
                                            13
 *  The Soviet Union has offered to hold direct talks with the leaders of Afghan resistance based in Iran on the future of Afghanistan, IRNA reported (MIM).
                                            14
  *  Chief Soviet negotiator at talks with the Afghans in Saudi Arabia briefed Kabul regime President Najibullah 12 December on the outcome of their talks, TASS reported (PT).
  *  Senior officials of the Najibullah goverrment in Kabul are among more than 3,000 Afghans seeking refugee status in India, an Afghan resistance leader said in New Delhi 13 December (PT).
                                            15
  *  Addressing a press conference,* 13 December, UNOCA, Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan said in Copenhagen that there are mines every where in Afghanistan and no one knows how many. He said the Afghans are being trained to clear^mines but it is now being done on ameteurish way and many are getting blown up (MIM).
                                                      188 ^
                                                                    Vol.2, No,2^-4
    October-1968-December, 1989 AFGHAN JIHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
  . * In his speech to the Parliament 14 December, President Qhulam Ishacj of Pakistan reiterated that Pakistan will continue to discharge its humantarian and Islamic obligations in ending the ■1 series of the Afghans (NUT).
  * A senior Afghan diplomat Muhammad Man sop r Tahixi has sought asylum in India .He had been appointed as First Secretary in the Afghan Eknbassy in North Korea this month (JG). . '
                                          18
  * The second round of the muJaheddin-Soviet talks on POWs was held at the Foreign Ministry in Islamabad, 17 December. These talks were devoted to consider the modalities for the exchange of Soviet prisoners being .held by the mujaheddin and mujaheddin prisoners by the Soviet side respectively (DN).
                                          19         .
  * The IUAM Chairman, Burhanuddin Rabbani has said the next round of talks, between the IUAM and Soviet Union on Afghanistan issue will be held in Islamabad (JG).
                                          20
  * In a statement in Brussels, 19 December, the EEC Commission said it will help fund a mission to study how to repatriate and reintegrate displaced people in Afghanistan. The Commission said it has donated $236,000 for the purpose (PT).
> * The IUAM Chairman Burhanuddin Rabbani has listed nine conditions for a peace agreement with the Soviet Union. These ares withdrawal of all Russian troops from Afghanistan by 15 February 1989 • a halt in the air and rocket attacks on Afghan people; suspension of military supplies to the Kabul regime{payment of war damages; removal of Scud missiles and other sophisticated weapons from Afghan soil; a guarantee against any future invasion; recognition of the government formed by mujaheddin; acknowledgement of the Islamic identity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan;
  And release of. all Afghans imprisoned by the Soviets and the Kabul regime (PT).
                                          22
  * Soviet military advisers in Afghanistan are reported to have begun leaving th^ country, BBC quoting western diplomatic sources in Kabul, reported (DN).
                                          24      V
  *  The IUAM Chairman,. Prof• Burhanuddin Rabbani. left ^December for Iran at the head of a six-manber delegation (MIM).
                                          25
  ' •* Talking to the correspondent of ANS 24 December, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbud-din Hekmatyar said an elected Shoora representing the whole nation is the only clue for the solution of Afghanistan issue after the Russian withdrawal from the country (MIM),
  * The Kabul government has sentenced to death its five militia commanders on the charges of
                                    189   "                        .. ■ ;■ •
 i
                                                                                          Vo 1.2, No*2-4
October-19B8-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                      Vol.3, No.l
 abandoning their troops during fight with mujaheddin in Nangarhar. AMRC,reported that, six other high ranking Kabul officials were sentenced to 20 years imprisonment while 14 others were sentenced to imprisonment from four to eleven years on the same charges (MW),
                                            27
 *  first Deputy .Soviet Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov described the talks held 25 December between Zahir Shah and Soviet officials as very useful (DN)«                          j"
 *   Burhanuddin Rabbani, the IUAM Chairman, met 26 December the Iranian Foreign Minister, All Akbar ■ Velayati. According to Teheran Radio, the IUAM Chairman apprised the Iranian Foreign Minister of
 - recent talks with the Soviet officials and the situation in Afghanistan (MIM)
                                            28
 ** According to a survey conducted by AAP, about 38,000 Afghans were martyred or wounded in 1988. During that period, 5,221 enemy troops, including 1,186 Soviet troops, were killed (JG).
 *   The IUAM Chairman, Burhanuddin Rabbani held talks 26 December .with the Iranian Prime Minister, M^-r Hussain Moosavi to express appreciation for allout Iranian support to the Afghan mujaheddin in^ their struggle and requested for continuation of this support in the future.*In response, Moosavi
 .^pledged Iran's all out support to the. Afghan mujaheddin (PT).
 *  Iranian. President Ali Kharaenai met 27 December Prof. Rabbani leader of the IUAM in Teheran. The Iranian President reaffirmed that Iran will continue its full support to the Afghan Muslim people and mujaheddin (PT).
 *  In a statement on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Prof.
 Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf warned ex-King Zahir Shah that he would be playing with his life if he decided to return to Afghanistan (MIM).                         '
                                         January 1989
                                                     1
, * Kabul government troops will observe a unilateral ceasefire starting New Year's day,/Kabul President Najib announced on nation-vd.de television 30 December. The Supreme Council of the IUAM, however, is quoted to have told the.ANA correspondent in Peshawar that the IUAM has rejected the suggestion of a ceasefire (PT).
                                           2
 *  UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar has expressed great concern over the slow pace of peace process in Afghanistan. He said continuous fighting is causing enormous human life and material losses. He.stressed the urgency of reaching a settlement at the earliest (MIM).
 *  An ANA press release said 1 Januaryi as many as 120 Afghan' elders belonging to the IUAM began • an unprecedented meeting 1 January, in Pabbi refugee camp near Peshawar in a bid to evolve a joint
 kstrategy for solving the Afghan issue (MIM).
                                                      190
 October-1988-December, 1989
If (MJl
 VoiL.2, No*2-4
 Vol.3, No.l
    *  Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiatr-e~Islami Afghanistan and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
    :HMb-fr-Islami Afghanistan made 1 January - passionate appeals to Pakistanis to continue their support to the Afghan mujaheddin at this critical stage of their struggle (MIM).
                                                   3
    *  In a meeting with the leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Movement of Afghanistan • Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor 2 January, the Iranian President Sayyed Ali Khamenai expressed confidence that the Afghan mujaheddin struggle is now close to victory (MIM).
   *  The Soviet Union Chief negotiator on Afghanistan, Yuli Vprontsov "is in Teheran as part of his continuing efforts to try to reach a political settlement in Afghanistan (PT),
   *  In a statement issued by the Soviet Foreign Ministry it has been said 1 January, the Soviet Union fully supports the Kabul regime measure of unilateral ceasefire and announces that its remaining troops in Afghanistan would also observe ceasefire as' announced by the Kabul Administration (NOT).
                                               4
   *  A needy conmander in the Afghan guerrilla war, sold a T-62 Soviet tank to a western country for $135»000. Out of this amount, the Afghan commander could get only $80,000 and the rest of. the money went to the Pakistani officials for overlooking the affair (JG).
                                               5
   *  Soviet First Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuli Vorontsov held talks 4 January with Pakistani Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan in Islamabad to discuss matters relating to Afghanistan. (PT).
                                               7
   *  Two rounds of direct talks between Afghan mujaheddin and the Soviets were held 6 January in the Pakistani Foreign Ministry, Islamabad. During the talks, Vorontsov, Soviet Chief negotiator extended an invitation to the IUAM leaders to visit Moscow. But the IUAM leaders said they were prepared to accept the invitation if they were allowed to address the Soviet people on television and
  ' provided an opportunity to visit the Muslims and the Central Asian territories in the Soviet Union. The IUAM leaders also told Vorontsov that their visit to Moscow would not be useful prior to the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan (MIM).
                                               8
   *  The former-Afghan King, Muhammad Zahir Shah has applied for a visa to visit Pakistan. Radio Beijing reported that the application was submitted through Pakistani mission in Bonn (JG),
                                               10
     * As many as 148 Afghan soldiers,captured in Torkham after its fall to the Afghan mujaheddin.last 1 November, were freed by Prof. Sebghatullah Mojeddedi's NLFAin Peshawar 9 January (MIM).
                                                       191
                                                                  Vol.2, No,. 3-4;'
    0ctober-l?88-December, 1989 AfGHAff JfUAO                     Vol.3,  No.l
 *  Talking to newsmen in Teheran 9 January, a leader of Iran-based eight-party alliance, Karim KhAllli said there is no restriction on the activities of Afghans in Iran (NWT).
                                             13
 *  Talking to AIN correspondent in Moscow 12 January, Yuli Vorontsov said a political settlement of the Afghanistan problem is quite realistic and can be achieved if all the representativeis of Afghan political forces are given an opportunity to play an equal part in deciding the future of their country (MIM).
 *  The UN has temporarily started shifting its 20 members deployed in Kabul.; A representative of INDP said the step was taken as precautionary measure and that they will come back to the Afghan capital after about two months (PT).
                                             14
                          »                   I                              .
 *  Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze left Moscow 13 January for a previously unannounced
 i visit to Afghanistan (MIM).
                                             15
 *  A source of Hezb-e-Islami said 14 January that Kabul regime used Scud missiles in different parts of the Nangarhar province January 12 (PT).
                                             16
 *  The Afghan people should remain'vigilant and be wary of US "plots” following a planned Soviet withdrawal from their country, Iranian President Sayyed Ali Khamenai told a Pakistan and Iran based Afghan factions meeting in Teheran 15 January. He also urged mujaheddin to close ranks and resume what he described "useful" dialogue with the Soviet Uhion, IRNA reported (MIM).
 *  In an interview published in Paris. 14 January, former King Zahir Shah called on the UN to break the deadlock between the Soviets and the Afghan mujaheddin (MIM).
 *  Afghan mujaheddin leader Sebghatullah Mojededdi has said the IUAM alliance plans to announce a provisional government within a month, the Saudi Arabian newspaper "OKAS" reported 14 January (PT)
 *  A Kabul regime ammunition dump caught fire after a powerful explosion in Balahessar of Kabul city 14 January, Ittehadr-o-Island. Afghanistan told ANS (PT).
                                             17
 *  The Iran-based eight party Shia mujaheddin groups have been offered 60 seats in the Shura being convened by the IUAM in Pa&stan 1 February (MIM) •
 *  The Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati assured 16 January the Afghan Resistance Movement in Iran of allout support to the Afghan mujaheddin in rebuilding their country, the BBC reported, quoting IRNA (MIM).
 *. In an interview with IRNA' 16 January, Sebghatullah Mojaddedi said talks with Moscow would not be resumed unless the Soviet Union dropped its support for the Communist government in Kabul (MIM).
                                           ■■192
                                                                                             Vo 1.2, No.2^-4
October-1988-December, 1989 fifGHAN JEHAO                       Vol.3,  No.l
                                          18
 *  Six rockets slammed into Kabul 16 January^ killing four and injuring nine others in the first such attack on the city in three weeks, authorities said (PT).
                                          19
 *  Iranian Prime Minister, Mir Hussain Moosavi has said the former King Zahir Shah of Afghanistan does not have any base among the Afghan people. Addressing a press conference in Rome, 18 January, he said the possibility of a return by Zahir Shah to Afghanistan is far off, according to Radio Israel (MIH).
 *  The Supreme Council of IUAM met in Peshawar 18 January, to discuss the formation and convening of an Afghan Shoora 1 February (MIM).
 *  A senior US official said' 17 January that all Afghan parties had agreed to hold a "Shoora" for establishing a broadbased. government before the Soviet Union completes its withdrawal (PT),
                                          21
 *  Britons living in Afghanistan should leave the country as soon as possible as conditions there are deteriorating, the British Foreign Office said 19 January (DN).
 *  Mujaheddin ^advancing towards Jalalabad,have taken a government post only five kilometres from the key eastern garrison after hand-to-hand fighting, witnesses said (PT).
                                          22
 *  Leader of ANP, Abdul Wali Khan has said the Afghanistan war is neither the war of Islam nor it . is a jehad.He said it is a war between the two super powers where only Pashtuns are subjected to devastation from the two aides. He alleged that iron bars, telephone cables and virgins
 are snuggled from Afghanistan and sold in Pakistan in the name of .jehad (NWT)«
 * PRG has closed its embassy in Kabul. According to BBC, the last 16 West German diplomats left Kabul 21 January. Other western diplomats are also keeping close eye on the situation. It is presumed that other western embassies will also be closed soon (NWT).
 *  The Soviet Union started a massive shipment of food and fuel supplies to Kabul,to supplement the fast depleting food and fuel stocks there, the BBC reported (Mill).
                                          23
 *  With the eruption of severe fighting in Nangarhar province more than 20,000 refugees crossed over to: Pakistan within the last two months (PT).
 *  The IUAM is planning to send a high level delegation to Iran to convince the Iran-based eight party alliance of Shia groups to attend the mujaheddin Shoora in Peshawar (MIM).
                                          24
 .# Talking to newsmen in Peshawar 23 January, the ANP leader Abdul' Wali Khan said the Afghanistan issue could be resolved upholding the interests of Pakistan and felt that no change had come in the
                                       • ■ ■' 193        ■ , '' :
                                                                                           Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-Decembert 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3,  No.l
 Afghan policy after the restoration of democracy in the country (DN).
 *  The Pakistan government is in constant touch with the Iranian government in an effort to persuade the Afghan mujaheddin based in Iran and Pakistan to thrash out the reported differences over the cdmposition of proposed consultative council and interim government after the Soviet withdrawal
                                                                                                                 (DN).
 *  President Mikhail Gorbachev has described the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan as a sin and has said that it has increased government expenses and has created economic problems (DN).
                                             2,5
 *  The US Embassy Charge d' Affaires, in Kabul announced 24 January he has advised Americans who ^re private citizens to leave Afghanistan (DN).
 *  In an interview with th.e ANA, an Afghan mujaheddin leader Ali An sari described 25 January as totally baseless accusations by ANP leader, Wali Khan that Afghan mujaheddin were abducting girls to sell them in Pakistan (MIM).
 *  In view of food shortage in Kabul and other major cities of Afghanistan, the Afghan mujaheddin in Pakistan have said they would send food commodities to liberated areas and prominent mujaheddin commanders in Afghanistan have said they would open the roads if some of their conditions were accepted (PT).
 *  The IUAM Chief, Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has announced that general amnesty would be granted to all the PDPA leaders after the Soviet withdrawal, but on a condition that the latter joined the mujaheddin ranks (DN).
                                          27
                                             I                   _
 *  A Pakistan Foreign Ministry spokesman informed newsmen at a press briefing 26 January that a training program is to be launched soon to increase the Afghan refugees awareness about mine deployment and how to defuse them inside Afghanistan (PT).
 *  According to a press release of the ANA, in view of the acute shQrtage of edibles and to deal with the anticipated famine in Jalalabad, the IUAM has sent 40 truck-loads of foodstuff to,Jalalabad (JG).
                                          28
 *  Soviet Defense Minister General Domitry Yardov arrived in Kabul. 27 January, to put final touches to plan for the final withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan (M1M).
 *  Secretary of State James Baker has decided to close the US Qnbassy in Kabul due to growing uncertainty and turmoil as Soviet troops withdraw from Afghanistan, A US official said 26 January(PT).
                                          30
 *  Pakistan's Foreign Minister, Sahebzada Yaqub Khan 29 January flew into Riyad for urgent talks
                                         194
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2-4
   0ctober-198a-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
 on the Afghanistan situation with his Saudi counterpart Prince Saud El Faisal (PT).
                                         31
 *  Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan said in Islamabad 30 January, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia would together obtain the common objective of peacefully resolving the Afghanistan crisis. He was speaking to newsmen at*.Islamabad airport after return from Saudi Arabia (MIM),
 *  The Indian government has asked its embassy in Kabul to send home the wives and children of its diplomats and employees due to escalating violence in Afghanistan, officials said.in New Delft. '*
 30 January (DN),
                                                 February
                                          2
 *  Talking to newsmen on his'arrival at the Islamabad airport 1 February, Iranian Foreign Minister, Vdayati said both Pakistan and Iran have similar views on the question of a broadbased government in Afghanistan once the Soviet troops were withdrawn (MIM).
 *  The Supreme Council of the IUAM has decided t5*»atain the tNLFA Chief Prof. Sebghatullah Mojad-dedi chairman until the completion of the proposed elections for the Shoora (MIM).
                                          3
 *  Addressing a press conference 2 February in Karachi before leaving for Teheran, the Iranian Foreign Minister, AH Akbar Velayati saidf.soon after, the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the mujaheddin will have their own government in Kabul (DN).
 *  At a press conference 2 February, in Peshawar, the Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan Chief, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said his recent talks with Iran—based Shia mujaheddin groups, on the compo^i tion of a Shoora had remained inconclusive but seats offered to them will remain vacant until the convening of,
 Shoora 10 February (MIM).
                                          4
 ' * A Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman said at a press briefing in Moscow 2 February, Soviet :
 Union supports the idea of convening a Shoora in order to establish an interim government in Afghanistan, if it is duly attended by all the forces representing the country's interests, including the PDPA (MIM).
   '                                        ;5.          ’ V ;:y
 *  The wife and son of the Afghan Prime Minister, Muhammad Hasan Sharq flew out of Kabul i+ February, arriving in New Delhi on an unscheduled Indian Airlines flight, officials in New Delhi said (DN).
 *  In an interview to The Pakistan Times in Islamabad, the leader of N.IFA, Pir Ahmad Gailani has indicated the possibility of a meeting in Islamabad between the representatives of the Peshawar-based Afgjhan mujaheddin alliance and the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shewardnadze (FT).
                                          195       .
                                                                                          • Vol.2, No.2-4
 October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHANJfHAO                        Vol.3, No.l
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze had a meeting with the President, .Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 5 February (PT).
    Leader of separate Afghan guerrilla groups based in Pakistan and Iran signed a unity pact in Teheran.5 February, Teheran Radio reported (PT).
                                               9
 $ MJNOCA , Prince SadTuddin Aga Khan visited 8 February an Afghan refugee village at Dabru, about 80 kilometres from DI Khan (DN). ’
                                             11
 ' * The WFP started shipment of food supplies to Kabul to meet  shortage in  the,Afghan capital,
 as a chartered cargo plane of the Ethiopian airlines left Quetta for Kabul 10 February with 26 tons of wheat on board (PT).
 *  The IUAM chairman Sebghatulldh MoJadded! staged a walkout from a reception Ihosted by UNOCA __ Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, in a Islamabad hotel 10 February to protest against the presence of Kabul regime Charge d' Affaires in the reception (ON).
 *  • Britain has refused a visa to Afghan Deputy President Abdul Rahim Hatef, who hoped to visit London for a television intendew, officials said in London 9 February (DN).
 *  Speaking to the Jang. 10 February the leader of Hezb-e-I aland. Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said the issue of the inclusion of Zahir Shah and the PDPA in the interim government of Afghan mujaheddin vri.ll not be discussed at Shoora (JG).
 *  President of the Kabul regime, Najibullah has formed a new force of "Special Guards" comprising his loyals. The new force,equipped with the arms left by the Soviet troops, will be responsible only to defend Kabul (NWT).
                                             12
 , * Speaking at a banquet*hosted in honor of Pakistan's Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in Beijing,
 11 February, the Chinese Prime Minister, li Peng hoped that diverse political forces in Afghanistan will decide their own country's future through peaceful consultations free from outside interference (MIM).
 *  The last motorized unit of the Soviet Army in Afghanistan has rolled through the Salang Pass, Moscow Radio reported 11 February (PT).
 *  U.S. President Bush has decided to keep supplying arras to the Afghan mujaheddin as long as Soviet support for the Kabul government of President Najibullah continues, an administration offi- . dal said in Washington 10 February (DN).
                                             13
 *  Addressing 12 February a press conference in Beijing, Prime Minister . Benazir Bhutto, catagori-cally denied the accusations of Najibullah of Afghanistan that Pakistan was planning to invade his
                                             196  -
                                                                                            Vol.2, No.2—4
October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN JEHAD '                     Vol.3,  No.l
 country (PT).
 • * The Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Gul Aga has said his government had fortified Kabul city’s defence 1 by forming a 30-mile perimeter around it which the opposition would find impossible to break.. He told a news conference in Peshawar February 12, those who were predicting the fall of Kabul and collapse of Afghhn government were living in a fools’ paradise (MIM).
                                             15
 • * The UN has started the distribution of food and blankets in the poor localities of Kabul city
                                                                                                             (MI*!).
 *  The Iranian Deputy Prime Minister, Ali Reza Moayyuri, currently visiting BaRistan,held talks
 14 February with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto on Afghanistan issue (PT).     J
 *  The Soviet Union has alleged that thousands of Pakistani troops have entered Afghanistan in the
 guise of civilians. Radio Moscow reported 14 February that these troops entered Afghanistan through Nangarhar province (JG).   ' • •              •
                                             16
 *  A spokesman for the Pakistan Foreign Ministry has once again rebunked the allegations that Pakistani troops had entered Afghanistan (JG).
 *  February 15 is a day of historic significance. All Soviet troops have been withdrawn from Afghan istan in accordance with the Geneva agreements.This is a tribute above all to the valour of Afghan people who waged an epic struggle and considered no sacrifice too great to xid their country of the forces of foreign occupation. This was stated by President Ishaq Khan on the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (PT).
                                             17
 • * Prof-. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi of (NLFA. ended his boycott of the resistance Shoora and rejoined
 the congregation in its session of 16 February (PT).
 . • •
 *  At least seven people were killed when Kabul was hit with.rockets 16 February.a day after the Soviet troops left Afghanistan (PT).
                                             18
 *  The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Alexander Bessmertnykh said at a press conference, 17 February that,,even after the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, a small nunber of Soviet advisers will remain in that country (NUT).
                                             19
 *  General Abdul Wall, spokesman for the former Afghan King, Zahir Shah said in Rome 18 February that Zahir Shah will not. meet any envoy of Najib regime. He added.that Zahir Shah did not have any .meeting with Kabul regime representative in the past too (JG),
 *  In messages to the leaders of Iran and Turkey, President NajibullaR has appealed that they
                                             197
                                x                                     Vol.2,  No.2^4
    October-1968-Depember, 1969 flffiHflN JlHfifl                     Vol.3,  Mo.l
 should convince the mujaheddin to hold talks with his regime to restore peace in Afghanistan (JG).
 *  Afghan President Najibullah announced state of emergency in the country from 19 February due to security threats from Pakistani troops massed on its borders, Radio Kabul reported 18 February(MIM) ■
 *  The IUAM Supreme Council approved 18 February, Engineer Ahmad Shah's nomination as Prime Minister in a future interim government in Afghanistan (MIM).
 *  The leaders of IUAM called on President Kenan Evren of Turkey in Islamabad, 18 February (PT).
                                           20
 *  Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of Kabul regime has said that President Najib has appointed a supreme military council to be headed by himself. The council will coordinate war against the mujaheddin (JG).
 *  After promulgating the state of emergency in Afghanistan, President Najib removed seven non-party ministers of his cabinet, a move apparently aimed at consolidating the ruling party's power
                                                                                                          (W).
                                           21
 *  Afghan Prime Minister, Muhammad Hassan Sharq resigned as a 20 man "Supreme Military Council" took over in Afghanistan, Government sources said 20 February (IK).
 *  Quoting a report of the IN Socio-Economic Council, the AAP said February 20 that the Soviet-Union has planted at least five millions mines throughout Afghanistan which are a constant danger for the Afghan people (NUT).
                                           23
 *   According to reports from Kabul President Najib has appointed Sultan' All Kishtmand as Chairman .of the Executive Council in order to win the support of a section of Afghanistan society (JG).
 *  Four rockets hit Kabul 21 February killing a government employee and seriously.injuring three others, witnesses said (PT).
                                           24
 *  Sebghatullah Mojeddadi, the NLFA. Chief and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the leader of Ittehad-e-Islarai were elected President and Prime Minister respectively of the proposed interim Afghan government (Mm).
  * The Bush administration is taking a "fresh sympathetic look at the need for the additional hur-manitarian assistance" for Afghanistan! Howard^Schaffer,, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for near Eastern and South Aslan Affairs saidf according to a USIS press release issued in Islamabad 23 February (MIM) •
 # The Punjab Assembly unanimously adopted 23 February, a resolution on Afghanistan paying glowing tributes to the Afghan mujaheddin for their freedom struggle (MIM).
                                              198
                                                                                               Vol.2, No.2-4
0ctober-1968rDecember?f 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD '                       Vol.3, No.l
 country (FT).
 •  * The Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Gul Aga has said his government had fortified Kabul city's defence: 1 by forming a 30-mile perimeter around it. which the opposition would find impossible to break*. He told a news conference in Peshawar February 12, those who were predicting the fall of Kabul and collapse of Afghan government were living in a fools' paradise (MIN).
                                             15
 • * The UN has started the distribution of food and blankets in the poor localities of Kabul city
                                                                                                             (MIN).
 *  The Iranian Deputy Prime Minister, Ali Reza Moayyuri, currently visiting Pakistan, held talks
 14 February with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto on Afghanistan issue (PT).    J
                           I
 *  The Soviet Union has alleged that thousands of Pakistani troops have entered Afghanistan in the
 guise of civilians. Radio Moscow reported 14 February that these troops entered Afghanistan through Nangarhar province (JG).                      •
                                             16
 *  . A spokesman for the Pakistan.Foreign Ministry has once again rebunked the allegations that Pakistani troops had entered Afghanistan (JG),
 *  February 15 is a day of historic significance. All Soviet troops have been withdrawn from Afghan istan in accordance with the Geneva agreements.This is a tribute above all to the valour of Afghan people who Waged an epic struggle and considered no sacrifice too great to rid their countiy of the
..forces of foreign occupation. This was stated by President Ishaq Khan on the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (PT).
                                             17
 *  Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi of (NLFA, ended his boycott of the resistance Shpora and rejoined the congregation in its session of 16 February (FT).
 * At least seven people were killed when Kabul was hit with.rockets 16 February.a day after the Soviet troops left Afghanistan (PT).
                                ■ 18
 *  The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Alexander Bessmertnykh said at a press conference, 17 February that/yeven after the completion of Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, a small nunber of Soviet advisers will remain in that country (NWT).
                                             19
 *   General Abdul Wall, spokesman for the former Afghan King, Zahir Shah said in Rome IB February that Zahir Shah will not. meet any envoy of Najib regime. He added that Zahir Shah did not have any .meeting with Kabul regime representative in the past too (JG).
 *  In messages to the leaders of Iran and Turkey, President Najibullah has appealed that they
                                                        197
                                                                       Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1986-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                            Vol.3  , No.l
 should convince the mujaheddin to hold talks with his regime to restore peace in Afghanistan (JG).
 *  Afghan President Najibullah announced state of emergency in the country from 19 February due to security threats from Pakistani troops massed on its borders, Radio Kabul reported 18 February(MIM),
 *  The IUAM Supreme Council approved 18 February, Engineer Ahmad Shah's nomination as Prime Minister in a future interim government in Afghanistan (Mill).
 *  The leaders of IUAM called on President Kenan Evren of Turkey in Islamabad, 18 February (PT).
                                           20
 *  Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of Kabul regime has said that President Najib has appointed a supreme military council to be headed by himself. The council will coordinate war against the mujaheddin (JG).
 *  After promulgating the state of emergency in Afghanistan, President Najib removed seven non-party ministers of his cabinet, a move apparently aimed at consolidating the ruling party’s power
                                                                                                            (N).
                                           21
 *  Afghan Prime Minister, Muhammad Hassan Sharq resigned as a 20 man "Supreme Military Council" took over in Afghanistan, Government sources said 20 February (IN).
 *  Quoting a report of the IN Socio-Economic Council, the AAP said February 20 that the Soviet Union has planted at least five millions mines throughout Afghanistan which are a constant danger for the Afghan people (NVIT).
                                           23
 *   According to reports from Kabul President Najib has appointed Sultan Ali Kishtmand as Chairman .of the Executive Council in order to win the support of a section of Afghanistan society (JG).
 *  Fbur rockets hit Kabul 21 February kLlling a government employee and seriously, injuring three others, witnesses said (PT).
                                           24
 *  Sebghatullah MoJeddadL, the NLFA. Chief and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the leader of Ittehad-e-
 Ialand were elected President and Prime Minister respectively of the proposed interim Afghan government (MIN).
 *  The Bush administration is taking a "fresh sympathetic look at the need for the additional humanitarian assistance" for Afghanistan, Howards Schaffer, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for near Eastern and South Asian Affairs said, according to a USIS press release issued in Islamabad 23 February (MLM).
 *  The Punjab Assembly unanimously adopted 23 February, a resolution on Afghanistan paying glowing tributes to the Afghan mujaheddin for their freedom struggle (MIN).
                                                        198
 4
 *  The President of proposed interim government of Afghanistan, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojadded! urged
 ■ 24 February the world community to recognize his government as true representative of the Afghan people. At a press conference in Rawalpindi, he also sought the representation of his government in the IN and the OIC (PT). "
                                         26
 *  The US welcomed 24 February, the formation of an interim government for Afghanistan, saying American recognition depends on the ability of this government to meet a criteria for diplomatic relations (MIM).
                                               March
                                         4
 *  A spokesman for the Indian External Affairs Ministry has said the Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil delivered 3 March, an important message of Najibullah to the Indian Prime Minister, RaJ^Lv Gandhi (JG).
                                         5
 *  As many as 580 activists of the Khalq party have been rounded up in Kabul on charges of an attempt to topple the Najib government. According to a press release of Hezb-4-Islami Afghanistan, the arrested persons also include 100 high ranking1 civil officers (JG).
                                         9
 *  Director general of news in the Kabul regime television,Mia Gul Arwal Khogyani along members of his family defected from Afghanistan and arrived in Peshawar 20 days ago (PT).
 #  Australia has decided to provide 3*2 million Australian dollars to assist Afghan refugees in Pakistan and returnees to Afghanistan, Foreign Minister Gareth Evans announced 8 March (MIM).
                                         TO
 #  According to a report telecast by the Kabul TV, two rockets fired by the mujaheddin landed in Kabul city 8 March, killing one and injuring another (NUT).
                                         11
 #  The Afghan interim government held its first regular meeting 10 March, a few kilometers inside Afghanistan's Paktia province (PT),
 #  The PLO leader, Yasser Arafat said in New Delhi 10 March that India and PLO had agreed to make joint efforts to achieve a final solution to the Afghan crisis (PT).
 #  The Soviet Union has strongly reacted to the Saudi recognition of the Afghan interim government. Criticizing the Saudi decision, a spokesman of the Soviet Foreign Ministry in, Moscow 10 March
                                         199
                                                                      Vol.2, No.2r-4
   . October-198B-Dacemberf 1989 jlflllllltl JtHAD                    Vol.3, Ho.l
  described the decision as tantamounting to further fanning the flames 'of war in Afghanistan (JG).
  *  Fresh    government troops have been drafted into Jalalabad as bitter battles with mujahed-
  din continue to rage, TASS reported 10 March (HI)*
                                            13
  *  Behrain officially recognized 12 March the interim government of Afghan mujaheddin. Behrain is . the third country after Saudi Arabia and Sudan to recognize the interim government of the Afghan mujaheddin (NWT).
  *  The mujaheddin sources claimed to have captured an Indian Sikh pilot who was flying a Soviet MIG-27 aircraft on Jalalabad front (NWT).
                                            14
  *  A plane chartered by the ICBC is scheduled to fly from Peshawar to Kabul 14 March, carrying medical supplies for the victims of the Afghan conflict (MIM).
  *  In a statement circulated 13 March in Islamabad, the Soviet government has accused Pakistan of abetting "fratricidal war" and declared that, while adhering to the Geneva accords, Moscow will meet its commitments under the bilateral Soviet-Afghan treaties which serve to protect the sovereignty and independence of Afghanistan from enchroachments from outside (DN).
                                            15
  *  Foreign Minister Yaqpb Khan has demanded that the interim government of the Afghan mujaheddin be granted the OIC membership. He was speaking at the 10th session of the OIC Foreign Ministers in Riyad 14 March (MIM).
                                            17
  *  The OIC Foreign Ministers * officially recognized 16 March the interim government of the Afghan mujaheddin and its Foreign Minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar occupied the vacant seat of Afghanistan amidst cheers (NWT).
  *  According to an IRNA report, the mujaheddin sources have accused the Kabul regime of using chemical weapons against the mujaheddin in Jalalabad war (MIM) •
  ,* The Soviet envoy in Kabul, Yuli Vorontsov accused Pakistan of interference in Afghanistan charging that "Pakistan's military intervention in Afghanistan" could lead to war between Pakistan and Afghanistan BBC reported 16 March (MIM).
                                            18
  *  Nearly 12,000 Afghans,fleeing fighting around Jalalabad, have arrived in Pakistan since the beginning of March, the'UN said 17 March (PT).
  *  The US Secretary of State, James Baker will soon appoint a special envoy on Afghan mujaheddin
                                            200
                                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-Decemberf 1989 AFGHAN JIHAD                       Vol.3 , No.l
 affairs. According to a report in The Washington Post, a reason for this step is to reduce"Pakistan's influence among the mujaheddin (JG).
 *  Pakistan has categorically denied'the allegations levelled by the Soviet Ambassador in Kabul as if Pakistani troops had entered Afghanistan. A spokesman for Paldstan Foreign Ministry described the allegations as totally baseless and unfounded (NUT).
 *  Ten people were killed and five wounded 16 March when rockets fired by mujaheddin fell on Kabul, TASS said dn a report datelined Kabul (IN).
                                        22
 *  As many as 916 Afghans have attended the mine awareness courses offered by the. UN while the first batch of three hundred volunteers has already graduated from a two-week demining course being conducted in the cantonment town of Risalpur (MIM).
                                        25
 *  General Muhammad Ismail of Kabul army^who defected to the Afghan mu jaheddxn, said 23 March at a
                                   J                               *
 press conference in Cherat that he had planned a coup but it was exposed to the Najib regime and .thus he defected to Pakistan (NUT).
                                        26
 *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze said 25 March that the decision for military intervention in Afghanistan was made by a few leaders in camera. He pointed out that it has been provided in the new Soviet Constitution that approval of the Supreme Soviet is necessary for any decision with regard to sending Soviet troops outside the country's borders (NUT).
                                        27
 *  in a message to US President George Bush, the ANP leader Khan Abdul Wall Khan has appealed for help in the restoration of peace in Afghanistan. He stressed the need for the implementation of Geneva accords. In another letter to the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, Mali has appealed for help in emancipating the Afghan people from what he called "dangers (JG).
                                        29
 *  British Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe met 28 March the President and a number of ministers of the interim government of Afghan mujaheddin in Islamabad. In the meeting the President of the interim government of the Afghan Mujaheddin, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi laid special emphasis on the importance of the recognition of his government (JG).
                                   ■ -31                           .
 i* Talking to ANA correspondent in Peshawar 30 March, the President of interim government of the Afghan mujaheddin, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi said that according to reports,, the Indian pilots are actively participating in the bombardment of the mujaheddin-positions all around the country.
 He elaborated that sending Indian pilots and other military advisers to Kabul is an open interfe-
                                        201
                                                                             October-1988-Decemberf 1989
 Vol.2f No.2—4 Vol.3, No.l
  ranee in Afghanistan and the mujaheddin must act accordingly (PT).
  * At least nine Afghans were killed and 17 injured when a Scud missile apparently fired from Kabul hit the mujaheddin controlled border post of Torkham (MIM).
                                               April
                                        1
  * The UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar is consulting with representatives of Paldstan and Kabul regime over a request for new observers posts to be established on the Pakistan-Afghan border, a W spokesmen said 30 March in New York (PT).
  * At a press conference 1 April in New Delhi, the British Foreign Secretary, Geoffrey Howe called upon President Najib of Kabul regime to step down in favor of a broadbased government in Kabul(EN).
                                             4
  # Authorities in Afghanistan admitted 3 April that the mujaheddin were stepping up their offensive in Jalalabad and the situation there now is critical (ON).
                                               5
  *  The Prime Minister pf the interim government of Afghan mujaheddin, Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf said A April in Islamabad that the Soviet Union has once again sent its military officers to guide the Kabul regime in dealing the situation emergLng out of the siege of Jalalabad city by the mujaheddin (JG).
  *  The ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan has sent a letter to Iranian spiritual and revolutionary leader Ayatullah Khomeini. In the letter he has made a fervent appeal to him to come forward and prevail upon the situation to stop the fratricide and bloodshed of the Muslims and help to form a truely broadbased, Islamic and non-aligned government in Afghanistan (PT).
                                               7
  *  President Najib's government declared 6 April ceas^-fire in its war against the mujaheddin to •mark the start of Ramadan. He added that, if the mujaheddin refused to observe the ceasefire » government troops would have no choice but to retaliate (EN).
                                  • 8
  *  Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi says he is convinced that the Najibullah government in Kabul will not fall to Afghan rebels, PTI reported (MIM).
  * The UN has so far collected $1,000 million as aid for the return and rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees. The aid is mostly comprised of foodstuff, medicines and tools and implements of transport.
                                          202
                                                                          Vol.2, No.2-4
    0ctober-19S8-Decemberr 1989 JjfGWlllJtHAD                             Vol.3, No.l
 This was stated by UNOCA, Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan in a TV program in the US (JQ).
 * Kabiil Pbreign Minister Abdul Wakil fwho left Kabul 2 April for New York^is still staying in Moscow
 as a IB visa has so far not been granted to him. He was going to New York for participation-in the W General Assembly .Sessions (JG).
                                              9
 *  Taliya Bakhtiar, the special envoy of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was welcomed by the Soviet.
 Foreign'Minister Shevardnadze on his arrival in Moscow 8 April. In his talks with Bakhtiar, \ '
 Shevardnadze stressed the need for the implementation of the Geneva accords as the Soviet Union has been seriously adhering to these accords (JG).
 *   The AIG Foreign Minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar left Rawalpindi 8 April for abroad at the head of a six member delegation (NWT).
 *  Almost' all Peshawar hospitals have been over , rushed with the large number of injured mujaheddin
 because of fierce battles being, fought between the Afghan mujaheddin and Kabul troops on Jalalabad front (NWT).
                             ; 10
 *  After, his arrival in lNew; York 9 April, the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil met the
 IN Secretary General Perez De Cuellar and apprised him of the latest situation/in Afghanistan.In the. meeting, Abdul Wakil d-nvited Perez De Cuellar to visit Afghanistan and to establish observer posts on Pakistaxi-Afghan borders (NWT)..                                        '
 *   As many as sixty new Soviet advisers have arrived in Kabul to launch Scud missiles. This was reported by AMRC quoting its correspondent in Kabul (NWT).
 *   A large number of military officers including Major General Muhammad Amir Khan have been arrest ted in Kabul last week. The Afghan mujaheddin sources said the arrests have been made because of retreat in the battles against mujaheddin (NWT).
 *   Foreign Minister of AIG, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar'while talking to newsmen in Dakka, expressed hope 9 April, that Pakistan will soon recognize the AIG (NWT).
 *   US Senater Gordon Humphrey and Congressman Charles Wilson, have rejected President Najib's invitation to visit Kabul. In a statement 9 April they said "We cannot visit a slave country" (JG).
 *   In an interview at the U1J, Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil of Kabul regime said Pakistan is not only supplying arms and ammunition to the extremists launching attacks On Jalalabad, but it is also sending its troops and artillery. He claimed that two military officers of Pakistan have been arrested in Afghanistan (JG).
                                              11 >'
 *   According to diplomatic sOurces, thousands of Kabul citizens are fleeing Kabul city and shifting to other cities or neighbouring countries because of the danger of mujaheddin attack on the city (JG),
                                                                  Vol.2, No.2-4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHANJ[HAD                        Vol.3,  No.l
  *  The Soviet government thinks that Pakistani military is irtvolvediry the Afghan war and statements
                     ....                                                I                     '
  of some Pakistani leaders about that country's involvement in Afghanistan appears to be correct.
  This was stated 10 April in Quetta by the Soviet Ambassador in Pakistan, Victor Yakunin while tal-aking to newsmen on his arrival there for a visit (JG). ■
                                                         13
  *  Malaysia has become the fourth country to recognize the AIG (JG).
  *  Leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Mawlawi Muhammad Younus Khalee has described the Soviet-Iran collaboration as a tactic to put pressure on the Afghan mujaheddin. Talking to AAP, he called upon the Islamic countries to recognize the AIG (JG).
  *  A top mujaheddin commander, Jalaluddin Haqqani was quoted 12 April- complaining that Islamic aid to the mujaheddin had ^dropped to one fifth of its previqus level after the recent Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan (MIM).
  *  jThe Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, Victor Yakunin has said that continuation of war in Afghanis-
  tan was fraught with danger for the entire region. Speaking at a dinner hosted in his honor by President of Pakistan National Party Mir Ghaous Bakhsh Bizenjo in Quetta, he underlined the need for a political solution to the problems (Mm).             /
  *  In a letter 13 April, addressed to the IK Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar, the Prime Minister of the AIG Prof. Abd Rab Easiil Sayyaf has demanded the expulsion of Kabul regime from the IK as it did not represent the people of Afghanistan (HIM).
  *  According to a report carried by the magazine .Time (US) , about 2,OCX) foreigner Muslim volun-
  teers are presently fighting the Kabul troops in Afghanistan and thqy bear their expenses themselves (JG).                                                                              '
                               .r                  is
  *   The Soviet Ubion will supply most sophisticated and dangerous arms to the Kabul regime for its v defense against the mujaheddin attacks. The Soviet leadership has approved the supply of such
  arms. According to The New York Times, a senior Soviet official posted in Kabul and considered to be very close to. President Mikhail Gorbachev has told *The New York Times that the neiw arms and ammunition would be. (far more dangerous than those having been used during, the last nine years of war in Afghanistan (JG).
  a The Kabul regime Ambassador to India, Abdul Samad Azhar, while talking to newsmen in New Delhi 14 April, said his country's situation is deteriorating and the NaJib regime is willing to hold elections under the UN supervision (JG).
                                   :               16
  *  The AIG cabinet ended its three-day meeting inside Afghanistan, after deliberations on latest developments of fightings and some other matters. The meetings were held in different places in Urgoon, Paktika, iQiost and Paktia. under the chairmanship Of President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi(PT).
                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
           October-1988-t)ecembert 1989 AIGUANJEHAD                         Vol.3,  No.l
         *  The UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar has expressed profound concern over continued war in Afghanistan even after the Soviet troops withdrawal from that country (JG).
                                                    17              '
         *  Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil,|While commenting on the first anniversary of the Geneva accords 16 April at UN, appealed to' the US to end its support of mujaheddin so that ground is paved for ending civil, war in the country. He said the situation in Afghanistan has changed. He asserted that an Islamic government is being formed in place of communism or socialism
         in Afghanistan and the Kabul regime is willing to share power with the . representatives of the mujaheddin (JG).
         *  President Najib's letter^addressed to the mujaheddin commanders was dropped on the mujaheddin positions by planes. In the1 letter, while referring to the differences among the various mujaheddin groups:t' the Commanders have been' appealed to stop fighting so that’the. massacre of the Afghans is ended (JG).
                                                    18
         *  It is learnt that some Islamic and western countries have offered to supply sophisticated bomber and fighter aircraft to the Afghan mujaheddin. The Afghan mujaheddin sources have said that the AIG has in principle decided to establish its own Air Force but the decision will be implemen-
^        ted  only after the occupation of Jalalabad and some other big cities by the mujaheddin (JG).
         *  Talking 17 April in Islamabad to NWT correspondent, the Kabul regime Charge d' Affaires said the Najib government,^ while offering for elections Under the UN supervision, has said the Afghan
h        people can decide as to who should assume power in Afghanistan through polls. He said the Kabul
         regime is willing to convert Afghanistan into a non-military area (NUT)..
         *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has expressed hope that the decision to sat up UN security posts on Paid.stan-Afghan borders will not be implemented (DN).
                                                        . 20
         *  Saudi Arabia denied 18 April a report that its military advisers and para-military forces were lighting alongwith the Afghan mujaheddin against Kabul troops in Jalalabad and other cities
                                                      V                                    '   (PT). ■ ■
                                                    21
         *  Leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Burbanuddin Rabbani has alleged that with the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, hundreds bf Kabul citizens have also been shifted to Moscow*
         In a letter addressed to the Amnesty International, he assured that the Soviet POltfs with the mujaheddin are in a good form and they are being treated in accordance with the Geneva Convention(NViT)•
                                                    24
         *  Mujaheddin fired rockets on Kabul airport and residential houses killing high ranking officials and 48 soldiers on the spot and destroying six vehicles and exploding a depot, ANS reported 23 April (PT).
                                                 '    205    :
                                                                                            Vol.2, No• 2^-/+
Octobervl988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JIHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
      * The AIG President, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has reiterated the mujaheddin stand not to 1 * , enter a dialogue and not to share government with the communists (NWT).
     * British Relief. Agency operating in Afghanistan, warned 25 April that another 500,000 Afghan refugees may be forced to migrate to Pakistan and. Iran in the near future unless relief supplies were taken to them immediately (MIM).
                                            27
     *  In an interview carried by a Kuwait daily, The Akhbar el Wat an. the Kabul regime President has appealed to the Arab countries for help in the solution oi the Afghanistan issue. He refuted the allegation that Kabul regLme is opposed to Islam. He said Islam is the State religion under the Afghan constitution (jG).
                                            30
     *  Radio news reader and announcer of Kabul Radio Muhammad Agha Zaki has defected to Pakistan. In an interview to Islamic Afghan Press, Agha ZakL has said all radio programs from Kabul radio are controlled by three Soviet advisers. He asserted that most of the Radio Kabul officials want to. defect but they cannot do so because of strict security measures around Kabul city (JG). *
      * At a press conference in Kabul, President Najib has said that, if the mujaheddin stopped fighting, his government is ready to give more power to commanders in the areas presently under their control(JG).
      * Kabul regime commanders have issued Soviet-made gas masks to their troops in the^besieged city of Jalalabad, according to a telephone report from an Afghan mujahed General Abdul Rahim Wardak,
      .the military commander of NIFA (MUM).
                                                 4
      * jPresident Najib told a press conference 3 May that a nunber of mujaheddin commanders were holding negotiations with his government (PT).
                                                 6
      *  The Afghan government said 3 May,, it had never used chemical weapons against mujaheddin and invited IW officials to carry out checks to prove its innocence (PT).
                                                10
      *  The Federal Minister for States and Frontier Areas and Kashmir Affairs, Mir Baz Khetran, in an "interview to APP said that about 100,000 more Afghan refugees, including women and children, have
                                              . 206 • 1
                                       1 i ■   v                Vol.2, No.2—2+
October-1988-Dec ember, 1989 AFGHAN J[HAD s                     Vol.3,  No.l
         crossed over to Pakistan during the last few months (PT).
                                                    12          '
         t Soviet Deputy Defense Minister, General Verenekov visited Kabul last week to have discussions on arms requirements-of the Kabul regime (MUM).
         *  The NIFA leader Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, in an interview with The Washington Post.' has said that the AIG cannot be balled a representative government (MIM).
         *  The AIG Foreign Minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said in Peshawar 12 May, the anti-Islam /forces
         have once again stepped up hatching conspiracies against the Afghan mujaheddin to impose Zahir Shah on the Afghan people. He expressed confidence that such intrigues will be foiled with a \ strong hand (NWT).                       \                       ,       ,
         *  The Hezb-e-Islami Commander*in Kabul province General Muhammad Nasir,,who is currently in Peshawar for treatment of his injuries, told ANA that following amnesty announcement by the mujaheddin more than 1,000 civilians^ and Kabul troops have joined the mujaheddin (NWT).
         *  President of the AIG, Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has rejected the Soviet proposal regarding the hol-
         ding of an international conference for the settlanent of Afghanistan problem saying armed struggle was the only solution of the problem (MIM).        ,
                                                    IS v ' . :
         *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Foreign Minister of AIG, has in a press conference accused the Soviet Union
         Of trying to complicate the Afghan problem and has stepped up-efforts to cause more bloodshed in Afghanistan (DN).                • .  ,
                                             ' 17 /
         *  The AIG Foreign Minister, Hekmatyar has reached Afghanistan on a six day tour where be will Visit mujaheddin strongholds; Talking to ANA correspondent, Hekmatyar said India has not learnt a lesson from the bleeding wounds of the Soviet Union. He said it appears that now the Soviet Union
         .is inducing India to take its place in Afghanistan (NVTT).
                                                    19
         *  Speaking at a Press conference in Islamabad 18 May, leader of Iran-based Shia alliance of Afghan mujaheddin, Muhammad Karim Khalilf has expressed optimism that as a result of his talks with the Peshawar-based alliance, an agreement will be reached (MIM).,
         *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf has said his government will shift to Afghanistan next w,eek (JG)i
                                                    20
         # Mujaheddin rocket attack on the night between 17 and 18 May caused a havoc in Kabul. More than 50 troops are reported to have been killed or wounded in the rocket attacks (NWT).
                                                  ' 207 ~ ■
                                                                       Vol.2, No.2—4
       October-1988-Decemberf 1989 AfGHAN JEHAO                        Vol.3, No.l
     ■ ■ ' ' 21 : ’
     * The Afghan mujaheddin sources have claimed that in an operation 18 May the Afghan mujaheddin shot down an enemy aircraft at Kandahar airportj and as. a result of Hindu pilot with two crewmen were killed (NWT).        .
     *  The mujaheddin sources have claimed that in a guerrilla operation 18 May - on Kandahar airport, the mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime aircraft and, as a result, its Hindu pilot» Eretam Lai along-,with two crew was killed (NWT).
                                             22           ;
     *  Four Kabul troops were killed when a bomb exploded in a waiting room of a Transport Battalion in SLasang of Kabul city rec(entiy, ANA correspondent reported (MLM).
                                             25
     *  Talks between the Iran-based eight party alliance and the Peshawar-based IUAM have failed to
     achieve a breakthrough after three rounds of negotiations. Karim Khalili leader of Indian groups told 24 May the AMRC that difference of opinion still persisted (MIM).           .
     *  The UN Commissioner for Afghan refugees has said that a sufficient number of Afghan refugees haye stepped up returning to their homes in southern Afghanistan. He said about one hundred families are returning to Afghanistan in Kandahar, Zabul and Helmand province every day (NWT).
                                             26
     *  The Soviet Union has despatched a large mmber of tanks and military vehicles to Afghanistan. According to an eye witness account,,at least 105 tanks, more than 10 tank carriers, about 50-60 military vehicles and a number of trailers full of mortars and other implements reached Kabul 25 May (NWT).
                                             29
     , * In an interview in Peshawar, the AIG Minister for Information and Islamic Guidance has said both Iran-based and Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin alliances have agreed to set up a commission comprising equal number of representatives from both sides to look into the prospects of furthering their cooperation on Jehad fronts and other areas (UN).
     t        •                    ♦            ;           *        ^  .
     *  The AIG has directed its Cabinet members to reach Afghanistan 29 May, and begin their duties therq, a AIG spokesman said 28 May (JG).
                                             30
     *  The AIS Foreign Minister, Gulbuddin Hekraatyar in a press conference in Islamabad - 29 May, said implementation of international conspiracies against the Afghan mujaheddin has been started. He qaid some aid giving organization to Afghan mujaheddin have also secretly joined hands in these Conspiracies. He said Indian and Soviet pilots flying from Mazar-e-Sharif airport are bombing the
                                                   208
         October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHAN J[HA0                       Vol.3, Mo.l
        mujaheddin positions inside Afghanistan. He said the intelligence agencies of India and Britain are also involved in these conspiracies (JG).
                                  /                  31   '        .             ■
         * The Kabul administration has for the first time issued a statement in connection with seeking assistance from India. Radio Kabul reported that a proposal in this connection of Najib administration was approved by the Leya Jirga, In the proposal the Indian Prime Minister has been asked 'to help the Najib administration as the situation in Jalalabad has become, serious (NWT).
        *   Yuli Vorontsov, Soviet^Ambassador to Afghanistan is believed to have indicated during his talks with the Iran-based Afghan1 mujaheddin early this week, that !his country may consider stopping their support to Najib so as to have peace in Afghanistan, mujaheddin sources told The Muslim in Islamabad 31 May (MIM).
                                                       ■ 2 ■
       • * 111 311 editorial 2 June, The New York ^mes urged President Bush to hear Prime Minister. Benazir. Bhutto's advice on Afghan political settlement now that the mujaheddin have failed to take even Jalalabad.
        *  The Kabul troops of 81-Brigade of Jalalabad shot dead four of their officers. Report says that an attempt was made to disarms the troops who objected on the distribution of supplies and, in retaliation, the troops fired at the officers killing four and injuring 18 others (NWT). *
                                                       5
        ■■ * President of the AIG, Sebghatullah Mojaddedi visited the Iranian Embassy in Islamabad 4 June to express condolence on the death of Imam Khomeini. Talking to ANA correspondent, he said Imam Khomeini played an unforegettable role in the Afghan jehad. He expressed the hope that his successors will follow his example (JG).
        *  At least 14 People have been killed and 13 injured in rocket attacks by mujaheddin on Kabul and
        Kandahar 4 June (BN).                                                     -
                                                       6
          * The AIG Foreign Minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar left Quetta J> June for Afghanistan. According to ’ANA, Hekmatyar had a combined meeting with the mujaheddin commanders from Kandahar and Hel-mand provinces. The report adds that he may take the command in his own hands. Earlier Hekmatyar warned against the plot being hatched to bring Zahir Shah back to Afghanistan (PT).
                                                     ’ 209 ■
Vol.'ll No*2-4
10
     *  The official sources in Kabul have claimed that four commanders representing 3,600 mujaheddin of Gulbuddin and Rabbani parties from Badghia , Qunduz and Ghore provinces attended the Upya Jirga called by Najibullah’recently (JG).
     *  Moscow radio reported 9 June that the Kabul regime has rejected a US. and Pakistani proposal
     that the head of Kabul regime Najibullah ought to quit power to pave the way for a political settlement of the Afghan problem (MUM).
    *  The mujaheddin strongly'refuted the Kabul regime claim that their commanders have contacted the Kabul regime. The secretaries of Jamiat-e-Islami and Hezb-e-Islami told ANA 10 June that the Kabul regime is now under mujaheddin pressure and is counting its days. That is why the regime is trying to create misunderstanding among the mujaheddin by carrying out such
    baseless propaganda (MIM).
                                             13
    *  The AIG Foreign Minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar .has said . international conspiracies are being hatched to hinder the mujaheddin triumph. In a written statement 12 June in Islamabad, he said the elements with vested interests are hatching conspiracies to establish an unrepresentative and unlslamic government in Afghanistan', He alleged that the people claiming to be friends of mujaheddin are also creating hurdles for an early mujaheddin victory (JG).
                               ;               14
           Soviet Union has sent 500 Scud missiles and 1,200 arms shipments by air to Afghanistan since completing its troops withdrawal Februaryl5, a US State Department official said 12 June (MLM).
                                             16
    *  Howard Schaffer US ’ Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, on 14 June testified before the House Foreign Affairs sub-committee on Asia and the Pacific on recent developments in Afghanistan and their implications for US policy (PT).
    . * Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General in Afghanistan and Pakistan, says he will intensify his efforts to promote a political settlement of the stalemated Afghanistan ,conflict (PT).
                                             18
    *  The A3G Prime Minister Prof. Sayyaf has said his goverrment has started functioning inside.
            t                                  210  ‘
  I
                                                                                               Vol.2, No.2^>
0ctober-198S-Decemt>er, 1989 AfGHANJ[HAD                          Vol.3, No.l
     Afghani stem since the first week of May and necessary instructions have )?een given to the Minis- * tries and war fronts (NWT). '
     *  A Kabul regime Scud missile hit a mosque 15 June west of Jalalabad killing 20 mujaheddin and civilians, according to a correspondent of AMRC (MIM).
                                             20
     *  Members pf the Iran-based council of eight-party Islamic alliance of Afghan mujaheddin called on the Iranian Foreign Minister, AH Akbar Velayati in Teheran 18 June. Speaking on the occasion, Velayati said the meeting would prove as a (fruitful step toward the accomplislment of the objectives of the Islamic revolution in Afghanistan (MIM).
                                             22
     *  The AIG President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi. has said he has not made any agreement with the Soviet parents. However, if the Soviet Union return 40,000 missing Afghan mujaheddin, the Soviet POWs will also be relieved. He'was talking to newsmen after his meeting with the Soviet delegation in Peshawar . 21 June (JG).
                                             23
     *  The visiting Soviet delegation has expressed its satisfaction over what its spokesman described, "productive and fruitful talks with the Afghan mujaheddin leaders on the question of return of Soviet POWs" (PT).
                                             25
     *  The US special envoy for the Afghan mujaheddin, Peter Tomsen has expressed the hope that the .mujaheddin will accomplish important achievements on the war fronts within ; few months. He said the mujaheddin have brought about changes in their strategy and now they are besieging cities and towns. He added that the mujaheddin are now using arms which, they had never used (NWT).
                                             28
     *  the’AIG’is seriously considering!to' send1 a delegation of mothers of Afghan POWs to Moscow soon, to formally demand repatriation of the Afghan youth currently in Soviet prisons, PPI has learnt reliably (MIM).
                                             30
          * • * •" * * »
     *  Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 29 June, the US special envoy to the Afghanistan resistance,Peter
     Tbmsen has described,hi3 appointment as a step towards recognition of the AIG. He added that the
      PUPA government is attached to the Soviet Union and an independent Afghanistan would not be achieved
       unless the PDPA and Najib (^stepped down (UN).
                                                   211
                                                                             October-1988-December, 1989
 Vol.2, No.2~lt
 -Vol.'S, No.l
                                               1         : :
    *  The mujaheddin have foiled the Kabul troops attempt to eliminate the Afghan mujaheddin posi tions around Kandahar airport. The AAP reported, the Afghan mujaheddin divided the Kabul troops
    into two by occupying the airport and the central area of the city (JG).
                                               2
    *  Abu Khaled, special envoy of Yasser Arafat said in Kabul ' 1 July, that Najibullah has agreed to Arafat's request to free U.S. cameraman Tony O'Brien arrested in Kabul, 8 June (MLM).
    *  Major General Muhammad Azim Koshani, commander of 55®th armour contingent of the Kabul army was arrested in Kabul 21 May (PT).
                                               3
    *  Some mujaheddin leaders appear reluctant to meet Peter Tomsen, special US envoy to the Afghan resistance. Though he has met with two prominent leaders, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi and Maw-law! Yunus Khales, others appear to be less keen on seeing him. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has even informed him not to meet the AIG cabinet members separately (M1M).
    *   The AIG President, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has turned down the mediation offer by Yasser , Arafat between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime. He said in Peshawar., 3 July that the mujaheddin
    will never be inclined to talk to the Kabul puppet regime (NWT).
                                               4
    * Two Kabul regime helicopters landed in Qala-e-Abdullah, 20 km from Quetta city 3 July. The pilots alongwLth the members of their families surrendered to the Pakistani officials. It has reliably been learnt that the pilots and their family members will be-granted political asylum in Pakistan (NWT).
                                               6
    *  In a letter to the UN Secretary General Perez De Cuellar, the Kabul regime has said that mujaheddin are planning to launch simultaneous attacks on Kabul and other major cities of Afghanistan and has asked the UN to intervene to stop the impending bloodbath (M1M).
                                               7
    * According to a press release of the Pakistan Defense Ministry, an AAF 'Jet fighter aircraft landed in Peshawar airport' 6 July and its pilot Captain Jan Muhammad has sought political aey-lun in Pakistan (JG). •
                                                   212
                                                                                            Vol.2, Wo.2^4
 October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHilllJEHAD                      Vol.3, No.l
                                               8
     *  Major General Muhammad Ibrahim Sahak of the Kabul regime was killed by his own driver near Daraunta dam, Nangarhar,6 July (MIM).
                                               9
     *  It has been learnt that more than 600,000 Afghan refugees^ have arrived in Pakistan after Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (JG).
     * According to a Kabul radio report, the Najib administration has announced mass recruitment in the army and has directed the ruling 'party cadres to report to the military units. The radio reported that more than 16,000 party workers have volunteered their services (JG).
     * The AIG, Prime Minister Prof. Abd Rab . Rasool Sayyaf in a statement in Peshawar 7 July reiterated his government's decision to give general amnesty to all those who are working for the Najib government and wish to defect and join the AIG (DN).
     *  President Najibullah of Kabul regLme has warned that Kabul troops can launch a retaliatory attack on Pakistan, if Pakistan continued/ its arms supplies to the Afghan mujaheddin (JG).
                                               10
     *  In a meeting with a delegation of Pakistani journalists in Kabul, President Najibullah has said now we should bid farewell to war because no body will benefit *fr6m its continuation. President Najib said with the conversion of Afghanistan into a non-military area, western borders of Pakistan will become safe (JG).
     *  The Afghan mujaheddin have confirmed for the first time after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan that many countries including China and US have suspended aid to Afghan mujaheddin(NWT).
                                               12
     *  President Najibullah has announced unilateral cease-fire during ELd-ul-Adha (NWT). 1
                                              ’ 17 ■'
     *  The first, consignment of the sacrificial meat for Afghan refugees arrived 16 July in Quetta by two .planes from Saudi Arabia (JG).
     *  Speaking at a press conference in Pails 15 July, Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto called the Kabul regime "a stumbling block" and said its removal could pave the way for a political settlement in Afghanistan (DN).
                                               18
     *  As many as 30 mujaheddin commanders of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan were allegedly killed by
                                                                       Voi,*2, No*4^*-
      october-1988-December, 1989 AtGHAN JIHAD                         voi.3,  no.i
   members of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in Farkhar district of Takhar province recently. A spokesman for Jamiat-e-Islami'Afghani stan said the Jamiat commanders were killed in' an ambush by the Hezb-e-Islarai commander Sayyed Jamal Agha (MIM).
                                            19
      Reports from Afghanistan say mujaheddin commanders in Laghman province have written to President Najibullah appreciating four days cease-fire on Eid-ul-Adha and have asked him to continue the ceasefire. Adding to its report, Radio Kabul claimed the mujaheddin commanders in Ghorband have also welcomed the ceasefire (JG).
   * The Afghan-Gonsul in Peshawar, Agha Gul hag said that Kabul regime will not transfer power to any other force. He said Kabul government is willing to hold elections for the transfer of power.
                                                                                    (JG).
                                            21
   *  President Najibullah has appealed to the Iranian President Sayyed Ali Khamenai for help against
   Pakistan's ,•aggression,, on Afghanistan. According to BBC, Najib perceives that in view of the newly cordial relations established between Iran and the Soviet Union, Iran might accord a positive response to his appeal (NUT).        ,
   *  Talking .to newsmen at Islamabad airport on his return from Saudi Arabia, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi said King Fahd of Saudi Arabia has assured him of the continuation of Saudi aid to Afghan mujaheddin against the Kabul regime (NVIT).
                                            22
   *  The Afghan government freed US photo journalist Tony O'Brien in Kabul 21 July after keeping him in prison for six weeks for entering Afghanistan illegally (MUM),
   *  In an interview to a West German daily, President Najib warned that the flames of Afghanistan wsr can spread even to Pakistan. He said relations’between Pakistan and Afghanistan had become so tense, that chances of an armed clash between the two countries cannot be ruled out (NWT).
                                            23
   *  Six rockets fii;ed by Afghan mujaheddin slammed into Central Kabul 22 July,-one near a crowded bus stop killing at least 40 people and wounding 114, the'Kabul Foreign Ministry said (MIM).
                                            26
   *  The Afghan mujaheddin launched a rocket attack on Soviet Embassy in Kabul 23 July in which 18 Afghan officials of the Embassy were killed (JG).
                                            28
   . * xhe special US envoy to the Afghan resistance disputed 27 July reports that the war-weary
                                                    214
                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                       Vol.2, No.2-4
        October-1988-December, 1989 AfGUAN JtHAD                       Vol.3, No.l
      Afghan people appear increasingly tolerant of the pro-Soviet government in Kabul. "There was one common objective shared by all Afghans whom I met; their bitter opposition to the Soviet-imposed regime in Kabul," US Ambassador Peter Tomsen told the House of Representatives Select Committee on Hunger (PT).
                                             29
      *  Mujaheddin fired over a dozen rockets into Afghan capital 28 July killing 10 civilians, officials saiq in Kabul (PT).
                                             31
      *  The Soviet Union is now spending upto three billion dollars annually in Afghanistan in the shape of arms and other supplies, VOA reported,quoting US officials (PT).
                                                                                                                                     August 1 •
      *  Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has predicted that war will gain further momentum bet-, ween the Afghan mujaheddin and Kabul troops in the coming months. In a press interview, she has said that the mujaheddin prefer war but it is hoped that headway will soon be witnessed in the way of political settlement (NWT).
      *  High ranking US and the Soviet Union began their two day talks in Stockholm 31 July in which, according to VOA, they are also seeking possibilities to peacefully, end Afghanistan war (NWT).
      *  Oft the eve of Soviet-American talks in Stockholm on'the Afghan issue, the AIG Prime Minister, Abi Rab Rasul Sayyaf has sent a message appealing to all peace loving and freedom loving nations to support*"the. righteous struggle of the Afghan mujaheddin" (NWT).
                                               2
      *  The AIG has said any decision contrary to the wishes of the Afghan people will not only fail in ending the catastrophe of war but it will also entail drastic consequences, which will only benefit t.he Afghan enemies. This was stated in a statement issued by the AIG (NWT).
                                               3        .. ,
      *  Two days of talks on Afghanistan by US and Soviet officials in Stockholm have failed to achieve progress, a senior US official said in Stockholm 1 August (M1M).
            :                                    4 '
      ■ * 'At a meeting 3 August in Teheran, the Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and his Iranian covin ter part Ali Akbar Velayati pointed to the closeness of the two countries1 stands on , measures to achieve a cease-fire in Afghanistan and begin an intra-Afghan dialogue aimed at set-
                              ‘ '           ■  215 ;
                                                                          Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-1986-December, 1989 flfGHflH JtltflB                        ■ Vol.3,  No.l  ,
   ting up a broadbased government. They agreed that the idea of convening an international conference on Afghanistan deserved* a special attention (M1M).
   *  Afghan women staged demonstration 3 August in the besieged city of Jalalabad and raised slogans against the Najib regime, reports ANA. The demonstrators demanded from the KHAD to provide the whereabouts of their sons, husbands and brothers j[MLM).
                                                5
   * UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar expressed 3 August, his "grave concern" over the escalations of fighting in Afghanistan, as well as the danger of its spreading and increased suffering of the Afghan people. In a statement#he said these very serious developments should concern not only the Afghan people but the international community as a whole. They should also underline the need to find a political and not a military solution to the situation (PT).
                                                6
   *  While addressing a press conference in Peshawar 5 August on his return from one month tour to Afghanistan,Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,while suggesting a solution to the Afghan problem,said non-r party military officers of the Kabul regime should topple the Najib regime and should form a council in collaboration with the mujaheddin commanders in the outskirts of Kabul and, thereafter,they should hold elections and transfer power to the elected representatives of the people (JG).
                                                7     ■ ‘
   *  Qazi Hussain, Chief of JI of Pakistan has initiated efforts to bring rapproachanent between J ami at-e-I slami Afghanistan and Hezb-e-Islami in Peshawar 6 August. He held a two-hour meeting, with Rabbani, who assured him of his cooperation. The JI Chief also met Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. of Hezb-e-Islami (DN).
                                          '       8
   *  According to an ANA report, 300 Soviet troops alongwith 200 tanks,have reached Jalalabad to reinforce. the Kabul troops whose morale is almost exhausted now. News about the return of, Soviet troops to Afghanistan has been confirmed by the mujaheddin sources (MIM).
   *  The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze held talk3 7 August with President Najibullah and other leaders of the Kabul regime. He delivered to Najibullah a message from Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. In the talks, discussions were held on the situation inside as well as around Afghanistan (NWT).
   *  The AMRC reports as many as 25 Soviet cargo planes are landing daily in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif airports delivering farms and ammunition (JG).
                                          '       9           '
   . * Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan in a communique 8 August severely criticized Iran's Foreign poli-
                                                216
                                                                            Vol.2, No#2-4
        October-1988-December, 1969 HUMANJtHflD                              Vol.3,  No.l
     cy. In the communique it has been alleged that the Iranian government is befriending the Soviet Union at the cost of the Afghans (MIM).
     *  More than 30 rockets slammed into Kabul for the second day running 7 August, killing eight and injuring 19 others, all of them civilians^according to official reports (MIM).
                                                 10
     *  Pakistan Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan and Iqbal Akhund, Advisor to Prime Minister on foreign affairs and national security called on the AIG President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi in Peshawar 9 August. During the meeting Yaqub Khan assured Prof# Mojaddedi of Pakistan's support for the Just cause of the Afghan jehad (MIM).
                                                 12
     *  In a UN report it has been mentioned that violence in the schools, assassinations or detention of teachers, and propaganda in favor of Soviet Union is dragging the Afghan education system towards devastation. Although, ;pro-Sovietism has showed^ down following the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, its (remnants are still there. As such the reconstruction of education system in that country will face tremendous obstacles (NWT).
     *  Reports from Afghan Capital say 700 Kabul military personnel have been sent to the Soviet city of Termiz. They will be i parted training in the use of modem Soviet arms which mostly include misi-les (NWT).
     *  President of ANP, Khan Abdul Wali Khan has told Radio Moscow in Delhi a solution of the Afghan issue is impossible without the participation of present regime in that country (JG).
                                                 13
                     / • ■
     *  Kabul General Abdul Haq Ulumi has said the AAF will soon receive shipments of advanced MIG-29
     and SU-27 planes. According to BBC, he said they would be used to defend Afghanistan against any possible Pakistani attack (MIM)#                                             ,
     *  A jirga of tribal chieftains has warned 12 August in Jamrud the Afghan resistance groups for direct action if the Torkham-Jalalabad highway,which was blocked for the last several months, was not opened for business (MIM). -
                                                 18
     *  In an exclusive interview with th,e API correspondent on phone from Rome 17 August, ex-King Zahir Shah has expressed hope that direct dialogue between the Afghan mujaheddin and Soviet
     officials will help in achieving positive results in finding a solution to the Afghan problem (MIM).
     , . _ ' ^ * ' • •
     *  A total of 13,833 Soviet soldi era have died during the Afghanistan war, according to the Soviet Union's first published year-by-year report on country's losses in a decade of fighting in Afghani3-
                           ■               • "  t                                               i
                                                 217
                                                                                            Vol.2, No.2-4
October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN (([HAD                      Vol.3,  No.l
   tan. The 1979-89 break-down of losses appeared in The Pravda in an article which accused former Soviet leader, Leonid Breznev of illegally ordering troops into Afghanistan (PT).
                                            19
         . ' . ' ( i                           '                :
   * According to reports from Afghanistan, many rockets slammed into Shahr-e-Wau„ Kabul,IB August causing havoc to the area. API reported, in the rocket attack more than 40 persons, including some Soviet advisers, were killed and heavy losses were also caused to the buildings (JG).
                                           20
   * According to reliable sources, a number of Kabul regime officers have defected to Afghan mujaheddin. They will be introduced at a press conference in the presence of the AIG President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi -(JG).
   * The tfabul airport has been closed under the directive of Soviet experts. A havoc was created at the airport by rocket attacks only two days ago. According to reports,13 rockets landed at the Kabul airport 17 August setting the airport building ablaze.. The Soviet cargo planes bringing supplies to Kabul are now landing at Bagram airfield (JG).
                                           21
                                                                       .              J •
   * Major General Farouk Zarif, Commander of the Security Guards of President Najib and a member of Politburo of the PDPA, has defected to the Afghan mujaheddin. Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 20 August he said the morale of Kabul troops was very low and asserted that Communist government in Afghanistan could not solve the problems of the people(jg)
   * In a Radio-TV address on the occasion of 70th anniversary of the regaining of independence of Afghanistan, President Najibullah has proposed that the mujaheddin should end fighting and elections be held under the supervision of IJN. He expressed willingness to meet the opposition leaders for holding an-all Afghanistan peace conference (NWT). j
                                           22
   * The AIG Foreign Minister EngLneer Gulbuddin Hakmatyar said 21 August in Peshawar that some western countries are sending their spies in the guise of doctors and journalists for espoinage purposes inside Afghanistan to certain commanders and fronts to provoke ethnic and linguistic sentiments of the people and mujaheddin against each other. He urged the commanders to block the entry of those foreigners involved in espoinage and creating rift among resistance groups inside the country (MU4).
                                           23
   * Lt. General Abdul Haq Ulumi of Kabul regime accused 21 August the US of supplying cluster bombs
     .                                          I         ■       •       :      .
                                            218
  1
                                                                             Vol.2, No.2r4
         October-1966-December, 1989 flfGHflHJtHAD                           Vol.3,  No.l
      to the mujaheddin, which, he said, were used on Kabul last week for the first time. At a press conference in Kabul, he said security belt around Kabul city has been expanded to 60km (NOT).
                                                 24
      *  The Soviet Foreign Ministry in a statement 23 August,,supported President Najibullah's proposals for peace in Afghanistan made in his radio address on the occassion of the 70th anniversary of the regaining of independence of Afghanistan (M1M).
                                                 25
         Mujaheddin commanders fighting around Kabul have strongly denied the Kabul regime*s allegations that mujaheddin were using cluster bombs (MIM).
                                                 26
      *  Special envoy of UN Secretary General oh Afghanistan met the Iranian Foreign Minister, AH Akbar , Velayati in Teheran 25 August. In the meeting they discussed the latest situation in Afghanistan.' Speaking on the occasion, Velayati reiterated his government's stand that a broadbased Islamic government should be formed in Afghanistan without interference from outside (NWT).
      *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf in a press release said 25 August in Islamabad that
      the mujaheddin have rejected Najibullah's peace plan (MIM).  v
      *  As a result of continued mujaheddin rocket attacks on Kabul and the blockade of Salang Highway, the Najib administration has shifted a large nunber of aircraft and helicopters to Mazar-e-Sharif
      ,                                                                                   (NOT).
      *  According to Radio Kabul, Kabul city has once again been subjected to rocket attack by the mujaheddin killing 10 and injuring nine people. Heavy property losses were also reported (NOT).
                                                 28
      > US Congressman Bill Quraishi arrived in Kabul unannounced 27 August for meeting with President Najibullah (DN).
                                                 29
                                                                                  !
      *  The AIG President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has reportedly left .tor Afghanistan t^ visit his government's offices and mujaheddin bases (MIM).
     \ * Commander of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Ahmad Shah Masud has arrested the Hezb-e-Islami commander Sayyed Jamal and many of his colleagues in Takhar (NOT).
                                                    s!   ’                    " • i  ■ * -
      *  An Afghan Journalist Muhanmad Shafiq Wijdan has recently defected to the mujaheddin. Hejhad been
      the deputy editor of The Jamhooriat, and Director of Education of Kabul Radio. Speaking at a press
      ' .                         -I      ■'                               ., • . . -
      .conference in Islamabad 28 August, he described situation in Kabul as very miserable (NOT).
                                                       219
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2—4
      October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN J[HAD                      Vol.3,  No>l
                                          31
   * Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan of Hekmatyar has dissociated Itself from the A1G and thus disturbances in the ranks of mujaheddin have become more grave. According to BBC, the Hezb-e-Islami has taken this step following the arrest of Hezb commander Sayyed Jamal by the Jamiat (NUT).
                          1
    *  Peter Tomsen, the US Ambassador for Afghan Resistance, expressed concern 31 August, over reports of infighting among different Afghan mujaheddin groups, calling it discouraging and made it clear that the US supported no particular individual or faction (PT).
                                                 2
    *  Talking to reporters 1 September in New York before leaving for Belgrade, the UN Secretary General Perez De Cuellar called for finding a political, not military solution,to the conflict in Afghanistan but such a settlement should not be prescribed by the Soviet Union or the US (M1M).
                                                 3
    *  The CIA has removed the head of its Afghan Task Force following Congressional criticism of the handling of the huge covert arms program for the Afghan Resistance since the February Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, according to informed sources. CIA Director Uilliam Webster decided to remove the official after the legislators who are strong supporters of the Afghan Resistance confronted the, administration this svpuner with reports that the Afghan mujaheddin were suffering acute arms shortages (PT).
    *  In a letter to the President of lYugoslovia,. . '.he AIG President, Sebghatullah Mojaddedi has urged for the allotment of Afghanistan seat in NAM to AIG as the present Najib regime in Kabul is Soviet installed and does not represent the Afghan people (JG).
                                                 5           :
                         ' i                          . J
    *  An estimated 40,000 people have been leaving the Afghan capital Kabul every month for Pakistan or other countries to avoid, conscription and mujaheddin rocket attacks, diplomats and international relief workers said in Kabul 3 September (MUf).
    *  In view of continued defeats of the Afghan mujaheddin and their infighting and under pressure from the US Congress, the CIA has formulated its policy about Afghanistan on new lines. Under the new policy, the CIA will from now on supply arms to the mujaheddin commanders instead of the Afghan mujaheddin organizations (NUT)*
                                                 220
                                                                         Vol.2, No.2-4
       October-1988-Decanber, 1989 fltGHflH JiHflfl               _______Vol.3, No.l
    __ - ________
    *  The head of Kabul regime Najibullah said in Belgrade 7 September that his government had given top priority to ceasefire and holding talks with all the parties involved to ensure peace in Afghanistan (MLM).
    *  In an interview to the correspondent of Novesti "in Islamabad,Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto ruled out any possibility for reconciliation with Najib administration. She said the Najib adninistration was installed by the Soviet armed forces, and was responsible for the assassination of more than a million Afghans and displacement of five million people of that country (NUT).
    *  President Najibullah of Kabul regime once again put forth a proposal for an international conference with the participation of Soviet Union, China, US, Pakistan and Iran for the restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan. He said in the NAM summit in Belgrade 7 September such a conference should ensure \ non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan (NUT).
                                              9
    *  The Soviet Ambassador to Afghanistan, Yuli Vorontsov alleged 8 September that US would establish an air base in Quetta and that Americans are training mujaheddin pilots in an airfield in Karachi
                                                              1                         (UN).
                                              10
    *  The NAM summit 4-7 September in Belgrade adopted a declaration reflecting Pakistani position on Afghanistan while it rejected the proposals submitted by Najibullah. The declaration called for the establishment of a broadbased government in Afghanistan, voluntary return of the Afghan refugees and the exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of that country (M1M).
    *  The US government is reported to, have sent an envoy to meet the former Afghan King Zahir Shah
                           J                                                            (JO).
                                              11
    *  Kabul regime*s planes mistakenly bombarded their own troops last week lulling 23 soldiers and wounding 50 others in Khushalabad village, Dawlatabad -sub-division of Balkh province (PT).
    *  The Reconstruction Ministry of AIG has announced that 10,000 houses will be constructed for the Afghan refugees in the liberated province of Kunar. Officials in that ministry added that funds for the project will be provided by friendly Islamic countries and other aid giving agencies (NWT). r
                                              13
    *  The ANP President, Khan Abdul Wali Khan said in Islamabad' 12 Septemberj that Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto had asked him to convince Najib to resign from his office. But he, said, MI did express my inability for it because I did not agree with the idea**. (JG),
    *  The AIG Prime Minister Prof. Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf said at a press conference in Peshawar 12 Sep-
                                              221
   ]
     October-1988-December f 1989 AfGHAN JEHAD
   tember that ex-King Zahir Shah and the Afghan communist9 were not acceptable to the mujaheddin and thus can have no role in a future Afghanistan (MIM).
                                              14
   *  General Mirza Aslam Beg', the Pakistan Army Chief said 13 September at a press briefing in Isla-
   mabad, he believed that eventually the Afghan mujaheddin and the PDPA would have to resolve their wrangles across a table and no such thing as "the Zahir Shah option" would be helpful in the Afghanistan settlement (ON).                                                                 . .
   *  Boris Nikolayevich Fostohov has been appointed Soviet Ambassador to Afghanistan replacing Yuli Vorontsov, reported AFP 13 September quoting Western diplomats in Islamabad (IN).
   *  A spokesoan for Soviet Foreign Ministry, Gennady Gerasimov at a briefing in Moscow welcomed a
                   'L'   '
   meeting between a' US envoy and the ex-King Zahir Shah in Rome. He added any political settlement
                             r                                              m              a
   of Afghanistan issue Is not possible without an intra-Afghan dialogue among all the political for-ces including ex-King Zahir Shah (JG),
   *  The IN Secretary General Perez De Cuellar has said that a consensus on national as well as international level is vital for a political settlement of Afghanistan issue. He asserted that the issue cannot be solved in any way except through political means. This has been stated in his annual report to be submitted to the next session of the UN General Assembly (JG).
   *  The Pakistan Chief of Army Staff, General* Aslam Beg has said a new balance can be evolved in this region of, world with the emergence of strategic correlation among Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. He said the three countries believed in one religion and their objectives are also identical. Besides, resistance in Afghanistan and Islamic revolution in Iran have also prompted new chances
   of correlation which can be Joined by other Islamic countries as well. At a briefing in Rawalpindi he expressed confidence that ultimately the mujaheddin will emerge triumphant (JG).
                                              15
                                                             *       r:
   *  In an exclusive interview to PPI 14 September in Islamabad, the NIFA Chief, Plr Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said the people of Afghanistan will welcome ex-King Muhammad Zahir Shah "for preparing ground for removal of the Communist regime and making it possible for Afghans to exercise their right of self-determination " (MIM).
                                              16
   *  A Kabul government spokesman, Muhammad Nabi Amani said 14 September in Kabul that a convoy of petrol tankers and supply trucks of some 1,300 vehicles which left Torghundi a fortnight ago, arrived in Kandahar, 13 September (ON).
                                              18
   f In a warning to Afghan mujaheddin after the Soviet Etobassy in Kabul was shelled 15 September, the Soviet Fbreigi Ministry said the unleashing of such "terrorist activities" cannot go unpunished. It added the Soviet Union will give all necessary assistance, moral and material to the government Of
                                              222
Vol.2, No.2r-4
Vol.3, No.l
                                                                    Vol.2, No.2-4
       October-1988-December, 1989     AFGHANJfHAD                 Vol.3, No.l
    Kabul in its efforts to atop "the barbarous and bloody actions by the rebels" (M1M).
    *  Peshawar police has arrested a KHAD officer from a refugee camp in Peshawar. The KHAD official Wafiullah Khan.was spreading rumours and provoking the refugees to return to Afghanistan (JG),
                                          19
    *  The US special envoy to the AlGt Peter Tomsen, in an interview to The Khalee-| Timesf Abu Dhabit has said' as long as the AIG wants to fight "the US will continue to it with supply arms" (PT).
                                          20
    *  Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said the Afghan people hold Zahir Shah responsible for the miseries of the Afghan nation and as such they cannot accept his role in the future of Afghanistan. In an interview to The Washington Post. Hekmatyar said if Zahir Shah was imposed on the Afghan people, his fats vdll.be similar to that of Najib (JG).
                                          21
    *  At least 12 persons were killed and 17 injured 20 September when mujaheddin rained rockets on Kabul also causing a military truck to explode. Kabul regime spokesman said three rockets hit the Khairkhana suburb, site of a missile batteryt killing nino and injuring 13 others. Ten other rockets landed near the Kabul University killing one and injuring two (PT).
    *  Supply of US weapons to Afghan mujaheddin resumed in the first week of September, the Afghan • •resistance sources told The Muslim. 20 September in Islamabad. The supply remained suspended from February to August this year. Later a CIA officer was held responsible for the suspension and sacked (MLM),
                                          22
    *  According to the Pakistan Foreign Ministry sources, the ex-King of Afghanistan, Muhammad Zahir Shah has so far not applied for the grant of a visa for Pakistan (JG).
                                          23
    ft Mikhail Moiseyev, Chief of the General Staff and first Deputy Defense Minister of the Soviet Uiion has arrived in Kabul and held talks with Najibullah (PT).
                                          25
    *  A Soviet delegation currently visiting Pakistan met 24 September Dr, Farouq Azam, the Education Minister of AIG in Peshawar and held talks on the release of 313 Soviet POWs (MIM).
                                          29
    .*■ Islamic Women Organization of Afghanistan (IWOA) leader, Fatima Yasser has said by forming a
                                            223
                                                                       Vol.2, No• 2^-4
        October-1988-December, 1989 AfGHANJtHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
     broadbased government with the Kabul communists or by return of Zahir Shah, the Afghanistan problem will not be solved because the people have rendered sacrifices only for the establishment of a real Islamic government In Afghanistan (NUT).
                                               30
     *  A Kabul regime MIG-21 fighter aircraft landed at Peshawar airportv 29 September and Its pilot, Major Jalaluddin is reported to have sought asylum in Pakistan (Mill),
                                         October 1 .
     *  The AJG President% Sebghatullah Mojaddedi arrived in Teheran 29 September leading 87-member delegation to participate in the second seminar on Afghanistan. The seminar,sponsored by the Iranian^
     Foreign Ministry will be held 2-4 October (MIM)*
     *         . . * '
                                                3
     *  In an interview with PDPA correspondent in Kabul 2 October, President Najibullah of Kabul regime called on West Germany to play a mediating role in helping to solve the Afghan conflict (MIM).
     *  The Afghan Deputy Prime Minister, Sarwar Mangal met a two member Pakistani delegation 1 October, consisting of the Assistant Secretary General of the Afro-Asian People's Solidarity Organisation of Pakistan, Malik Abdullah and the former Ambassador of Pakistan to Vietnam, Ashfaq Ahmad Khan* According to another report, the Kabul regime Minister for Higher Education Prof. Mehr Muhammad Hejazi met the Pakistani delegation led/by Alia Imam, Cultural Adviser of Begum Nusrat Bhutto and discussed activities of the institutions of higher education and professional studies (MIM)* '
     *  Soviet General Tsagolov said in the latest edition of the theoretical weekly,' Argunnety-i-Tgaictv that former leader Leonid Brezhev, former Foreign. Minister, Andrei Gromyko, former Defense Minister, Etoitir Ustinov and former leader KGB Andropov were the main officials behind the December, 1979, » Soviet invasion of Afghanistan (MIM)*
                                            - 5            :
     Major General Abdul Ahad, the Deputy Governor of Kandahar was killed in a mujaheddin missile attack on Kandahar airport, it was reported 3 October (PT).
     *  The AIG President Sebghatullah Mojaddedi met the Iranian spiritual leader Ayatullah Khamenei 3 October and exchanged views on Afghanistan jehad (PT)*
     *  A member of Iran-based eight party alliance of Afghan mujaheddin. Muhammad Karim Khelili, rejected any solution for Afghanistan which would guarantee Kabul regime's share in the government. He told IRNA that continued rule of Kabul regime was not due to its capabilities but due to lack of coordination among the mujaheddin (MIM)*
                                                       224'
      * Major Jalaluddin, a pilot of Kabul regime who after landing his MIG—21 fighter aircraft at Peshawar air port | defected to Pakistan and sought asylum 29 September, has said that Soviet pilots are still busy in operations in Afghanistan, At a press conference 5 October he said the Soviet pilots fly Soviet marked planes and, train Afghanjxtlots (MIM),
      * On the conclusion of a three day seminar on Afghanistan in Teheran, the mujaheddin leaders appealed for "broadbased rule” representing all Afghan groups, IRNA reported (PT),■
      * According to a US1S press release 5 October in Islamabad, John Bolton American Assistant Secretary of State for International Affairs who had an extensive tour of Pakistan last month, has said he has been convinced that the mujaheddin "are prepared to fight for as long as necessary to eliminate Soviet influence from th^Lr country”. The US, he has said^^is certainly very supportive of that effort”, (IN).
      * The Islamic Foreign Ministers conference concluded 5 October in New York after - unanimously approving a draft resolution on Afghanistan that stresses an "early start” of the Intra Afghan dialogue for the establishment of a broadbased government (NWT).
                                                  8
      * The MIDIA,.quoting sources from Quetta, said the two UN lorries carrying 400 tent^,were stopped by the mujaheddin along the Kandahar—Kabul highway since they had not taken permission from the AXO* A commander incharge told the drivers,since the cargo is meant for the communist regime, it could not be allowed passage. One of the drivers, Janan was sent back to Quetta by the mujaheddin to take permission from the representatives of AIG (MIM),
                                                  10
      * Amanullah :Nazarzi,. the Director of Studies and Research at the Foreign Ministry of Kabul regime has defected to the AIG. He has said ”1 can emphatically state that over 60 percent of the Kabul regime diplomats at'its missions abroad are active KHAD agents and are on its pay roll” (IN),
      * President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan has asked the Soviet Union to review its policy on Afghanistan as it is an obstacle, in the way of establishing a broadbased government in that country. Speaking at a function in the Army Stadiun Peshawar 9 October, the President said Pakistan has been endeavouring to convince the Soviet Union that the establishment of an unnatural and illegal puppet government in Afghanistan, will not succeed and will not be able to change the Islamic identity of Afghanistan, He said Afghanistan does not consist only of a few cities under the control of Najib regime but ^0 percent of the country‘is under1 the'mujaheddin control(JG)^
                                                  12
      * According to Radio Kabul, the mujaheddin fired five rockets on Kabul 10 October one of which landed at a bus stop killing 23 and injuring many others (NWT).
                                             225
                                                                                                    Vul.-, Nu..V5~/|
October-1988-December, 1989 fltimflN JtHflU                           Vol.3, No.l
   *  The two lorries carrying UN relief goods which were detained by the mujaheddin in Shahr— e-Safa, have now been allowed to proceed to Kabul* Meanwhile the spokesman for AIG has told the IN offices in Peshawar and Quetta to obtain permission from the AIG for sending any goods inside Afghanistan,
   .The DLrector'of UN Relief Mission in Islamabad has agreed to do so in the future (NWT).
                                           13
   * Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has said if the Soviet Union really wishes a political solution of Afghanistan issue, it should put pressure on Najib and his associates to quit power (JG).
                                           14
   *  President Najibullah of Kabul regime, in a letter 11 October, to the OIC on the eve of Mawlood (Birthday anniversary of Holy Prophet, peace be upon him) has called on Islamic countries to mediate * between his regime and the mujaheddin (PT)* \
                                           16
   *  The Kabul government has invited US officials to inspect its military installations to see that Soviet advisers are not firing Scud missiles but only extend their advice to Kabul troops (NVIT).
                                           19
   *  A procession was taken out from Chowk-e-Yadgar, Peshawar, 18 October in favor of the Najib government under the auspices of Pakhtoonkhwa NAP. The procession was led by the Chairman of Pakhtoonkhwa Mahmud Khan Achakzai. Participants were shouting slogans against the Chief Minister of Punjab (NWT),
                                           21
   *  At a press conference 20 October in Kuala Lumpu^ iPakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto reiterated her government's stand for a political settlement of the Afghan problem and called for an overall consensus incorporating the stepping aside of the Najib government (PT).
                                           23
   *  A five member delegation of the AIG led by Education Minister Farouq Azam is leaving for New York on the eve of IN General Assembly meeting which is expected to take up the Afghanistan issue (MIM).
   *  Speaking at a press conference in Islamabad 22 October Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto said the AIG is trying for the establishment of peace in Afghanistan. She said Pakistan too is exerting efforts for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue (JG).
                                           25
   1 -   .  /                                                  , .
   *  In a declaration adopted by the Conmonwealth summit conference in Kualul Lunpur 24 October, it
                                                  236 ' ■’
                                                                                               Vol.2, No.2-4
0ctober-1988-Deceraber, 1989 AFGHANJfRAfi                         Vol.3, No.l
     has been stressed that direct dialogue between the mujaheddin and the Kabul administration at the earliest is vital because only in this way a broadbased government can be formed enjoying representation from all segments of Afghan society (JG),
     * In a meeting with the Punjab Chief Minister Nawaz Sharif 22 October,the AIG President Prof. Seb-ghatullah Mojaddedi reiterated the mujaheddin determination to fight until final victory (JG).
     * The AIG President and cabinet called on Pakistan Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto in Islamabad 24 October, and discussed matters pertaining to the setting up of a broadbased government and ouster of the Najibullah regime as a pre-requisite for any settlement of the Afghanistan issue (PT).
                                           28
     *  As the IN General Assembly prepares to vote on a draft resolution calling for a broadbased government in Kabulf an Afghan mujaheddin delegation ruled out 26 October forming a coalition with the Najibullah regime "Sharing power with NaJib.and the PDPA is out of question with mujaheddin. Every patriotic Afghan opposes them"f the delegation leader Dr. Farouq Azam told a press conference at
     UN headquarters (MIM),
                                           29
     * A delegation of the AIG met the UN Secretary General, Perez De Cuellar at the UN Headquarters 28 October and apprised him of the latest situation in Afghanistan. Later the leader of the delegation Farouq Azam told newsmen that the UN Secretary General has assured them that he was exploring all avenues for a solution of the issue and that the Afghan people should get their right of self determination (JG).
     * US Special envoy Peter Tomsen, in an interview by VOA 28 October, said if peace is to come to * Afghanistan, Najibullah must leave as he is responsible for the massacre of one million people (BN).
                                           30
     *  "We will never talk to Najibullah under any circumstances" Abd Bab Rasul Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister has said in an interview to the BBC. He added, "Najib is neither an Afghan nor a Muslim.
     He is a puppet of the Soviet Union". (MIM).
                                         November
                                            3
     *  Pakistan's permanent envoy to UN, Nasim Ahmad has described the UN General Assembly resolution on Afghanistan important and has hoped it will pave the way for the establishment of a broadbased government and an honorable return of the Afghan refugees to their country (JG).
                                           4
     * The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Bab Rasul Sayyaf has vehemently criticised the UN resolution calling
                                                   227
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2-4
    October-198S-Decemberf 19^9 AFGHAN JEHAD                       Vol.3»  No.l
  for intra-Afghan dialogue. According to MIDIA, he said in Peshawar 3 November if the "intra-Afghan11 dialogue meant negotiations among more than a dozen of Afghan mujaheddin factions, it was alright, but the mujaheddin would not accept any. arrangements with the puppet regime in Kabul (MIM).
  *  A Pakistani doctor, belonging, to the Island Jamiat-e-Talaba, was killed by Afghan troops while fighting at the Khost garrison town inside Afghanistan recently. Dr. Sadruddin Memon had left for Afghanistan following the UT convention in Lahore (Hi).
                                               7
  *   The Chairman Pakhtoonkhwa Mill! Awami Party ,_Mahmud Khan Achakzai has offered his services to mediate between the Peshawar-based mujaheddin leadership and the PDPA regime (MIM).
  * In an interview with The Time in Mdscow, Marshal Sergei Akhromeyev, military adviser to President Mikhail Gorbachev, has 'described his country’s intervention in Afghanistan as "a scar on the body of Soviet Society" and has said "our people condemn the fact that we deployed force in Afghan-* istan; they believe it was wrong" (HIM).
                                               10
  *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf has said in Peshawar that the only solution for; Afghanistan issue is that all the Afghan mujaheddin leaders should bury their difference and foil • the evil designs of the enemies of our Islamic revolution. Addressing mujaheddin commanders in Quetta, Prof. Sayyaf stressed upon the commanders to consolidate unity among themselves (JG).
                                               11
  *   It has been learnt that the Afghan cell held a session in the Presidency 10 November with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in the chair. The session was attended by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto Yoreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs and National Security, Iqbal Akhund, Major General Nasirullah Babur, Adviser to the Prime Minister on Defense, Major General 'Imtiaz Ahmad, Foreign Secretary Dr, Humayun Khan, Additional Secretary, iRiaz Khokhar and Director General of ISI, Lt. General S.R. Kulloo. Discussions were held on fhe establishment of a broadbased government in Afghanistan and the Soviet stand vis-a-viz the issue (JG)
  *  Gulbuddin Hekraatyar has expressed confidence that Pakistanis will continue their support to the Afghan mujaheddin until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. In a message from Afghanistan on the eve of luncheon hosted by Hezb-e-Islami in honor of the members of the Executive Council of the Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists, Hekmatyar has said Islam is our Identity and, with the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, peaceful brotherly relations will be established between the two countries (JG).
                                            17          :
  *  In his meeting, with Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, the Chinese Prime Minister LL Peng
                                                         22a'
                   Vol.2, No.£-4
October-1988-December, 1989                                    Vol.3,  No.l
     has assured that China vdll continue its assistance to the Afghan refugees in Pakistan (JG).
                                             20
     * The Pakistani government has conveyed to the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad that it has arranged to
     help hand over to Soviet two Soviet POWs as a goodwill gesturet mujaheddin sources said 19 November in Islamabad (MIM).
                                             22
     *  Leader of the delegation of Iran-based Shia mujaheddin Abdul Karim Khalili said in Peshawar 21 Novanber, he is still hopeful of an agreement on their participation in the AIG eventhough formal talks between them and the Peshawar-based seven-party alliance have yet to begin (MIM).
                                             23
     *  The Chief Justice and the head of Central Electoral Commisaion of AIG, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailam has announced that elections for promulgation of transitional "Shoora" of Afghanistan will be held before the end of the tenure of the AIG that in April, 1990 (MIM).
                                             24
     *  Talking to a group of Pakistan Journalists in Kabul 23 November, President Najibullah expressed willingness for talks with the democratically elected government of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in Pakistan on the recognition of Durand line besides new issues arising out'of the arrival of Soviet forces in Afghanistan (PT).
     *  Members of the Soviet Peace Committee for the release of Soviet POWs in Afghanistan*are arriving in Islamabad 24 November in connection with the AIG decision to release .two Soviet POWs as a goodwill gesture towards the Soviet people (PT).
     *  The Afghanistan issue will be at the top of the agenda of the Soviet-US summit in December. According to reliable sources, in contacts between US and Soviet Union last summer in Geneva an outline of a political solution of the Afghanistan issue had been prepared which is hoped to be implemented in February, 1990 (JG).
                                *                 V                                      ’
     *  President Najib has proposed a 9-point formula for the solution of Afghanistan issue. It includes ceasefire, talks with the opposition, convening a national conference for the establishment of peace, establishment of a consultative body and formation of a broadbased government, holding of loya jirgah to prepare arid, constitution and draw election rules (NWT).
                                             26
     *  The Afghan Consul in Peshawar asserted 23 November that ex-King Muhammad Zahir Shah could play a vital role in the future of Afghanistan, but he should create a sense of unity and cooperation
                                                    229
01889116
                                                                    Voi.2, No.2-4
     October-198B-Decemberf 1909 AfGHANJIHAD                        Vol.3, No.l
                              . •                                i
  among all the rival groups which essential for setting up a peaceful atmosphere in the Afghanistan
                                                                                   (FT).
                              /
  *  The AIG Minister for Communications, Engineer Ahmad Shah and Information Minister, Dr.Najibullah Lafrey left Peshawar 25 November for Washington to Join President Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi already there for talks with the US officials (Mm).
  *  The prominent Palestinian scholar and a staunch supporter of Afghan resistance who, alongwith his two young sons died in a car bomb blast 25 November in Peshawar was laid to rest in Pabbi 25 November with all solemnity and ferver (NWT).
                                          2fi
 .* Talking to The Muslim in Peshawar 27 November after the handing over ceremony of two Soviet POWs by Afghan mujaheddin the. Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, Victor Yakunin said the Afghan government ig releasing 2$ Pakistanis and eight other prisoners in Kabul in exchange for the two Soviet POWs (MIM).
                                          29
  *  President Bush called on the AIG 27 November in Washington to step up efforts for a broadbased government in Afghanistan. The President made his call during a meeting with the AIG President Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi at the White House (PT).
                                             December
  ; . . ' 1
  *  President Najibullah of Kabul has sent letters to President George Bush and President Mikhail
  Gorbachev urging them to take steps when1 they meet 2 December towards ending the war in Afghanistan (DN)                            -
                                           2
  *  Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze1 met the former Afghan King Muhammad Zahir Shah 31 November in Rome. Diplomats said their talks centred on the role Zahir- Shah could play in ending the 11 year civil war in Afghanistan (MLM) •
                                           4
    , The AIG President Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi met in Washington, with three Soviet representatives of the Moscow Institute for Oriental Studies. He revealed this in an interview published 1 December by The Washington Times (EN),
  *  The AIG Prime Minister, Prof. Abd Rab Rasul Sayyaf, in a press conference 3 December at the AIG Defense Ministry Headquarters near Nowshera said all freedom loving nations should extend recognition to the AIG as it represented the aspirations of the Afghan nation (DN).
                                                      230
                                                                   Vol.2, No.2^4
   0ctober-I988-December, 1989 fl[|||UIN JitlAD                   Vol.3-,'Ho'.l
                                               5
 *   Brigadier General Ghulam Haider of the Kabul regime was killed in an artillery attack by the mujaheddin on the Headquarters of the army corps at Jalalabad city 2 December (MIM).
 *   A number of US Congressmen have expressed concern over the suspension of US arms supply to the Afghan mujaheddin. In a letter to President Bush, they have asserted that such suspension may cause years of delay in bringing the Afghanistan war to an end (NWT).
                                              ■ 6 ■■/.'. ' !
 *  A coup attempt against President Najib by some military units and mujaheddin has been foiled.
 Large scale arrests have been made and a number of high ranking civil and military officers have been rounded'up (JG).
                                               9
 *   In an Independent Television interview shown in Iondon, Ahmad Shah Masood, a prominent mujahed-{fin commandert accused the US of withholding arms supplies to the mujaheddin. He said he has not
 received even a single bullet from the US. for one year (PT)«                                            j
                                                            ' If. /
 *  In a statementy the Chief of Staff of Pakistan armyt General Mirza Aslam Beg said in Sargodha
 10 December not even a single Pakistani soldier has gone to Afghanistan for fighting (NWT).
         ■ * <
 *  In an exclusive interview released by the USIS, in Islamabad, the AIG President Prof. Sebghatul*
 lah Mojaddedi has said even now 2,000 Soviet advisers are present in Afghanistan. He added that the      j
 Soviet MIG-29 aircraft used in the Afghan war are pilotted by Soviet pilots (JG).                        !
                                               12
 *  For the first time in the history of Pakistan, traffic has been possible to Chitral through the
 liberated areas of Afghanistan. At the beginning, arrangements have been made that three mini buses ’    i
 will be deployed from Peshawar to Chitral via Afghanistan. The buses will go from Peshawar to Chitral via Kunar, Cheghaserai, Arandu, and Danish (NOT).
 *  The UNACAB, Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan met 11 December with the Iranian Foreign Minister, All
 Akbar Velayati in Teheran and exchanged views on issues pertaining to the   UN aid for Afghan refugees in Iran. Speaking on the occasion,                                 Velayati said the refugees need more aid (NUT).
 * MIDI A, quoting Peter Torn sen, the US envoy for Afghan mujaheddin as saying in a meeting with         I Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlavd Yunus Khales and Mawlawi Muhammad Nabi Muhammad! in Peshawar that the
 AIG should be established with a broadbased shoora to include Iran—based mujaheddin, famous              j
 ders,KingZahir Shah and his supporters     (FT).   1                                                     !
                                                                                                                        |j
                                               231                                                        j
                                                                                                                        i
 \
                                                                     Vol.2, Wo.2-4
      October-1988-December, 1989 AFGHAN JEHAD                      Vol.3,  No.l
                                           13
    *  Operation "Salam" 12 December announced the departure of a "Salam Express” from Pome, bound for Afghanistan* The train is carrying food, blankets, clothing, ambulances, pre-fabricated warehouses, and over 2,000 tons of wheat* Goods will be added to the train and its way and,, by the time it reaches Afghanistan, it will have some 60 wagons (HIM)*
                                           15
    *  At a gathering of foreign diplomats in Kabul, the Soviet Ambassador in Kabul Boris Pastukhov has disclosed that there were differences between the two super powers on the Afghan issue at the Malta sunmit conference* He has said the Soviets could not convince Washington to accept the proposals presented by Najibullah calling for dialogue between all the Afghan groups and holding of elections later (MIM).
             %
    *  The AIG President, Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi said in Peshawar 14 December demands for making his government broadbased are coming from many quarters and this precisely the reason that he wants the inclusion of Iran-based mujaheddin in it (MIM).
                                           17
    *  Ameenullah a Kabul regime diplomat pqsted in Islamabad who defected to the mujaheddin 14 December told, the journalists in Islamabad 16 December that he was a double agent. He added that he has been working'both for the KHAD and the Afghan mujaheddin intelligence agency and Hezb-e-Islami of Hekmatyar since 1984 (MIM).
                                           18
    * The UN General Assembly. 16 December urged all parties to the conflict in Afghanistan to work towards creating a situation that would permit the Afghan refugee's return and all people fully enjoy human rights (IN)»
                                           19
    *  The Afghan mujaheddin fired ground-to-ground rockets on Kabul city 18 December killing 10 persons and injuring 27 others (NWT).
                                           20
    *  It has been understood that following the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, the European countries and the Arab Emirates have considerably reduce their aid in cash and kind to the Afghan refugees (JG).
                                           21          -
    *  Yuri Gankovsky, Soviet academician, while addressing a reception hosted in his honor by the president of Pakistan-Soviet Friendship Society, Khaled Waheed, in Islamabad said the people of
                                                  232
                                                                          Vol.2, No *2^-4
       october-1988-December, 1939 AfCHAN JtHAO                           voi.3,  ho.i.
     Afghanistan, should be left in peace to solve their problems (PT). . 1
     *  Reliable sources believe that the UN Congressmen, Stephen Solarz is said to have informed Pakis* tan's Fbreign office that American aid for Afghan resistance will not continue beyond 1990* He has made it- clear to the Pakistan. Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan that public opinion in the US is not in favor of continuing such huge aid to Afghan resistance after the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan (PT).
     ■# According to reliable sources, the Kabul regime Attache of the Afghan Eknbassy in Islamabad,
     ;Mirza Agaand his wife and two children Joined the Afghan.mujaheddin. He is the fourth Afghan diplomat in Islamabad to defect during the last five months (NWT).
                                               22
     *  The Afghan Embassy in Kabul in a protest note to the Pakistani Foreign Ministry 21 December demanded the expulsion of what the note called a run-away embassy driver, Ameenullah from Pakistan
                                                                                                            (PT),
     *  Tanveer Ahmad Khan Secretary of Pakistan Foreign Ministry, in an interview with The Jang 21 December-; said the Afghanistan issue will be solved during, the next year and a representative government of the Afghan people will be established and the three million Afghan* ***ugees in Pakistan will return to their homes (JG).
                                               24
     *  The JG has reported that more than 20 Generals of the Kabul regime have been killed during
     last three years. According to the paper, General Ali Akbar, Brig. General Assadullah Moeen, General Rahim, General Shamsul Haq and Brig. General Khan Bahadur are among those who have been killed while fighting the Afghan mujaheddin. The paper says eight generals were recently arrested on charges of /involvement in an attempted coup against" Najfb. Some of them have already been executed. On the other hand, General Dost Muhammad, the Ghor Militia Commander Mawlawi Abraha and the Special Guard Commander General Farouk Zarif have already defected to the mujaheddin. General Abdul Haq, a loyal to President Najib,has said Kabul troops are now placed in a defensive position (JG).
                                               25
     *  The Soviet Parliament has strongly condemned the Soviet decision of sending troops to Afghanistan, 10 years ago and has said the decision to this effect was taken only by four persons who have since died. The people's representatives in the Congress adopted a resolution 24 December demanding moral as well as political condemnation of the decision to send troops to Afghanistan in 1979 (JG).
                                               27
     *  Three splinter Peshawar-based Afghan Resistance groups, led by Judge Amin Waqad, Mawlawi Nasrul-
     lah Mansoor, and Mawlawi Rafiullah Moezzin have formed a new alliance known as "Shura-e-Ham Ahangi-e-Tanzeemha-e-Mustaqil-e-Islami Afghanistan" (The Coordinating Council of Independent Islamic Organizations) (MIM)                __
                                                       233
                                                                  Vol.2, No .2^-4
   October-1988-December, 1989 AffiHAfl j[HAD                     Vol.3,  No.l
                                            28
 *  In a statement 27 December In Islamabad marking the 10th anniversary of Soviet ndlit^.ry invasion of Afghanistan, the Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto paid rich tributes to the Afghan people for rising as one to defend their religion, nation and freedom against a regime imposed by the military intervention of a neighbouring super power (MIM)•
 *  The Afghan women in Pakistan staged a peaceful procession in Rawalpindi 27 December on the eve of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan a decade ago to protest against the killing of thousands of Afghans by the Soviet troops (MIM),
 *  The Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin groups observed the 10th anniversary of the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan 27 December in Peshawar by holding rallies to condemn Moscow's action and reiterate their demand for removal of Najib's regime in Kabul (MIM).
                                            29
 *  President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan in a message 28 December in Islamabad on the occasion of 10th anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan,'said Pakistanis take pride in standing
 by. their Afghan brothers through their tragedy and they would continue to support them in their struggle for freedom and independence (MIM).
                                            31
 * More than 150 persons,including civil and military officers,have, been rounded up for involvement in an attempted coup against Najib in Kabul. Arrests of people are going on for the last many days. Radio Kabul reported that some business in collaboration with Hezb—e-Islami and a few civil and military officers had hatched a plan to create disturbance among the armed forces, attempt coup and kidnap civil and military officers (JG).
 *  According to mujaheddin and Kabul government sources at least 24 persons were killed about 70 others injured in the fresh fierce clashes taking place on the occasion of the completion of ten years of Soviet occupation of Afghanistan (PT).
 *  The AIG President Prof. Sebghatullah Mojaddedi said he has also heard about the execution of Hezb-e-Islarai Commander, Sayyed Jamal Agha and his three supporters in Takhar province under the directives of Ahmad Shah Masud, of Jamiat-e-Island. Afghanistan. .Rut he said he could not confirm these reports until an official version of.Jamiat-e-Islami is received (MIM).
. * The mujaheddin Hired mere than 2,000 rockets into Kabul killing 438 people since the completion of the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan 15 February 1989, a Kabul regime Foreign Ministry spokesman said in Kabul. 30 December. A total of 1,308 people were, wounded in the rocket attacks | from neighbouring hills during the period, the spokesman added. ELghtyone others were killed and 179 injured in car bomb explosions and booby traps during the same period (MIM).
234