JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AIGHAfjJEHAD            V0L'  5 N0- 2
     IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
Editorials:
  INTERIM ISLAMIC
  ADMINISTRATION
  The ignoble coup of 2 7 April 1978 was the precursor of enslavement of our free and unfettered nation culminating in the invasion of the aggressive Russian troops. These successive and speedy developments shook the entire world as if awakening them from a heavy slumber. The dauntless, death-defying and freedom loving followers of Islam raised the banner of jehad surcharged with the spirit of Islamic unity and solidarity. Thus the crusade of Right versus Wrong started throughout the length and breadth of our homeland against the communists without any fear or apprehension of consequences. For thirteen long years our land has been crimsoned with the pure blood of martyrs due to the consecutive onslaughts of the merciless invaders.
      Although the righteousness of this holy war is clear to all and sundry, at last in    order to put  an end to    this 13 years of
tragedy, the former UN Secretary General proposed a Five-point Plan on 21 May 1991 which was hailed by the world at large. But it evoked mixed    reactions  among the Afghans. Some   considered it as
the only solution to the     Afghan problem, others  termed it  vague
and a considerable number    totally rejected the plan and called it
unpractical. However, we should take advantage of the opportunity. But we can do so only when we take a joint and unified stand. Now the ball is in our court, whether we accept the UN Plan or reject it on logical grounds and then present our own to the world. Thus we may gain the sympathy of the international community and can impress upon    the world  that side by side with military solution,
we are in        favor of  a political solution,     too, provided it
guarantees the goals of the holy war. In case we take different stands and offer various     plans, the enemies of  revolution  would
take undue advantage of       these differences and use one    Afghan
against the other. It would be more advisable to join hands in these delicate and epoch-making moments and rescue our country from all these plots and difficulties. Now that the host countries
PRICE: SERIAL NO:
 SHAH M BOOK CO
 PRINTERS, PUBLISHERS, DISTRIBUTORS & BOOKSELLERS
 P ma„. shahm.bookco@usa.net E'maiL shahmbookco@onebox.com
 PO BOX: 1328, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
                             HIM                         »<*. 5 NO. 2
 have extended their all out. cooperation to the UN Plan, it is our duty to give this plan an Afghan color and elect representatives of the proud Afghan nation possessing Islamic and national identity and acceptable to all the people so that we may be the masters of our destiny.
      Since a month, in view of the extensive victories gained throughout the country especially in the North, the possibility of a military solution of the Afghan problem has also emerged. Even if our country is freed by the military option,, it is essential that a single administrative unit should replace the Najib regime and should not allow the situation to deteriorate further. In short, we should have an interim Islamic government representing the entire jamat of leadership. For this purpose we should make wide-ranging efforts and sacrifice our personal interests for public interests because ultimately it is the public interest which ensures our personal interests.
      At present our country is faced with a situation that every now and then new forces emerge on the scene and such newly-emergent forces create a headache for our future national unity. Therefore, we are obliged to take a speedy action and overthrow the Najib regime by any possible means and instead bring into power an Islamic government supported by the Afghan people. The reason is that time and tide wait for nobody and a time may come when things get out of control.
      Lately an oft-repeated topic which is a hot subject of discussion among our compatriots or aliens and friends or foes, is the gloomy     prospect of Afghanistan's disintegration. This is not
 confined only to verbal        tete-a-tete but has also been mentioned in
 write-ups and in printed matter. Besides, some circles are practically active in bringing about the fragmentation of Afghanistan     so much so        that some publications have ventured to
 publish a map of partitioned Afghanistan and some others have gone further by specifying the boundries of a divided Afghanistan.
      Some Afghans, knowingly or unknowingly, are also involved in such propaganda and a few are actually bent upon the division of Afghanistan. They are under the influence of those outwardly friendly neighbors who cannot bear to see a strong and independent    Afghanistan         in their vicinity and  had always been
 thinking in terms of annexing certain parts of Afghanistan. It is really interesting that no less a person than Benon Sevan, special envoy of the UN Secretary General is using the threat of division of the country as a lever and frightening the Afghans that if his plan is not implemented Afghanistan will disintegrate.
                                                      4
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992         MM J110
       mmmmmmmm jii............ i.. u ■. .. ..............
     Some circles have visualized the disintegration of Afghanistan, keeping in view the fragmentation of the USSR or the statements of separatists in Pakistan. But they'have perhaps read the history in a wrong perspective. They have not noted the fact that the conditions of Afghanistan are quite different from the USSR. The USSR was a Colonial empire and in the same way as every other Colonial empire falls apart when faced with the resistance and awakening of the colonized nations, this empire too disintegr-ted. Pakistan also was founded on the basis of certain sentiments and not through historical evolution and for this reason two decades earlier. East Pakistan became separate and emerged as an independent country called Bangladesh and other separatists also think in these terms.
     Afghanistan is an ancient and historic country and the Afghan nation has taken shape through the evolution of historical process and has been seasoned in due course of time. There is no doubt that different racial, linguistic and religious communities have formed this nation, but the passage of time and the events of history have brought all these communities so close together and Cernented their bonds so strongly that it is impossible to take them apart.
     Many aggressors have overrun this country during the past and have tried to create disunity among these Muslim blood-brothers and then to place them under the yoke of colonialism and subjugate them. But they have not been able to put a dent in the steel-clad body of this brave and faithful nation. Hence they were confronted with country-wide resistance of this nation, bloodied their noses, were defeated and were driven out of this land unceremoniously. The people of this country, imbued with the Islamic and national spirit, always rise against every aggressor with the sacred and divine slogan of Allah-o-Akbar (God is Great) and without any second thought, take the decision to put up a resistance in their own region and stop the aggressor or the invader and are not afraid of challenging even a very powerful enemy and compelling him t.o get out of their country. Only a mature, seasoned, awakened and historic nation can have such a characteristic.
     During the early 20th century, one neighbor of Afghanistan was the British Empire and the other was the Soviet Empire. Both the empires were extended from London and Moscow to the borders of Afghanistan and the sun never set on them. But when during the first half of this century, the Britishers refrained from recognizing the independence of Afghanistan and compelled the Muslim combatant Afghan nation to resort to weapons for the safeguard of their freedom, not only did they face defeat in Afghanistan but before the mid-century, their colonial structure also collapsed in this region. Then they did not remain our neighbor and receded thousands of m*i 1 e s far from Afghanistan and for the' first time the sun was set in their empire. Similarly the
                                                   5
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          MWIMI iMl__________________VOL. 5 NO. 2
USSR which invaded our land during the second half of this century and forced  the faithful and   courageous Afghan nation to take up
arms and fight for the protection of its Islamic identity and independence. Now the   entire world   is  a witness to the fact that
the Soviet  Empire has  fallen apart  and  Russia now rests thousands
of miles away from our neighborhood and not only Afghanistan but many other  countries   in the world  got   rid of their imperialism.
Thus these two great colonialists and blood-sucking pythons who were our neighbors in the early 20th century, are now curled up in tljeir nat u^a 1 boundries, very far from us.
      Here we deem it apt to quote a verse of Khwaja Abdullah Ansari, a great scholar of our country, who had said one thousand year s ago : -
      "O God:  Whoever transgresses  the rights of the weak. Your in
Your Divine Wisdom, disgrace him frightfully."
      Another proof of the historical unity of our nation is the fact that there have been no serious mutual, racial, linguistic or sectarian conflicts worth mentioning in our past history. On the contrary the ruler and the ruled have always comprised of all the linguistic, ethnic and religious communities. If Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi was Dari speaking and belonged to Tm:k race, he had appointed a large number of Pashtuns in his army and civilian offices. If Ahmad Shah Baba was a Pashtun, his senior courtiers were Dari speaking, his official language was Dari and his army was composed of all the Muslims. Similarly if Amir Abdur Rahman took highly repressive measures and ordered the execution of many prisoners, his actions were not motivated by any hatred against Pashtun or Dari speaking people and Sunnies but he wanted to strengthen the despotic system and to perpetuate his personal power. His expeditions against Hazaras, who were of Mongolian origin, Dari speaking and belonged to the Shia sect; or killings of the people of Nuristan or massacre of shinwaris who were Pashtuns, Pashtu speaking and belonged to the Sunni sect or ordered the killing of various Ghiljai clans,in every respect were purely   political considerations.          In short the    rulers in
Afghanistan did not belong to a specific group but were a class comprising all racial, ethnic, linguistic and sectarian groups and this tradition is still in force. If we study the particulars of Afghan rulers, circles and their cabinets, we will find people of every group forming the administrative circle who jointly tyrannized all the governed classes of the people and trampled 0 upon their rights.
      To sum up, there is basically no room for separatist tendencies in our nation or the history of Afghanistan. However this is a       presumption aired by the historical enemies of
Afghanistan and a few simpletons and mercenary-minded people are indulging in such wishful thinking and beating the empty drums.
                                                 6
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
         The sacred religion of Islam, love for freedom, love for the survival of the historic country, the social structure and the geographical situation of the Afghan nation are the strong and unbreakable bonds of unity among this nation which cannot be damaged by linguistic, racial or sectarian differences. It is wellnigh unimaginable that such flimsy considerations could bruise the national solidarity. Even inspite of all these considerations, if some enemies or mercenary-minded stooges should think in terms of imposing such a split on Afghanistan, its repercussions would be so dangerous that not only Afghanistan will be obliterated due to house to house fighting but also Iran, Pakistan and other countries of the region would much sooner fall a prey to bloody civil wars and fragmentation and would be simply erased from the map of the world and all those who might have ignited the fire in our country, would themselves be scorched in this flare-up.
         We call upon all our neighbors, friends and even enemies, not to nurture any harmful and inappropriate idea of the division of Afghanistan in their minds. Meanwhile we expect all Afghans to hold strong to the bonds of Islamic brotherhood and national unity.
         Our unity and solidarity will frustrate enemy designs, forestall the mischief of vested interests and help the faithful and courageous Afghan nation to reach its destined goal of establishing an independent Islamic government in Afghanistan. We are sure that despite all the plots and conspiracies of our enemies, Afghanistan will survive and will certainly have the benefit of an independent Islamic government.
                                                             7
01635516
I JANUARY-MARCH. 1992 AfGHflliJ1HA0            VOL. 5 NO^Tl
 Political Dimension
 Efforts Step-up for Afghan Solution
 Interim Government In, Najib Out Jehad Leaders Still Differ
     During the past three months, political shuttles of Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's special envoy between Tehran, Islamabad and Kabul on the one hand and the desire of ECO to foster economic relations on the other and Najib's commitment to hand over power after the formation of the transitory government, are all the factors endowing new directions and new positions to the Afghan issue.
     Once again we begin our study from Pakistan, which hosts the majority of the refugee population of Afghanistan.
                PAKISTAN’S STANCE VIS-A-VIS THE AFGHAN PROBLEM
     The government and the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan declared their righteous and correct attitude towards the political solution of the Afghan
 problem and explained that they sincerely desire a political solution for the Afghan issue and affirmed a positive change in their policy in this connection.
     As various sources in Pakistan have occasionally stated, one of the principal causes for this change in policy, was the emergence of a number of Islamic countries in Central Asia after the disintegration of the erstwhile USSR. The Pakistan Foreign Ministry officials have said, "these republics have proposed to Pakistan for establishing economic relations." They believe that if such a golden opportunity is missed, they might seriously repent afterwards.
     Inspite of these high aims, there exists some difference of opinion among Pakistan authorities. The Pakistan President, in diplomatic parlance, does not consider this change in policy as something new and says that much earlier Pakistan was in favor of a political solution of the Afghan problem. But Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, mentioned the change in policy a little clearly. Pakistan Foreign Ministry authorities have elucidated the point further. Secretary General of the Foreign Ministry, Akram Zaki, says:
     "Emergence of new and independent countries on the borders of Afghanistan
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
and Pakistan have added new dimensions to the solution of the Afghan problem. It would be advisable to include these countries, too, in the efforts for finding a political solution to the Afghan issue."
     Similarly another senior official of the said Ministry, Shaharyar Khan considers the independence of the Central Asian republics another urgent and main factor for the political solution of the Afghan problem. Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, has said clearly:
     "In order to ensure a political solution of the Afghan issue, support to the mujaheddin has come to conclusion". He called upon all the mujaheddin groups to cooperate with the UN Peace Plan and to participate in the proposed conference arranged by the United Nations. Sardar Asif Ahmad All, Minister of State for Economic Affairs, who had visited the independent Central Asian republics and had termed Pakistan's interests there as vital, declared.openly:
     "We have taken a firm decision to move forward towards a speedy solution- of the Afghan problem. But if anyone does not want to be a party to these efforts, he would miss the bus, but if anyone wants to take a stand against us, we shall deal with him with full force." Political observers construe these remarks in reference to the fundamentalists.
     On the other hand, in the same Cabinet in Pakistan Ejaz-ul-Haq, son of the late   General Zia-ul-Haq, preferred    military  solution to political one.
Similarly Qazi Hussain Ahmed, one of the members of the coalition government in Pakistan,  is opposed to any political      solution  and     puts pressure on the
government to pursue its earlier policy.   He warned  that Zaher Shah would not be
allowed to arrive at the scene. In the meantime the ISI in Pakistan, with its leadership structure reshuffled, is silent but when Najib declared that he would relinquish power as soon as the interim government was formed, according to the news reports, ISI once again became optimistic about the military solution and called upon the jehad leaders to urgently form a government. But as it could not get the desired result, preferred to keep silent.
                                            IRAN'S STAND
     The   stand taken by Iran with           regard  to       the Afghan issue is
multi-dimensional. It seems that Iran has adopted a multipurpose policy to please everyone. It developed its cultural relations with the Kabul regime and despatched aid material by air to Kabul under the label of humanitarian assistance. The mujaheddin intelligence sources disclosed that the said aid did not reach the man in the street but helped the Kabul regime economy. They transported goods by air to the central points in Afghanistan in order to strengthen the hand of- Hezb-e-Wahdat. Meanwhile mujaheddin intelligence sources informed that threatening the Iran-based Afghan refugees with expulsion, the Iranian authorities levied income tax on the Afghan labor. On the other hand, Iran supported Pakistan in the ECO; expressed agreement with Benon Sevan to find a political solution of the Afghan crisis; convened 3-day meeting of the mujaheddin commanders and extended its cooperation with them; and on the other hand, under the garb of cultural cooperation among Iran, Tadjekistan and Afghanistan, persuaded two Afghan political parties to sit together with the
                                               9
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY -MARCH. 1992       AfRIIAN JIHAO
communist Tadjek leaders and initiated the existence of a common bond between the Farsi speaking people. Thus at this delicate juncture they created another challenge in the shape of linguistic discrimination threatening our jehadic unity.
                                     THE MUJAHEDDIN POSITION
     What is most disturbing, is the lack of dynamism among the jehadic leadership despite all the efforts of the neighboring countries for their own national interests. They rejected the UN Plan and yet could not formulate a plan of their own. Each and every leader has his own specific plan and policy.
     Lately most of the jehad organisations are inclined to form a new leadership council and consequently formulate a single practical plan as compared to the UN plan. Leaders of 12 jehad parties were due to take part in the meeting and according to the list already prepared, 100 men representing the parties would elect/select religious scholars, commanders, ethnic chieftains, Afghans residing in Asia, Europe, USA, Australia and living under the cover of the Kabul regime and they will form a council and nominate one person as the Prime Minister who would introduce his cabinet and seek a vote of confidence from this council.
     .This plan was nipped in the bud by two fundamentalist and two nationalist parties. The parties of Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales did not send their representatives. Prof. Mujaddedi and Pir Gailani, inspite of signing it, did not consider it practicable.
     With the passage of time, changes took place, in the stands of the mujaheddin leadership. Only these seven parties were not active on the political scene but new parties also mushroomed at their side and were acclaimed as new forces by the circles concerned.
     The new participants in other circles and meetings with Rutskoy were, HIA (Mohseni), Da'eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islami (Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad), HEIA (Mansoor), HWIA (Sadeqi) and Salafi (Mawlawi Samiullah). It is worth mentioning that HEIA (Moazzin) had coalesced with Qazi Amin Waqad and Nasrullah Mansoor. New alliances were ignored.
     Under the circumstances we can divide the jehadic forces into nine units. Triple nationalist parties (Islamic National Front, National Salvation Front and HEIA) remained united with a few minor differences and adopted a common stand. They accepted the UN Peace Plan and undertook to take part in the future jirgah to be convened by the said organization.
     On the other hand, from among the seven official parties, four fundamentalist parties apparently branched off into two units. HIA (Khales) and IIA (Sayyaf) rejected the political solution completely and declared that the only solution is the military solution. For this reason they did not. attend the talks held with the Russians and the formative session of the Leadership Council and other meetings in connection with the peaceful solution of the problem because they seek military solution.
     HIA (Hekmatyar) and JIA (Rabbani) believe that the UN Peace Plan is partly
                                            10
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
   unacceptable but they would agree to a political solution ensuring the aims of jehad. Their stance reflects that if the political solution process takes a definite shape, they also may take active part in it and will not remain out.
        Inspite of all these differences, the mujaheddin have a common goal, the resignation of Najib. Now that Najib has expressed his willingness to resign as soon as an interim government is established, possibility of a political solution has   increased more than ever  and the time has come very close to
   implement this solution.
                                      BENON SEVAN'S EFFORTS
        Benon Sevan, special envoy of the UN Secretary General boosted his diplomatic efforts during January-February,   1992 in  an unprecedented manner,
   with shuttle diplomacy between Kabul, Islamabad, Tehran and New York. He visited and revisited leaders of mujaheddin groups, Afghan politicians and dignitaries, Kabul regime   authorities and Pakistani  and    Iranian officials. During these
   meetings he guaged their likes and dislikes and tried to persuade them' to agree on positive points. He discerned that the big hurdle in the path of political, solution was   the continuance of Najib's rule.  Therefore he got an undertaking
   from Najib at the end of the year 1991 that he should relinquish power after the establishment of the interim government and not aspire to have any role in the UN Peace Plan process. Such an undertaking by Najib removed a big snag out of the impasse    and revived   the hopes   for     implementation of a 1 political
   solution.
                                NAJIB'S STAND AND HIS ENDEAVORS
        Najib continued his flexible policy very carefully and inter alia tried to strengthen his political stance more than before. He developed relations with Iran overtly as well as covertly. A Chinese delegation visited Kabul and both the countries signed economic and technical cooperation agreements. Similarly he made a bid to reach the Central Asian republics earlier than the mujaheddin and extended official recognition to six Muslim republics. As a result of his efforts, France agreed to re-open her embassy in Kabul. Side by side with these diplomatic efforts, he ventured into political adventures and through an interview with The New York Times, he called on USA to join hands with him v, to checkmate the progress of the Islamic fundamentalists so that they may not be able to form or establish an Islamic fundamentalist government -in Afghanistan. But apparently he did not receive any positive response from the USA.
        Although Najib's above-mentioned announcement was welcomed at the international level yet his opponents inside the country reacted furiously and ■*' particularly in the Balkh Province the militia turned against him and struck a heavy blow to his military stability. Some of the mujaheddin parties also viewed the announcement of his resignation as a repercussion of his military debacle at Mazar-e-Sharif.
        However due to stoppage of Russian assistance, intra-party and internal dissensions, mujaheddin advances as well as his political and military set-backs left him no other option but to resign. His resignation removes a big obstacle^
                                               11
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992                fiffillflHJ[Hflfl________________VOL.   5 NO.  2
 in the path of political solution and expedites the process to establish real, reasonable and fairly peaceful conditions in Afghanistan.
                                          ZAHER SHAH'S STAND
      The ex-King Zaher Shah also appeared on the scene during the past three months more than ever before. After he was wounded at his residence, it was feared that his role in the political solution of Afghan problem has diminished. . On the other hand, Pakistan's contacts with him, enhanced the significance of Zaher Shah further. Therefore the fundamentalist Islamic parties of mujaheddin have become more allergic towards him and they have held demonstrations and meetings in this connection. Besides they have issued communiques condemning his role in the peace process and rejecting it. On the other hand pro-King elements have also become active and held meetings in favor of the ex-King in refugee camps. Ethnic councils have supported him and particularly commanders and people of the South-western part of the country have demanded his return.
                                               CONCLUSION
      At the end it can be said that the disintegration of the USSR, stoppage of aid to Najib, Najib's resignation, pressure of the host countries on the mujaheddin, and the refugees and last but not the least, Pakistan and Iran's, interest in the Central Asian republics have expedited the process of political solution of the Afghan problem and, as such, political circles believe that perhaps the Afghan question may very soon be settled by political means. However consensus and joint action by the mujaheddin in particular and consensus and joint action by all the Afghans in general can determine the destiny of the Muslim and heroic Afghan nation and thus close the painful chapter of the 14-year-old tragedy.
                                                   12
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 VOL. 5 NO. 2
MAJOR
GHALI SPEAKS ON AFGHAN PROBLEM
      RESOLUTION OF AFGHAN ULAMA
      STATEMENT BY PAKTIA MUJAHEDDIN LEADERSHIP
      DA'WAT AND JEHAD COUNCIL ISSUE DECLARATION
      DECLARATION OF CCAR SEMINAR A WARDAK COMMANDERS NOT TO PARTAKE IN 'COUNCIL'

TEHRAN JOINT STATEMENT ON CENTRAL ASIAN CULTURE
RESOLUTION ISSUED BY COMMANDERS AT BATI KOT
CIRCUMSTANCES THAT LED TO AMIN'S MURDER
14
15 15
17
18 19
19
20 21
13
| JAW1ARY-MAHCH. 1992 Will JM VOL. 5 HO. 71
VARIOUS REACTIONS ON CURRENT
             AFGHAN SITUATION
 A.Ghali’s Statement on Afghanistan
         EDITOR'S NOTE:   Following is  the text  of  UN Secretary General,
         Boutros Ghali's speech delivered 27 January, in regard to the resolution of Afghanistan issue. This text was first published in the 6 February issue of Wafa Journal.
      "At the outset of my appointment as UN Secretary general I want to assure the people of Afghanistan in regard to my commitment based on encouraging earnestly the political solution and bringing to an end the long drawn conflict in accordance with General Assembly Resolution 23/46 of 5 December, 1991.
       The scale of human sufferings in Afghanistan is appalling. In a country demolished totally, more than a million massacred, two million disabled, tens of thousands orphaned and widowed, more than 5 million migrated and more than 2 million displaced internally, it is necessary that this human tragedy, which has now continued over a decade, be brought to an end.
       Nevertheless, during recent months some positive developments have taken pl ace. The increasing world support of the UN efforts for the political solution of Afghanistan problem based on the 5-point plan of 21 May, 1991 of former UN Secretary General encourages me in this regard. Similarly I welcome the decision of the guarantors of Geneva agreements based on arms cut-off to all the Afghan sides as of 1 January this year. Taking advantage of this opportunity I call upon other warring countries also to adopt identical resolutions. In the same way symmetry on arms cut-off and financing the expenditure for arms supplies should also stop soon.
       I opine the time has come that calculated steps be taken for a comprehensive political solution. In this connection the representatives of the people of Afghanistan including political, religious and tribal leaders, opposition parties, resistance commanders and prominent personalities have assured me that for the sake of consensus on transitional period and transitional mechanism, to culminate in the establishment' of a broad-based government through free and ‘impartial elections, an assembly of the Afghans must be convened. The concerned countries have also expressed their support of convening such a meeting.
       As far as I am concerned, I am ready to convene such an assembly, outside the area,’comprising as many cross-sections of the Afghan society as possible.
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          RIGUMIJtHAQ                VOL. 5 NO. 2
I have asked my personal envoy, Benon Sevan, to carry out more consultative shuttles so that the feasibility of this assembly be ascertained.
B. Afghan Ulama Union’s Resolution
  W rEi
%
 EDITOR* S NOTE: Below you will find the resolution of **Union of Afghanistan Scholars9 which is issued in connection with the Afghanistan      issue•  This text first appeared in the
 "Ittehad-e-Islami** journal 6 January•

      The Union of Afghanistan Ulama           convened a grand rally 2 January in
 Peshawar Central office. This assembly, under the guidance of Abdullah Zakiri, was attended by about 1,000 persons comprizing the commanders, scholars and office members. The following resolution was passed in this assembly:
 1. The entire un-Islamic decisions and plans were rejected and, God willing, there will never be any place for them in Afghanistan.
 2. The jehad shall continue till the atheist and infidel government is toppled and replaced by a thorough Islamic government.
 3. A 1,000-member "Hal-wa-Aqd Shoora" was proposed for the establishment of an Islamic government. In this regard negotiations are in progress with jehad forces and, God willing, this work shall be implemented soon.
C. Resolution of Paktia Jehad Emirate
I
 EDITOR* S NOTE:  Below  you  will  be reading the resolution of
 commanders and mujaheddin of jehad leadership of Paktia province. This resolution is taken from the 19 January issue of "Shahadat" journal•
I
      "Nowadays as the enemies of Islam and their related circles have intensified their intrigues, the entire US-led forces, which consider the dominance of Islam and the mujaheddin government as a danger to their survival and colonial objectives, have joined hands together. They are engaged in their last efforts and wish to harass our Muslim nation depriving them of their jehad
15
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          OTGIIANJtH/lfl            VOL-  5 NO. 2
      fruits thus paving the way for imposing a corrupt government on them. This ^ colonial conspiracy whose efforts have surfaced lately with rumors rampant that a coalition government led by Zaher Shah and including the communsitsf is being formed.
           For some persons this had been the cause for worry but we are sure that the intrigues of the enemy, who has been defeated time and again, is doomed to failure and after trying its full and final force will come to the conclusion that a show of power against the mujahed Afghan nation is futile.
           We, at the jehad fronts of Paktia while being confident that if the entire world with its total force confront us, they shall be incapable of containing the mujahed final victory and overwhelmingly declare our position as such:
      1. Our aim is to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan in accordance
         with the wishes of the Muslim nation and the aspirations of the entire jehad forces and that this object cannot be ignored no matter what it may cost            I
         nor, for that matter, there    is the possibility of any deal, bargain      or
         compromise on this issue.
      2. As long as war conditions      persist in the country and criminals        and
         communists do not cease fighting and do not support our nation's will, we shall continue our armed jehad.
                                                                                                       I
      3. Considering the plan of the    Leadership Council to be based on facts     and
         to be a reasonable step for    the resolution of our issue, we request     the      |
         jehad leaders to stand by      their agreement and step-up its practical            J
         implementation.                                                                     (
      4. To America we declare to take a lession from the Russian enmity with the Afghans and give up the current conspiracies, which amount to a clear declaration of war, against our nation.
      5. While we are deeply indebted to the nation and government of Pakistan for their support under difficult conditions, hope that the Pakistan leadership, at this stage that Afghanistan needs a strong and stable leadership, will not fall prey to unwarranted haste and participate in those intrigues which continue against our jehad under US guidance.
U
                                                     16
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
  D. Da'wat and Jehad
         Council

4 4 • ■*
EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the declaration of Da'wat and Islamic Jehad Council of Afghanistan. The Council was convened 10 Februaryf 1992 in Peshawar. The text of this declaration is taken from 24 February issue of Ekhlas journal.
*
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrn
9
            The Da'wat and Islamic jehad of Afghanistan, comprizing prominent scholars of our mujahed people, scholars, outstanding military commanders and tribal elders declare their stance, on this sensitive historical occasion, as under:
       1.  We will continue our armed jehad till the establishment of a pure Islamic government in Afghanistan.
       2.  Except for the mujahed nation of Afghanistan, we do not authorize anyone to decide our future government.
       3.  All kinds of coalition governments, neutral, broad-based and non-Islamic, stand rejected forcefully.
       4.  We shall fight to the last against an imposed government from whichever source it may happen to be.
       5.  We reject vehemently the UN 5-point plan which also considers Najib and the rest of jehad enemies.
       6.  We request earnestly the jehad commanders, scholars, intelligentsia, officers arid tribal elders to maintain the outstanding example of unity against the machinations of atheists for foiling their intrigues, and also cooperate with the Council in unifying the Islamic organizations.
       7.  We call upon the leaders of jehad organizations that, during these last moments of jehad, they should consider the Islamic expediency of "unity" over and above their personal interests.
       8.  Any movement, against the unity, of our nation, flaring up disunity, ethnic, linguistic and regional sentiments, clashes with the will of our nation and we strongly condemn it.
      9,  We urge the entire Muslim Ummah and Islamic governments not to leave us alone in the jehad field, at this sensitive stage, and not to befriend the opponents of jehad or cooperate with them.
                                                        17
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL- 5 NO. 2
   10. We emphasize and support the future Islamic government in Afghanistan estab- j lished through the "Hal-wa Aqd Shoora" comprising all commanders, scholars# intelligentsia and Muslim tribal elders.
Declaration of CCAR Seminar

EDITOR'S NOTE:   You will  be reading, below, a resolution passed
at the conclusion of a seminar on fundamental rules of Islamic government in the future society of Afghanistan, convened by CCAR Institute of Afghan Policy Studies 27-30 January, 1992 in Islamabad,
8
        To the honorable leaders of jehad organization. At the seminar on fundamental rules of Islamic government in the future society of Afghanistan# convened by CCAR, a number of your brethren delivered their papers and discussed them. During discussions in this seminar, subconsciously we all had a question uppermost in our mind i.e. the establishment of an Islamic state in Afghanistan which could implement these ideas and many more significant and vital theories in the dimensions of our society. tJnfotunately due to the absence of overwhelming resolution by the leaders of jehad organizations in regard to the planning and adoption of measures for the establishment of Islamic government in the country and for the realization of aspirations, ideas, very useful and pragmatic studies of intellectuals and committed scholars of Islamic Afghanistan, serious obstructions have cropped up. We, the participants of this seminar, through this re'soluton, call upon the leaders of jehad organizations to heed their grave historical obligations and, due to their own absence of comprehensive resolution, do not block the way to prominence of Islamic regime, in whose shadow Afghanistan may prosper and develop step by step. Do not shatter the hopes and aspirations of martyrs, mujaheddin, scholars and other committed intellectuals turning them into loss and deprivation.
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          flllSIMNJIHAO             VOL.  5 NO. 2
Wardak Commanders* Statement
       EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of the declaration of Wardak Province Commanders which has been signed by commanders and amirs of the HIA (Hekmatyar), JIA9 HEIAf NIFA9 NLFA9 IIA and HI A (Khales). The text was first published in the 7 January issue of the Shahadat journal•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          • • • * • • ♦ * * • • * • • ♦ i 0 •
* • • • ■ • II •
• »•»•••« i


                        IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
      From the Jehadic Council of Wardak Province Commanders to the honorable commanders of the so-called All Commanders Council, Assalamu Alaikum:
      The following resolution has been taken on the basis of invitation from the 'Council* extended to jehadic leaders of the Wardak Province:
 1.  The 'Council' did not remaiin steadfast to its original commitments and Uncalled for alterations have been instituted in its procedures.
 2.  The 'Council' does not accomodate elected representatives from the mujaheddin of Wardak Province.
 3.  Considering the establishment of the ^'Council' as a futile effort in the jehadic affairs and, while rejecting it completely, we have decided not to participate in it.
Tehran Tripartite Statement

 EDITOR'S NOTEs You will be reading below the text of the statement of tripartite joint session convened in Tehran 19 February9 1992 between Islamic Republic of Iran9 the Republic of Tadjekistan and mujaheddin leaders • The original text has been taken from "Mujahed" journal9 2 March9 1992.
8
 IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, HOST MERCIFUL, MOST GRACIOUS.
        The first joint session between the Foreign Ministers of the Islamic Republic of. Iran, the .Republic of Tadjekistan and mujaheddin leaders of J Afghanistan was held in Tehran 19 February, 1992  (15  Shaaban 1412).
        While emphasizing the importance of Central Asian republics and expressing
                                             19
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                   flllillJINJIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 2
 pleasure over their independence, after long years of cultural oppression, and the need for the revival of their cultural legacy, the participants of the session reiterated the necessity of expansion of relations among these countries with a view to revive their invaluable culture and civiliz-ation. They said that considering the fact that the Persian language, after Arabic had rendered great service to Islamic civilization, particularly that of the Central Asian countries, therefore it is necessary that for the revival of this language and the promotion of other regional languages, which have served the Islamic civilization and the cultural traditions and rites of this region, earnest efforts be made afresh. The following were approved in this session:
 1.  The creation of Cultural Cooperations Society of Islamic Republic of Iran, Afghanistan and Central Asian countries.
 2.  In view of the feasibility and conducive conditions in the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Secretariate of this society shall be stationed in Tehran.
 3. Drafting of the constitution, program planning, the creation of agencies and the1 society related basics will be discussed and decided in the later sessions.
                                      \
 4.  With due regard to the importance of fe^ie ‘Persian languange in Central Asian countries and Afghanistan the participants reiterated the necessity of programing for the revival and propagation of this language and welcomed discussion with other responsible quarters of the republics with a view to understanding in regard to the revival of the language and their cultural traditions and rites.
5.   Emphasis on learning and propagation of Arabic and Persian script.
                \ _ .
6.   While emphasizing the need for quick and just solution of the Afghanistan problem the session reiterated that the same will accelerate the tempo of cultural cooperations in the region.
7. The next spring session will be convened in Tadjekistan capital, Doshanbe.
Resolution of Bati Kot Commanders
 EDITOR’S NOTE: You will be reading below the resolution of jehad commanders of Bati Kot sub-district* Nangarhar Province. This text was first published in the 19 January issue of "Shahadat".
      The prominent Commanders of Bati Kot, Nangarhar at a grand session, 14 January, approved the following regulations:
 1.  Road safety shall be managed by mujaheddin and no kind of persecution and tresspass against the public will be committed. At night no one shall be allowed to. remain on the road and the defaulter shall be dealt with legally
                                         20
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          UNMAN JIHAD               VOL.  5 NO. 2
    by the mujaheddin.
  2. Dealings with the locals will, be based on removal of their problems•
  3. The public transport "list of fares" shall be prepared and publicized by the mujaheddin.
  4. Inter-mujaheddin problems shall be referred to the Shoora (council) and it's decision shall be final.
 5. Unwarranted firing by mujaheddin shall be stopped completely defaulter will be punished according to rules and regulations.
How Amin Met His End
and the
        EDITOR’S NOTE: The following is an account of the circumstances leading to the murder of Hafizullah Amin, President of the Kabul regime in 1979» as broadcast in the Dari Service of Voice of America in its program entitled "Diroz-Wa-Imroz" (Yesterday and Today) on December 28* 1991.
       The invading Soviet troops on 27 December, 1979, on the commencement of their attack on Afghanistan, murdered Hafizullah Amin, who was till that ^ay recognized by Moscow as President of the Afghan government. In this program we will study the plot and its modus operandi in the light of authentic reports received from the Soviet, Indian, French and American sources.
       Hafizullah Amin expelled the Russian Ambassador from Afghanistan in early December, 1979 on grounds of personal differences. The Russian Ambassador at Kabul Alexander Kozanov was considered by most of' the circles as the author and plotter of the April coup. The Soviet government hastily appointed another diplomat, F.I. Tabayov, as his successor and sent him to Kabul to assume his duties. Tabayov, in an interview with the correspondent of a Moscow magazine said, "I immediately left for Afghanistan. Brezhnev bidding me farewell told me to minutely study the conditions and submit my views to him. I arrived,in Kabul 27 November . and presented my credentials to Amin and in my second meeting with him I spoke to him about the plan of his future visit to Moscow. I had no knowledge of any plan to change the leadership in the Kabul government."
        In the months before Amin's murder, the differences between the Khalq and Parcham groups assumed grave proportions. Assadullah Amin, who was Amin's nephew and also Directox of Intelligence, was shot at and wounded. There was tension in the armed forces. The mujaheddin intensified their attacks. In view of these developments and duped by the conspiracy of his Soviet advisors, Amin decided to shift to a safer place.
       Abdul Karim Meesaq the Finance Minister of Noor Mohammad Taraki and
                                            21
JANUARY-MARCH» 1992               RiGIlANJIHAfl                   VOL.  5 NO. 2
     Hafizullah Amin says, "in the last week of December, Amin, alongwith his entourage and personal guards, shifted to Taj Beg Palace at Darul-Aman. When I and some other Ministers expressed our concern regarding the safety of his residence from the security point of view, Amin responded that his Russian friends would post their soldiers for his protection, who will put up barbed wires around the palace and fix powerful reflector .lamps."
          By the end of December, the Soviet Plan for direct and complete take-over of Afghanistan was ready for execution and Amin’s murder was a part of this plan. In the month of March General Alexi Egochov, political chief of the Soviet army arrived in Kabul. In July, General Ivan Kavlovsky, Secretary Ministry of Defence and former commander of thet Soviet Forces at Czechoslovakia had also arrived in Kabul.
          Thomas Hemmen,      author . of 'Red  Flag over Afghanistan’ writes, "in
     September, General Victor Pachin, Secretary Soviet Interior Ministry,, arrived in Kabul. His mission was to convince Amin to request for the despatch of Soviet forces to Afghanistan and to hand over power to Babrak Karmal. Then he had to arrange for the assassination of Amin."
          On 25 December airlifting of the units of a parachute brigade from the Soviet Union to Kabul started on a big scale. Kuldip Nayar, an Indian correspondent and author of the book "What Happened in Afghanistan", writes, "on the eve of Christmas in 1979 with the commencement of the Soviet airlift, 5,000 well-equipped soldiers alongwith heavy guns, tanks and armoured cars landed at Kabul. For the next three days      a huge military transport plane
     landed at Kabul Airport after every three minutes. The freshly arrived Soviet para-troopers, wearing Afghan Army uniforms, were posted around Amin's residential palace. On 26 December one unit of anti-aircraft force was stationed on the heights around the palace. Hafizullah Amin, sitting in Taj Beg Palace at Darul-Aman, thought that Soviet troops had come to help him but little did he know that the noose was getting tighter around his neck".
          Abdul Karim Meesaq, Amin's Finance Minister says, "on 27 December, Amin invited a number of his colleagues with their families to lunch at the palace. After the meals, all of them felt giddy. I expressed my fear to Amin that
     perhaps someone had mixed some kind of drug in our food to make us unconscious. But Amin assured me saying that his cook, like his interpreter, was a Soviet citizen. But I noticed that he looked pale and walked by leaning on the wall."
          Faqir Mohammad Faqir, Amin's Interior Minister said, "I had an appointment with him at 2.00 PM. When I entered the room, I saw Amin senseless on the floor and military and Soviet doctors trying to give him medical treatment. He regained his senses at 4.00 PM but complained about his health and swooned for the second time. This time he came to his .senses quickly but he was confused."
          Kuldip Nayar the Indian correspondent says, "Amin felt dizzy after the meals and asked his son, Abdul Rahman, to call for General Yaqoob, Chief of the Joint Staff. When General Yaqoob arrived, Amin was unable to speak. General Yaqoob immediately ordered the palace guards to be ready for defense. However he
22
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
   himself was killed during the ensuing exchange of fire."
        After drugging Hafizullah Amin and his ■ close associates, the Soviets started to execute the next stage of their plot i.e. attack on the palace and assassination of Amin. The correspondent of the Soviet Magazine "Zanamayai", who interviewed a number of the plotters in this connection, described the attack on the palace in these words, "attack on the Taj Beg Palace at Darul-Aman started at 7.30 PM and at first the military barracks were subjected to intense firing. The guards put up a strong resistance and inflicted heavy casualties on the Soviet forces but, ultimately, the Soviet troops made their way into the palace and headed directly towards the room where Amin and his family members had sought refuge. They threw a hand grenade into the room and then fired upon them with machine guns. Amin's two sons and the wife of Shah Wali, Amin's Foreign Minister, were killed. Amin ran towards the bedroom but the Soviet soldiers pursued him and threw another hand grenade at him. When Amin fell on the ground, he was shot dead. Then at midnight his body was taken out of the building and buried somewhere."
         Abdul Karim Meesaq, who had left for his office' prior to the attack, says, "a number of Ministers and Secretaries of the party committees had gathered together in a room but no one knew what was happening. Someone said that the Soviet soldiers were firing. I went to my house and switched on the radio set. At about 9.30 pm, on a frequency on which Radio Afghanistan's programs were usually broadcast, I heard the announcer saying, 'please listen to the speech of Babrak Karmal, Secretary General of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan.' It came as a surprize to everyone because the Central Committee had not held any meeting. I was sure that the voice I heard, was broadcast from the Soviet Union. After a few hours. Radio Moscow announced the landing of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan."
                                                                     /
         Kuldip Nayar says, "Radio Kabul announced the downfall of Amin six hours after the Soviet Radio broadcasts. The said radio station introduced the names of the new members of the Revolutionery Council and mentioned Babrak Karmal's name as Chairman of the Council and .added that Amin was executed."
        Shah Wali, Amin's Foreign Minister says that at night the radio announced that Hafizuliah Amin was sentenced to death by a revolutionary court and the sentence was carried out.
        Babrak Karmal, after coming into power, said in his first nationwide broadcast:
        "Hafizullah Amin, the CIA agent and American imperialism's spy has been duly punished by the Revolutionary Council of the oppressed people of Afghanistan for his devilish deeds and satanic ambitions."
        During early 1980, leaders of the Khalq faction of the Afghan Communist Party were tried in the courts of the Parcham faction and eleven of them were immediately executed whereas thirteen others were sentenced to various terms of imprisonment.
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992 MIMflJiHflB V0L- 5 NO. 2
           AFGHAN
      RECONSTRUCTION,
      REHABILITATION
[
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
                                                                                VOL. 5 NO. 2
            Report on the CCARSeminary
     Basic Rules of an Islamic Government in Future Afghan Society
     EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is a report on the seminar "The basic
Organization of the State in Future Afghanistan" which was held in Islamabad 27-30 January*    1992 by  the  CCAR Institute  of Afghan
Policy Studies. A summary of the articles presented and discussions held in the seminar will be published in the next issue of the 1Afghan Jehad'.
                                                                                                                                                                        •la
          The seminar on the basic organizations of the government in the future society of Afghanistan "was the sixth seminar held by the Institute of Policy Studies of the CCAR since 1990.
          The seminar was held 27-30 January, 1992, in Islamabad and began with the recitation of the verses of the Holy Quran by Mawlawi Mahmood Draswal.
          Sabahuddin Kushkaki, Founding Member of the CCAR and director of the council in his welcoming speech said, "our present seminar is held with the hope that whenever an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan, it will find ways and means and mechanism for implementing Islamic laws throughout the Afghan society. I hope that this seminar will discuss the issues concerning this subject taking in view the unique conditions of our Afghan society."
          He added, "drawing u£ a plan or a mechanism on the paper will be one thing but implementing these plans and yiles will be another. In order to implement whatever we think will be best for Afghanistan we should have the will, ability and power. Otherwise we will fail. Therefore, I hope that in this seminar, while on the one hand we are discussing the organization of an Islamic state in Afghanistan, on the other hand, we should also pay enough attention to the fact that how we are going to implement these principles."
          Mohammad Hashem Mujaddedi, Founding Member of the CCAR and Chairman of the seminar, in his speech said, "today, after the success of Islamic jehad of Afghanistan, the whole world is watching the Afghan people whether they are able to overcome other enemies, just as it overcame communism and defeated the communists and whether the Afghan people are able to lay the foundation of a truly Islamic government or whether they are going to fail in their objectives. The continuation of the government of Najib in Kabul, speculations about the return of Zaher Shah, continuation of disputes and disagreement among resistance organizations and pressure exerted by friendly countries are all factors which hinder the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan."
                                                  25
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992       AlflllAN JfHAO
       He said, "I ask sincerely all those who took part in the jehad and those who helped us in our jehad to read this verse of the Holy Quran and act accordingly:  "You should help one another in righteousness and piety, but you
  should not help one another in sin and rancour; fear God, for God is strict in punishment." If the leaders of mujaheddin organizations refrain from selfishness and help towards the realization of the aspirations of the martyrs, the living mujaheddin and" the entire Islamic nation of Afghanistan, most of the difficulties confronting us will be solved."
       He said, "this CCAR seminar and its other seminars are efforts in which we have been trying to present ideas about the fundamentals of a future Islamic government in Afghanistan and whenever such a government is formed in Afghanistan, those who are responsible for running the affairs of the country will make use of the ideas presented in the papers and discussions offered in these seminars."
       The IAPS seminar on the .^basic organization of the future government of Afghanistan discussed the following topics:
  1.  ORGANIZATION AND BASIC FEATURES OF AN ISLAMIC STATE AND QUALIFICATIONS,.
' RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE HEAD OF THE ISLAMIC STATE: Four articles were read on this subject:
          "The basic organization of state", by Ayatullah Taqaddusi,
       -  "Fundamentals of an Islamic government in future Afghanistan", by Dr.
          Abdul Hai Panjsheri,
       -  "Qualifications of the head of state", by Mawlawi Sakhidad Fayez,
       -  "Rights and obligations of the head of an Islamic state"*, by Abdul Ahad
          Ishrati,
       These articles had many important, lively and valuable points for discussions. For instance, should an Islamic government be headed bygone person or a group of persons? Should elections be general or through electoral college? Have the women in an Islamic society the right to vote and be elected to public offices? Also in these articles the conditions under which leader of an Islamic state ought to be elected as well as his duties and obligations, the three branches of the government, the form of an Islamic government, the procedures and methods used for electing the four Caliphs after the Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him) and the form of an interim government to pave the way for the establishment of a permanent government were discussed. It was pointed out that in an Islamic society there should be one person as the head of the government and Islam does not accept collective leadership. The source for the formation of government is the people .and the way to form a government is to hold elections.
       The first important and interesting point which came under discussion was the tenure of the office of the head of state as to whether a time frame should be set for the duration of his office or not. Islam has no specific instructions on this subject but the inclination of Islamic scholars and religious thinkers has been that the tenure of the office for the head of state should be defined and limited, otherwise if he serves for a long period of time, he may abuse his powers.
                                             26
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992              AlliIMNJ[HAO                    VOL.  5 NO. 2
      Another subject which came under discussion was the question of the right of voting for women. General inclination of the participants was that Islam has given the women the right to vote. However there are certain conditions and qualifications for this.                                       1
      The third important.subject, discussed in relation to these articles, was the question of candidacy as to whether people should vote for individuals or parties? In this connection too the majority of the participants were of the opinion that people should* vote for individuals because judgement is taking place on the merits of the people whereas parties too can forward their candidates under their own ticket.
 2. THE ROLE OF POLITICAL PARTIES AND PARLIAMENT: Three articles were presented on these subjects to the seminar:
      - "The role of political parties in the formation of the state", by Ustad
         Ahmadzai,             -
      - "Parliament in an Islamic state", by Prof. Mohammad Hashem: Mujaddedi,
         "The role of Parliament in an Islamic government", by Ayatullah Mohaeni
      In regard to the political parties it was stated that Islam advocates freedom of ideas. However, according to the Holy Quran^ two parties have been distinguished: (1) The party of God and (2) The party of the Satan. As the party of Satan has no right in an: Islamic society to be established, and only the party of God ought to be established, therefore Islam does not allow multi-party system in the society. However, this contention came under hot discussion. Some scholars pointed out that one party in a society will result in dictatorship and therefore there has to be a multi-party system; others explained that a multi-party system was allowed in Islam but the way right now our parties behaved was against Islam. They said, at present we should not have many groups and parties; however for the future, in order to prevent dictatorship and oppression, the issue of a multi-party systenv within a legal framework is practical and advisable.
      Articles read in the seminar on parliament, explained that formation of shoora or parliament was a Divine command and in these articles the conditions and qualifications of voters and those who are to be elected in the offices were explained. It was pointed out that members of the parliament should not have too many prerogatives because this will open the way for illegal and inappropriate ways, for going to 'the parliament. However, due to a shortage of time, discussion was not held on this subject.
 3. ADMINISTRATION AND ORGANIZATION OF AN ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT IN COMPARISON WITH DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM: Three articles were presented on this subject:
      - "Administration and its organization in an Islamic government", by Prof.
         Mohammad Qasem Fazely,
         "Local government in an Islamic state", by Mohammad Arshad Irshad,
      - "Islamic government in relation to democratic systems", by Abdul Hafeez
         Hamed Aziz.                                                          ,
      In regard to the administration and organization of an Islamic government
                                               27
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                    AffillANJIH/lfl                      VOL. 5  NO. 2
       ■ •'          -•           •  -v .               V -T-
 it was said that bringing about'changes in the . nature of administration was not an easy job. The aim of an administration is to organize the social. life And activities of a society. If this procedure is hindered, the whole living system will be hindered and therefore, before changing the administration, we shou-ld study the forms of administration in more advanced Islamic societies.                  /
       The article on Islamic government and democracy was based on academic definitions. It explained the significance of a public government, the bases of an Islamic government and threw light on democracy and compared it with Islam.
       The article by Prof. Fazely had many controversial points. However, since the writer himself was not present in the seminar, disciissions were not held on it.              "
      The article presented on. local administration by Irshad was termed to be too general and it was stated that under the special conditions of Afghanistan, specially after the jehad, special kind of local governments and administration should be established in Afghanistan. Our people have had many complaints about local governments in the past and were fed up with the social and political injustices and therefore, due to these experiences, we should completely reorganize our local administration and it\was hoped that another seminar would be held on local administration in Afghanist^p.
 4.   JUDICIAL SYSTEM: Three articles, were presented on this subject:
      - "Administration and organization of judiciary", by Abdul Wahed Nahzat Farahi,
         "Judiciary and judicial Powers in Islam", by Kamal Shenwari,
      - . "Office pf Religious Accountability", by Bahauddin Baha.
      These articles discussed the competence, conditions and impartiality of the judicial system and various stages of the judiciary. The attributes of single-stage and double-stage judiciary were enumerated separately and double-stage and triple-stage judiciary were considered consonant with the Islamic jurisprudence and under present circumstances, establishment of such courts were regarded essential.
      The articles recounted the history, significance and independence of judiciary; total independence of judiciary in future was .stressed upon. In this connection,   the importance of the "court of grievance" in an Islamict
 government as the highest platform of justice for protecting the rights of individuals against the excesses of the government agents and alsa crimes against the public rights and security was stressed. Its his^pry and functions were highlighted and the existence of such a court in future Afghanistan was deemed ^necessary.                    t
      These articles contained matters concerning the judicial history and its historical traditions and the qualifications of a judge. But the moot point under discussion was the implementation of the Hanafi and Jafari Fiqha (jurisprudence) jointly. It was stated that this was a political rather than
                                           28
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
religious issue. However, it    was   said that in an Islamic  state, a judge  was
appointed for every province,   keeping in view the religious  denomination of the
area, which was of course one Sof the four well-known sects.
      Another point in discussion was whether the chairman of the court of grievance has the power of summoning the head of state. And if he did so would he not be afraid of being dismissed? It was explained that the head of state can appoint the chairman of this court but cannot dismiss him.
      Jowhar Siddiqi's article actually linked the articles already discussed and was entitled, "ensuring liaison among the three branches of government". The article discussed conditions    for    leadership, parliament  and elections.  The
writer expressed his opinion about the triple powers of government and studied the competence of the government      organs from the Islamic  point of view,  and
concluded:
     Keeping in view the advancement of the political science, whenever some other options are discovered for solving these problems and these options are not repugnant to the Islamic Sharia, there is no objection to its adoption. It is one of the distinctions of the Islamic Sharia that it relies only on the fundamentals and leaves its details to be determined on the basis of social experiments and scientific and intellectual advancements.
5.  ECONOMIC*AFFAIRS: Three articles were presented:
      - "Islamic Measures:   Some  of the  Economic  Problems of Afghanistan", by
         Dr. Abdul Rahman Ulfat,
         "Financial System", by Mawlawi Abdul Majeed Kudikhail,
         "Revenue System in the Islamic government", by Abdul Bari Ghairat
      The writer of the first article thinks this is the most opportune time to implement the basic principles of Islamic economy in Afghanistan and writes that this step requires awareness of the fundamentals and assessment of the difficulties in this path, but in due course of time. Such a step would yield positive results. However, the big risk in such a policy is that the economic policies may perhaps go to the extremes and today's policy might be cancelled by tomorrow's exigency. Moreover if party politics come into force in Afghanistan, every party would cancel and nullify,the policy of the other, leading to chaos.
      The second and the third articles dealt with the financial structure of the government, the public treasury, revenues, expenditures and other economic affairs of the country from the Islamic angle. Members of the seminar exchanged views about these articles, keeping in view the existing realities such as taxes, etc. and proposed that these sources of income and the new economic relations ought to be studied in the framework of Islam.
6.  ARMED FORCES AND SECURITY IN THE ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT:        The  following two
articles were, read:
      - "Armed Forces in Islamic Afghanistan", by General Mohammad Yahya Nowroz
29
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                 (UN JfHAfl                    VOL . 5 no. 2
     v "Islamic government and the Security Forces", by General Mohammad Ayub Asseel.
      It was stated that the armed    forces  must be under   the command of  the
 governments. The article pointed out that complete re-organization of the army is  not an easy job and re-modeling    of the existing army   was advocated.  The
 proposals were as follows:-
 (a) The army should have ideological, social and political aims and duties.
 (b) The legal position and the actual duties of armed forces should be specified
 clearly.
 (c) The number of armed forces should be determined on the basis of geographical and strategic situation, political attitude and inclinations of the neighbors and other countries of the world and last but not the least, oh the basis of economic, industrial and communications strength of the country,
 (d) The armed forces should be strategically stationed in various regions of the country,
 (e) The army should have logistic sources and establish military relations with the countries favored by the Islamic government and the Foreign Ministry.
 (f) Military doctrine in the scientific and professional activities of the armed forces should be preserved.
                                                             «
 (g) Due attention should be paid to the development of the intellect and general knowledge in the armed forces.
 (h) Instead of compulsory recruitment and draft in the armed forces, recruitment should be arranged on voluntary and on regular salaried employment basis.
      In connection with the security forces, it was proposed that the police departmet be re-organized. Various committees consisting of seasoned officers of the jehad fronts should be formed to enact rules and regulations for the establishment of an efficient security force. The police personnel should be properly educated and should be taught the basic tenets of religious faith to Enable them to maintain the desired law and order in the country. To sum up, the article pointed out the duties of the police.
      These two topids were the subject of heated discussions. Instead of reforming the armed forces, it was stressed that the forces ought to be re-organized completely. But the writers responded that although re-organization is very much desired, due to the lack of necessary requirements, it is not practical. Meanwhile, establishing of an Islamic Political Department for the army was considered essential and it was recommended that Islamic teachings be propagated on an expanded scale.
 7.  LAW: The law, was another subject of the seminar, and both the articles in this connection had the same title.
      - "Legislation in the Islamic government", by Habibullah Ghaleb,
                                                  30
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
                 "Legislation in the Islamic government", by Abdul Rahman Moballegh.
      This subject came to an end with the reading of the first article and the second article was not read because the writer was not present. The first article dealt with the need for legislation, principles of law, influence of law and the position and status of Islamic Sharia among other laws, different Islamic religious sects and their effect on legislation.
 8. INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS AND LIMITS IN AN ISLAMIC SOCIETY: Another section of the
 seminar comprising two articles covered individual rights and limits in an Islamic Society. These were, as follows:
       - Individual rights and obligations in an Islamic State", by Mohammad Zaman Mo z amine 1,
       - "The Office Accountability in Islamic government" by Judge Mohammad Hakeem.
      These articles highlighted the duties of individuals in society vizi obedience, military service, safeguarding state secrets, wishing others well, enjoining others to do the right and refrain from injustice, learning basic religious teachings and communicating it to others, learning technical and scientific knowledge and professional skills. Ruler? governing individual life, ways of leading social life and means of ensuring human dignity and welfare were also described. The articles threw light on checks and balances of accountability for the protection of individual and social interests and recounted the religious rules for accountability and the duties and limitations of the ombudsman.
 9. ORGANISATIONAL SET-UP:    The  organizers of the seminar had requested
 Habibullah Ghaleb to write a short article concerning the organisational set-up, relationship and duties of the grievance courts and the office of the ombudsman and he did so and stated in his brief account, that:
      The office of attorney general is a new phenomenon related to the era of democracy and it supervises the legality of police action, pursues legal procedures against the commitment of crimes, checks the correctness or otherwise of allegations against the accused and looks after the legal process in the. courts and prisons in connection with the accused. In the past such duties were performed entirely by the police and crimes related to violation of divine rights were dealt with personally by the magistrate and/or the person authorized by the magistrate concerned.
      If we make a comparative study of these duties in the history of Islamic laws vis-a-vis the jurisdiction of accountability, this organization with some extensions has been accommodated in the organization of accountability. The judiciary existed in a better way than today in the institution of justice in the Islamic government. Similarly some of the judicial powers are included in the jurisdiction of the Department of Control of Injustice. This department could deal with the crimes and law violations committed by the head of the state and had greater powers than the'usual judiciary. In the same manner, the
                                                        31
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
HU                           VOL. 5 HO.  2
 ombudsman had wide powers controlling all the walks of life. Hence it may be said that we can easily assess the competence of the office of the ombudsman in relation to .the departments of police and attorney general, judiciary, municipality and other specific areas of public life. In case these duties were once again assigned to the ombudsman, new regulations would be required in all these fields. Similarly the Department of Control of Injustice too should be established outside the Department of Justice.
 10.  PUBLIC WELFARE IN ISLAM: "The Public Welfare in Islam" was the title of an article written by Fazl Menallah Fazli. He expounded the public welfare services of the Islamic government. This was the last topic discussed in the seminar: All the duties and obligations of an Islamic government were pointed out in the article.
      Looking back at the proceedings of the seminar, we find it very useful, informative and interesting. So many useful subjects were reviewed' in the seminar which would certainly attract the attention of the future administrators and organizers of the Islamic Afghanistan and they would surely benefit from it.
• Thus it fulfilled the aim of the CCAR which desires to provide food for thought and treasures of intellect to all the corners of Afghanistan.

 *
32
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
AFGHANISTAN OPERATION "SALAM PROGRAM FOR 1992
&

 EDITOR*S NOTE: Following you will read a report on the Operation "SALAM" 1992 program for Afghanistan. The report was first published in a UNOCA brochure» circulated last November, and which the Afghan Jehad has reproduced after summarizing and translating it.
• •
$
s • •


                                                                          • ♦ * • • » •


*^L
                                     INTRODUCTION
      This report describes a unique partnership between the people of Afghanistan and the United Nations system. It outlines a program for the relief and rehabilitation of a war-ravaged country. It presents the human dimension of the Afghan problem alongside the raw data.
      It does not contain detailed project documents prepared by the United Nations agencies and programs. Rather it is an attempt to distil the lessons learnt by the United Nations system during three years of effort to assist Afghanistan. It outlines changes in approach and strategy and introduces the activities planned for 1992.
      The priority sectors for United Na_ions activity in 1992 are the same as in 1991- agriculture, food aid, mine clearance, health, voluntary repatriation', with the addition of basic education.
      This report has been prepared after a major program review exercise held in October 1991 which brought together, for the first time, key staff of all the participating agencies of the United Nations system.
      Even before it was plunged into 13 years of war, Afghanistan was one of the world's least developed countries. While technological advance in agriculture, education and health cate in many parts of the world have shown good results, the Afghan people have not only missed these advances, they have had to watch the destruction of what little they had.
      The figures illustrate a declining ability of the Afghan people to respond to the challenge of reconstruction and eventually development. This trend must be curbed.
      Ovier the past 13 years Afghans have been provided with huge amounts of military aid which .provided a basic but artificial livelihood for many Afghan
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992              AdillAMHAO                      VOL. 5 NO. 2
 families. Afghan refugees in neighboring countries have received substantial amounts of humanitarian aid. Marfy refugees have also jobs in their host countries. With intensification of efforts for political settlement refugees may start to return home in increased number. Thus they will swell the number of those in Afghanistan who do not produce what they need to survive. As major sources of income evaporate the economy will come under added strain of supporting returning refugees. This has led to the inclusion in the present report of an analysis of the response required to a possible mass return of refugees.
      Afghanistan will not be able to absorb a sudden mass return of refugees without an immediate and substantial injection of assistance. Keeping this in view, the agencies involved in providing help to returning refugees are updating a detailed contingency plan.
            %
      There is a major change in the approach of the United Nations system to rehabilitation work in Afghanistan for 1992. Now Afghan communities are to be given responsibility for determining the priorities for their area and identifying -the type of response they wish to make. This theme of community participation can be found in all the main sectoral chapters of this report.
      Basic education with emphasis on teaching skills for life in the community has been included in the program for the first time. Centers for basic education will concentrate on skills like carpentry and vegetable gardening.
      This program puts forward ideas which will have the effect of binding committees together and making them inter-dependent in ways which they have perhaps never been before. It is an approach to self help which involves an awakening of the capacity of the community to respond to its own identified needs with modest and realistic inputs from external sources.
      It is clear that the rehabilitation process will continue in Afghanistan long after the conclusion of political settlement. It has been decided that a more comprehensive and detailed rehabilitation strategy will be launched in the
 spring of 1992 with funding provided by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
      The experience of cooperation under operation SALAM has shown that United Nations agencies are able to develop new approaches to work in order to adopt to a situation such as that in Afghanistan. Several agencies have developed unprecedented relationship with NGOs. Many of the agencies have had to stretch their mandates to the limits.
      In Afghanistan United Nations staff are working alongside the Afghan people Under war conditions. They have to live without their families. Some of them have been kidnapped and beaten, shot at and bombed.
      The total cash requirement of the program for 1992 is US $133.7 million together with 95,000 tons of wheat. Of this,US $39.6 million and 3,400 tons are available. Substantial in kind contributions pledged to the program have also not been received. Some of these pledges were made as early as 1988.
                                                      34
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO.
2
                                            AGRICULTURE
     Over the past 13 years the area under cultivation in Afghanistan has shrunk by roughly 40%. Overall output of food grains has fallen by over one-third. A high incidence of disease and pests have reduced the supply of fruit and vegetables. Livestock herds have fallen by more than 50 per cent. Exports of wood, karakul and carpets have consequently fallen dramatically. Throughout the country, there is a shortage of timber for construction. There are extremely worrying long term implications for the environment.
     In the past three years much effective work has been done in areas both under government and resistance control to demonstrate effective rehabilitation methods. The United Nations has shown that agricultural rehabilitation can succeed in present conditions.
     In 1989/91 an estimated 12,500 tons of wheat seed was distributed to some 150,000 farming families in 20 out of 29 provinces; 250 tons of improved maize seed was distributed to 17,000 farming families; 765,000 budded fruits trees root stocks and cuttings have been planted; forestry rehabilitation activities have concentrated on propagation of poplar cuttings.
                                                            (
     Approximately 20,000 farmers have received at least some extension training in improved crop production.
     Twelve NGOs have vaccinated two million animals and provided treatment to nearly one million more.
     The main thrust of the agriculture rehabilitation program remains the provision of essential agricultural inputs. In the coming years programs will be concentrated in areas where rehabilitation can achieve the best results. The facilities of neighboring countries will continue to be used for production of high quality seed and other agricultural inputs. There will however be a steady shift towards local Afghan self-sufficiency..
     Upto 1979 exports of dried fruit were earning some 30% of Afghanistan's foreign exchange. The rehabilitation program provides high quality saplings purchased from Pakistan. Forestry programs will focus on village plantation for timber, fuel, forage and amenity.
     Locusts and pests over recent years have decimated wheat crops in the northern areas. The campaign hgainst locusts and pest shows that crop losses can be successfully minimized at village, level. However with the introduction of chemicals, environmental concern will be given high priority. After an extensive review of agricultural programs in October 1991, the following goals, objectives and program components were defined for the 1992 program.
GOALS: - To increase agricultural production, particularly of basic foodgrains, fresh fruit, vegetables, meat, poultry and dairy products.
              ~ To revive and restore production of cash-crops and industrial exports.
35
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          MGIIANJIHAD                VOL. 5 NO. 2
OBJECTIVESs-to provide improved seed wheat responsive to fertilizer.
          - To rebuild livestorck herds and poultry stocks to provide animal
              protein.
          - To establish orchards and vineyards damaged by war.
          - To utilize plant protection techniques.
            To begin the process of reconstruction of agricultural infrastructure, especially irrigation system and forestry replanting.
POOD PRODUCTION PACKAGES: Distribute 3,000 tons of improved seed and appropriate amount of fertiliser, introduce high quality seed, on site training and training of women in use ahd risks of fertilizers.
LIVESTOCK HEALTH:   To  provide the services of intensively trained veterinary
field units, veterinary workers to: apply preventive medicine, particularly vaccination. Rehabilitate some 80 clinics in the country. Train women in basic animal care and hygiene vaccination of chickens and disease identification.
FRUIT TREES, ORCHARDS AMD VINEYARD: Provide 300,000 budded saplings for family orchards and possibly 20,000 root stocks for newly established nurseries. FORESTRY: To begin the process of reforestation and production of wood for donuustivS use. Continue present activities but diversify into other amenity and plantation trees. Run appropriate training courses.
AGRICULTURE RECONSTRUCTION (MAINLY IRRIGATION):      Rehabilitate  or  reconstruct
village irrigation systems and rehabilitate other essential agricultural facilities.
      In addition to this program some other activities are already underway These are poultry production, training and extension Service.
                      RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR AGRICULTURE PROGRAM COMPONENTS EXECUTING AGENCY EUDGET AVAILABLE SHORTFALL
                                          (IN THOUSANDS OF US DOLLARS)
1. Food crop produc¬  FA0, UNDP/OPS    10,113  1,961  8,1$2 
tion                      UNDCP                             
2. Livestock health  FAO, UNDCP         8,021    746  7,275 
3. Fruit trees,      FAO                  218    218        
orchards and                                                
vineyard                                                    
4. Forestry          FAQ, UNDCP           218    218   30 3 
5. Plant■protection  FAQ                1,692    500  1,192 
6. Agriculture       FAO, UNDCP, UNDP   8,435  2,312  6,123 
reconstruction                                              
7. Other projects                       3,644  3,099    545 
    GRAND TOTAL                       .33,861 10,861 23,590 
                                                       36
                                      FOOD AID
      Inspite of the war there has been no mass starvation in Afghanistan. Some parts of the country, however, have experienced very severe food shortages in recent wintert consequently prices of food staples have risen very sharply and real hardship resulted. Official figures Show a continuing decline in national wheat production. At the same time official food imports have also declined. Food problems may become acute when mass repatriation follows a peace settlement. It will take many years before returning refugees will be able to produce enough food to feed themselves.
      The outlook on food availability and prices for the winter of 1991-92 and the following year is clouded by persistent effects of severe flooding in several key growing areas, and by Uncertainty over the continuation of supplies from bilateral donors. Substantial quantities of food aid from the international community will be required.
      Food-for-work program will continue in 1992. It is a major component of many of the sectoral programs.
      It is estimated that 95,000 tons of Wheat will be required to provide emergency supplies for one million returnees and owe million people for three to four months1. Out of it only 34,000 tons of wheat is available.
      About 10 million mines are thought to have been laid in Afghanistan. In some areas they are everywhere while in others they mUy be only on access roads. Surveys,suggest that 20% of disabled people are victims of mines. In other words
 400,000 people will have been disabled in this Way. Some 200,000 people may have died due to blast of mines. They remain a peculiarly horrifying hazard to Afghans going about their daily lives.
      The United Nations has supported mine clearance carried out by two Afghan NGOs since early 1990. Mine clearance operations are carried out manually, mechanically and with specially trained dogs. Mechanical demining is safer. During 1991 the emphasis of the Mine Awareness Program implementation was shifted from the refugee camps in Pakistan to Afghanistan.
      Field experience Suggests that clearing mines and unexploded ordnance from effected primary routes, commercial and agricultural land amounting to a total of two percent of Afghanistan's land area would be sufficient to allow social and economic activity to revive. The remainder of the mined areas could be marked for later demining or permanent abandonment. Evaluation of the program was completed in July 1991. Many of its recommendations have been1 incorporated in the program for 1992. Mine Clearance and mine awareness activities will be concentrated in areas of priority rehabilitation activity. Areas of demining will be strictly selected on criteria, of security, the level of danger' to populations and the predicted economic and social benefits.
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992        AFGHANJIHAD                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
                        RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR MINE CLEARANCE
                                            (IN THOUSANDS OF US DOLLARS)
   PROGRAM COMPONENT       EXECUTING BUDGET AVAILABLE SHORTFALL 
                            AGENCY                              
1. Mine Clearance Program    UNOCA   10,100   1,500     8,600   
2. Mine Awareness Program    UNOCA    1,800    300      1,500   
3. Mine Clearance Training   UNOCA    1,400    300      1,100   
4. Planning, Survey and      UNOCA    2,300    600      1,700   
   Monetoring program                                           
                     GRAND TOTAL:    15,600   2,700    12,900   
                             HEALTH, WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
 HEALTH: In the 1970s the health indicators on the situation of children and women in Afghanistan ranked the country among the worst in the world. By the 1990s the situation has changed little. War has further reduced the access to health care for many Afghans. Endemic diseases like diarrohaea, pneumonia# malaria, tuberculosis and trachoma continue to take a heavy toll# especially among the children and women, and draining the energy and income of the entire population. Infant mortality at 169 per thousand remains amongst the highest in Asia and in the world. Maternal mortality claims the lives of 690 women per 100#000 deliveries. Diarrohea, acute respiratory infections, measles and natal tetanus complicated by malnutrition are the principal courses of death among infants, children and woman. NGOs and United Nations agencies report increases in the incidence of measles, polio, whooping cough, malaria and tuberculosis. Those maimed by war are estimated to number 300,000 of whom 100,000 are women.
      Poppy growth and heroin production has reached alarming levels. There is evidence of increasing drug abuse especially among women, youngsters and children. Children as young as 11 years old have been identified for treatment and detoxification.
      Against this bleak backdrop UNICEF and WHO together with their NGOi partners have carried out programs in both urban and rural areas. In several areas access to the population has been limited by war. Major area of activity have included maternal and child health, control of diarrhoeal diseases, "expanded Program of immunisation, control       of malaria and leprosy and
 rehabilitation of disabled Afghans.
      In 1992 United Nations agencies and NGOs will continue to support services in MCH, EPI, CDD, acute respiratory infection, nutrition and water and sanitation. Emphasis will be put on training and manpower development. Support
                                              38
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 will be given to the reinforcement of health infrastructure and systems.
 1.    PRIMARY   HEALTH  CARE/MATERNAL  AND   CHILD HEALTH/FAMILY PLANNING:    The
 objectives are to increase access of women and children to primary health care services in the provinces accessible to UN agencies and to improve the quality of services offered by existing health system, especially to the most disadvantaged. One and half million women and children are targeted to be reached by various primary health care interventions in" 1992. Special emphasis will be placed on child-spacing practices among Afghan women of reproductive age.
 2. EXPANDED PROGRAM OF IMMUNIZATION:   To  immunize 223,000 children under  1 and
 280,000  under 2 in urban and rural areas; to immunize 653,000 women against tetanus. Depending on security, it is expected to increase the national coverage to 50%.
 3. CONTROL OF DIARRHOEAL DISEASES: Objectives are to increase to 25% the access of the child population to oral rehydration therapy and reduce by about 10% diarrhoea related diseases. These targets require the treatment of 1,000,000 children aged 0-5.
 4. ACUTE RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS CONTROL:      Objectives are to reduce the high
 fatality rate associated with acute respiratory infections by providing treatment to 150,000 children through health facilities in Kabul, Herat, Mazar, Jalalabad and Faizabad. To increase the knowledge of 40% of health care personnel on the management of ARI.
 5.   NUTRITION: Objectives: To reduce   severe  and moderate malnutrition among
 children and maternal malnutrition; to provide treatment to 200,000 children and provide 300,000 pregnant women with micronutrients supplementation against iron deficiency anaemia and iodine deficiencies
 6.  HUMAN RESOURCES FOR HEALTH DEVELOPMENT: Objectives: To increase the number of trained personnel including community-based health workers and traditional birth attendants by 20%; to improve the knowledge and skills of health care personnel in basic health centers referral points, national hospitals and other health facilities.
 7. CONTROL OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES:     (a)  Malaria Control:    To cover 20% of
 malaria-endemic areas through existing- health facilities with diagnostic and’ treatment facilities including availability of a second line of drugs in case of resistance to chloroquine.
 (b) ^Leishmaniasis Control:  To  cover 20% of endemic areas with diagnostic and
 treatment facilities.
 (c)  Tuberculosis Control:  Objective:  To  increase  case-finding  and treatment
 activities in 10% of densely-populated areas. .
 (d) LEPROSY CONTTROL: To cover 20% of the endemic areas in central Afghanistan with treatment facilities using multiple drugs for the Hazarajat groups.
                                               39
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
  (e)  CONTROL OF DIABETES: To improve the support for preventive, diagnostic and long-term management of diabetes to 30% of the population in the urban areas and their immediate surroundings.
  (f) PREVENTION OF BLINDNESS:     To  provide  rehabilitation services  to 10% of
  cataract-affected population through cataract operations. To mount a campaign to inform, diagnose and control trachoma and its long-term effects in 20% of the affected population.
  8.   CONTROL OF OTHER  COMMUNICABLE DISEASES: To increase  awareness  among health
  care providers and     the general   population of the     problem    of dangerous
  communicable diseases     like AIDS,  meningitis,   rabies etc, and  their control
  measures.
  9.   MENTAL HEALTH AND    DRUG ABUSE    PROGRAMS:  To establish and  support three
  stress-management and drug detoxification centers. To provide training to 30 physicians on stress-management techniques through consultancies and training abroad. To procure appropriate psychotropic drugs. To reduce the number of heroin addicts in      Afghanistan   by providing an       expanded     network of
  community-based drug   detoxification centers. To assist   in the formulation and
  application of a drug abuse control policy          by establishing  a Drug Abuse
  Prevention Reference Center.
  10.   ESSENTIAL DRUGS     PROGRAMS:    To support  . and strengthen the Avicenna
  Pharmaceutical Institution in Kabul to produce essential drugs like intravenous solutions and antibiotics in capsules. To procure 20% of the requirement of chemicals and raw materials.
  11. ORAL HEALTH:    To  set up  three modern  dentistry  facilities  in different
  regions. To provide training to 30 dental technicians and hygienists.
  12. REHABILITATION/CONSTRUCTION OF PRIMARY HEALTH FACILITIES:    To  rehabilitate
  basic health centers.
  13. ASSISTANCE TO DISABLED AFGHANS:      To improve and strengthen existing
  disability-care facilities in the provision of services to disabled Afghans.
                                WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
       Internal Drinking Water supply and Sanitation Decade of the 1980s targeted universal access to water supply and sanitation for all developing countries by 1990. Afghanistan during this decade did not benefit from any of the world-wide efforts and techniques. War and lack of maintenance has destroyed much of what existed before. Nationally over 80%of the population is exposed to water related diseases.
        Sanitation problems are serious. Adequate waste disposal systems even in urban areas do not exist.
        UNDP1s rural rehabilitation project based in Mazar-e-Sharif which began operation in 1991 aims at providing water supply systems in rural areas. In
                                           40
JANUARY-MARCHr 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
urban areas UNDP/OPS has a long standing commitment to the development of water supplies currently focused on Kabul.
     Objectives of the program are to rehabilitate and repair water supply facilities and schemes to raise access and coverage of potable water in rural/urban areas      of   13 provinces.         To promote better housewhold and
environmental sanitation.
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR HEALTH, WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
                                (In thousands of US $)  
PROGRAM COMPONENTS EXECUTING                            
                    AGENCY   BUDGET AVAILABLE SHORTFALL 
UNDP/OPS                 600                     600    
UNICEF                 2,030       400        1,630     
WHO                    1,280       140        1A40      
      Total            3,910       540        3,370     
                    RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR HEALTH, WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
                                                       (In thousands of US $)
S.No. PROGRAM COMPONENTS             EXECUTING
                                     AGENCY       BUDGET     AVAILABLE  SHORTFALL
HEALTH
1. Primary Health Care, Maternal     UNICEF, WHO 3,700.5 2,054.0 1646.5 
   Health and Family Planning        and UNFPA                          
2. Expanded program of -Immunization UNICEF, WHO 3,520.7 1,402.0 2118.7 
3. Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases    UNICEF, WHO   874.8  287.0   587.8 
4. Acute Respiratory Infections      UNICEF, WHO   430.0  187.0   243.0 
   Control.                                                             
5. Nutrition                         UNICEF, WHO   550.6  260.0   290.6 
6. Human Resources for Health        WHO         2,173.0  800.0  1373.0 
   Development                                                          
7. Control of communicable deseases  WHO         1,715.0  376.0  1339.0 
8. Control of other Communicable     WHO           210.0  50.0    160.0 
Diseases
WHO,
412.0       97.0      315.0
 41
 9
Mental Health and Drug Abuse
UNDCP
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992       AIGUAN JIHAD                   you. 5 no. 2
10. Essential Drugs              WHO         1,245.0 138.0   1107.0 
11. Oral Health                  WHO           250.0   71.0   179.0 
12. WHO Field Sub-Offices        WHO           400.0          400.0 
13. Disabled Afghans             WHO         1,175.0 145.0   1030.0 
14. Rehabilition/Construction of WHO         5,120.0 1084.0  4036.0 
Health Centers.                                                     
                      Sub Total:            21,776.6 6951.0 14825*6 
                       WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION                  
1. Rural Activities              UNDP/OPS,   3,910.0  540.0  3370.0 
                                 UNICEF,WHO                         
2. Urban Activities              UNDP/OPS    1,041.0 1041.0         
Sub Total:                4,951.0    1581.0      3370.0
                       Grand Total             26,727.6   8532.0     18195.6
                                         BASIC EDUCATION
      Educational attainments of Afghans rank among the lowest In the world, war has further reduced the quantity and quality of education opportunities available. The literacy rate for men is 38% and for women only 9%. In rural areas the literacy rate for women is almost zero. Afghans will have a titanic task rebuilding their country with extremely scarce trained human resources. The task of reconstructing the education system in Afghanistan is enormous and will be further complicated when the large number of refugees return to their homes. Rebuilding the education system will demand a high level of voluntary contributionsThe United Nations system is gearing its efforts towards a community based and owned basic education scheme which is guided by the principles of relevancy, efficiency, equity and quality.
      The objectives of the program in the field of education are to train and * support identified facilitators (or social animators) to advocate for basic education, and mobilize their communities to identify and prioritize their needs.
 * To provide training skills to identified community members to meet their local learning needs.
 * To support communities through the provision of appropriate materials to enhance the delivery of basic education.
                                                         42
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
    * To aciopt a multisectoral   approach in the delivery of basic        education, by
    involving all the United Nations agencies participating in Operation SALAM.
         The objective of creating drug abuse awareness is to prevent the spread of drug addiction and dependency through support to drug awareness creation programs in the refugee camps and in Afghanistan.
         The objective of vocational training is to train' Afghan manpower in supervisory, administrative   technical          and vocational skills  required for
    implementing projects inside  Afghanistan. Objective of         health education and
    health is to improve and strengthen the current health education facilities in identified priority areas in  order to   provide services to 25%  of the school
    going children and improve and strengthen current health education activities in priority areas.
                          RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS OF BASIC EDUCATION
(IN THOUSANDS OF US $)
   PROGRAM COMPONENTS EXECUTING AGENCY BUDGET AVAILABLE SHORTFALL 
1. Basic Education UNESCO, UNICEF      2,650  500           2,150 
2. Drug Abuse awareness UNDP           . 232  202              39 
3. Vocational Training ILO             1,800  -             1,800 
4. Health Education and WHO             487   135             352 
   School Health.                                                 
   GRAND TOTAL:                        5,169  837          4, 341 
VOLUNTARY REPATRIATION
         Afghans constitute the largest refugee. population in the world. There are six million in Pakistan and Iran. Their presence has had significant economic, social and political consequences for those countries. Their absence and their return have major implications for Afghanistan. Basic services and some food commodities are provided to registered refugees in the refugee villages. Income is obtained through participation in the Pakistani labor market and through income generating activities in the refugee villages. ^Unregistered refugees,, usually in urban areas, feind for themselves.
         Most refugees in both countries cite the continuing hostilities and insecurity as the main reason not to repatriate. But voluntary repatriation on quite a large scale is taking place. Since July 1990 over 40,000 families representing oyer 200,000 persons have benefited from repatriation grants. UNHCR has adopted an operating assumption that 300,000 individuals (about 50,000 families) will choose to return in 1992. It is an assumption, not a target reflecting present conditions. The Geneva Accords and subsequent bilateral agreements have reaffirmed the principle that the return of Refugees should be wholly voluntary.
         Most refugees will continue to organize their own transport. UNHCR will additionally Support for vulnerable groups.
                                                      43
JANUARY-MARCH r 1992        1111        1      
PROGRAM COMPONENTS          EXECUTING   BUDGET 
                            AGENCY             
1. Protection               UNHCR        900   
2. Direct Repatriation                         
Assistance Program          UNHCR              
i.    Repatriation program in Pakistan  4,900  
ii.    Transit centers in Afghanistan   1,000  
iii.    Food security for Returnees     1,000  
iv.    Transportation Assistance        1,000  
3. Reintegration Assistance UNHCR              
   in Returnees Communities             2,500  
4. General Preparedness     UNHCR              
Program                                        
i. Prepositioning                       1,670  
ii. Telecommunications                   200   
5. Program Support          UNHCR       3,700  
                                         VOL. 5 NO. 2
AVAILABLE SHORTFALL
1,670
  200
Funds available but not yet allocated
3,330
                    GRAND TOTAL               16,870            5,200      11,670
6.  Food                                                    15,500 MT wheat
                                         SPECIFIC PROJECTS
          The following specific projects are being implemented in Afghanistan by the United Nations systems:
1.  SHELTER:  It is  certain that  only  a tiny  percentage of the six million
refugees living abroad will find their homes intact on return. Public facilities must also be reconstructed. Some 40 small scale projects are underway for increasing local supply of building material. Objectives in this field are to support reconstruction and encourage traditional self-sufficiency in shelter construction through the use of local resources and skills.
2.  ROAD REPAIR: Afghanistan's total road system of 20,000 kilometers of primary and secondary roads will have to be rebuilt or extensively renovated. More than 300 bridges and thousands of culverts need replacement. In 1992 criteria will be established for selecting future projects and their methods of implementation. The objective in this field is to rebuild some 829 kilometers of secondary and tertiary roads*
                                           44
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
    3. SERVICES FOR THE DISABLED:      Services will be provided to Afghans with
    disabilities affecting their mobility, vision, hearing or learning capacity, whatever the type or cause. To involve the disabled people and their families, and to utilize them as a resource in planning and designing the regional services.
    4. WOMEN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS; Opportunities for improving living conditions are to be provided to women with special needs, including poor widows, other women living in poverty, women who are heads of household, disabled women and women caring for the disabled. To promote skills training, income generating activities, literacy and health education. '
    5. CHILDREN IN ESPECIALLY DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES: Services will be provided to some 2,000 children, street children, orphans and children suffering from physical disabilities and mental trauma caused by war injuries and disease.
    6. FIELD OPERATIONS AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS; The objective is to support and
    strengthen the delivery of child survival and development services ^ local communities by setting up and maintaining operational bases established in strategic locations which are capable of responding promptly to emergency situations arising anywhere in Afghanistan.                                *
    7. CULTURE:  In the  field  of culture,  cultural  heritage  will be protected, ^rnd
    national conservation capacities in relation to the physical cultural heritage will be strengthened.                                     ^--
    8. ENGLISH LANGUAGE TRAINING:     Standard of English and basic computer skills
    among United Nations counterpart staff and others will be improved. Language skills of international staff working in Afghanistan will also be improved.
                      RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC PROJECTS
                                                                       (IN THOUSANDS OF US $)
No. PROGRAM COMPONENTS       EXECUTING BUDGET AVAILABLE   SHORTFALL 
                             AGENCY                                 
1.  Shelter                  UNCHS         4,227    1,192     3,035 
2.  Road repair              UNDP/OPS      7,000              7,000 
3.  Service for the disabled ILO, UNDP/    1,240      240     1,000 
                             OPS                                    
4.  Women with special needs UNICEF          500      200       300 
5.  Children 1 in especially UNICEF        1,000      500       500 
    difficult circumstances                                         
6 . Field operations and     UNICEF        1,000      500       500 
    emergency preparedness                                          
7.  Cult.ure                 UNESCO          302      117       185 
                                                      45
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
8. English language training  UNESCO   1,022  357     665 
9. Management training       UNDP/OPS    800  550     250 
   GRAND TOTAL:                       16,591 3,406 13,185 
                                        SUPPORT PROGRAMS
                                                 V"
        The war has almost totally destroyed communications and logistics infrastructure in Afghanistan. Many roads are impassible. Air transport between cities is at best irregular and often halted. Telephone and tele systems are all but absent. The United Nations has therefore organized its own logistic and communication systems.
   1. LOGISTICS: Operational bases have been set up in Kabul,' Mazar-e-Sharif, Peshawar and Quetta where transport arrangements are made for essential items such as food and medicines. Extensive use has been .made of private Afghan transporters for deliveries of supplies. These activities in 1992 will continue essentially unchanged.
   2.  UNITED NATIONS RADIO NETWORK:  The United Nations radio network projec was
   established in 1991 to guarantee radio communication services to UN agencies Working in Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as to provide effective management of the system. The tasks will continue in 1992.
      Hi*
   3.  SALAM 01 OPERATIONS:  Air Movement of  staff and supplies inside Afghanistan
   and between Kabul and Islamabad began in April 1990 when United Nations based an eight seater Beach Craft. The aircraft has been very useful in rescue operations.
   4.  DATA COLLECTION: By  the end of 1992, 10 provincial  socio-economic profiles
   and an operational data base at the provincial and national levels on major sectors of Afghanistan's economy will be made available.
   5. UNITED NATIONS VOLUNTEERS: The United Nations Volunteers program in Afghanistan assists UN agencies in carrying ,out relief and rehabilitation activities by providing volunteer experts and professionals in various field. It will be improved and expanded in 1992.
   6.  UNITED NATIONS PRESENCE IN THE FIELD: Since 1990 United Nations operational support centers are being established in both government and resistance controlled areas. These centers provide permanent presence of United Nations staff, close contact with local communities and regular monitoring of projects. Such centers will also be set up in 1992.
   7. SUPPORT FOR NGO COORDINATING ACTIVITIES: There are many Afghan and
   international non>-governmental organizations (NGOs) undertaking a wide range of assistance program for Afghanistan.
                                                 "46
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
               RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPORT PROJECTS
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS OF US $)
S.No. PROGRAM COMPONENTS           EXECUTING      BUDGET  AVAILABLE   SHORTFALL
                                agency                      
1. Logistics                    WFP                         
2. United Nations Radio Network UNOCA     400     50  350   
3. Salam 01 Operations          UNOCA    1,100    95 1,005. 
4. Data Collection              UNDP/OPS  700    700   -    
5. United Nations Volunteers    UNV      1,841 1,700  141   
6. United Nations Presence      UNOCA     500         500   
   in the Field                                             
7. Support for NGO Coordinating UNOCA     200         200   
   Activities                                               
   GRAND TOTAL                           4,741 2,545 2,196  
                                                47
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
   IMMEDIATE RECONSTRUCTION PROOLEMS IN AFGHANISTAN
        EDITOR1 S NOTE: In the series of seminars held by the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies of the CCAR during 1990 and 1991, a seminar on urgent problems of Afghanistan's Reconstruction ought to have been held 19 December, 1991 with participation of aid-giving and implementing organizations involved in the reconstruction efforts of the country. Unfortunately, the seminar could not be held because of personal excuses on the part of the participating organizations. It was, therefore• decided to publish the proposals and opinions of the scholars (submitted in English) for the enlightenment of the public• The papers will be published in the 'Afghan Jehad' on installment basis•
   AFGHAN AGRICULTURE
 BY: DR. AZAM GUI, HEAD OF THE AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT, TH£ SWEDISH
                   COMMITTEE FOR AFGHANISTAN
 1. BACKGROUND INFORMATION:
       The Afghan people, land and economy were upto 1978, mainiy agricultural and ’ the small amount of existing industry development was largely linked to the processing of agricultural commodities or manufacture of farm inputs.
       Out of the country's total area of 652,626 square kilometers or about 65 million hectares, roughly 12% or about eight million hectares was cultivable. However, because of the shortage of water, only about half was annually cultivated. Thus although the total available area per person was of the order of about 0.53 hectares, the food, feed, fiber and part of the fuel needed was met from as small an area as 0.26 hectares per person.
       Of the total population of 15.2 million living in the country, the rural component was of the order of 11.9 million or 71.6% of the total labor force and supported directly or indirectly about 85% of the country's population. Agricultural products accounted for $ 221.61 million or 70.72% of all exports. '
       Wheat, maize, rice and barley are the most important staple crops. Industrial or cash crops were mainly cotton, sugar beet, oil seed, fruits and vegetables.                     *
       Wheat is by far the most important crop in Afghanistan having almost five
                                              48
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992       ftfGIIAN JIHAO
times the average area and 3.5 times the production of the next important crop, maize. It occupied nearly 50% of the irrigated land and most of the dry-farmed land before the Russian invasion. The area cultivated under wheat was about 2.3 million hectares with a total production of about 2.7 million tons. According to pre-war statistics, irrigated land provided the country with 77% of all wheat, and 85% of all food and industrial crops. Dry land wheat acreage was about 44% of the total wheat acreage and accounted only for about 23% of the total wheat production. The total per capita wheat utilization for Afghans is one of the highest in the world (about 180 kg per year) and provides nearly 80% of their caloric intake.
     Because of its traditional agricultural practices, Afghanistan was a grain importing country for many years. Production methods were based upon the use of the wooden plough and the sickle. The soils, having been developed under arid or semi-arid conditions, were high in calcium and low in nitrogen, organic matter and available phosphorus. Soil depleting crops such as wheat, barley, rice and maize had been grown on these soils for a long time without any addition of commercial fertilizers. Most of the animal manure had higher priority use as fuel and very little was applied into the soil so that part of the farmers’ land could barely be covered. Even wheat stubble was burned in many instances.
     Crop varieties mostly consisted of nondescript mixtures of old land races susceptible to diseases and lodging. Many crop varieties had become so contaminated with other varieties that their identity had usually been lost. Most of these varieties did not respond well to commercial fertilizers. In fact, some of them responded negatively.
     Most farmers had not even heard of commercial fertilizers until the late i950's. Fertilizer imports for farmers' use started in 1961-1962 with 5,000 tons of ammonium nitrate. During 1962-1963,  7,500 tons each  of’ ammonium nitrate and
superphosphate of 19% P205 content were imported.
2.    PRESENT STATUS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND DAMAGES INFLICTED TO AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
     Since 1978 the ongoing war has directly and indirectly devastated agricultural production, due to a combination of factors. Factors as varied as the imposition of land reform, inadequacy of irrigation water, inadequate farm power, breakdown pf improved seed distribution, disruption of fertilizer sales to farmers, and administrative chaos caused by the war, as well as the direct destruction by military actin have contributed towards a dramatic and disturbing" decline in agricultural production.
     One of the most important aims of the Russian and Kabul government was to depopulate those areas of the country not under their control. In addition to ihilitary means, they restricted to these areas commodities necessary for agricultural production. These scarcities raised costs and greatly reduced the availability of food, thereby forcing migration either to urban regions in Afghanistan or to other countries.
     The reports received through, various channels on destruction of agriculture
49
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
were partial and subjective. It was impossible to obtain a clear and reliable picture of the extent of destruction and food shortages, in particular as to how the situation might    vary from province to province. As   the  potential        problem
appeared to be most severe  in areas outside the control of  the Kabul government, u
it was clear that research into the validity of the reports being received would have to be undertaken to try to ascertain with some degree of scientific accuracy the scale      of  this destruction, the effect    of  the war            on the
agricultural potential of the country, and how an aid effort should be directed.
The survey was, therefore,   initiated  in early 1987 by the Swedish Committee for
Afghanistan (SCA) based in   Peshawar, Pakistan. The results are based on          direct
interviews with the heads of over 11,000 farm family households throughout all provinces in Afghanistan and in the refugee camps.
      Yield figures    given by farmers showed a substantial    decline:          33% for
irrigated wheat and 50%      for dryland              wheat between 1978 and 1987.  Total
agricultural production in   1987 fell to         about 53% of its 1978 level. The reason
for this decline, apart from the direct effects of war, appeared to be:
1.   Reduction of about 30% in the area cultivated by individual farmers.
2.   Reduction in the family and hired labor of about 32% and 24%, respectively.
3.   Reduction of draught oxen by 40%.
4.   Reduction in the- proportion of farmers using fertilizers from 76% to 53% for urea and from 57% to 33% for diammonium phosphate.
5.   Destruction of irrigation systems by about 30%.
6.   Decline in the genetic potential of seeds.
7.   Increased damage caused by weeds, insects, diseases, rats, and birds.
      Added to these figures of the decline in means of production, there has also been a decline in livestock numbers. The decline in the numbers of sheep and goats was about 67%, of cattle about 55% and of horses and donkeys about 26% and 25%, respectively.
      The direct effects of war on agriculture reached its peak in 1985. In 1985,
53% of farmers who stayed in Afghanistan and 65% of those who left in 1987 had their villages bombed. The equivalent figures for livestock shot were 23% and ^ 31%. In addition to animals shot, six per cent of farmers were losing five head a year to mines. In 1987, 22% of farmers still experienced bombing of villages, six per cent had their livestock shot, on average losing two heads a year this way and the same number to mines. Three per cent had their grain stores destroyed, down from 13% in 1985.
     iIn addition, to all these disruptions in the agricultural system, natural cropienemies are becoming more prevalent and taking the shape of an epidemic. In the Autumn of 1988, we received a series of disturbing field reports of epidemic insect infestations from several northern provinces. These reports indicated'
                                              50
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992       AIGIIANJtHAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
     that at least two species of insects- locust and sunn pest- were annually destroying a vast acreage of wheat in an area which has traditionally supplied the country's surpluses. As a result, the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan mounted a survey of the entire northern provinces to establish an objective verification of these repotts.
          The data collected in the survey confirmed that an area of about 2.7 million jeribs (about half a million hectares) were infested With Idcust and sunn pest. The damage varied from 10-100% depending on the extent of infestation in different areas. Based on this infested area, it was calculated that over
     350.000 of the farming population was below subsistence in some of these provinces. The hardest hit were Badg^is, Faryab, Badakhshan, and Samangan.
     3.   FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIONS
          Demands for agricultural products will remain high for years to come. How soon the future production will make the country self-sufficient depends on the rate of growth in- production. Growth in production will in turn depend on how soon the abandoned land can be brought under cultivation, the demand (which will undoubtedly be high for many years after repatriation), and the incorporation of new and suitable technologies into the farming systems. Growth in demand will also be a function of population growth as well as the growth in consumption per capita. Growth in consumption per capita will in turn depend on growth in per capita income.
          Before the war, only about 15% of the total wheat production moved through the market system into the cities. The rest was consumed by the farming communities themselves for food and seed. This clearly indicates that a very large share of the nation's wheat was grown on small farms by individual farmers. Therefore, the subsistence nature of agriculture in the country and fhe lack of food reserve sources make wheat production probably the most important item in the rehabilitation of Afghan refugees as well as the country's ,future food needs.
          A distressed economic climate, associated with the farming communities in the Country, will also affect the way many growers think about production. Under such circumstances, many farmers may be concerned about cutting costs rather than optimising return on investment or achieving the maximum economic yields.
          The biggest challenge regarding agricultural production lies ahead when about seven million external and internal refugees return to their home villages. Present estimates show the total population both inside and outside of the country to be about 17.5 million, about 12 to 12.5 million living inside and about 5-5.5 million in exile. Statistics collected through the agricultural survey of Afghanistan (ASA) show that the country at present can produce just enough food to feed about eight million people. It is hereby enough to feed only about two-third of the estimated population of about 12 million living within the country. The food for the remaining four million which is estimated at about
     500.000 tons comes ^.from abroad. As soon as the situation becomes favorable for the safe return of about five million external refugees, the country will have a deficit of food for about nine million people. H^w fast this deficit can be overcome depends on how quickly the returning refugees are able to rehabilitate
                                                 51
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992________________flffiH/lNlllWlH________________VOL.  5  NO.  2
 their own agriculture. The ultimate goal, however, should not only be to raise production to the pre-war level when the country barely become self-sufficient, but also to feed an additional two-three million people due to the increase in population during the past twelve years. Moreover, to keep up pace with about two to three per cent annual increase in population, the need is not only to reach parity with the present demand, but to achieve an increase in production of at least two to three percent annually.
      These objectives can be achieved by,(l) expanding the area of production and/or, (2) increasing production per unit area. The first option seems to be impossible because it requires a relatively longer time as well as large sums of investments which the country may not be able .to afford at this critical stage. The second option can be achieved through the use of certain improved, adaptable technologies some of which are listed below.
 1.   RECONSTRUCTION OF THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM
      Afghanistan has a continental climate. The high mountain ranges and river plains have led to the development of traditional irrigation on a level not surpassed in any other country. The limited surface water available ate mostly snow-fed.
      Beside streams and canals, a considerable amount of land (about 35,500 hectares) is irrigated by the springs and karez system. The karez system has been developed centuries ago. About 12,000 hectares is irrigated by persian wells.
      As mentioned earlier, over 30% of the farmers, irrigation system had a destruction of some sort. Since almost all of the important crops in the country are grown under Irrigation, reconstruction of the irrigation system especially irrigation streams, canals and karezes must be given first priority as well as water management. In other words nothing can be done into the soil (except weed control) unless it is irrigated first.
 2.   FARM POWER
      Before the war, about 90% of the farmers were using oxen for land cultivation. About 70% had their own oxen and another 14% shared theif animals-with another farmer. About five per cent of the farmers hired ploughmen and oxen. About 3.5% had their own tractor, and about five per cent hired tractors. The remainder used no animal or mechanical power for their farming operation, often because they had orchard crops. In the north and northeast it was traditional for farmers to use horses for ploughing, though oxen were predominant. In some of the smallest farms in the east-central region donkeys were also sometimes used. Camels were occasionally used in the north and west.
      Recent survey conducted both in the refugee camps and inside Afghanistan estimates that about 250,000 pairs of oxen would be needed to make up the short fall to reach pre-war level. It further estimates that if the only way of achieving this were by natural increase, then it would take 17 years at three per cent growth rate.
                                              52
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992              AfflllAN(JIKAO                 VOL.  5  NO. 2
         Can the land l&T left uncultivated for such afTong period? Clearly not. On the other hand, the logistic of importing large numbers from Pakistan or Iran are prohibitively difficult and may not be feasible. The cost of the delivered animals, the cost of ‘feed, and the risk of diseases should .also be taken into consideration. Some NGO's that delivered animals have faced considerable logistic and other problems.
         Based on these problem, emphasis should be put on the use of tractors, especially in the areas where tractors had been Used before the war. Animals should mostly be considered for areas where the size of farms are small or the areas which have steep slopes and are terraced. The use of stationary threshers should also be encouraged.
         Hand tools of better quality should also be emphasized. Supply of hand tools at the beginning of the repatriation phase may have to be externally sourced, as local blacksmiths will not be able to supply the demand.
    3.   IMPROVED SEEDS
         Improved seed is probably the most important of all inputs. The benefit of using other inputs cannot be realized unless the seed used has the genetic capacity of making use of.them.
         The so called improved wheat varieties grown by the farmers in Afghanistan have degenerated. They have become susceptible to diseases and have lost their high yielding potentials and, in some cases, even their identity. They had to be replaced by new improved seeds many years back. It is certain that the introduction of inappropriate seed can be a detrimental . factor in a farmer’s economy. A variety must be tested in the locality before it is distributed to the farmers. Therefore, more emphasis should be placed on agricultural research in the development of. high yielding and better quality crop varieties.'
         Let us look at the potential of some of the improved crop varieties in comparison to the local varieties.
TABLE 1: Yield-gap of various crops in Pakistan and Afghanistan:
Commodity           Yield Potential Nation Ave   Gap   Unachieved 
                      Under Expt.                       potential 
                        (kg/ha)     (kg/ha)    (kg/ha)   Per cent 
Wheat (Pakistan)         6,425        1,695     4,730  74         
Wheat (Afghanistan)      6,300        1,130     5,170  82         
Rice (Pakistan)          9,489        1,703     7,786  82         
Rice (Afghanistan)       7,250        1,904     5,346  73         
Maize (Pakistan)         6,944        1,272     5,672  82         
Maize (Afghanistan)      4,867        1,583     3,284  67         
   4.  DISTRIBUTION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVED CROP VARIETIES
         It‘generally takes 10-20 years of intensive efforts in the development of a
53
    JANUARY-MARCH, 1992              AfflH/HKJtHAO                  VOL. 5  NO. 2
    new wheat variety. Its full benefits, however, can only be realized after sufficient seed has been produced to allow the new variety to be grown on a commercial scale. The utilization of new varieties do not end with the initial distribution of  improved seed. Its quality has to be maintained by continual redistribution of                                     new seed as long as the variety is planted by the farmers. If
    this re-distribution does not occur, the variety gradually deteriorates.
         Taking these problems into consideration many countries have developed orderly procedures for the increase, distribution and maintenance of the improved varieties*; These procedures include three overlapping areas of responsibility which include breeding, certification and commercial seed production.
         As mentioned earlier over 11,000 tons of improved wheat seeds as well as certain tonnage of maize seeds have been distributed to Afghan farmers during the last three   years. This trend cannot continue  for ever because of budget
    constraints, availability of seed in Pakistan, high transport costs, etc. Therefore, production of high quality seed has to be shifted from Pakistan into Afghanistan so   that quality seed can be produced  and distributed within the
    country.
    5.   FERTILIZER
         The potential of improved crop varieties cannot be fully utilized unless it receives proper kinds and amounts of fertilizers. Two main types of fertilizers are in regular use in the country. Diammonium phosphate, also known as grey fertilizer, is used at or before seeding. Nitrogen fertilizer or urea, locally known as white fertilizer, is used at seeding and on the grown crop.
         Over the past two decades, fertilizer use in the developing countries has grown continuously and explains much of the increase in wheat yields. The use of fertilizer in Afghanistan took off in the 1970's rising from 9,000 tones in 1967 to over 100,000 tons in 1978.
         Fertilizer use depends on price policies for wheat and fertilizer. The cost of one kg nitrogen is expressed in terms of kilograms of wheat, in most large wheat producing countries where nitrogen is not significantly subsidized, including India, Pakistan and China, the price of one kg of nitrogen is equal to the value of 2-4 kg of wheat. Countries such as Mexico, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Algeria maintain sizeable subsidies on fertilizers that reduces the wheat, nitrogen price ratio to less than 1:2.
         Estimates from several countries, as well as analyses of changes in world cereal production suggest that the average grain= nutrient ration (that is the grain in yield for every additional kilogram of fertilizer applied to the .crop) for cereals in developing countries in the past two decades is about 8:1.
    6.   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
         Animal husbandry was a very important industry in the country. It was a vital buffer against poor harvest when they were sold to buy grain. Ordinary and karakul sheep and goats, estimated 25 million before the war, were primary
54
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
    sources of meat, wool, and skin. Cattle estimated at 3.6 million were .mainly for draught, milk and meat. Camels, horses, and donkeys, in all about 2 million, were the main means of transport in different terrain.
         Recently conducted surveys show that between 1978 and 1987 there has been a decline of about 67% in the number of karakul sheep, ordinary sheep, and goats. The decline in the number of cattle has been about 50%. Similar reductions have occurred in the number of horses (27%), donkeys (6%), and mules (24%).
         Further- investigation of animal diseases should be through further focus surveys. Establishment of veterinary clinics on provincial and district basis should be taken into consideration. Attention should also be focused on breading of animals for the regeneration of animals as well as their genetic improvements. Special attention needs to be directed towards poultry both for meat and egg production.
    7.   AGRO-CHEMICALS
         As mentioned, natural crop enemies are becoming serious threat to certain crops in different parts of the country. Weeds and rodents in various regions, mildews in grapes and certain other crops, locust and sunn pest in the northern provinces, cut worms, borers, aphids and many other insects almost all over the country are damaging the crop not only through yield reduction but also through reducing their quantities.
         Agro-chemicals are probably the most hazardous commodities on the farms and their un-necessary uses must *be avoided as much as possible. Any mistake in the use of their proper dosages or at the inappropriate stages of plant growth causes tremendous damage to the crops. Specific chemicals used on wrong plants (such as 2,4-D on orchard trees) can wipe up the whole orchard. On the other hand, despite their hazardous nature, we'cannot avoid using them.
         Consequently, policies should be made with regard to the specific chemicals introduced into the country for specific purposes. Their application should be restricted only to those people who have received proper training in their safe usage.
    8.   TRAINING
         As mentioned earlier the most feasible way to raise production in Afghanistan is through the use of certain improved adoptable technologies which are available to some extent. Therefore, emphasis should be placed on training qualified extension workers to establish links with the farmers and extend these technologies into the farming communities. They can also play a feed-back role to the researchers in relation to the farming problems associated within the farming systems.
         Many of the returning refugees, being away from the farms for so many years, may also face different problems with regard to their farming operations. Shortage of qualified mechanics, tractor operators and black smiths may also be a problem in the years to" come•
                                           55
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992      flfGUJINJfHAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
     Therefore, emphasis should be placed on training at different levels starting from a very simple farming operation to a technical and scientific field.
 9.   FARMERS AWARENESS:
    Wheat scientists have estimated that mixed seed alone can lead to 10% losses in yields. Therefore, there is a need to assess yield losses from the use of mixed seed, banned, old and local wheat varieties. Local wheat varieties and those that are old but still recommended or the,ones whidh are banned and mixed are often susceptible to different diseases such as rusts and smuts.
                                    >
    Surveys conducted in Pakistan indicated that the farmers* knowledge with regard to the improved wheat varieties was very limited. According to the farmers in the rice zone, 31% of the wheat acreage was covered with new improved varieties while according to the breeders it was only 16%. Farmers in the cotton zone indicated the old recommended wheat acreage to be 23% while breeders found it to be only 10%. Two per cent of the farmers said that their wheat fields had mixtures, while breeders identified them as high as 15%. These findings show how poor farmers' knowledge is with regard to quality seed. Consequently, their awareness must be . raised with regard to the importance of quality seed and how it can increase their productivity. They must be taught that the genetic potential of a high yielding wheat variety can only be fully utilized if the associated technology goes with it. Farmers will utilize their resources more efficiently only if they have ready access to technical knowledge which is increasingly becoming site specific.
10. LAST ~BUT~ CERTAINLY THE MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL IS THE
                              POLITICAL SITUATION
    As long as the war continues in Afghanistan, the causes of these disasters will continue to remain with us. Naturally, settlement of the political struggle is the ultimate requirement; but, short of that, the importation of food, seed, fertilizer and pesticides. to those areas of Afghanistan which are controlled by the mujaheddin is essential if the country and its people are to survive. Whatever the political outcome, agriculture in this nation of farmers will have to be rebuilt.
      IRRIGATION SYSTEM IN AFGHANISTAN
BY ENGINEER ABDULLAH AINI
         The main irrigation systems presently in use. in Afghanistan are as follows:
A.  Modern and relatively large scale irrigation systems, mainly dams over the rivers. These are limited to a few governmental projects in Helmand, Kandahar, Nangarhar, Ghazni and Parwan. other governmental projects were
                                            56
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
         under construction before 1978 in Baghlan, Kunduz, Herat and Nimroz provinces, but they have not been completed.
    B.   Temporary or locally built diversion structures over perennial and semiperennial rivers to convey water through canal (joi) for irrigation.
    C.   Diversion structures over seasonal river and stream beds to convey flood waters to the fields whenever it rains. This system is known as Sailabi.
    D.   Use of direct rainfall for rainfed crops (lalmi). Usually dams or embankments are erected to impound and store waters from direct rainfall.
    E.   Karezes (called qanat in old literature) are one of the most widely used irrigation systems in, Afghanistan. Karezes are found across the length and breadth of Afghanistan, south of Hindukush and from Kabul to Herat, (see enclosed map for karezes and river irrigation systems).
    F.   Springs $nd open wells (arhat). Very small to negligible areas are
         irrigated through these systems.                             <*
         Irrigation systems in Afghanistan are mostly in traditional manner and under such system, it is difficult to control and distribute water properly. Because of improper design and lack of effeciant water distribution system, it is not possible to provide sufficient water for irrigation purposes. Furthermore, these systems require excessive maintenance in order to provide a continuous supply of water. Frequent damages result from river floods, excessive rainfall and lack of maintenance. Canal intakes are washed away and canal banks washed out due to excessive water entering the canals. Such repeated failures were time-consuming and costly to repair and cause interruption in the supply of water at critical times during the irrigation season. This causes considerable losses in crop yields.
                                        PRESENT CONDITION
         During the Russian invasion of Afghanistan from 1979-1989 most towns villages, mosques, roiads and communication systems were completely destroyed by aerial bombing. The majority of Afghanistan agriculture and irrigation systems, which supported the economy, were also destroyed, making it impossible for the rural population to feed themselves. Studies carried out by the UN agencies reported a decline of about 29% wheat and 52% in cotton as compared to 1978. This is due to damage \of irrigation systems as well as lack of maintenance during 12 years of war. Also recent reports from the Helmand valley indicate that the general condition of water control systems in Helmand valley have also become hazardous. Canal headworks, canals, canal structures, (drops, gate lifting mechanisms, turnouts), roads and bridges were severely damaged or destroyed. As per NGO's reports, the Nangarhar Irrigation project is also in very serious condition. Canals and their related structures are damaged or destroyed by war and lack of maintenance.
         In 1987, international agencies provided assistance for reconstruction and rehabilitation of irrigation system in the few frontier provinces. There are;
                                                  57
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 more than 90 NGO's based in Peshawar Pakistan, 60 of which are working across the border for rehabilitating irrigational systems. The ACBAR reported in 1991, 73 million $ US were spent in Afghanistan for rehabilitation of which $  13.6
 million were spent on irrigation. For 1992, funds for irrigation projects are increased to $  16 million. Though it is a positive step, still it may not be
 enough for rehabilitation of the entire irrigation system.
                                 IMPORTANCE OF FEASIBILITY STUDY
      Any development activity should aim at improvement of available systems. There is a lot of potential for improvement of these systems. For instance, the dams embankments erected for impounding and using the rainwater, require tremendous farm power and human labor. Generally, these dams are breached after each rainfall. The relatively large structures over seasonal river beds to divert flood waters run the same risk at each flood. This obviously means that the dams/embankments erected have some technological or engineering design fault eg. in the location, height and size of the spillways or in the compacting methods. Expending resources on improvement of these systems may yield good results.
                        IMPORTANCE OF SOCIAL STUDY
      An important feature of the traditional irrigation systems, particularly karezes is that ownership rights .are well known and recognized by the public. Also, unlike the large scale systems, they have community management systems which are well established and, in most cases, centuries old. Generally#, large numbers of subsistence farmer families are dependent on these traditional sources of irrigation. Thus, before undertaking any project, it can be ensured that there is a relatively large number of deserving beneficiaries in such projects and one does not need to worry about management and maintenance aspects such as water distribution and cleaning and maintenance work. The community will perform these tasks through their existing and well established traditional arrangements. This is extremely important because lack of resources for maintenance is a main problem in large scale modern irrigation systems in Afghanistan.
                                            CONCLUSION
      Although construction of dams over perennial, semi-perennial and seasonal rivers, and there use for irrigation and electricity generation, is probably the best long term solution. In the case of karezes and small temporary diversion structures, immediate assistance has to be provided to existing irrigation Systems being used now or at least functioning until 1978.
                                         RECOMMENDATIONS
      As an Islamic government is established in Kabul, the following are recommended for rehabilitation of irrigation systems:
 1.   Reconstruction of damaged irrigation facilities and rehabilitation of
      existing irrigation structures constitute an important element of the
                        * )
                                             58
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
          country's strategy for economic recovery. Priority should be given to improving water supply and distribution      in existing irrigation   systems,
          thereby enabling farmers to increase yields and intensify production on existing irrigated areas.
    2.    The Helmand and Arghandab irrigation projects which were assisted by USAID for a long time, should receive high priority for rehabilitation to ensure effective utilization of the land and water resources of the project area.
    3.    Completion of quicker-yielding irrigation   projects,  including the  Khanabad
          irrigation project, which was assisted by   the World   Bank and the  Gawargan
          and Chardarah projects assisted by The Asian Development Bank.
    4.    Salma Reservior on Hari-Rud which was assisted by       Saudi Arabia  has been
          left incomplete due to the war. High priority should be given to the completion of this project, which is of considerable importance to the development of the agricultural potential.
    5.    The Ministry of Water and Power should be responsible for water resources development at national level. International aid should be channelled to the Ministry of Water and Power for planning, rehabilitation, improvement and operation of modern irrigation systems.
    6.    Private sector or &GOs should be strengthened by international agencies to work on small scale irrigation systems and traditional systems and take
          active part in rehabilitation of Afghanistan.
                                         »' ■ " — ■ ■
    7.    The Ministry of Planning should be made responsible for coordinating the international assistance as well as those offered by private sectors or NGO's. The coordinating department should determine the priorities and avoid duplications.
    8.    The Nangarhar and Sardeh irrigation projects, damaged in the war, should be repaired and rehabilitated.
                          - ... . '
    9.    There were some other irrigation and flood control projects such as Kokcha,
          Parwan and Amu River bank protection which need repair and rehabilitation. Priority should be given to such projects, as well.                   - ____
                                                  59
o\
o
                                                       AGRICULTURAL SKETCH MAP
 Sandy and gravel deserts prevailing, dunes High aountain desert prevailing, rock, snow Pasture prevailing, meagre, regionally small irrigation
 River irrigation - big scale Chief area of dry farming
                                                                                                                                                                  Chief area of Kareezes
Storage and diversion, dams
 fNJ
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992      AFGHAN JIHAD            VOL. 5 NO
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          (WINJIH                   VOL.  5 NO. 2
 FORESTS IN AFGHANISTAN
 BY: SAYYED HABIB-UR-REHMAN
    According.to official estimates 1967-1968 the total area covered by forests in Afghanistan is 1#987,420 hectares or 9,937,100 jareebs. Paktia, occupying 27.0% of the total forest area in Afghanistan, stands first in forest densityj Kunar stands second with 15.5% and Badghis with 7.0% is third. Other provinces have a varying degree of forestation, ranging from 02% in Logar and Bamian to 6.9 and 6.8% in Samangan and Nangarhar provinces respectively (see table).
    Forests in Afghanistan can be divided into two categories:
 (A) ARTIFICIAL, (B) NATURAL
 A; ARTIFICIAL FORESTS have been created in various parts of the country for producing green belts or for the use of their fruits, fire-wood or leaves for feeding the live-stock. Among these are included:
 1.   The pistatio projects at Robatak, Samangan and Qala-e-Nau of Badghis province. Both projects included rehabilitation of the natural forests already existing in the. area and creating new forests artificially around the original area by transplanting saplings and cuttings from nearby nurseries established for this purpose.
 2.   The Guzargah poplar farm near Kabul has been produced by planting poplar cuttings in an area of 30 jareebs (15 acres). Each year a large number of saplings from this artificial forest were distributed among farmers in the surrounding areas. The poplar, which has a rapid growth, is generally used as roof beams for houses. A poplar can be utilized for this purpose generally within four years.
 3.   Artificial forests of the needle-leaf variety of trees in Paghman and Pul-e^Charkhi; the Paktia project covering large areas in Kutgai, Seta Kandau and Khostj the Kunar project which consisted of rehabilitation of natural forests as well as creation of new forests in different areas of the province- nurseries for which were situated at Asadabad, Chapa Darah and Asmar covering an area of 80 jareebs (40 acres) and supplying between
      70,000 and 100,000 saplings a year.
 4.   Needle-leaf and broad-leaf forests were also created in Surkhakan (Laghman province) Nangarhar, Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Farah, Logar, Ghazni and Herat provinces. Between 300-400 hectares of land were planted with new tree-saplings in these provinces annually.
 B. NATURAL FORESTS exist in a number of the provinces and were being looked after by the Ministry of Agriculture. Both needle-leaf and broad-leaf variety of trees are abondantly found in these forests. Among the latter are included the
                                                        61
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
                                A(GIMAO                       VOL. 5 NO. 2
pistatio trees which cover ' vast areas in the northern and north-western provinces of Herat, Badghis, Faryab, Balkh, Samangan, Baghlan, Kunduz, Jauzjan, Takhar and Badakhshan. As regards pistatio production, Badghis province was first, followed by Samangan and Baghlan respectively. Only 1% of the plantation still exists - greater part of it being destroyed during the war. Only in Jawand district of Badghis province 40% of the pistatio trees have survived the war.
     Another variety of the broad-leaf forests is the oak, found from 900-1,500 meters from sea level. These generally grow in Paktia, Nangarhar, Kunar and Laghman provinces. The growth of the oak is very slow and they were mainly used for fire-wood, particularly during the winter months. Due to aerial bombardment and indiscriminate use for fire wood, the oak forests have rapidly disappeared and only between 2-5% still exists.
     Olive is yet another broad-leaf forest tree found in Paktia, Nangarhar, Laghman and Kunar provinces. In its natural form the tree does not bear any fruit but can do so after grafting. The olive farms at Batikot, Ghaziabad, Lachapur and Hadda in Nangarhar have all been created from local cuttings supplied from Paktia and Kunar provinces but only the grafts were prepared from Georgia Republic of the former Soviet Union, but all there is now to be seen is only a mere 3-5%.
     Wild almonds, found in Uruzgan, Zabul and partly in Ghazni province, are also of the broad-leaf variety of forest trees that need to be grafted for bearing fruit.
     Other trees found in these forests are birch, spruce, cedar and pine. But most of these have either been cut or destroyed by air raids,
           STEPS TAKEN PRIOR TO 1978 FOR FOREST PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT
     Before the 1978, coup there were guards who looked after the forests. Young trees were not to be cut and only dried branches were allowed to be cut properly not to damage other parts. Fruits were also allowed to be picked properly. The number of trees cut during the previous 20 years was equal to that cut in 1979 alone.       There were check posts on the main transport roots in
Nangarhar, Laghman and Kunar provinces. Only in the latter province logs were being occasionally transported to Nangarhar by floating them in the river at night. Wood sizes used as rafters or the planks of the • Afghan bed (charpayee) were completely forbidden.
                                   PRESENT STATE OF FORESTS
     Indiscriminate cutting of forest trees still continues, including young plants. Though tribal councils in Khogyani, Nangarhar, have decided to stop cutting trees until further notice, in other parts of the province and in Laghman and Kunar there is no report of similar steps being taken by the local councils.
     The pistatio forests in the north of the country are being cut for fire wood. Lack of other kinds of fire wood and the fact that fewer people have been displaced from these provinces have further aggravated the situation.
                                                     62
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992             MGIIJINJIHAfl                VOL.  5 NO.  2
      Aerial bombardments have caused more damage to the forests than local necessities.
      In the northern provinces and Nooristan forests and pasture:' lands are continually reclaimed for rain-fed crops and ownership.
      Wherever the Russian troops went they set fire to forests in order to rid themselves of mujaheddin hiding places.
      The AIG was not capable of stopping trees from cutting.
                         AREA UNDER FORESTS BY PROVINCES (HECTARES)
                                        1967-68 (1346)
Province            Forest Area Percentage to  
                                the total area 
1.  Uruzgan              78,040            3.9 
2.  Badghis             149,560            7.5 
3.  Bamian                3,200            0.2 
4.  Badakhshan      90,000                 4.5 
5.  Baghlan            8 7/5 40            4.4 
6.  Balkh           70,900                 3.6 
7.  Parwan & Kapisa       4,640            0.2 
8.  Paktia             537,2 60           27.0 
9.  Takhar          49,700                 2.5 
10. Jauzjan         28,700                 1.4 
11. Zabul                   200            0.0 
12. Samangan            137,700            6.9 
13. Ghazni          2 9,000                1.5 
14. Ghor                 22/140            1.1 
15. Faryab                7^680            3.9 
16. Farah           20,060                 1.0 
17. Kabul                   200            0.0 
18. Kunduz          3^940                  1.8 
19. Kandahar              5,600            0.3 
20. Kunar                30^400           15.5 
21. Laghman         57,680           2.9       
22. Logar                 3,140            0.2 
23. Nangarhar            13^860            6.8 
24. Nimroz               9,7 20      0.5       
25. Wardak                   40      0.0       
26. Herat           41,640           2.1       
27. Helmand               5,580      0.3       
    Total:            1,987,420 100            
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
                          UO                     VOL. 5 NO. 2
           HEALTH SYSTEM IN AFGHANISTAN
 DR. NAJIB MUJADDEDI. AIG MINISTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH
    Prior to the years of conflict, 1978, the health system in Afghanistan was highly clinically oriented and curative-based. Health services were restricted to the more developed urban areas where modern facilities existed and were available for people who could afford them. This urban based curative focussed health system could not meet the needs of the vast majority of the people who live in the distant villages. Health services coverage extended to a very small minority estimated at 24% of the total population. It is no wonder therefore, that the health status of the people did not appreciably change even after many years of this type of health services as was evidenced from the available health situation reports.
    According to WHO, under the Ministry of Public Health in Kabul, of the existing hospitals more than 58% are in the capital city of Kabul. In addition, all specialized hospitals and elite health institutions, the great majority of health facilities of other types (e.g. 43% of government pharmacies, 58% of
 x-ray units, more than 70% of the family guidance clinics and more than 78% of MCH centers) are all located in Kabul.
    The Ministry of Public Health of puppet regime is claiming that 2,400 physicians are working with them in the country. Two third of this worked in Kabul. Other types of health workers include 1,270 nurses, 441 midwives, 326 laboratory technicians, and 461 mid-level health workers- all in urban centers. This inequity in distribution of resources has been so enormous that to address it would take many years. Social justice demands, however, something should be done to bring about a change in this unequal distribution of resources.
    Besides, centralization of health system in Afghanistan is another main problem in regard to the delivery of health services for all, specially for those who have been living in rural Afghanistan.
    In 1979, the number of doctors who were working in the system was estimated at 1,500. By 1981, about 50% of these doctors left the system and either they were arrested or killed by Kabul regime or they migrated to other countries. A large number of professors, associate professors, and qualified lecturers from Kabul and Nangarhar Medical Colleges were also either arrested, killed, or migrated to the other countries.
    Despite the lack of qualified professors and lecturers and teaching equipment and supplies, the puppet regime has produced many doctors but with a very poor medical knowledge. The number of female students, comparing to male
                                              64
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          RfGIIANJ[HAfl             VOL. 5 NO.  2
students, in the medical schools are very high. On the basis of cultural habits prevailing in Afghanistan, it is difficult to send female doctors to the rural areas to serve the people.
      Moreover, the precious health system was dis-integrated. In dis-integrated systems, there is no valuable supervision and referral mechanisms and the health workers are working in an isolated situation with minimum cooperation and coordination.
      At present, average crude death rate is 28.0%, being somewhat higher in females than in merits. The birth rate is estimated 48.00 per 1,000. Annual growth rhte is 2.51%. Life expectancy rate is 40.5-42 years.
      Women and children have a distinctly higher burden of death. Higher female mortality rate is mainly due to maternal causes. Sixty per cent of all deaths occur among children under the age of.five years even though they comprise only 20% of the population.
      According to UNICEF's 1989 state of the world's children report, Afghanistan has the lowest child survival rate in the developing world. Only 69.9% of the children born in Afghanistan will servive to the age of five years.
      Based on 1989 figures, Afghanistan had the highest under five mortality rate (304 per 1,000 live births), the highest infant (under one year) mortality rate (182 pet 1,000 live births), and the lowest life expectancy rate (40.5-42
years). There are many factors related to the war which have probably caused the infant mortality rate to increase within the deeply isolated rural areas reflect rates approaching 300-500 per 1,0.00 live births.
      Childhood mortality is roughly estimated to be 329/1000 in children 1-5 years of age, the high rate of mortality is due to acute diarrhoea, acute respiratory infection, malnutrition, measles, tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, poliomyelitis, and many other infectious diseases.
      Tuberculosis and malaria continue to be major causes of morbidity, mortality, and disability. In all cases, it is the rural poor who are the real victims.
      The nutritional status of children is of great concern; 45.2% of children are suffering from mild degrees of malnutrition, 31.0% from moderate degrees and 6.7% to a severe degree. The prevalence of moderate and severe degree of malnutrition due to protein/calorie deficiency was maximum between 12-24 months and decline thereafter. This emphasizes the need for- both improved weaning practices and, in some instances, increased availability of essential foods.
      A household survey which was conducted by MSH with help of Basic Health Workers (BHW's) of MOPH/AIG in Wardak province in the beginning of 1991 revealed that infectious diseases were on the top of the morbidity, list for all age groups. As expected, acute respiratory infection and acute diarrhoea were high.
                                            65
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                 MAN JIHAD                    VOL.  5 NO.  2
 Dysentery cases were surprisingly very high# they counted for 11,2% of all cases. As feared, suspected T.B. and suspected malaria cases were high, they respectively formed 8.7% and 5.6% of cases.
      Studying the morbidity pattern of the community, revealed that females in the child bearing age 16-45 were significantly more prone to getting sick than other age groups. This finding points out the importance of this age group from the health care point of view, especially in Afghanistan where most health workers are males.
      Investigating the sources of antenatal and natal care for women in the sample who had delivered in the 12 months prior to the interview revealed that only one third of women sought prenatal care. The important sources of prenatal care were dais (traditional birth attendants), mullahs (religious men respected in the community), and private doctors. Almost one fifth of women claimed that they have received a vaccination during their pregnancy. More than 90% of deliveries took place at home; the dais, the mother-in-law or the mother were the main sources of help during delivery.
      Sixty per cent of all children under five years in the sample did not have any other food or fluid, apart from milk, introduced in their meals by the age of six months. This late introduction of supplementary nutrition is likely to be one main cause of malnutrition among children. 1
      A T.B. vaccination scar was detected in 56% of children and there was no significant difference between males and females.
      In spite of the under-reporting of mortality in general, and in particular for infants under three months old, children under five years comprised more than half the deaths. Diarrhoea and acute respiratory infection caused almost half the deaths.
      The leading causes of morbidity in rural areas are as follow:
 1,  Infectious and parasitic diseases, 2. respiratory system disorders, 3. digestive system disorders, 4. disorders of the eyes, 5. psychiatric and nervous system disorders, 6. ill defined signs and symptoms, 7. musculoskeletal disorders, 8. skin disorders, 9. injuries, 10. oral health problems, 11. ear, nose and throat disorders, 12. stress and depression.
      The leading causes of mortality in rural areas are as follow:
                               1              ' t
 1.  Diarrhoea/Dehydration, 2. respiratory infections, 3. measles, 4. maternal death, .. 5Ai. tetanus, 6. war wounds/accidents and injuries, 8..  tuberculosis,
 9. malnutrition.
  | Although no one knows What condition will prevail in Afghanistan, it is eissential that the Afghans and the donor community begin to plan now for a hjealth system built on self reliance leading towards the goal of sustainable hlealth programs. This system of health services must provide, basic health and
                                            66
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
■MUM
appropriate secondary referral services for the majority of the population including returning refugees, internally displaced persons, and Afghans who have remained in their cities, towns and villages throughout the war.
        I
                                        PROGRAM FOR 1992
     To attain this objective, it was very necessary to develop a single planning mode in health sector. Therefore, the Ministry of Public Health of AIG, after extensive consultation and meetings with WHO officials in Peshawar and Geneva, prepared the five year Master Plan and the Action Plan for 1992. The main objective of this Master Plan is the development and rehabilitation of primary health care and the health infrastructure in rural areas including the referral and supportive services. The plan will be implemented in a phased manner. In the implementation of the Master Plan a dual approach is proposed, starting at the community and district level and strengthening the support services and referral system. This.is the only way that guarantees a balanced development of all services at all levels of the health care delivery system throughout the country.
     The Master Plan is based on the following factors:
1.   Resources will be distributed with clear and preferential allocation for developing primary health care.
2.   Priority is                          given to areas most under-served.  Therefore, promoting and
     enhancing the health services for the rural areas is emphasized.
3.   The referral and logistic services in support of the primary health care receives the next priority for resource allocation and further development.
4.   Development of sophisticated institutions has been avoided.
5.   Emphasis is placed on problems which cause                               the greatest morbidity,
     mortality, and disability. ‘                      '
6.   Existing facilities 'and resources will be utilized and or renovated where possible, rather than spending capital on new facilities.
7.   The priority is given to preventive health care programs.
8.   The costs of the    ongoing and planned health                          programs and services is
     designed to be at a level the country can sustain and manage, given the resources likely to be available. Sustainability is a decisive factor in health system development.
9.   In general,                          plans are area-specific, based oh the prevailing pathology,
     population density, infrastructure capacity, and .existing resources.
     The Master Plan is divided into four chapters: Infrastructure, Manpower,
Priority Health Services, and Phased Implementation of the Master Plan.
                                             67
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
      In regard to infrastructure, the main objective is the delivery of primary health care services through establishing Basic Health Posts, Basic Health Centers, Comprehensive Health Centers, and Primary Care Hospitals all over the country especially in the rural areas.
      The human   resources  sector, envisages to harmonization of    the planning,
 production and   deployment  of health manpower and ensuring the      relevance of
 training programs in line with PHC and the Health needs of the community.
      Six objectives have been set for manpower development:
 1.    Manpower policy and planning development.
• 2. Re-orientation and upgrading of existing trained health workers in the light of PHC system.
 3.    Addressing the needs  of undeserved population. Emphasis will be given to
      female health workers, particularly workers in MCH Services as well as health workers working at the community level such as BHW's, Rural Health officers (RHO's), etc.
 4.    Support to higher medical education.
 5.    Production of health  learning material needed for training    at all levels
      of the health system.
 6.    Training of Trainers (TOT).
      The priorities for health services ,have been given to the following areas:
      The rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of health facilities.
      Health manpower development to meet the staffing needs of the developing health system.
      Immunization programs.
      Mother and Child Health care (MCH).
      Assistance to disabled Afghans.
      The control of diarrhoea diseases, acute respiratory, malaria and tuberculosis as well as other widespread diseases.
      Environmental health.
      Completion of a health information system and any other activities related to the early rehabilitation and reconstruction of the health sector in the country.
id M
'vTjv ^t|y' ^
                                              68
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992.
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 RECONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS IN THE RURAL AREAS
   BY DR. ABDULLAH ALI
     Program for planning and construction of the villages, public buildings and infrastructures for transportation purposes, which forms one of the initial conditions for the return of the' refugees, are vitally important and would have a direct effect on the culture and life styles of, the inhabitants of various parts of the country. Therefore, it seems necessary that the proposals by Afghan experts on planning issues and their views in the methods of putting them into practice should be taken into consideration.
     Afghanistan, unlike many other third world countries, had been self sufficient in many respects and had preserved its traditional methods of construction and maintained its cultural and economic independence. As a result of experience gained through the centuries, unique styles of architecture and construction methods have emerged which respond with a goal harmony to different environmental conditions and availability of the local material.
     Afghans have prpven their skill and ability in creating splendid examples of architectural work and elaborate structures. The art and cultural history of Afghanistan,which goes back to 2,000 years ago, demonstrates these achievements clearly.
     Unfortunately during the past few decades, foreign building standards and material, alien to the countty were introduced by foreign advisers and Afghan experts and have been used in public and residential structures.
     At this critical stage, while almost one half of the villages, cities and their districts are badly damaged or completely ruined and while a huge number of refugees are expected to return to their homeland with an urgent need for shelter, it is important to know what programs should be adopted, so that,- on the one hand, facilitate the resettlement of the refugees and, on the other, raise the standard of construction of houses and public buildings but keeping their traditional and cultural Character. The following proposals are being briefly presented:
I. ISSUES RELATED TO CONSTRUCTION
 1.  Huge refugee programs have comprehensively been undertaken by the United Nations, and technical and financial aid for the reconstruction of Afghanistan is expected to be allocated by the doners. But it is.feared that large foreign construction companies and building merchants could soon find a profitable market through misleading offers on rapidly built homes and pre-fabricated buildings which, they might claim, could be ready for use in a short period. If this is heeded, it could very well jeopardize many aspects of country's future, i.e., the life style, social ties and
                                            69
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992               fl[(ll(ANJ(KAO                  VOL.  5  NO. 2
     many of the achievements of traditional architecture.                  .
          The impracticability of the proposed pre-fabricated systems could not be ruled out. Taking into account the geographical and topographical conditions of Afghanistan, every location represents a different climatic and geographical characteristic. Altitude changes rapidly between 400-7,000 meters above sea level. Wind patterns and intensity varies and the degree of vulnerability to earthquake differs from site to site. The adoption of pre-f abricated systems will not be a simple task in valleys and high altitudes due to the severity of wind velocity and ruggedness of the terrain. And thus, it would mean dumping a vast amount of capital and yet bringing nothing but regret and dependence on foreign imports.
2.   In connection with the resettlement of the refugees,there are two options:'
     (1)  To build new settlements in new areas and organize larger villages, with a better infrastructure such as electricity and, water supply, etc. (2> Refugees should be allowed to revive their own shelter according to their traditions and local possibilities. However, this should be done
   . under experts supervision to bring improvement in building techniques and to enhance living and sanitory standards.
          The first method may bring simplicity in assisting people, but it
                                                             I
     could very well damage our cultural traditions by loosening social ties that have traditionally linked the Afghan societies with each other. Therefore, the second approach is more practical:     Old villages could be
     reconstructed in accordance with the traditional customs taking in view the climatic condition and availability of local material in each region.
          The implementation of the resettlement programs, if carried out in concord with the inhabitants’ requirements and their objectives and with encouragement given to them, could avoid large migrations to major cities.
3.   A great deal of scientific data and rules of thumb have been compiled on methods of improving the use of adobe and other natural building materials as well as the methods of constructing domes and arches from sun-dried-mud bricks. These new measures should be taught to local builders, who will be involved in the reconstruction of villages.
          Confronted with a twin crisis of economy and energy, industrialized countries have started a dialogue on the revival of earth as a building material and are backing research programs and developing applications. The United States has officially recognized the use of adobe and rammed earth by integrating these construction, techniques into •national and re.gional standards. The investment in research programs on thermo-physical characteristics of earth runs into millions of dollars. France has outlined the areas in which research into producing building material from earth should be conducted in the coming years. Programs of research have also been started in Germany, Switzerland and Belgium.
     N Therefore, we should strongly attend to select the way in which we
                                                70
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992              Affllll jiHAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
______^1— ________________________________________
     should not have remorse in the future. . I might add that construction of buildings in rural areas, not under emergency program, may take long time because we should first attend to the economic base of the rural areas an'd then go to construction. It is quite possible that until people become self-sufficient,we might not be able to launch a comprehensive house building scheme in the country. But until we reach the stage in which the people are economically well-off to start building their own houses, training for young people should be provided. They should be trained in using natural available resources. They would later serve as teachers for local workers and masons.
           There are many techniques available today which can be very effectively adopted by the Third World Countries. One of them is "self cooperation" or "self reliance". We ought to learn about this and train people in this field so they may in turn guide the people for improving their economic services. v
4.    To avoid loss of natural forests due to their extensive- use in the reconst-, ruction process, especially for roofing, we need to undertake a program of preservation of existing forests and plant new fast-growing trees such as: poplars,
5.    By using current scientific techniques effort should be made to utilize natural and renewable resource of energy such as solar energy and the energy produced by wind, hydrodynamics and natural gas for domestic needs, hygienic water supply, generating electricity and other social and industrial demands.
           In relation to the application of solar and wind energy for domestic consumption, there is already, a comprehensive report available which could be applied to several regions in Afghanistan.
6.    To implement aid and construction programs in the first step, sufficient information and statistics on the number of settlers must be compiled. This will determine* the type of requirements and major aid centers.
7.    Refugees must be allowed to participate in the development of their own regions. Therefore, it would become necessary to set up small development centers in ruined areas which should .enable them maintain links with different villages. These centers should be staffed with technical and
     administrative personnel       from        local people as much as possible.
     Furthermore, ways must be explored to maintain links for the exchange of information and supply of aid and guidance among major., regional and local centers.
8.    Industrial, technical and construction schools must be established to train local people and advance their technical knowledge in the use of local material. ■
9.    Factories should be established to produce needed building material.
                                        71
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992        AICIIANJMIII1            VOL. 5 NO. 2
 H.  WATER SUPPLY AND SEWER SYSTEMS
 I.  Necessary measures must be taken for the expansion of water supply network in Kabul and other cities.'
 2.  New legislation and regulations on the methods of controlling the use of surface and underground water resources and methods of making palatable water supply in villages should be introduced.
                                 «
 3.  It would be necessary to generalize some specific regulations on the methods of sewage purification by filter-beds and the type of sewer
     evcfomc
            RECONSTRUCTION AND THE INDIVIDUAL
 BY NANCY HATCH DUPREE SENIOR CONSULTANT ACBAR/ARIC, PESHAWAR
      I should like to define from the outset the distinction which should be made between development and modernization. To me, development describes an enhancement of being, an increased sense of identity and self-esteem.
      To bring about development, one necessarily utilizes the mechanics of modernization, including:
      (1) improved technology,
      (2) improved delivery of services,
      (3) improved management of skills,
      (4) improved allocation of human resources
      While recognizing the need to employ these elements within the development process, however, constant vigilance must be maintained to make certain that the concept of progress enhances, rather than destroys, the individual. The world affords us all too many examples of frenzied modernization activities that diminish individuals in the race to acquire trappings considered measures of modern states. By having to begin anew, Afghanistan now has the opportunity to avoid this.
      In touching briefly on only some of the current reconstruction processes which will accelerate as peace enfolds, I hope to emphasize my core argument that each and every aqtivity must be assessed- and' continually reassessed- to guarantee that individual dignity is maintained and not submerged. Only then can we look forward to true development through reconstruction.
      Some of my remarks will seem self-evident and repetitive. We have heard
                                               72
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 that before, you will say. True. But this is all the more reason for dismay: if these statements embody accepted principles, why are they then not applied? It is time to convert rhetoric into action.
      To do this there are five major requirements:
      (l)peace, (2) social mobilization, (3) utilization of human resources, (4) financial procurement, (5) strategy management.
                                               PEACE
      The crucial political peace negotiations now under investigation are outside the perimeters of this discussion, but thq less than palatable breaches of peace impeding assistance today are eminently germane. These include a variety of assaults on individual dignity ranging from murder and the detention of aid personnel to the appropriation of aid material; from the inhibition of rivals at work places through favoritism and guile -to the perpetuation of feuds within communities and across broader regional territories. Most disturbing is the atmosphere of fear created by vindictive insinuations spread to cast suspicion upon individuals and their families. All these exercises in unscrupulus bids for personal power provide occasions for inaction which frustrates reconstruction initiatives.
      Unfortunately history provicn-.: us * with numerous examples  that in any
 society there are those who will take advantage of unstable conditions to erode traditional local leadership structures in order to exploit latent antagonisms for their own profit. Looking forward, it may be hoped that like chaff which rises to the surface, these aberrant elements will slough off as peace returns.
      Nevertheless, a commitment to justice is a top priority appropriate for new state institutions. In addition, those entrusted with the delivery of assistance must also be aware that individual disillusionment and dissatisfaction within communities arise from the uneven distribution and favoritism in the deployment of aid which in turn foster breakdowns of order. When this happens, those who suffer most are the very individuals whom aid seeks to, benefit.
      It will, therefore, be incumbent upon all those exercising leadership, at every level, to kindle a national moral, consciousness true to Afghanistan's cultural ideals and those embodied in the teachings of Islam. This is a paramount requirement.
                                       SOCIAL MOBILIZATION
      How does one inculcate a national moral consciousness and, on local levels, dispel disillusion and dissatisfaction? How can the practicalities of project implementation be balanced with the avoidance of exacerbating local divisions which threaten to frustrate success?
      Here I am afraid I must introduce much of that fashionable rhetoric which is so oft repeated, but so seldom realized. The list is long and includes, in part:  community initiative,' self-reliance, community commitment, collective,
                                              73
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992            MAN JIHIlfl
 target problem resolution, involvement of women, regional flexibility, coordination, and integrated cross-sectoral planning. In essence, each one of these catch phrases seeks to encourage efforts to strengthen, rather than destroy, existing positive institutions, whether they are local administrative organizations, community networks or burgeoning aid structures.
      Few would refute the soundness of such approaches, nor do I wish to belabour them. It may be useful, nevertheless, to call attention to certain situations that confirm the efficacy of these basic principles- with the caveat that overtly rigid applications can result in skewed results.
      For example, much emphasis has been paid to coordination so as to avoid
     i 0 duplication. In some cases, however, this has resulted in the rise of
 territorialism which acts to exclude agencies with valuable access potential
 from initiating programs in areas claimed by others. Clearly, initiatives
 introduced through designers with links to specific populations would benefit
 administrations responsible for broader area development providing, of course,
 that exploitation for private gain is not the guiding motivation.
      Similarly,1 one can also cite rather ludicrous examples of one agency building a physical facility without consulting others capable of equipping and staffing it. Such lapses in cross-sectoral/cross-agency planning among service providers give rise to indiscriminate scrambles for aid benefits irrespective of any sense of purpose on the part of target populations. In other words, whatever is offered, grab it; then decide what to do with it. Misappropriations, or outright neglect inevitably follows and this can only have a destabilizing effect; for it is well established that even small changes within community promote other changes which result in new stresses. Although stresses cannot be avoided, they may, nevertheless, be borne with less tension and conflict when the sense of their purpose is clearly recognized by all involved.
      Experience also shows that the heterogeneous nature of Afghan society reflecting distinct traditions • and practices further ’necessitates that approaches to explicit objectives within target areas must be tailored to the realities of local circumstances and resources, human as well as environmental, even while overall goals conforming to national standards and guidelines remain the same. For instance, health systems based on an emulation of international models can only founder when they are beyond the ken of workers and participants.
      Furthermore, decision-making on what ought to be done, or, more significantly, on what cannot be done, should better not be let exclusively to outsiders. A growing' gap between the ideologies of detached planners and local reconstruction activists inside1 Afghanistan becomes daily more evident as innumerable projects are completed at the behest of community initiative unencumbered by constraints imposed by pundits on the outside. This phenomenon is most evident in attitudes regarding the feasibility of programs for women, t>ut it pertains equally to road building and karez cleaning.
                          UTILIZATION OF HUMAN RESOURCES
      If few question the value of community participation, none perhaps would
                                             74
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992           IlfKIMNJfHffll                      VOL. 5 NO. 2
 contest the need to introduce appropriate technology. I shall limit my remarks to a few aspects pertaining to preparation and delivery.
      First, in line with the previously stated principle that existing institutions should be /utilized rather than summarily dismissed, recognition should also be accorded to indigenous knowledge systems and, most especially, to the interactions of populations with their environment. This goes beyond basic data collection; it includes the use of local human resources; it involves the design and implementation of investigations aimed at promoting the application of traditional practices to modern resource management. Individual acceptance of the inevitable changes which must come may be eased by this approach.
      Secondly, in order to interlock traditional and modern technologies, top priority must include the development of the human component which, in addition to the acquisition of technical expertize through skills training, will require relevant basic education at all levels. The key word here is relevant. The abysmal state of education in Afghanistan before the war was due as much.to indifference, as to fiscal limitations. Curricula were simply unrelated to living.
      Opportunities abound for the utilization of both formal and non-formal education experiences oriented toward the daily lives of those involved; already experimental, programs geared to a variety of sectors are proving useful. It would be well to refine these for, as it has been said by others, education is an easy burden to carry across borders. Furthermore, in the final analysis, it is education with properly defined objectives that prepares a nation's human potential to work for its own advancement. Embedded in this objective is the obvious, but largely overlooked, need to prepare and widely disseminate appropriate reading materials, for new as well as general readers, to reenforce message floated in all sectors.
      At the higher levels there has been a plethora of training opportunities. I wonder if most graduates are in fact able to use the training they receive. I .fear not, for too often defined objectives are lacking.
      This raises a third observation which holds, in essence, that the teaching of skills is really a question of detail. Providing motivation along with learning is of greater consequence for local populations. Additionally, for Afghanistan motivation is of signal importance at higher levels because too many Afghan professionals have decimated the human resource base by opting for resettlement.
      Even should these professionals elect to return at some point in the future, it is doubtful if they will consent to serve outside major urban centers. They were not so motivated in*the past; there seems little reason to believe their attitudes have changed. Indeed, what percentage of even the newly trained will fill the ranks as extension workers in the countryside or social workers in the cities? It has been pointed out that 90% of success depends on motivation so planners would do well to pay serious attention to this major problem, particularly in the immediate aftermath of repatriation when many families • will be extremely vulnerable and desperately in need of community workers at all levels. Motivated personnel, wherever they serve, deserve assurance that they may share in status and leadership opportunities.
                                           75
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992              AIGIIANlllHAO                  VOL.  5 NO. 2
      A fourth issue critically related to human resource development for service at community levels is the currently vexing question of securing the participation of women. Experience worldwide has shown that there is a proven correlation between women's involvement and national prosperity. Yet today there is an unfortunate tendency to set women apart, to consider them not only as a separate sector- but as segregated appendages on the peripheries of reconstruction.
      This disregards the interrelatedness of male/female roles and female contributions to society as family caretakers and transmiters of cherished beliefs and values. It should be required that each and every program, without exception, be examined, at each stage, from design to completion, for its impact on women’s activities. Thus their positive contributions may be enlisted and the dangers of diminishing their roles minimized.
      Throughout the traumas of war and exile, Afghan women proved their courage and strength; their support of the jehad was intrinsic to victory. Nevertheless, grave stresses have given rise to attitudes and circumstances which now make women vulnerable to social and political dictums which threaten to diminish thtem. Some would deny women basic education and career options, the vote and access to legal counsel. Traditional Afghan respect for women, it is argued, assures that they will always be cared for, so much opportunities are unnecessary.
      Respect for women will certainly be forthcoming for it is an inborn characteristic of Afghan society. Yet the nation can hardly revive without practical contributions from half its population. In the past women participated in the public domain with dignity, without loss of honor to themselves or their families- and with great benefit to their nation. They can and should be given the means to do so in the future.
      Furthermore, war mortalities have left an unprecedented number of widows, many with minor children, as well as disabled of both sexes. Their care will be assured through the institution of the extended family upon which the responsibility will fall. Unless assisted, however, this pillar institution may become so sorely strained that it will falter.
      The extension of appropriate, improved technologies to accepted female activities will enable women -to make economic contributions through the production of surpluses beyond traditional domestic use. Thes.e need not be confined to so-called women's activities, such as sewing and embroidery, envisioned for so many generations by conventional women's associations. In the rural areas traditional female activities involve them - among other things-j.n agriculture, animal husbandry and food processing together with crucial responsibilities in household management and commodities storage. In the cities, all manner of small economic enterprises, in addition to remunerated services in many fields present^ exciting avenues for exploration. Access to credit within family units, for both rural and urban women, is but one example of new challenges needing attention.
      Over the past year, directives requiring the inclusion of women's projects
                                             76
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992             AliillAN JIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 2
 as a prerequisite for funding have been issued. Women's activities nonetheless continue inadequate. To correct this, women need to become involved as decisionmakers in the identification, planning and execution of female programs, but before they can do this, they need to acquire technical and management skills. Only^ then may they speak with informed confidence; only then will their voices command respect.
     A group of female professionals representing a wide spectrum of ideologies and occupations have met informally in Peshawar over the past two years to discuss the status of women's activities and to debate future roles. Their efforts to establish a more structured forum received public endorsement from Afghan male delegates at an international seminar held in Islamabad in December, 1991. It is precisely this type of group initiative which holds hope for the future, but like so many good beginnings, unless sustained support is publicly articulated and acted upon, empty declamations will be the sole result.
     This brings up two last issues relating to human resources, although they are equally applicable to all development:    sustainability, with its closely
 allied requirement of attainability. Without these one need not hope to realize success. Therefore, a primary goal of all systems development should be to plant seeds of self-reliance which will ultimately grow into self-perpetuating activities. For this, as outlined above, multiple levels of motivated trained workers, trained trainers and training institutions, including schools and teaching hospitals, will be required.
                                     FINANCIAL PROCUREMENT
     One cannot forget the issue of funding in this equation of attainability and sustainability. It has been said that the amount being spent on even present patchy aid deliveries exceeds pre-war budgets. Yet it is also true that considerable monies appear to sit poised in anticipation of peace. Securing
     Waste, on the other hand, can seriously jeopardize what monies are obtained. No nation is free of this afflication. Here, once again, it may be noted that shared information in the spirit of truly integrated cross-sectoral programing will avoicf much of the wastage caused by mismanaged personnel and poorly apportioned material whijh now retards development; coordination will eliminate overlap and speed reconstruction. A wealth of resource material and expertize is available, yet too often these lie neglected. A plethora of viable programs warrant support, Yet too often they languish because vested interests prefer to launch duplicate efforts.
                                      STRATEGY MANAGEMENT
     In the . final assessments, how to manage aid will be the problem, not obtaining it. As maneuvers toward a negotiated peace accelerate, master plans for nation-wide development strategies prolife'rate.
     While this discussion advocates flexibility in centralized government thinking so as to underscore the value of community-based projects radiating out from district and provincial centers, it must also emphasize that overall
                            m
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
development planning must be approached from both sides if cohesive goals based on standardized guidelines providing focused direction are to be implemented.
      The present state of development seems at times to be hopelessly chaotic. Yet, after admittedly muddled and sometimes acrimonious beginnings, the assistance community has proved through numerous examples that it is possible to find new approaches using (diverse methods to meet diverse needs. Through these experiments new precedents that address existing realities are being set in motion.
      Much can be learned from both the failures as well as the successes of these efforts if the coming leadership can be persuaded to build on experience amassed over more than a decade. No matter how constituted, any new government will be hard pressed initially to provide even a modicum of services. At the same time, the Afghan population in general will demand more of their leaders than ever before because war and exile have considerably broadened expectations within every segment of the society.
      The future government will need all the help they can get and to marshal this aid it will behoove leaders to form a body to accommodate the disparate approaches of NGOs, UN agencies and bilateral assistance so their efforts may focus on common goals. But ultimately, valuable as this support will be, it will be individual Afghans working in concert who must channel that spirit which gave them such strength during the jehad into an equal commitment to nation-building.

                                             78
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AfCHANJfHAO             VOL. 5 NO. 2
       NEW BOOKS
 ) THE HOLY QURAN:           TRANSLATION   AND   COMMENTARIES    VOLUME  VI
    (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abdullah Usuf Ali; translated by: Sabahuddin Kushkaki, Publisher: CCAR; 582 pages.
 CONTENTS:  Translation of Arabic text and commentaries of Sections 26-30 of
 the Holy Quran.
 (I) IN THE SHADOWS OF THE QURAN, SECTION 6 (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Martyr Sayyed Qutb; translated by: Mohammad  Siddiq Rashed Saljuqi;
 Publisher: CCAR; 458 pages.
 CONTENTS: Translation of Arabic text and commentaries of Section 6 of the Holy Quran in Dari.
 (3)  THE TEACHER OF HANAFI JURISPRUDENCE, PART I (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Imam Abdullah-bin-Mahmood-bin-Maudood Musali-Al-Hanafi; translated oy: Fazlum Menallah Fazli, Publisher: Kabul Book Merchants; 278 pages,
 CONTENTSs Explanations about ablution, prayers, legal alms, Ramadan and Haj (individual Islamic obligations).
 (4)  JEHAD, THE MOST IMPORTANT ISLAMIC OBLIGATION
 AUTHOR: Noor Ahmad Taqaddusi; Publisher: Cultural Committee, Pasdaran-e-Jehad-e-Islami; 326 pages.
 CONTENTS: Translation and commentaries of the entire 247 verses from the Holy Quran that bear on the Holy War (Jehad). It also gives a brief account of the Hejra (migration of the Prophet and his disciples from Makkah to Madina).
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The Afghan Jehad is giving specifics of each book l| as they have been given in the book itself• Data not mentioned V have not been given in the book.                                    II
(1
                                              79
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
                           MHJlfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 2
 (5) THE MIRROR OF MONOTHEISM (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abdul Haq Ateed; 130 pages;
 CONTENTS:   The  epithets   of  God;  fate   and destiny; dualism (Polytheism);
 particulars God Almighty has bestowed upon Prophet Mohammad (PBU); the miracles of the Quran; the angels and the Dooms Day; etc.
 (6)  WAHABISM (SALAFISM) IN THE LIGHT OF THE QURAN AND HADITH (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Mawlawi Sayyed Mahmood Hakimi; 199 pages.
 CONTENTS:   A brief biography of Sheikh Mohammad Abdul Wahab; decoration of a
 Saint's Grave; visiting graveyards in the light of the Quran and the Hadith; offering prayers in the vicinity of Saints' graves; requesting assistance from Saints etc.
 (7)   STANDARDS OF DECLINE AND PERFECTION IN ISLAM (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Abdul Qader Imami Ghori; 369 pages;
 CONTENTS: Change  of the Soul from Islamic point of view; ups and downs of the
 Islamic community; the concept of Islamic fundamentalism and World Arrogance; the philosophy behind the emergence of communism and the factors that led to its fall; Islam must rule.                      •
 (8)   POLITICS AND GOVERNMENTS FROM THE VIEWPOINT OF ISLAM (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Outstanding  religious scholars of the HEIA Board of Ulama; Publisher:
 Harakat-e-Enqilab-e-Islami Afghanistan; 212 pages.
 CONTENTS: Definition of politics by scholars; definition of politics from the viewpoint of Islamic jurisprudence; Islamic political jurisprudence; Unity between religion and politics etc.
 (9)   THE DIVINE TEST (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Engineer Motawazee; Publisher: Islamic Engineers' Association; 51 pages.
 CONTENTS: Life  and motion; mortality and eternity; suffering under different
 circumstances; the effects of hope and despair; a surprising event.
 (10)  THE HAJ PILGRIMAGE (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Mohammad  Akram Andeshmand; Publisher:  The Baghlan Agency and JIA; 195
 pages.
 CONTENTS:  The concept of Haj; conditions for Haj; the beginning of the Haj
 Pilgrimage; plan and proposal for organizing Haj affairs in future etc.
                                           80
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
,    (11) WESTERN LEADERS SAY: ISLAM MUST BE ANNIHILATED (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Jalal-al-Alam; translated by: Zabihullah Sharar; 90 pages.
     CONTENTS:  The Western stance vis-a-vis Islam, their intrigues how to destroy
     Islam; is there any change in Western stand against Islam and Muslims?
     (12)   THE WOMAN. YESTERDAY AND TODAY (DARI)
     AUTHOR:  Sayyed   Asadullah    Ahmadi; publisher: Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan
     (Cultural Provincial Committee of Kabul); 74 pages.
     CONTENTS:   A review of the past of the  woman; the woman in advanced societies;
     the UN and the dignity of the woman; the role of colonialism in the declination of the woman; the revolutionary role of the woman in Hussaini movement.
     (13)   WOMAN ACCORDING TO RELIGIOUS LAW (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Mohammad  Asef Mohseni; Publisher: HI A Cultural Provincial Committee of
     Kabul; 110 pages.
     CONTENTS: The nature of the woman; physical differences between man and woman; Legal differences between man and woman according to Islamic jurisprudence; the rights of the woman; polygamy; social freedom of the woman etc.
     (14)   THE LAND OF SAINTS (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Badak Skorski: translated by Abdul Ali Noor Ahrari; 375 pages.
   ' CONTENTS:  The author relates his own observations and studies as well as his
     interviews in this regard with various persons.
     (lb) WHAT DID I SEE IN THE US? (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR:  Martyr    Sayyed  Qutb; translated by: Ajruddin;  Publisher, the Qist
     Administration; 61 pages.
     CONTENTS:  The author has studied the US from the human point of view and has
     commented on their material life.
     (16)   SAYYED JAMALUDDIN AFGHANI AND FREEMASONS (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Abdul Ahad Ashrati; Publisher: Hadaf journal; 202 pages.
     CONTENTS:  Who is a Freemason?; Sayyed and Freemasonry; is Sayyed Jamaluddin
     an Afghan or an Iranian etc?
     (17)   K.G.B. ACTIVITIES IN AFGHANISTAN (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR:' Abdul Wakil; publisher: the author, himself; 100 pages.
     CONTENTS:  The author reviews activities, organization and crimes of the AKSA,
                                                 81
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                               j)[(illjlNJfHMI                                 VOL.  5    NO.   2
 KHAD and WAD and offers some personal observations.
 (18)   SEVEN (DARI)
 AUTHOR:  Mawlawi Hanif Balkhi; publisher:  Ustad  Ata Mohammad from Zabiullah
 Shaheed Front; 284 pages.
 CONTENTS: Religious and social issues that hang on the figure '7', such as 7
 heavens, 7 layers of the earth etc.
 (19)   EXTRAORDINARY EVENTS OF THE JEHAD (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Didar Ahmadzai, 88 pages.
 CONTENTS: A series of events and incidents that have occured in the most unusual manner inside the jehadic bunkers and elsewhere, indicating divine power and assistance.
 (20)   THE HISTORY OF BUKHARA (DARI)
 AUTHOR: M. Akbar Ashiq Kabuli; Publisher: WUFA; 165 pages.
 CONTENTS:  Memoirs of   Amir Sayyed Alem Khan, the King of Bukhara written by
 himself.
 (21)  . THE FATE OF PASHTUNS IN HISTORY (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Sabr Khan; 303 pages.
 CONTENTS: Qais  Abdur Rashid; The Ghaznavide Dynasty; The Lodhis and Ghoris in
 India; who is Gheljai? etc.
 (22)   CARPENTRY (DARI)
 Compiled by: Sayyed Sadiq Mazhari; Publishers: Program for Human Resources; 157
 pages.
 CONTENTS: The book is a practical guide in carpentry for those being trained for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 (23)   PLUMBING (DARI)
 Compiled by: Ghulam Bahauddin Safdari; Publishers:  Program for Human Resources;
 121 pages.
 CONTENTS: It is a comprehensive practical guide for trainees involved in the
 reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 (24)   RELATIONS (DARI)
 Translated by: Mohammad Akram  Nesar;  Publishers: Program for Human Resources;
                                           82
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
      211 pages.
     CONTENTS:  Inter-office  relations; communication relations; relations in the
     offices; maintenance of human relations etc.
     (25)   ON THE EDGE OF THE SWORD (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR:  Abdullah Ghamkhor; 116 pages.
     CONTENTS: A  collection of epical, critical and awe-inspiring poems in relation
     with the great Afghan victory.
     (26)   DAR SOG-E-SAPAIDARAN (DARI)
     Written and compiled by: Mirwais Mauj; Publisher: Afghan Cultural Association; 64 pages.
     CONTENTS: A  collection  of elegies and social poems depecting the present
     sorrowful state of affairs in Afghanistan.
83
vmm »» n i —
  JANUARY-MARCH. 1992  fllflllflUJIHIlfl VOL. 5 NO. 2
    A GLANCE AT MUJAHEDDIN
   NEWSPAPERS,PERIODICALS
     hm-v a. ■ .'ii /ikflar i\ ti a ^ to
1M
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
]
THE MUJAHEDDIN PRESS
    Al-Badr
 NOVISMBER-DECEMBER
NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with the
BBC, Benon Sevan said, "mujaheddin leaders, for the sake of their status, cheat and manoeuvre and establish their quality of authority prior to general elections" .
- In a meeting with the Russian delegation in Peshawar, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said, we support direct talks with the Russians because they are the genuine side to the case. The Russians should not negotiate with US in regard to the solution of the Afghanistan problem. Moscow-Washington agreements are not acceptable to the Afghan nation".
- Bashir Baghlani, incharge of Baghlan Fronts, in an exclusive interview with' Al-Badr said: "Prevalent conditions in; our country may be termed as a period of political oppression".
- Terrorism is the last effort of the enemies of Islam. The health condition of Ferotan is good tidings to Afghan Jehad press. Brother Ferotan, who had three bullet wounds in. his head, is on the way to recovery, by the grace of God Almighty, after preliminary medical care.
NEWS WEEK in a report entitled "Battlefield for Islam" writes, " the attacks on Gardaiz started after the mujaheddin victory in Khost and a Palestinian
 youth, who had been wounded in the battle, was brought by ambulance to an Arab medical committee. A Saudi Arabian was promptly on hand for blood donation and Egyptian surgeons began operations.
 I could not know whether it was an Afghan war or that of the Arabs? An Iraqi doctor responded, "we are Muslims busy in jehad.". The magazine concludes, "presently there are 16 foreign Muslim Committees engaged in helping the mujaheddin in Peshawar, foremost among them is the Saudi Red Crescent Committee which provides cash, clothes,    foodstuff and other
 necessities."
     FEBRUARY
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "The Myth of
 Communism has Evaporated". Discussing the defeat and disintegration of the USSR, it concludes, "we congratulate our Muslim nation on this victory. God willing, Afghanistan will become a focal point of Islamic Revolutions throughout this region and the world. From now on, we should chalk out such a plan that another global tyrant may not dare to swallow us. Our victory lies in unity among the Islamic countries and doing the groundwork for a common Islamic society. We should right-away start thinking in terms of a common Islamic -Society comprising Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, Kashmir, Uzbekistan, Kirghizistan,~Tadjeki8tan, Turkmenistan ; and Azerbaijan. This vision of ours will, God willing, materialize with the independence of Afghanistan and establishment of an Islamic government there.
/   85
                                                                               VOL. 5 NO. 2
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992            ftluHAIl <
 REPORT: Recently in Munich, Germany,a
 seminar on Afghanistan was held at the initiative of HIA with the cooperation of a number of Afghans who support the jehad and- are interested in the future set-up in Afghanistan. Representatives of all the jehadic organisations and Muslim Afghan intellectuals from all over Europe were invited to this seminar. At the conclusion of the seminar held 13-15 December 1991, the following communique was issued:
     Full support to territorial integrity, national sovereignty and the righ of self-determination of the people of Afghanistan.
 - Full support to the formation of an Islamic government in an independent Afghanistan.
 - Condemnation of all sorts of foreign] intervention in the affairs of • the]; combatant Afghan nation.
 - Endorsement of friendly and sincere efforts by the neighboring Muslim countries towards vthe solution of the Afghan problem based on the wishes of the combatants.
 - Full support to the formation of a? Leadership Council consisting of jehad leaders for laying the foundation of an interim government in Afghanistna.
   Endorsement and emphasis on the wishes of the nation based on the formation of an Islamic government' based on free elections.
   Welcoming the efforts of the UN having regard for the principle of self-determination of the people through understanding and liaison with the jehadic organisations of Afghanistan.
   Keeping in view the gravity of situation in Afghanistan and crucial developments in the region and the
iworld, this seminar urges the jehad organisations to devote their energies to the implementation of the contents of the communique at the earliest.
      In this seminar Sayyed Qassem Rishtia and Dr. Qassem Fazeli read their articles on the modality of political structure and form of the future Afghan government, the texts of which have' been published in this issue. The text of the remaining articles presented by Mohammad Assem Mujaddedi, Dr. Tabibi, Dr. Mohammad Haleem Karim and Mohammad Usman Haleef will be published in the next issue.
 OTHER MATTERS DISCUSSED IN THIS ISSUE
 - Western Democracy i.e. Martial Law in Algeria.
 -   Interview with commander Qazi Ghoussuddin Shaheed before his martyrdom.
 - A seminar on the crimes of Zaher Shah was held in Tehran.
 - A cursory glance at the causes of disintegration of the Soviet Empire.
    FEBRUARY-MARCH
 EDITORIAL: ’'American diplomacy against
 Islamic Unity" under this title the editorial says now that measures for the establishment of an Islamic confederation between the Islamic Central Asian states, Iran, Pakistan and Turkey are underway, the US has mobilized all its forces in an effort to prevent the spread of Islam by whatever means possible./
 REPORT: The second report of the
 seminar on Afghanistan in Munich states:  After, Mekkah, Madina and
 Baghdad Kabul is a holy Islamic city. Dip. Eng. Mohammad Aasim Mujaddedi, a speaker in the seminar, reviewing the UN role in the Afhgan problem said.
86
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992              DfGllflNJEHAO                  VOL- 5 NO. 2
"when the UN formulates a plan for the | REPORT: Mawlawi Moazin, the leader of
Afghans it implies that the Afghans are I HEIA, in regard      to  the current
not as good in politics as they are in circumstances, told the correspondent
the battlefield."
-  Dr. Mohammad Haleem Karim, another participant, while explaining the Afghanistan position in the light of the New World Order, said, "the world is divided into the North and the South poles. Those in the south only whish to be independent and not to become the victim of foreign aggression. Afghanistantan is among this group."
-   Mohammad Osman Halif reviewed "Afghanistan and the interest of friendly countries" and Dr. Tabibi considered as "fundamental" the role of the Afghan jehad in the dissolution of communists.
                         A rman-e-Mujahed JANUARY
               15
EDITORIAL: "There is no end to
condemnation of 27 December, 1979 anniversary". Writing about the Soviet aggression, it concludes, "owing to the fighting of the lion-hearted Muslims, the Russians as of today are struggling in the midst of strange upheavals and even the name of great Soviet Union is erased from the world map. Misery and poverty loom large over the heads of Russians. This entire phenomenon is the outcome of our nation's jehad and their perseverance which, by the grace of God Almighty, will not allow them to stand again. The British imperialists of the 19th centuty and the Russian dictators of the 20th century were, the proud laurels in the annals of history to be remembered which, due to._.our mujahed nation, were brought to their knees with their empires shattered and disintegrated."
 of Arman-e-Mujahed, "Zaher Shah himself does not come but it is the 13-year-old differences of the contractors of Islam which will bring him."
                             FEBRUARY
             19
 EDITORIAL: The editorial reviews
 various plans and opinions and concludes, "had numerous views regarding the political solution of Afghanistan been true, then by now an Islamic government would have long been established and the refugees' caravan would have been moving towards Afghanistan. Everyone seems to favor his own plan, because in it he has reserved a seat of power for himself. But they must bear in mind that the people of Afghanistan are now wide awake and are in a position to analyse any plan. Some people claim supporting the jehad but they are not sincere in their claims. Because of this selfishness and personal interest the people of Afghanistan disagree with them. We say that any credible plan should be acceptable to the entire nation."
 REPORT: At a rally in National Center Lahore 5 January, Mohammad Hashem Mujaddedi, in an address observed, "UN is controlled by the enemies of Islam and does not want the Muslims to succeed. Therefore, the Muslims should not cherish high hopes in regard to that organization. Numerous UN resolutions on Palestine, being in the interest of Palestinians and Muslims generally, did not break any ice and no action was taken against Israel. And if any decision was taken at all it was rejected by Israel and vetoed by US. Likewise in regard to Kashmir UN resolutions remain
87
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992             AH JIHAD               VOL. 5 NO.  2
unheeded. I am at a loss to understahd how could UN envoy on Afghanistan dare say that no government can be established in Afghanistan without UN agreement. We Afghans ought to make him understand that we are in no need of their guidance, nor, for that matter, would accept any plan short of the realization of mujaheddin's aspirations".
                           MARCH
             8
EDITORIAL: "The memory of Hoot 3, (22
February)" in which it recounts the historical uprising of the citizens of Kabul against the Russian invasion,
NEWS ITEMS: A grand meeting on the Afghan affairs was held in Tehran 2 January. The gathering, which was called on the initiative of the government of Iran, was attended by out-, standing Afghan jehad commanders from various provinces. Among the
participants was the leader of the HEIA, Mawlawi Moazin, who thanked the Islamic Republic of Iran for its brotherly cooperation and assistance. The "Wahabi" sect was totally rejected in the conference. The sessions ended after three days of deliberations on matters of political and strategic importance.
     Basharat
                          JANUARY
             8
EDITORIAL: "The New Year and the Future Outlook" is the title of the editorial which says, "the new leaf of the Christian calendar turns at a time when the outlook' for the peaceful settlement of the Afghan .problem is not any clearer than in the past." Enumerating
 efforts of the world community towards this end says, "unfortunately we have been unable to present a credible alternative of our own to answer the demands of all the people in the country. In our opinion the most principled guarantee for reaping the
 fruits of the 13-year-old jehad and the (present political efforts of the world community would be unity and harmony among the entire jehad forces. This will enable us to celebrate our independence and Islamic government together with each other and free from every concern."
 NEWS ITEMS: Ayatullah Sadiqi Parwani,
 in a message to the Afghan mujahed nation has said, "we have found out with grave regret that the only side which can benefit from the present disarray, will be the enemy and not the revolutionary forces."
 - A military delegation of the HWIA has arrived in Peshawar upon invitation of All Commanders Council. Apart from attending the third assembly of the Council, the HWIA delegation will also exchange views with other commanders for their unity and harmony.
 - A reception was held at the Iranian Consulate in Peshawar in honor of the visiting HWIA military delegation.
   A number of commanders related to the Commanders Council met with the HWIA military delegation in Peshawar 5 January.
                                 FEBRUARY
               11
 EDITORIAL:  "As we stand at the
 threshold of the first anniversary of Basharat magazine publication hoping that God Almighty will shower upon us his bountiful blessings, like the blazing rays of the sun, and of fortune
88
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
and victory and save us from miseries and tribulations keeping our hearts warm with His sentiments."
NEWS ITEMS: In a meeting with Benon
Sevan, Prof. Khalili said, "in any kind of assembly regarding the resolution of the   Afghanistan problem the
overwhelming majority of jehad forces ought to reach a consensus and the presence of Najib and his regime in the assembly, from our point of view, is negative." Benon Sevan said in response, "we want that an environment be created so that the Afghans get. together, under UN umbrella, and decide their future. UN shall not impose any thing on the Afghan nation."
   The Chief military delegation of HWIA participating in the third all commanders session, in regard to their participation in this session observed, "our sentiments and those of u'.riA commanders may be summarized as an urge for unity, coordination and harmony of the entire jehad forces and this objective has been achieved in a good manner as 90 HWIA commanders participated in this session."
 Basheer-ul-Momenat
                            DECEMBER
                                    22
EDITORIAL: Entitled, "The factors of
veil-lessness" discusses the factors contributing to permissiveness of women in the modern society and says that in the modern world, woman has lost her actual position and, due to development and civilization, is unaware of factors contributing to veil-lessness. On the other hand she has known other economip and social factors such as victimization of woman by man, their sexual victimization, their usage for publicity and commercial purposes etc.
                      JANUARY
         26
 EDITORIAL: "The cruel dictatorial
 assault, dictated by torch bearers of infidelity and communism affecting the lofty Islamic culture in our beloved country, the women comprising half of our Muslim community, exposed to the persecution of the Red wolves, molestation of women being the order of
 the day, the imposition of worthless communist culture in educational institutions and ridiculing the tenets of Islam in our community life, forced the prudent Muslim women of Afghanistan to sacrifice their all for Allah and thus raise the honor of the Afghan women to the heights of the firmament. The woman accepting the sacred Islamic ideology, pregnant with equality, from the very outset of Islamic revolution, chose to have their names inscribed with blood alongside the mujahed men and get them reposed in the glittering annals of Islamic revolution. Ay, the muslim Afghan woman, pledging with Fatima and Zainab, shall carry through this burden of resppnsibility till salvation of the mankind."
  Daneshjo
                      JANUARY
         20
EDITORIAL: "Afghanistan and disintegration of Soviet Union." Under this title the editorial says, "the analysts and impartial realistic observers opine that the historical and peerless Afghan resistance was the main factor behind the Soviet defeat".
89
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992            DICIIAN J[HA0
INTERVIEW: Dr. Manochehr Mohammadi,
Professor in the University of Law and Political Science, during a dialogue with brother Danishyar, observed, in regard to the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan, "the basic factor was the Afghan culture, character and qualities which the Russians, unlike the British, ignored." He said, "as a matter of principle Afghanistan is an unconquerable land and the alien assault on Afghanistan had invariably confronted bottle-necks." He said, "the moment the inter-mujaheddin  differences are
ironed out, Najib regime shall not be able to hold on. This is a great honor that a super power in Afghanistan was crushed."
        Da 'wat
                                                        FEBRUARY-MARCH
EDITORIAL: The editorial puts a
reminder that the Da'wat journal first appeared in 1988 and right from its first issue has published the truth. The editorial says that the journal, though not affiliated with any organization, belonged to everyone*. It concludes, "despite all its merits the journal cannot be favored by all because the tastes and opinions of readers differ. Nonetheless, we try our utmost to present to our readers the material which may suit them and keep them satisfied."
              •
NEWS ITEMS: Hekmatyar, netting 99.9% of the votes cast, has once again been elected as the leader of the HIA.
-  In his statement at the Iranian Consulate in Peshawar, Sebghatullah Iflujaddedi, resented Iran's intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
-  Other items in this issue deal with the former bureaucrats getting ready for another round of rule in
 Afghanistan. "Afghan and Afghanistan" is another articlg by the late Prof. Abdul Hai Habibi which throws light on the history of these two names.
      Ekhlas
                         DECEMBER
 EDITORIAL: "The proposed plan of Ekhlas !magazine in regard to the future political order in/ Afghanistan". It discusses various stances and plans and finally presents its own plan:
 (1) Excluding the patties, such Afghans be assembled who are honest, sincere, faithful, endowed with Islamic ideology, knowing Islamic policy, subservient to Quran and traditions.
 (2) Their number should be limited so as to make consensus quicker.
 (3) Having jehad and national backing as to' be able to enforce their decisions on the leaders. (4) In a very short period of time, can bring about solidarity, security, protection of national interests in the frame of Islam and be able to elect and establish the government and the President. (5) In Islam an interim government is meaning-less. (6) The appointment of ministers and the rest of personnel falls in his sphere of work. (7) The President must be a man, a thorough Muslim and a genuine "Momen", well versed in Islamic .jurisprudence, warfare and be free from ethnic, linguistic, parochial and racial considerations. (8) After the .election of President this council is dissolved.
                          JANUARY
           20
 EDITORIAL: "Why establishment of an
90
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 Islamic government was forestalled in Afghanistan and Algeria?"
     This editorial answers the above question, thus: The entire world knows that the American colonialism, aided by other anti-Islamic Western powers wish to forestall the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan because it is opposed to the American New World Order tailored by CIA and Mossad. Surely if an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan, implementation and enforcement of the
 American New World Order would not be possible... But we have a firm faith that God Almighty will make this satanic power also knuckle under in Afghanistan just like the Russians.
                                                            JANUARY-MARCH
 EDITORIAL: "The latest delirium by
 Najib" is the title of the editorial which discusses the recent request by Najib from the US to assist him in preventing the fundamentalists from taking power in Kabul and concludes, "Najib's statement in this regard is a clear proof of his infidelity and his cla'ims that he has reverted to Islam are only for public deception."
   There are other articles in this issue reflecting various views and opinions on the return of Zaher Shah, among them is an item stating. Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi's opposition and that of Malikzada Nadim - grandson of Malik Nadir Khan Zakhakhail- who has also expressed opposition to the return of Zaher Shah.
  NOVEMBER-JANUARY
 EDITORIAL: "Backdoor Concurrence" is
 the heading of this article. Throwing light on the Russo-American collusion
 VOL. 5 NO. 2
 after the disintegration of the USSR vis-a-vis the Is liam-ic movement . in Afghanistan and concluding with these words, "but our Muslim nation, being wide awake, will never be duped with the designs of the anti-Islamic powers and will frustrate the back-door collusions of the -world imperialism, like their earlier plots and conspiracies, and will never allow that foreigners may determine their future".
                    sr-y - ;;
 REPORT: Ayatullah Mohseni, Condemning
 the Soviet invasion of 27 December 1979, remarked, "the healthiest philosophy and the most natural anthropology is enshrined in the religion of Islam."
 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS: Nazar Mohammad
 Hashemi, member of the Tadjekistan Academy of Sciences says, "none can deny the contribution of the Afghan people's jehad towards the downfall of the communist empire."
 - Authony Arnold, the American writer says, "the Afghan resistance has become a model of freedom movements throughout the Eastern Europe."
   The daily Paiman's editorial is entitled "the jehad of our Muslim nation has broken the chains of communist power throughout the world."
 - An Australian officer says, Russians have planted 50 million mines all over Afghanistan."
                                                                   FEBRUARY
                4
 EDITORIAL: Captioned "Deadlock", it
 discusses the shortcomings of the mujaheddin leaders and the change in Pakistan's stand and concludes, "if our respected leaders want to checkmate foreign intervention in our internal
91
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 affairs, they; should gird up their loins, take practical steps, foster the spirit of unity and solidarity, take a firm decision for resolving the present complex problem, adopt an infallible decision so that others may not step on it, and speak with one voice. Otherwise none else but we and our oppressed nation would.be the losers in the political and military field."
 REPORT: Willy Brandt, the ex-Chancellor of Germany said, "the Afghan Resistance Movement played a significant role in the re-unificatipn of Germany."
     The journal "Afghanistan as Reflected in World Press," writes, "the Zindajan holocaust has added yet another golden leaf in the heroic epic of the Afghan resistance. Kabul regime's barbaric attack on Zindajan in Herat Province started at a time when hardly a month had passed since the amusing UN peace plan and the bombastic propaganda of national reconciliation."
     Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General for Afghan Affairs says, "now the possibility of a political settlement of the Afghan problem is brighter than ever."
     Prof. Rabbani said, "mujaheddin ■will never accept an imposed and imported leader."
                                     MARCH
                  5
 EDITORIAL:   "Western conspiracies
 against our Islamic Revolution" is the title of the editorial which describes the factors that have caused apprehensions in the West of an Islamic government. It also enumerates the conspiracies which have lately been launched to create rift and discord among the Afghans and urges the mujaheddin to foil these intrigues by uniting together.
VOL. 5 NO. 2
NEWS ITEMS: A meeting was held at Imam Mohammad Bagir Madrasa in Quetta 18 February in. which HEIA commander in Herat said that we should try to emerge victorious in the political field as we did in the battlefield. He told the Ferogh correspondent that the real power inside Afghanistan was with the mujaheddin.
      Hadaf
                           DECEMBER
             21
REPORT: A conference pertaining to
analytical discussion, appreciation and evaluation of prevalent circumstances in the country was .convened, 1 December, by the workers of Afghanistan Islamic Movement in the campus of Hazrat Omar Darul Aitam at Chamkani • The consensus of leadership council
regarding the establishment of interim government in Afghanistan was read out which, after overall evaluation, was described as defective and in conclusion they said':
(1) These assemblies and gatherings will continue, (2) *jehad organizations must unite, (3) inside Afghanistan clashes and conflicts may be contained,
(4) the decision regarding the Afghanistan case must be coupled, with mujaheddin's opinion, (5) a big council, after sorting out its personnel,, be constituted for the resolution of Afghanistan problem, (6) the Islamic Council may select the heads of state and government from amongst themselves, (7) the right of vote and dictatorial opinion must be rescinded", (8) in the establishment of a government by the mujaheddin, the Americans, Russians or any other quarter will have no say and, (9) regarding the establishment of a
92
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
mui
 government the Russian delegation should not be consulted but should, instead, be asked to pay war compensations.
 NEWS ITEMS We have come to know that the poverty-stricken Education Ministry has not paid the teachers' salaries for some time and most of the schools and madrasas have been closed and the majority of central employees have been laid off due to lack of funds. The building adjacent to the Ministry of Telecommunications comprising 28 rooms, toilets and all other facilities has been abandoned without any reason.
                              JANUARY
               25
 NEWS ITEMS: Large scale demonstrations were held by students' of the mujaheddin organizations in the Town and Speen Jumat district in Peshawar 21 January. The demonstrators were shouting slogans against enemy intrigues and exclaimed that a coalition government will be the result of Russo-American consensus and that the jehad against such intrigues would continue as it did against the Najib puppet regime.
     An article in this issue of the Hadaf journal is entitled, "If we had any Heads" reviews the selfishness and ambitions on the part of some of the mujaheddin which have encouraged the Russians, the Americans, the Germans and -- to take the destiny of our country in their hands.
EDITORIAL:    Entitled,    "the    latest
 efforts towards the unification of the country's jehad positions", calls the signing of the accord for the establishment of the Leadership Council, by nine jehad organizations in Islamabad, the result of these efforts.
 NEWS ITEMS:    Quoting  the news item
 received from Balkh, it writes,, "the mujaheddin captured two posts in Chemtal district 24 October, 1991.
 -  According to MIDIA,        a regime
 transport plane was destroyed in Kandahar airport 8 December, 1991.
    Because of continuous mujaheddin assault the building of Gardaiz Radio Station and an important bridge were demolished.
 - MIDIA .reports that there are still a good number of Soviet military advisers in Afghanistan.'
    The salne source adds that r the majority of Kabul youth are addicted to alcohol, usage of opium and cocaine.
 REPORT:  It is reported that in the
 press conference convened, 28 November, in AIG headquarters regarding their Moscow visit, Qazi Waqad, Mawlawi Mohammadi, Mohammad Asef Mohseni, Hussain Sabiri, HWIA delegate, and Professor Rabbani delivered speeches. A resolution was passed at the end of the conference which says, "we visited Moscow so that we could bravely impress upon Russians and get a certificate from them to the effect that their invasion of Afghanistan was a big crime and an illegal, condemnable effort. We talked to them sharp and frankly and they could not do anything but to remain silent and subservient. That is v/hy the Russians accepted every thing and confessed their crimes formally in toto."
 INTERVIEW:   This issue contains an
 interview with Major General Meer Zaman
93
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AFGHANJIHAfl              VOL.  5 NO. 2
 Amirkheil, the chief of operations intelligence, and according to him in . case of a genuine Islamic government in Afghanistan the entire population will lay their arms and shall cooperate with their Islamic government and peace will return throughout the country,
                                 JANUARY
                  5
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "27 December
 1979, A Lesson to the Imperialist Powers of the World", While discussing the Russian defeat, it concludes, "we defeated a global super-power. But it is a shame that we could not defeat the vulnerable and shaky Najib regime. Let us move forward shoulder to shoulder so that God may bless us with victory."
 NEWS ITEMS:
                                                  , - In a meeting of the HEIA students held at the Haqqania Religious Center,
 4 December, 1991 under the chairmanship of Mawlana Abdul Hameed, Mufti Mohammad Fareed, Shaikh-ul-Hadith of the said center delivered a speech, saying, "thank God, all the Pakistani religious institutions are full of Afghan students... The Faithful and Islam-loving nation of Afghanistan under the leadership of Mawlana Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi Founder of Afghan Jehad, closed their ranks and inflicted a shameful defeat on the Red Army. Mohammadi is an eminent religious, political and social personality and I advise you to carry on your jehadic, political and social functions/'
     On 2 December, 1991 a glorious function was held in the premises of the AIG Defense Ministry at;jehad Kelai in connection with the promotion of HEIA military officers.
                                                 Shaikh-ul-Hadith Mawiana Abdul Quddus speaking on this occasion, said,
"some people are creating dissent between the religious scholars and the military officers in order to keep the religious scholars *. away from the political scene. This is entirely wrong. The religious scholars and the military officers should co-operate with each other... At present, fortunately both the parties see eye to eye with one another and consult each other. We expect our officers to serve their God-fearing and crusading nation in the best manner."
    Wall Jan, representative of Jauzjan Military Garrison said in an interview, "our jehadic garrison has been the source of great honors and victories in the history of jehad... Now the total number of our armed combatants in the region has reached the figure 1,000."
                              FEBRUARY
               19
EDITORIAL: "True ulama can save the
nation from the depths of Abyss" is the title of the editorial in which the role and influence in the Afghan society during the ages has been dealt with in detail and draws their attention to their grave responsibility of this sensitive moment.
                              -*»
NEWS ITEMS: Mawlawi Mohammad Shah Fazli said in a condolence meeting at Jehad Kelai congregation mosque, "we shall never sit with Najib or his friends at a conference table but shall try to seek a solution to the Afghan problem."
   Izzatullah Kochi in an interview with Haqiqat-ul-Islam said, all the commanders were part and parcel of the organizations to which they belonged and if there is ever an alliance among the mujaheddin organizations the commanders would automatically fall into a united pattern.
94
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
                        MARCH
           5
REPORT: In an educational gathering -of
Afghan students and pupils at Kohat 21 February, Mawlawi Asadullah Hanif, addressing the gathering said, "some people say that the Ulama are narrowminded and should not be included in political matters. Those who think so are definitely under the influence of Eastern or Western propaganda. During the 1,400 years history of Islam politics and religion have lived side by side with each other. Those who provoke conflict between the teachers and student are, no doubt, anti-Islamic and aim to divide the Muslims in different groups."
- Mawlawi Faqir Mohammad, Chairman of the mujaheddin shoora at Qarabagh, Ghazni, in an interview with Haqiqat-ul-Islam said, "the mujaheddin should unite for the sake of Allah and have mercy on the oppressed Afghan nation so that the atheists are wiped out in the country once and for all."
                   Inqelab-e-Islami
                      Afghanistan
                                           DECEMBER
           27
EDITORIAL: "The fall of Soviet empire -the outcome of the invasion of December, 1979." Under this title the editorial recounts the Soviet atrocities and brutalities in Afghanistan and calling the efforts towards the political solution of the Afghan problem it says, "despite all this, in order not to be accused of opposition to peace and security, we shall continue our armed jehad
 sagaciously, following the peaceful round, but will not budge from realizing our invaluable objective."
 NEWS ITEMS: According to a UN report
 from Islamabad, there are around ten million Russian mines in Afghanistan ready to explode.
   In Farah, the valiant mujaheddin attacked an enemy military caravan on Herat-Kandahar highway.
   The Russian puppet regime forces, in a brutal attack on a village in Logar, martyred 3 women and 5 children.
                                 FEBRUARY
                11
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled, "Islam is
 Our Religion and Our Way of Life". It' has stated that before the Islamic jehad we were caught unaware by the phantom of communism but the blessing of the Islamic jehad made us victorious. The only way out of all these misfortunes and travails, as the Muslims all over the Islamic countries have realised and have started to give it a practical shape, is the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
 REPORT: A number of Afghan religious
 scholars, intellectuals, poets and representatives of the Islamic parties of Afghanistan residing in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in a meeting with the honourable President of Iran 1 February, held the first literary function of poetry in Tehran and spoke about jehad, migration and the role of poet and poetry in motivating the sentiments of resistance and in forging unity among the people.
     Later    President   Rafsanjani
 .speaking about the heroism and
95
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
 sacrifices of the Afghan people, threw light on the three stages of the Islamic Revolution in Afghanistan. The first stage was the invasion of the country and the courage and sacrifice of this oppressed nation which compelled the occupying forces to quit this land and finally the heroic jehad and the epic resistance of the people of Afghanistan was the biggest factor leading to the defeat of communism.
      He added:  "The  second  stage is
 that of transfer of power, when you are faced with more difficulties and have not been able yet to cope with it. We hope that an Islamic Government formed by the Muslim Afghan nation would be established in this country. The third stage, is the reconstruction of your country, because the war-torn Afghanistan has been completely devastated and stands in need of precise and correct planning. I assure you that in all respects, the Islamic Republic of Iran will be on your side. The Afghan refugees have been residing in this country despite the hardships of the war imposed by Iraq on us and so long as conditions are not favqurable for their return, they will be given refuge by Iran. Most of the Afghan refugees are working and earning their living. If some of .them violate the rules, the religious      scholars     and     the
 intellectuals among you ought to reform them and this is your duty."
 OTHER ITEMS' SUMMARY:
    the real cause of the existing difficulties in the country.
 -  Salang Highway closed at the point of Jungle Bagh at Parwan.
 -   Operations by Mujaheddin and regrettable conditions in Jalalabad.
    Deceitful efforts by anti-Islamic ^elements to frustrate the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan
VOL. 5 NO. 2 ___   -                    mmmmmmmmmm
 proves futile.
 - Interview with three commanders of the South-West front.
 - Character building of the youth in the light of the Divine Command, "Do the right and abstain from the wrong.",
 - Commencement of fresh efforts for solving the Afghan oroblem.
 Ittehad-e-Islami
                           DECEMBER
                                   30
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the significant
 role of the army in the defense of Islamic values" discusses the role of the 6th term graduates of the military university calling it invaluable for the defense and protection of jehad.
 REPORT: At a function held for the
 distribution of certificates to the graduates of the military university. Professor Sayyaf, the IIA leader, told the audience not to give up their perseverance and constancy, and God willing jehad is on the threshold of success and the enemies cannot contain the rising waves of jehad.
   The bodies of Hafizul Haq, the famous commander, and three of his companions who were martyred 25 December, 1991 on • Torkham-Peshawar highway were buried in Hijrat Kalai 26 December. During the burial ceremony,' Prof. Sayyaf said, '.'these barbaric and cowardly actions of the enemy cannot change the true path* of jehad. On the other hand the more the jehad ranks receive blows, they become all the more harder and tougher adding to thei£ endurance."
96
JAMIARY-MARCM, 1992        MUMIJfllflD                 VOL.  5 NO. 2
             JANUARY
      6
 EDITORIAL: Entitled/"The efforts of the enemies in the course of jehad" describes UN plan, the visit of mujaheddin delegation to Moscow, and all other efforts in this regard, as the Zionist-Christian conspiracy and finally concludes that the only solution is the creation of a council for resolution and negotiation.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Mujaheddin captured ten
 posts in Herat including the commander of the armored regiment, No.560 stationed in Herat, alongwith 60 troops and militiamen.
   Two of the communist regime posts were captured in Kandahar 27 December, 1991 during which a number of troops and an officer were killed and four officers and two soldiers were captured.
                    13
 EDITORIAL: Entitled,  "An uninhabited
 house is haunted" while recounting the maladministration of Zaher Shah's period, writes, "now that the valiant and Muslim nation of Afghanistan have been able, by the grace of God Almighty, to free their country from Soviet imperialism and their puppets are also on the way to pack up, Zaher Shah once again got a brain wave recalling his past debauchery and the luxuriant life obscenity. This is due to the fact that he found the house empty and the coast clear. He should be warned, however, that an empty house can sometimes be inhabited by ghosts." The editorial once again urges the mujaheddin to unite.
 NEWS ITEMS: In  a  message from inside
 Afghanistan Prof. Sayyaf has said, "the
mujaheddin have earned this country with their blood and only they are entitled to determine its future. The mujaheddin will deal with Zaher Shah the same way they have dealt with Karmal and Najib."
    In an interview with Al-Bunyan Engineer Ahmad Shah said, "I am surprized that despite his crimes against the Afghan nation, Zaher Shah is again thinking of leadership of the future     interim government of
Afghanistan.”
- In an interview with ANA Engineer Hekmatyar, leader of HIA said, "the only way to the solution of the Afghanistan      problem    is      the
establishment     of     an     Islamic
government." Mawlawi Khales says that the return of Zaher Shah will re-start bloodshed in Afghanistan.
                 20
EDITORIAL:   Entitled, "Racialism or
Deadly Disease" while ' condemning polarization and ethnic leanings in jehad it describes. the privileges granted to some individuals by some mujaheddin organizations on the basis of racialism and nepotism as the outcome of this deadly disease.
NEWS ITEMS:    In   an interview with
Al-Bunyan Professor Sayyaf said, "if India attacks Pakistan the Afghan mujaheddin shall teach her a lesson to remember like those by Ghaznavides and Abdalis. He . said, "as conscientious Muslims we are very much against the political solution of the Palestine issue and consider political solution as the end of the Palestinians • rightful call."
    Qazi Hussain Ahmed, leader of Pakistan JI in an exclusive interview 16 January observed, "we will vehemently resist the return of Zaher
97
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 Shah to Afghanistan."
                   27
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "Historical role of
 the youth in destiny of nations," it
 writes, "in connection with the
 organization of Muslim students related
 to the department of Dawat and Irshad,
 IIA has succeeded in coordination of
 tens . of thousands of students in
 various fields, universities, religious
 centers. Schools, military academy and
 schools. The majority of these students
 have passed their BA and MA degrees.
 They have been organized and have been
 assigned activities and training so that in future Afghanistan they perform
 their duties in every nook and corner
 of the country in promoting Islamic
 values and annihilating atheistic and
 imported ideas from the country.
 NEWS ITEMS:
    Saznoor, the IIA commander in Nangarhar, in an interview with Ittehad-e-Islami said, "Zaher Shah is well known to the people of Afghanistan. If Zaher Shah comes to Afghanistan it will be due to differences among jehad organizations."
    During armed clash between Khalq and Parcham groups, the commander’ of security be*lt in the east of the city and commander of Laghman militia and 20 of his men were killed.
                                                                      FEBRUARY
                   3
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "The intrigues of
 the enemies and mujaheddin's vigilance" it says, "in the course of the past 19 years the Afghan mujaheddin have given tremendous sacrifices       for
 the sake of introduction of Islamic order and removal of atheism and infidelity from Afghanistan. But*
 presently the atheistic forces have joined hands together and are bent upon containing the establishment of an Islamic order in this country. But we say that the Afghan mujaheddin are wide awake and are well aware of the enemy's satanic intrigues and will never abandon their jehad till attainment of the objectives for which they had started the sacred jehad.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Sayyaf, in an inter-
 view with Al-Bunyan said, "promotion ’ of anti-jehad plans in Afghanistan is not an easy task and to those who arS thinking that the current plans are akin to    the       trains which  their
 opponents will miss, we say unless those trains pass over our heads, God willing,   they     shall    not   enter
 Afghanistan in any form."(
 - In order to demonstrate solidarity
 with Algerian      people,  the  fourth
 conference of Afghanistan Islamic Movement activists was convened 3 February,  in     Jelouzi   camp   where
 speeches were delivered.
 -  The jehad ’groups of Dawat and Jehad University students, after spending their holidays in Khost and Nangarhar bunkers, have returned.
                  10
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled, "The victorious
 jehad of Afghanistan and the colonial fruitless efforts" it says, "the entire colonial powers want to obstruct the Islamic governments and deprive the Muslims from establishing their desired regimes but imperialism ought to know that a nation, struggling in the way of Allah, the attainment of Islamic freedom and the establishment of God's order of justice in their land; will emerge victorious at the end.
 NEWS ITEMS:      The commanders of
 South-Western regime of Zabul, Kandahar
98
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992       AFGHAN JIHAD                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
 and Helmand provinces rejected the UN proposed Loya Jirgah shared by Zaher Shah, Najib and his companions.
     The Commanders, scholars and spirituals' of Baghlan province rejected 4 February, any foreign imposed government in Afghanistan.
                    17
 EDITORIAL:    Entitled     "Rebellious
 strategy against Islam is unchangeable" it discusses the entrenchment of infidels against Muslims and their movements and concludes, "if the Muslims do not wake up from their deep slumber of negligence and do not shoulder their forgotton responsibilities once again, and do not seek their honor in Islam, then they are doomed to misery and poverty and shall live under rebellious slavery. We hope that the Afghanistan jehad, where the entire Muslim world expectations are involved, shall pave the way for Muslims to revive their past glory and distinction."
 NEWS ITEMS:   In a function held in
 connection with graduation of students of Haqqania University of Akora Khattak, Professor Sayyaf observed, "the Afghanistan jehad shall continue till the establishment of an Islamic government." Maulana Samiul Haq said, "US is conspiring against the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan."
    Ijazul Haq1 said, "until the establishment     of     an     Islamic
 government, the Pakistan nation shall stand by the mujaheddin."
 -. Forty-seven commanders of various jehad organizations, in their joint resolution, rejected the UN 5-point plan as a political solution of Afghanistan problem, and so did the
leaders of Stanizai tribe.
                24
NEWS ITEMS: In regard to the Algerian
situation, Prof. Sayyaf said, "the people of Algeria want to live in accordance with the tenets of Islam and no one can deprive them of this right."
- Muallem Tore, Commander of IIA in an interview with the Ittehad-e-Islami said, "the people of Afghanistan, want a    mujaheddin-established genuine
Islamic government in Afghanistan. The plan for return of Zaher Shah stands condemned."
    The Algerian Islamic Liberation Front has named a mosque in Algiers after Kabul.
                                      MARCH
                2
NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Sayyaf, IIA leader,
in an exclusive interview to Al-Bunyan said, "Benon Sevan's efforts have been unsuccessful, unpracticable and biased right from the outset. I have not the least idea who has authorized Benon Sevan to speak up here and there, on behalf of the Afghan mujahed nation regarding the destiny of Afghanistan." He said that he had three proposals to make regarding alliance with other mujaheddin organizations:
(1)   They should commit themselves never to accept a.non-Islamic solution for Afghanistan.
(2) To continue armed jehad until such a solution is imminent,
(3) To establish a powerful shoora for taking decisions on important and urgent matters.
99
                                                                 Haji Mohammad Dauran, a Stanizai
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
leader,   in an   interview with
Ittehad-e-Islami regarding tribal unions said, "in my opinion the
formation of such unions is not only non-lslamic but will also aggravate the Afghan issue. We have not managed to create the necessary alliance among the mujaheddin so far and if Afghanistan is divided into ethnic groups . the possibility of a fair solution of the problem will deminish."
                9
NEWS ITEMS: In an interview to Pakistani dailies Jang, The News and Al-Hayat, Prof. Sayyaf said over the telephone from inside Afghanistan, "from the day I announced my opposition to the UN program all aid efforts to my organization have actually stopped. Iran has developed friendly relations with the Kabul regime, and interferes in our internal affairs". Regarding the establishment of the cultural association between Iran, Tadjekistan and some mujaheddin, he stated, "in Islam no importance is attached to language,., region, color or nationality but any group or organization which concludes similar agreements should obtain the
consent of other related organizations."
- Engineer Ahmad Shah in a gathering 6 March said that unity among the mujaheddin could frustrate UN intrigues.
Jehad Hindara
                                                         DECEMBER
              25
EDITORIAL:   Entitled, "Barbaric
aggression, ignominious defeat" it condemns the December, 1979 Russian invasion  and illustrates the
Soviet defeat saying, "this year while we condemn the Russian brutal attack on
 Afghanistan, the time has come that the great Soviet empire is toppled and her name erased from world map."
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with Al-
 Bunyan commander Haqqani said, holding a dialogue with the Russians regarding our self-determination is tantamount to betrayal of jehad and the blood of martyrs." He said, "as of the day the Soviet empire shattered, the Americans got fed-up with this jehad."
    In an interview with Al-Bunyan, Mawlawi Haqqani has urged the scholars riot to issue motivated and un-called-for verdicts. He said, "by issuing such verdicts their own status will be affected and lowered in the eyes of the people."
                                    JANUARY
                 1
 EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "it
 could be that every one has his own personal view in regard to the disintegration of Soviet Union and her miserable state of affairs, but no one can deny the fact of the original ignominious military defeat of Russia in Afghanistan and her exposure of political and economical failure to one and all; and in this process it was confronted with the prevalent
 situation. Irrespective of others* %
 opinion regarding her downfall, we consider her defeat a result of our jehadic struggles and innumerable sacrifices."
 NEWS ITEMS: Topkhana road, extending
 from Pakistan border to Baharak district in Badakhshan, a total of 110 Kms, was completed in 1 year.
 - Grand refugee rallies were held in Pakistan and Iran on the 13th anniversary of Soviet aggression in Afghanistan.
100
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
    The shipment of weapons from Hairatan port to Kabul continues. In the past month 1080 truck-loads arrived in Mazar-e-Sharif airport.
      Other items of this issue:
"The downfall of the Red Empire and the Bush Administration's new world order" by Abdul Wakil; "Soviet prisoners and the solution of Afghanistan problem" by Ahmed Zia Rahimzai.
                                                 8
EDITORIAL:  Entitled, "Jehad leadership
and its great responsibility to the nation" it concludes, "had our warriors and conquerors been united in the political field and were endowed with a joint stance then the political bargainers and foreign mercenaries would have no chance to create bottle necks in the way of our mujahed nation's final victory."
REPORT:  In a radio address regarding
the anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, commander Haqqani said that the Afghans demolished Somanaat, defeated the British empire and now attained the distinction and honor of disintegrating the Soviet empire.
   Mawlawi Nizamuddin Haqqani, in an interview observed, peace can return to Afghanistan when the atheists pack up, non-believers get dissolved, the infidels are finished and an Islamic government is established.
                   15
EDITORIAL:  The editorial writes, "the
way to the solution of the problem is that jehad leaders, religious scholars, the valiant jehad commanders and honest politicians reach a consensus on breaking the current deadlock, foiling the conspiracies of our enemies and clearing the last hurdles in the way of
 final victory in' the light of Islamic principles."
 REPORT: In an interview with an Arabic
 journal Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani said, "Imam or Ameer should have authority over the people, be able to enforce law and order, and restore the right of the oppressed from the oppressor."
    In regard to the return of Zaher Shah, in an interview, Mawlawi Khales observed:  "With return of  Zaher Shah
 there will be blood-baths in Afghanistan ."
                 22
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "Zaher Shah, the
 leader of peace or responsible for the present tragedy?" warns the jehad leaders tox unite at this sensitive juncture otherwise the heroic credit of our valiant mujahed nation will go to Zaher Shah or any other puppet.
 INTERVIEW: In an interview  with MIDIA
 Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani observed, "neither during his 40 years of Kingdom nor during the 13 years of jehad, Zaher Shah has been of any service to the people. As Such with what expectations is he returning to Afghanistan? If westerners and imperialist powers want to impose Zaher Shah on the people of Afghanistan, they ought to know this much also that he too, like Babrak and Najib, is a puppet and would not be able to defeat the mujaheddin."
 NEWS ITEMS: During a  big demonstration
 the effigy of Zaher Shah was burnt.
    A wellknown commander of Kabul, Anwar Khan, in a press conference, said, "I am sure that the 3rd All Commanders' Council will1 be convened soon".
                 29
 EDITORIAL: It published an editorial
101
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
lllillMJM
entitled, "Proud Afghans on the Monuments of their sacrifices" praising the manly stand and the victory of heroic Afghan nation and pointing out to them not to be influenced by the other peoples' . propaganda campaign because the Afghans are standing on the monuments of their own sacrifices and not on the help and support of others.
REPORT: Mawlawi Haqqani speaking at a
function in connection with the release of the Kabul regime's POWs on 21 January at Zhawara in Khost said, "the mujaheddin gave these POWs Islamic teachings during the past ten months and instilled in them the spirit of jehad and Afghan identity. The mujaheddin showed mercy towards them and pardoned them. Although a large number of the mujaheddin were martyred by them, so much so that the blood flowing from the bodies of most of them had not yet dried and they were not yet buried and some of the wounded were still bleeding when these soldiers were taken prisoners, even then the mujaheddin pardoned them."
    Mawlawi Haqqani in an interview with the BBC regarding the release of the POWs after the victory at Khost, said, "one thousand POWs of Khost were released with these certificates that 'they served the mujaheddin and the cause of jehad for ten months on jehadic fronts.'"
                                                            FEBRUARY
                                       5
EDITORIAL: It carried an editorial
captioned "The Awe-inspiring third Shoora of All the Commanders and their Decisions" and lauding the 28th January meeting of the commanders at Zhawara, has written, "we can say with confidence that only that plan and action concerning our country's destiny would be practicable which enjoys the
 support of the mujaheddin. If our mujahed commanders raise a slogan for the future of the country, in one voice and simultaneously, we are sure that we shall soon hear the good tidings of its implementation and the aliens and their friends would have to eat the humble pie."
 REPORT:  Commander Haqqani addressing
 the third nationwide gathering of the commanders remarked, "the Afghan jehad started under the command of these very commanders and even now they have the responsibility to frustrate all the conspiracies of our enemies."
      Some other points appearing in this issue are as follows:
    Haji Abdul Qadeer was .elected as Governor of the Nangarhar Province unanimously by all the provincial commanders.
 - Professor Sayyaf in his message to the Al-Bunyan remarked, "a political solution of the Afghan problem can be feasible only over our dead bodies."
 - Alhaj Haqqani addressing a meeting of religious Scholars at Karachi, said, "thanks to our jehad in Afghanistan that a universal Islamic power has come into existence and a focal point of jehad has emerged on the scene for all the Muslims."
                  12
 EDITORIAL: The editorial writes, "two
 years ago as the last detachment of the Soviet army crossed the Amu river 15 February the name of the Afghans was, once again, recorded in the annals of history as "victorious". But what is deplorable and regrettable is that even though our holy warriors drove out the powerful army of the century from their land but their puppet regime is still intact and in place. We remind our
102
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 Muslim leaders once again that the pride of incurring the defeat and downfall of the Soviet dictatorship shall have been culminated fully when the black blot of infidelity and communism is erased, once and for all, from the nation’s garment. There is a distance of only a single step between our mujahed nation and total victory which calls for a quick Muslim effort.
 NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with MIDIA correspondent, Mawlawi Mansoor said, "others have magnified Zaher Shah more than he really deserves."
 - In a press conference Prof. Rabbani said, "Loya Jirgah is not UN initiative but what the Najib puppet regime wants."
                                               19
 EDITORIAL: The editorial throws light
 on the struggle of the Muslim Afghan nation and writes, "we ought to know that the colonialism of the world is not only a farce but an enemy of the opinion that calls for the removal of the entire satanic regimes from the face of the earth; it is an enemy of the ideology which raises the nations to dignified positions and exalted ranks and denounces all kinds of cruelty, oppression, inequality and persecution. The current international conspiracies against our mujahed and victorious nation are also deep rooted in curbing the establishment of an Islamic order since they cannot tolerate a model Islamic government."
 NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with Jehad Hindarah, General Rahmatullah Safi said, "the measures for the establishment of an Islamic government, restoration of peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan can be attained through unity, understanding and commanders council."
 anniversary of Soviet ouster from Afghanistan, Ajazul Haq observed: "the Pakistan government ought to consider the sacrifices of the Afghans while resolving the Afghan issue."
      Kausar
                            DECEMBER
             18
 EDITORIAL: "Singular political leader-
 ship, maintenance of peace and stability in Afghanistan." Stating world-wide support of the mujaheddin the editorial concludes, "under such circumstances when the victories of mujaheddin are successfully under way, world opinion is waiting for the decision of mujaheddin leaders in regard to Afghanistan and hopefully expect that, with a unified opinion and political leadership, peace and security will return to Afghanistan. "
 NEWS ITEMS: According to WHO plan the
 reconstruction of post-war Afghanistan in health affairs calls for 355 million dollars and its implementation will take at least five years. This plan has been accepted in Geneva by both the puppet regime public health minister and that of the AIG.
 - Abdul Sattar Seerat, former Justice Minister of Afghanistan has said, "I believe that the role of OIC vis-a-vis Afghanistan problem is not satisfactory."
 - Islam Harimov, President of Uzbekis-
 tan bold correspondents in Tashkent that he was very much upset about the joint statement issued by Moscow and the mujaheddin. He said, when Moscow invaded Afghanistan, it did not consult them and now, even though there are 300 thousand     Uzbeks    residing      in
                                                                  At a seminar, celebrating the
103
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 Afghanistan, it has not consulted them either.-
 -  A US correspondent after witnessing the besieged city of Gardaiz said, "besides military problems there are political questions also but from military point of view it can be said that the circumstances are very much in favor of the mujaheddin.
 -  Dr. Alghabid, Secretary General of OIC has said, the Dakar Conference resolution is a positive step towards the solution of Afghanistan issue.
 -  The Red Army has stopped airlifting arms to the . puppet regime but the regime army is now receiving food-stuff and material only by surface routes.
 -  A Pakistani paper has written, "the Afghan refugees residing in Pakistan will return to their country within six months".
                   21
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "The resolution of Afghanistan problem in the light of Soviet Union's total disintegration", says that alongwith Soviet disintegration the question of Soviet assistance to Kabul regime is ended by itself and it is up to the jehad forces, to use their ingenuity and wisdom, giving their final decisive blow to the enemy, and by dint of solidarity and goodwill, pave the way for the establishment of an Islamic government in the country.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Sayyaf told the Al-
 Bunyan 19 December that the Russians ought to accept mujaheddin's conditions with utmost sincerity.
 -  A sfew days back the German television screened a video-tape of Kabul and its suburbs depicting toils and tribulations of Kabul residents.
 - Prof. Mohammad Fazel, one of Afghan-
istan scholars said, "the constitution of the leadership council is very limited. We proposed a supreme council instead of the leadership council in the Islamabad assembly.
    Mujaheddin leaders discussed the agenda of talks to be held with Alexander Rutskoy, deputy President of the Russian Federation, 18 December and the implementation of the recently declared plan of jehad leadership council.
                                                25
EDITORIAL:   In its leading article
entitled "Establishment of an Interim Islamic government as a solution to the Afghan Problem", the paper opines, "only an interim Islamic, responsible, broadbased, committed and sympathetic government enjoying the backing and confidence of an absolute majority of the Muslim Afghan nation can meet these challenges" .
MISCELLANEOUS NEWS AND REPORTS:
Alexander Rutskoy Vice President of Russia, during his visit to Iran, met and talked with a number of commanders of the south-west and western regions of Afghanistan, too.
      A Russo-Iran joint communique referring to Afghanistan, reads:  "Both
the parties expressed full satisfaction concerning the results of the recent discussions between the mujaheddin and the Russians at Moscow."
      The office of HWIA convened a conference at Hamburg, Germany to consider the Afghan problems. About two hundred representatives of the Afghans residing in different countries of Europe, USA, Pakistan and Iran took part in it.
      The office of HWIA news story published in
104
contradicted a some Pakistani
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 newspapers regarding the closure of its office in Tehran terming it utterly ± ictitious.
      Rutskoy said in Kabul, "a joint commission should be formed, at the earliest,      to     superwise     the
 implementation of the accords."
      Rutskoy said at a press conference in Islamabad, "to open a door you need a key and not a bomb".
      Ayatullah Mohseni, the leader of the HI A told the Western media, "the principal objective of Rutskoy's dialogue with the mujaheddin was to secure the release of a couple of Russian POWs."
      Professor Rabbani disclosing the content of his talks with Rutskoy stated, "he handed - over a list of the members of the Russian delegation, <9ne to participate in the coming meetings, to the mujaheddin. During the discussions both sides agreed to invite the representatives of Tadjikistan, Uzbekistan,       Turkmanestan      and
 Kazakhstan too, for taking part in the. next round of talks."
      Engineer Hekmatyar describing his talks with Rutskoy useful said, "both parties explained their points of view to each other."
      Khan Abdul Wall Khan had a meeting with Abdul Qayyum, the Kabul regime's Consul at Peshawar at the residence of Bashir Bilour, 24 December,         and
 discussed the matter of accelerating efforts for a political solution of the Afghan problem.
                   28
 EDITORIAL:   It is entitled "Afghan
 jehad. Real cause of the collapse 'of communist system" and discusses the disintegration of the Soviet empire.
NEWS ITEMS:   The daily Zeitung of
Switzerland writes, "mines are the main hurdle obstructing the return of the refugees to Afghanistan."
     Professor Rabbani said at a press conference in Islamabad, "the newly independent republics of the former Soviet Union, should,, give up their past tyrannical policies.
     Akram Zaki, Secretary General Pakistan Foreign Ministry remarked, "so far I have not heard anyone saying that the Afghan problem should not be solved or that he is not looking forward to a solution of the problem."
     Abdul Qassem, one of the Russian POWs who has at present refused to ^return to his homeland, has said that on his return home the first thing he would like to do is to teach his father (who is an electrician), mother, five brothers and a sister the Islamic principles.
     The joint communique issued by the Russian and Kabul regime authorities at the conclusion of Rutskoy's visit, reads, "despite the .difficulties faced by Russia, his country would not spare any effort for providing economic, scientific and technical assistance to the Kabul regime."
     At the end of Rutskoy's visit to Kabul, Najib called an emergency meeting of his high ranking generals and deliberated upon the domestic military situation. Consequently the exchange rate of dollar shot up speedily in the black market in Kabul.
     Nicholas Platt, US Ambassador to Pakistan has said, "Washington will play an active role in the reconstruction program in Afghanistan."
                                   JANUARY
                1
EDITORIAL: It is captioned "Independent
105
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992            Hlf   H
 Muslim Republics in Central Asia:   New
 Factor   in the Afghan      Issue" and
 states, "in the heat of the current discussions pertaining to the solution of the Afghan problem, it is noted that the Kabul regime has been able to gain a foothold for itself by developing diplomatic relations with the Central Asian republics. But on the other side, the jehadic forces have not taken any step in this direction."
      The editorial concludes with a request to the Central Asian republics and the mujaheddin leaders to take necessary steps in this regard."
 NEWS ITEMS:   Most of( the mujaheddin
 commanders have rejected the ceasefire proposed by Najib, the President of the quisling Kabul regime.
      An official source of the US government has told The Washington Times correspondent that the mujaheddin have a couple of hundred Stinger missiles and they have not returned a single one yet.
      Hamed Karzai, the AIG Advisor for Foreign Affairs told The New York Times that Afghanistan has been apportioned in several sectors and there are many fingers in the pie.
      According to. BBC, the Pakistan Chief of Army staff, Asif Nawaz's visit to Italy and his meeting with Mohammad Zaher Shah is a clear sign of change in Pakistan's       policy        vis-a-vis
 Afghanistan.
      Akram Zaki in an interview with BBC, remarked, "Pakistan is trying to accommodate a political solution of the Afghan problem in any plan related to this issue."
      Raffiullah Moazin has described the Leadership Council plan, as an open interference by foreign countries and has vehemently rejected it.
 EDITORIAL:   It is entitled "New
 Dimensions in the Afghan Problem" and deals with the issues of negative symmetry and continuation of war in Afghanistan. It concludes with these words:
      "Despite stronger position of the mujaheddin against the Kabul regime in the military field, they desire an early end to bloodshed in the country in a manner commensurate with the will of our Muslim nation."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor
 expressed this opinion in an exclusive interview with the daily Kausar, "anyone inclined to interfere in Afghanistan, should take a lesson from the fate of the British and the Soviets."
      Wali Khan, the ANP leader has said, "the present government too, like us, favors a political solution to the Afghan problem."
      Pakistan's Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif remarked, "whenever the decision to discontinue supply of weapons is observed in a proper manner, Pakistan will also comply with it."
      Some informed circles have disclosed that Manoki Mangal, Director of Political Affairs in the Defense Ministry of the puppet Kabul regime has paid a visit to Pakistan in pursuance of his sinister efforts.
                                                    8
 EDITORIAL:     It      is     entitled,
 "Non-existence of a Single Leadership and the emergence of Zaher Shah" and has discussed the vacuum created by such a situation.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Informed  sources report
 that Pakistan's Chief of Army Staff, General Asif Nawaz, during his visit to Rome, invited Zaher Shah to pay a visit
106
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 to Pakistan.
      Engineer Hekmatyar commenting on Asif Naytaz's visit to Rome has expressed opinion that helping Zaher Shah to come into power, would not open the door to the Central Asian republics, for Pakistan.
      Germany's Social Democrat Party desires to act as a host for reconciliation between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime. Willy Brandt, President of the Social Democrat Party and ex-Chancellor of Germany has sent invitations to the Peshawar and Tehran based mujaheddin in this connection, mentioning that in the second session of the seminar, some of the political figures from Kabul would also participate.
      Akram Zaki, Secretary General Pakistan Foreign Ministry has said, "the Central Asian republics constitute another matter of interest for Pakistan in connection with the political solution of the Afghan problem."
      Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the NlFA leader said, "all the mujaheddin groups should have a serious role in the future Afghan government."
                                                 8
 EDITORIAL: It is captioned, "About the Quadripartite Conference" and discusses the conference to be convened by the mujaheddin leaders, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Pakistan, at Riyadh.
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Economist writes that
 Pakistan supports the UN peace plan and has threatened to expel the parties opposing this plan. But the Pakistan Army is still interested in a military solution of the Afghan problem so that a pro-Pakistan government may.come into power at Kabul.
      Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the JI leader
 in Pakistan has said, "Pakistan cannot change its policy towards Afghanistan."
      Dr. Hoshang, one of the activists of the Bonn conference has said, "the Afghan mujaheddin struggle made an important contribution to the reunification of Germany, and the Bonn conference may be considered as an endeavor- supporting their ligitimate right.
      Australia has declared that whenever an elected government based on the people's will is established in Afghanistan, the Australian government would recognise it and would offer considerable assistance to it.
      Radio Kabul broadcast declared that the entire properties of the Afghan Royal Family would be returned to them. Najib has issued an ordinance in this connection annulling the 1978 ordinance for confiscating the crown properties.
      General Katawazi, Secretary of Jamiat-e-Rastagari Mill! (Society for National Salvation) has said, "the main obstacle in the restoration of peace during the past few years, has been the insistence of the two parties concerned, to ensure peace on their own terms".
      According to informed sources, Benon Sevan, after his trip to the region in connection with the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan, has drafted a detailed and thorough report and has submitted it to the UN Secretary General. Therefore*it is possible that in April an interim government may be formed in Afghanistan.
 EDITORIAL:  It is entitled, *Apprehen-
 sions in the West regarding New Islamic
107
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
Dynamism'- and gives an account of Western opposition to Islamic movements.
NEWS ITEMS:      The first pictorial
exhibition of Afghanistan captioned "Reflections in Pictures" was inaugu-* rated 31 December, 1991 in the Display Hall at Tehran at the initiative of Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Arts gallery of Islamic Teachings Organization.
      A spokesman of Pakistan Foreign Ministry said, "the meeting of General Asif Nawaz, chief of the. Pakistan Army staff with Sardar Wali should not be given so much importance. Pakistan is a supporter of the UN Secretary General's 5-point plan."
      Mawlawi Mansoor said in an exclusive interview with the daily Kausar, "I believe that Zaher Shah has already taken the test."
      Mawlana Fazlur Rahman, the JUI leader, has expressed his view about Zaher Shah in these words:
      "Zaher Shah is the actual cause of the present situation in Afghanistan. Only those have the right to govern Afghanistan, who have fought against a supreme military power of the world for eleven years."
      Professor Sayyaf has said, "we would like to remind our neighbors that only the mujaheddin and the Afghan refugees are their friends."
      Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. remarked about the Bonn Conference that all the mujaheddin parties and the AIG have decided not to take part in any meeting in which representatives of the quisling regime might participate.
      A high-powered delegation of the puppet regime in Kabul has met with the
 US Embassy authorities at Moscow. According to the diplomatic sources, this is the first contact of its kind by the puppet Kabul regime hierarchy with American dignitaries after the collapse of the Soviet empire. Hence in view of the recently changed atmosphere, it is deemed to be very important.
                                                15
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled, "Zaher Shah viewed from two different angles•" On the one hand, the Afghan mujaheddin leaders consider the introduction of Zaher Shah in the scenario as a joint US-Soviet conspiracy. Whereas, the foreign press and political analysts regard it a consequence of disunity among the mujaheddin.leaders.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Prof, Rabbani, the JIA
 leader and AIG Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, left for Cairo, at the head of a delegation, on the invitation of the Egyptian Foreign Ministry, He will discuss the ways and means of a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem with the Egyptian authorities.
      Abdul Wali Khan, leader of Pakistan's ANP, said that there is a possibility that the Afghan war may turn into a Pakistan-Afghanistan war .
      AFP correspondent reports from Kabul, it seems that the return of the ex-Afghan King Zaher Shah, after 20 years in Rome, may be the only hope for the restoration of peace in the war-torn Afghanistan.
      Reports received here indicate that Dr. Shams, envoy of Willy Brandt, Chairman of the German Social Democrat Party, has left for Pakistan to persuade the mujaheddin to participate in the Bonn Conference.
      The Human Rights Delegation of the
108
JANUARY-MARCH,
 VOL. 5 NO. 2
 Amnesty International, led by Armacota, visited the POWs belonging to the puppet regime, at Khost.
                   21
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled, "Pakistan's
 New Stance vis-a-vis the Afghan problem," and deals with the endorsement of the UN 5-point plan by Pakistan and urges unity among the jehadic forces.
 NEWS ITEMS: Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Siddiq Kanju', has stated, "Pakistan will put pressure upon the mujaheddin to accede to the UN Plan. Obviously the mujaheddin will have to hold talks with the credible elements of the Kabul regime at one time or the other."
      Hekmatyar said in an interview with the BBC, "I do not think Pakistan would be a party to international conspiracies against Afghanistan."
 Afghan problem. He added, "not only negative symmetry is a basic necessity to end the strife in Afghanistan but financial assistance, which helps in buying arms, should also be stopped."
                 22
 EDITORIAL: It is1entitled "Holy War for the Preservation of Faith is the Policy of All the Muslims" and deals with the conditions prevailing in Algeria.
 NEWS ITEMS: The puppet regime authorities have allowed the ICRC to visit the political prisoners held by the regime Ministry of State Security.
     The Bonn Conference has been postponed due to non-participation by the jehadic leaders. The postponement of the conference highlighted the fact that the mujaheddin as a victorious power in the battlefield are the determining factor in the political scenario, too.
      Benon Sevan, special Representative of the UN Secretary General has remarked, "war has left terrible effects on the people of Afghanistan and everyone has come to the conclusion that this iSSUe should be solved through political means•"
      Prof. Sayyaf told the Al-Bunyan that the crusading Afghan nation is Still alive and breathing and is not in a coffin to be carried away by others.
      In connection with a series of seminars held by the CCAR, the sixth seminar on "Basic Principles of an Islamic Government in the Future Afghan Society" was held 27-30 January, 1992 in Islamabad.
      Boutros Ghali, the UN Secretary General, has expressed the belief that the time has come to press for; a comprehensive political solution 6f the
      Tom Gottierre, Director of Afghan-ology Institute at Nebraska University, USA, has expressed his opinion that the foreign circles should know that interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan would be neither in their interest nor in the interest of the Afghans< He opined that a large number Of the Afghans believe that the real war against the Red Army has been over since about three years because they were able to defeat the Soviet troops and to expel them from the Afghan Soil. Therefore, they think that the current warfare is a sort of power grabbing struggle between the different groups and hence they are tired and sick of it.
      Pakistan Prime Minister, Nawas Sharif said, "in view of the benefits of Afghan jehad for Pakistan, it is necessary that all assistance and cooperation should be extended to the
109
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 establishment of a government by the mujaheddin instead of Zaher Shah.
      On 21 January 1992, hundreds of students held demonstrations against the attempts to re-install Zaher Shah in Afghanistan.
                                                24
 EDITORIAL:  Writing under  the heading,
 "Security Council's Duty in the New
 American World Order", it explains that
 as the US has no rival at present it
 can muster the Security Council's
 support for all its decisions.
             *
 NEWS ITEMS:      Benon Sevan says,
 "statements of some of the mujaheddin leaders have not distracted me.'1
      Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs has said, "as regards the future role of Zaher Shah, the ex-King of Afghanistan, the UN can take a decision."
      Pakistan's support to the UN Plan has been considered by leaders of three jehad parties, i.e. Prof. Mujaddedi, Mawlawi Khales and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. Only Mawlawi Khales has opposed it.
      Hekmatyar said in a BBC interview, "we will never participate in a conference attended by Najib and his accomplices." ..
      Pakistan President, Ghulam Ishaq Khan, has said that Pakistan's policy towards the Afghan problem has not changed at all.
      The daily Independent of London writes, "subsequent to Pakistan's decision to support the UN 5-point plan regarding Afghanistan, the UN has accelerated its efforts in this connection."
      Mawlawi Mansoor in an interview
VOL. 5 NO. 2
with the daily Jamhoori'-e-Islami of Iran expressed the opinion that whatever is not provided by Moscow for Najib, is supplied by the Central Asian republics.
     The ethnic Council of Afghanistan in its resolution has expressed this opinion about the new stand taken by Pakistan, "whenever the Muslim nation of Afghanistan has faced any difficulty in its past history, it has resolved its issues through the ethnic councils. Now once again the Afghan nation is faced with a great national challenge and should meet it with confidence and efficiency."
     The Pakistan press has reported that Najib has invited General Asif Nawaz, Chief of Pakistan Army Staff, to discuss a political solution of the Afghan problem. The General had, a short while ago, met with Sardar Wali, the representative of Zaher Shah during his visit to Rome.
                                  FEBRUARY
                                             5
EDITORIAL:  Various predictions and
views expressed about the future government in Afghanistan have been evaluated in this leading article entitled, "Random thoughts about the
Future Afghan Sovereignty,"
  • «
NEWS ITEMS:   Reports received here
indicate that recently Ishaq Tokhi, personal aid of Najib has' secretly paid a visit to Pakistan.
     Prof. Rabbani remarked in a press conference 3 February, "we will not allow the imposition of any alien leadership on us."
     Mawlawi     Mohammad!,    while
supporting Pakistan's policy has said, "Pakistan’s stand from the very
110
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 beginning has been healthy."
      According to reports received from some sources, the Jalalabad-Torkham Highway which had been closed for sometime, has been re-opened.
      Sayyed Ahmad Khomeini, speaking in a gathering of Afghan poets and writers, as well as the Central Supervisory Council of HWTA, declared that the Islamic Revolution of Iran would be inseparable from the Islamic Revolution of the Afghan nation.
      Mohammad Yasser, a member of the Islamic Movement, speaking at a meeting of the party, remarked, "if ever a government headed by Zaher Shah comes into power, the responsibility will fall squarely on Engineer Hekmatyar, Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales."
                                                  8
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "Peace... but Under What Conditions?", expressing the view that peace is the desire of every mujahed and every man of faith in Afghanistan, provided it guarantees our Islamic honor and dignity...
 NEWS ITEMS:    Siddiq Kanju, Pakistan
 Minister of State for Foreign Affairs has said, "Pakistan will arrange for providing facilities for convening an intra-Afghan meeting. In the first instance our policy was to welcome the UN Peace Plan. Now we want to give it a practical shape."
      Benon Sevan's talks with the mujaheddin leaders failed because most of them rejected the UN peace plan for the solution of the Afghan problem.
      Agha Shahi, the ex-Foreign Minister of Pakistan has said, "Pakistan's policy towards the Afghan issue has not changed whereas by supporting the 5-point UN peace plan.
VOL. 5 NO. 2
Pakistan has reverted to its 1981 policy." He considered American and Russian policy towards the Afghan issue, identical.
     Mohsen Raza, one of the daily Nawa-e-Waqt political analysts, has posed a question, whether there is a possibility that an interim Islamic government may be' formed in Afghanistan?" After analysing this problem from all dimensions, he wonders whether the mujaheddin w.ill not be divided in two sections as a result of these efforts.
     Benon Sevan expressed optimism pertaining to his talks with the mujaheddin leaders. Press reports indicate that some of the mujaheddin leaders insist that power should be transferred to them without any discussion with the Kabul regime's representatives.
    General Hameed Gul, the ex-Director of ISI in Pakistan said, "I pray for the success of Pakistan Government's efforts to find a solution of the Afghan problem."
                 12
EDITORIAL:    Entitled, 4'Mu jaheddin' s
ground for suspecting UN efforts" it writes, "mujaheddin are watching the current efforts in regard to the political solution of the Afghan problem with doubt and suspicion and the influence of western powers in UN renders the impartiality and soundness of these efforts questionable and apprehensive. UN persistance on Najib's share in future political structure of Afghanistan      strengthens       these
apprehensions. Therefore as long as the participation of Kabul regime in the future political power of Afghanistan is under discussion, the crisis in the country will remain unresolved.
Ill
 VOL- 5 NO. 2
 JANUARY-MARCH- 1992
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's
 personal      representative       for
 Afghanistan, said, "all the concerned parties to the Afghanistan dispute must leave their ambitions and work for peace."
 -  Commemorating the 14th anniversary of Iranian Islamic revolution victory in Iranian General Consulate in Peshawar, the mujaheddin leaders had also participated in the ceremony during which Professor Sebghatullah Mujaddedi observed, "our Iranian and Pakistani brothers have not spared any kind of cooperation during the past 13 years but what we want is that Afghanistan be left, for the Afghans, Iran for Iranians and Pakistan for Pakistanis. We wish that our children who are educated in Pakistani or Iranian Schools be trained on Islamic principles but be allowed to remain as Afghans." Regarding the anthem sung by the Afghan children he observed, "I am happy to see an Iranian school herein to train our children as Muslims but on the other hand I feel sorry that they are not trained as Afghans but as Iranians. It goes without saying that Iran is very close to our hearts but the fact remains that an Iranian is an Iranian and an Afghan is an Afghan, Similarly I request the Pakistan government, particularly Qazi Hussain Ahmed, not to interfere in. the affairs of Afghanistan- Mr. Hussain Ahmed is meddling in the internal affairs of Afghanistan to such an extent as if he were representing the entire mujaheddin and refugees."
                                              15
IbdiTORIAlV Entitled "Reasons behind the change in Pakistan's Afghan policy" it discusses the mishandling of the Afghanistan problem and concludes, "Pakistan cannot see these developments
 from the view point of . beneficial forces and means advantageous to this country. It is therefore, on the look out for new forces and developments, observing the world political order and respectful to the international conventions and pave the way for stability and peace in Afghanistan which is now working as a bridge for Pakistan in her relations with Central Asian republics. It is in this perspective that we should keep our fingers crossed and wait for the un-expected to happen, in regard to the Afghanistan problem and unforeseen operations and . measures, from the Afghan jehad organizations."
 NEWS ITEMS:  The views of western news
 media about the Pakistan new stance vis-a-vis the solution of Afghanistan problem:  The daily Christian Science
 Monitor says, "clear signs of change in Pakistan position surfaced when general Hameed Gul, the former chief of Pakistan military intelligence, being a staunch supporter of mujaheddin, was removed from his post and finally led to retirement and the government of Mohammed Nawaz Sharif launched extensive efforts to establish close relations with Central Asian republics•"
 -  The mujaheddin leaders had a meeting with Ajmal Khattak, 14 February, in the campus of Hagqania Akora khattak University. Ajmal khattak said to Prof. Mujaddedif "I recall those days when I used to pray, standing behind you, in the mosque of Qala-e-Jawwad. I wish to God: that I be able to do so again".
 -  Probable change in UN program and pragmatic process for the solution 6f Afghanistan problem, in order to hold general elections, posters and new rules, will also be chalked out. It is said that in this case, it will be incumbent that UN brought thousands of troops and civilians to Afghanistan as personnel to control.and supervise both sides.
112
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
         19
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial says, "the
 conference of heads of member countries of the Eonomic Cooperation Organization (ECO) ended in Tehran and with membership of the republics of Tadjekistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan, the significance of this organization, from political and : economic points of view, received considerable impetus* The Kazakhstan republic, which participated in the conference as observer, will also be accorded full membership of the organization. The ECO, with its 250 million population, the majority of them being Muslims, asserted itself into the biggest economic and development organization of the Muslim countries. The people of Afghanistan who, under the present circumstances are fighting the Kabul puppet regime, highly appreciated the inception of such a useful organization for the countries of the region. While assuring the brother muslim countries of the region the fruitful consequences of such a cooperation, they are hopeful that after achieving victory, they will also become a full member of the organization. '
 NEWS ITEMS:
 -    February 15, the day of Muslim mujaheddin victory over the occupation forces, is the proudest day for the Afghan nation.
 - A joint session of Islamic Republic of Iran, Tadjikistan and Afghanistan, as three Persian speaking countries of the region, was convened in Tehran, 19 February. Professor Rabbani, who had arrived in Tehran for this meeting, in his observations remarked that, common faith, culture and language are such realities that no one can ignore and on account of which we can develop our mutual relations all
 the more.
                  22
 EDITORIAL: "Jehad leaders' mission in
 regard to the Afghanistan problem" discussing the problems concludes, "what the Afghanistan Islamic jehad urgently requires is a coordinated political organization to bring together the entire cross’-sect ion of the people        and realize their
 objectives and rights."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Pertaining to. change in
 Pakistan policy vis-a-vis the Afghanistan problem, Habibullah Karzai said, "so far there are no signs in regard to changes in Pakistan policy. We Afghans believe that change in policy means that all sides stop their interference in Afghanistan's domestic affairs and let the Afghan people to decide their own future."
 -  Benon Sevan's efforts mainly revolve around realization of the UN 5-point plan which is also approved by UN Security Council. Meanwhile, considering the view points of warring* sides, particularly those of mujaheddin, Benon Sevan has agreed to make some amendments in the plan. But presently one of the hurdles before the resolution of the Afghanistan issue is lack of harmony among mujaheddin leaders.
    Retired Colonel Mohammad Yousuf, expert on Afghanistan affairs, told the daily Jang, whatever government comes to power in Afghanistan will certainly bring up the Durand Line issue. He said, "premature formation of an interim government, ostensibly, helped the Afghans, but basically its aim was to harm them. Had it not been so, the war would have ended four years ago and the mujaheddin government established already.
 - Peter Tomsen, US envoy for mujahed-
113
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 din, said that public opinion in favor of the implementation of the UN Secretary General's plan for the political solution of the Afghanistan problem has been mobilized at all levels and opponents of the plan are being isolated.
    Akram Zaki said, the memory of homeland is attracting the Afghans and for this reason they want the political solution of the issue to be speeded up.
    Najib, the President of the Kabul puppet regime, desires preliminary talks prior to the UN proposed assembly in connection with the Afghanistan affairs. UN has a program for convening an assembly comprizing the delegates of all the concerned parties.
                   26
 EDITORIAL: Reviewing  the hectic Kabul
 regime efforts for survival, the editorial dwells on how the puppet regime's policy is geared at sowing discord among the Afghan nation and yet claiming its policy to be in conformity with international n&rms.
 NEWS ITEMS: Benori  Sevan said, nobody
 could stop the 'peace' process • of Afghanistan. Sevan irresponsibly claims that the various nationalities in Afghanistan such as the Tadjeks, the Uzbeks and the Turkmens have been influenced by the independence of the Central Asian Muslim states and that the political awareness of the various groups has been raised during the 13-year war.
   Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the JI leader in Pakistan, in a reception in Rawalpindi criticized the Pakistan policy vis-a-vis the Afghan issue and blamed President Ghulam Ishaq Khan for speaking Wali Khan's language in relation to the Afghan problem.
    Abdur Rahim Hatef, the Deputy President of the Kabul puppet regime, in an interview with the BBC after return from a tour of the Central Asian republics stated, "the Central Asian republics, which have ' emerged as a result of former Soviet Unions' disintegration, can play some urgent role in the Afghan peace process."
 - Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, told reporters in a reception at the Kuwaiti Embassy in Islamabad, "nobody can impose a settlement on the Afghans which may be against their will. The valor and courage the people of Afghanistan have inscribed with their blood entitles them to reap the fruits of their toils and sacrifices."
    The President of Pakistan', at a reception held in honor of the visiting    Kazakhstan  President,
 stressed upon the peaceful settlement of the Afghanistan problem through negotiations.
                29
 NEWS ITEMS: The speaker of the Pakistan Foreign Office said, "the Afghans, do not want to sit with Najib around the conference table." Regarding the reaction of the newly emerged Central Asian republics said, Noor Sultan Nazarbayev,   the    president  of
 Kazakhstan, has backed the UN peace program for Afghanistan and the other five states in the region are going to do the same.
.- Siddiq Kanju, the Pakistani Minister of State for Foreign Affairs said, the Kabul puppet regime President, Najib, should step down for the sake of the Afghanistan settlement.
                                     MARCH
                4
 EDITORIAL: Among the reasons why the UN
114
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
 peace plan has been favored by many circles, the editorial mentions lack of a comprehensive and credible plan of the mujaheddin organizations.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Dr. Azizullah Lodin, the
 AIG economic and financial advisor, in an exclusive interview to Kausar said, it should be better if we had a seperate department to control the activities of the foreign committees.
 - The delegation of three mujaheddin organizations, led by Pir Sayyed Ahmadi Gailani, met and held talks with the1 ex-King of Afghanistan in Rome.
 - Prof. Sayyaf, the IIA leader, in a telephone message from inside Afghanistan said that meeting Zaher Shah, the former Afghan Monarch, was a futile effort.
 - A European journal in a recent, issue, while analysing elections and its complications in Afghanistan says that if and when such elections are underway, certainly the mujaheddin will not be the loser.
 - General Mirza Aslam Beg, the former Pakistan Chief of Army Staff, said the ISI will be responsible to the government vis-a-vis the Afghanistan issue.
 - The Kabul puppet regime has welcomed negotiations between the mujaheddin delegation under Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and the former Afghan King, Zaher Shah.
                     7
 EDITORIAL: Is entitled "Factors behind
 the definite fall of the Kabul regime." Recounting the political and economic difficulties as well as the inter-party rifts and divisions it says, "the one thing which will be a final blow to overthrow the regime and which- lacks, is unity and harmony among the mujaheddin groups."
 NEWS ITEMS:    The 3-day commanders'
meeting which began in Tehran 2 March, decided to continue the sacred jehad until reaching the final goal of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
-  The fall of the Russian Empire and the emergence of the Central Asian Muslim states was, for the first time, celeberated 4 March. Speaking on the occasion Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said that the various nationalities living in Afghanistan, apart from willingness to establish friendly relations with these republics, should also undertake to maintain their national unity more than ever before.
    The spokesman of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry in answer to a question whether the change in the ISI administration would also mean a change in Pakistan's Afghan Policy said, Pakistan would remain steadfast in the stance declared by Siddiq Kanju, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, 27 February.
-  A book, on the war in Afghanistan, which caused great fuss in Russia and which was recently translated into English, says in part, "though the Russian troops were not afraid, some injuries finally ended in amputation of limbs and created fearful disablement among them. Furthermore, the mujaheddin badly treated the bodies of the Russian soldiers, an act which was reciprocated also by these troops."
-  Benon Sevan, the personal representative of the UN Secretary General, said that Najib and his friends will not be accomodated in the forthcoming inter-Afghan assembly.
    Ali Akbar Valayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, in the last session of the Afghan mujaheddin commanders’ meeting in Tehran said, "ancient and historical      extensive      relations
between the Afghan and Iranian Muslim
115
^
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                HUM                 VOL.  5 NO. 2
nations are the common and binding factors between tha peoples of the two countries."
                   11
EDITORIAL:  It discusses the present
deadlock in the UN plan for Afghanistan and suggests that by bringing some amendments to the plan the UN would pave the way for the participation of all the mujaheddin, groups in the planned Afghan assembly. It says that instead of inviting representatives from the Kabul puppet regime, the UN
should include Afghan dignitaries from within Afghanistan, who are not affiliated with the - ruling party, and thus demostrate their good will towards the mujaheddin'as well as the people of Afghanistan.
NEWS ITEMS:    Akram Zaki, Secretary
General Foreign Affairs, said that a solution to the Afghan issue would be sought until the end of the current year.
-  Najib, President of the Kabul puppet regime, in an interview to The New York Times said, the Kabul regime, the US and the Western world have a common-commitment to fight Islamic fundamentalism.
-  Najibullah in a 4-hour address to party members seriously criticized some, members of the puppet Watan Party for creating rifts inside the party and trying to split the country by bringing ethnic topics. They were also blamed for creating a dangerous situation in the Hairatan river-port in the north of the country.
                   14
EDITORIAL: The editorial dwells on the responsibility of the mujaheddin in the wake of the current internal divisions of the Kabul regime and calls for their
 unity and a unified stand.
 NEWS ITEMS: Mawlawi   Khales, leader of
 HIA, said Najib is endeavoring to build up closer relations with the US now that the former Soviet Union has been disintegrated.
 - The valorous uprising of the people of Herat against the occupation forces, 14 March, 1980 and. the martyrdom of
 25,000 souls on a single day is the greatest of all prices ever paid for the love of faith and freedom. This alone is a clear proof that the Afghan crusading nation is confronted with the most cruel and blackest group of powermongers eversince they launched their jehad empty-handed but equipped with the power of faith and religion.
 - Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former Prime
 Minister, said any move by the Central
 Asiar* republics which will be against
 the interests of Afghanistan will prove
 to be detrimental to themselves as well
 as the region . He said, there are some
 who still believe to continue the jehad
 against the Kabul regime, but they
 should be aware that with the prevalent situation there will be no one to
 defend them any further.
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, commenting on Najib’s request from the US to combat Islamic fundamentalism, stated that the request was extremely vain and insignificant.
    The spokesman of the Pakistan Foreign Office, said Najib the President of Kabul puppet regime cannot be accommodated in the Afghan grand assembly under the auspices of the UN.
                                                 18
 EDITORIAL: Commenting  upon  the diffi-
 culties Benon Sevan is facing with his UN peace mission in Afghanistan, the editorial has criticized the Kabul
116
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
regime for, reportedly, submitting a list of participants to the UN proposed assembly. It says, "now that the impossible has happened the mujaheddin organizations shall also insist on their previous stand of continuing the war until the total fall of the regime in Kabul. Because, according to the mujaheddin, talks with representatives of the Kabul regime would be equal to talks with the regime itself, which is directly responsible for the crimes in and the destruction of Afghanistan.
NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Rabbani told the BBC
in an interview, "we shall never launch a destructive operation on the Kabul city."
- It looks as if the Pakistan government has now more confidence in the so-called moderate mujaheddin leaders. Siddiq Kanju made it clear that the Pakistan government was supporting the UN efforts for the convening of a grand Afghan assembly and the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan.
held only when we are sure that these would lead to the establishment of a broadbased transitional government in Kabul.
 Khurshld-e-Jehad
                          JANUARY
            1
EDITORIAL: "Prom Islamic Commitment to
Bargaining". Under this heading the editorial says that, in the first place, those responsible for jehad leadership are at the stage of final test and trial to guarantee the righteousness or, God forbid, to nullify their commitment in regard to the legal and Islamic demands of our mujahed nation. ^They are called upon that with honest commitment to belief, sincerity, fear of God and sympathetic stance, in place of cheating and bargaining, to ensure God's victory and the valiant nation's trust and confidence.
- According to mujaheddin news media, by making use of the present opportunity of discord between the Kabul regime and the militia forces under Dostum and.Kayan in the north of the country, the mujaheddin are preparing for joint operations to capture the historic Mazar-e-Sharif.
     Other items in this issue are: "Moscow has stopped assisting Kabul", "Russia might prepare the map of mines planted in Afghanistan", "Khurasan and its people copy of Afghanistan in the last five centuries", "The third world massacre fields."
    Mawlana Haqqani, the well-known commander in Paktia said, the UN plan was a betrayal of the Afghan jehad. He said, "if it were our objective to form a coalition government with Najib and his accomplices then the 13-years of war and the sacrifice of 1.5 million souls were all a futile effort."
 - Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, in an interview to The Gulf Times said. Negotiations with Najib, President of the Kabul regime, would be
  Lashkar-e-Azadagan
            JANUARY
EDITORIAL:  Entitled  "A cursory glance
at Moscow Talks", it deals with the positive and negative aspects of these talks. Avoiding any overall assessment of these aspects, the editorial considers it premature.
117
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 MISCELLANEOUS NEWS ITEMS:
  December 27, the day of Afghanistan's occupation or the backdrop of the universal defeat of communism.
   The Russian and Kabul regime pilots daily bomb the northern provinces of the country intensely.
 - Afghan jehad or a "Ray of Hope" for others.
 - The communist regime in Kabul wants to execute its second plan, i.e. the holding of the Bonn Conference.
 - An article entitled, "views of the Mujaheddin leaders about the Results of Moscow Talks," reflecting the positive and negative views expressed by Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf, Mawlawi Mohammadi, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Qazi Waqad, Rahmatullah Murtazavi and Saifur Rahman Halimi.
      Mahaz
                                                    DECEMBER
                                  18
 REPORT: The Russian ambassador, at his own request, called on Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani at his residence 28 November, 1991. In an interview with VOA Pir Gailani said, "we discussed various matters pertaining to Afghanistan, particularly the outcome of mujaheddin delegation's visit to Moscow. I hope that mujaheddin - Soviet parleys will continue in future too." In regard to the future government he said, "we ought to really establish an Islamic government acceptable to the majority of the Afghan people and the UN should guarantee that it replaces the puppet Kabul regime.
                                  JANUARY
                14
 EDITORIAL: It discusses the 27 December Soviet invasion and their eventual defeat.
 INTERVIEW: In an interview with the
 daily News Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani said, "there are signs that military assistance has been received by Kabul regime via Uzbekistan after 16 December, 1991." Regarding the meeting of Asif Nawaz, Pakistan's Chief of Army Staff, with the ex-King, he said that he had no information on the subject. However, the meeting of Commander-in-Chief or any other senior official of Pakistan with Zaher Shah will be a good sign.In support of the ex-King he said, "the former King is the only Afghan personality who can play a positive role during the' interim government leading to the resolution of Afghanistan problem." He said that all the segments of Afghanistan, even with a nominal role in the freedom movement, ought to take part in the management of interim period". While supporting the UN 5-point plan for Afghanistan, Pir Gailani said, "we are trying for the success of this plan and support the holding           of Loya Jirgah and appreciate
 the role of OIC."
 EDITORIAL: The editorial         is about  the
 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and says that this year, prior to that day in December,   Soviet Union's             name was
 erased from the world map. Finally it considers the Leadership Council as a failure.
 REPORT:          In accordance with resolution
 of 3 December an agreement was reached between HIA (Khales)             and   IIA that
 instead of the ten-member council of Islamabad, a council comprizing at
IIP
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992            HtHHANJIHAO                  VOL. 5 NO. 2
                                       of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
least 500 members be constituted. If
the brothers consider this work
difficult then the advisory council may
be called, and if this cannot be done
then a consensus be reached entrusting
one of the mujaheddin for a two-year
term. Otherwise executive councils of
seven organizations may sit together
and elect the government and the
cabinet. The organizations have the
right to identify persons among the
mujaheddin, camp refugees or the
Afghans residing in other countries.
When all is said and done our main
condition, during the entire sessions
for resolutions and programs, is that the government leadership ought to be
chosen from among the well-known and
recognized mujaheddin. In the end they
observed, "we sent these proposals to.
the brothers for their positive
response before 25 December, otherwise,
according to our initial plan and
proposal, we shall constitute a 500-
member council to take appropriate
measures in regard to the government
and other important issues."
   In a session in Khyber, the tribes promised solemnly to Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the JI leader, that they shall support the mujaheddin till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
      Mesbah
                                                                    DECEMBER
                 16
EDITORIAL:    "The    Creation   of
the Leadership Council and its significance under the existing conditions". The editorial says the resolution of Afghanistan issue can be visualized in accordance with the invaluable  objectives     of   the
mujaheddin, based on the establishment
 NEWS ITEMS: With the arrival of Vice-
 President of the Russian Federation to Pakistan, the second round of Russian-mujaheddin talks started 22 December, 1991.
 - Shaikhul Islam Shakoor Pashazadah, a scholar and member of Azerbaijan parliament, at a seminar in Lahore observed, "we were invigorated by the Afghan jehad and learnt the modus operand! of jehad and war for the revival of our faith and the rights of our country. While watching the Afghans we -got convinced that we could also fight the super power .and get our legitimate rights."
 INTERVIEW:  Abdul Lateef Ibrahimi,
 commander of district Imam Saheb, Kunduz, in an interview said, "mujaheddin captured Imam Saheb 13 August, 1989. There are four schools in running condition, but eight other schools are closed. The reason is non-availability of text-books and other materials. Our main problem, however, is absence of health centers."
                                                  31
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled, "The shameless
 Soviet aggression and the glory of Afghan jehad" it concludes, "needless to say while condemning the 13th anniversary of Soviet aggression in the country, we are duty bound to uproot the remnants of aggression from the country and vow to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Reaching this goal will not be possible without solidarity and the adoption of a joint policy in the political as well as military fields.
 NEWS ITEMS: The thirteenth anniversary of Red army aggression on our country
119
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
was condemned during glorious rallies and gatherings in refugee camps and mujaheddin centers throughout Pakistan and Iran.
- In a session, regarding the settingup of a 3-member commission 29 December, the mujaheddin leaders reached consensus on the solution of the Afghanistan issue and development of solidarity and harmony among the mujaheddin leaders. Professor Rabbani was elected as chairman and Mawlawi Mohammadi and Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni as members of this commission.
- In a press conference 26 December in Islamabad Professor Rabbani observed, "the negotiation of treaty by Rutskoy, Russian Deputy President with Kabul regime is negation of mujaheddin-Russia agreement in Moscow". He said, mujaheddin are waiting for the agreement made with former Soviet Union, otherwise there will be no other option except military pressure."
     A number of Zaher Shah's loyalists assembled in Zarnigar Park of Kabul 26 December; and after 5-minutes the students  of    Kabul   University
interrupted and disrupted their assembly. Those students who identified themselves as followers of Prof. Sayyaf's party of mujaheddin raised slogans of "down with America and the CIA, down with Moscow" and tore off the posters of Zaher Shah's loyalists.
- Abul Kasem and Nicolai Veradec, two Russian war prisoners refused to be repatriated.
                                  JANUARY
                16
EDITORIAL: "There is no role for Zaher
Shah in the solution of Afghanistan problem" under this title the editorial comments on the visit of Asif Nawaz,
Pakistan Commander-in-Chief, to Rome and has urged the Afghans stationed in the West not to commit another blunder, under the prevalent conditions, by placing themselves against the mujaheddin who are the real force behind the nation. They can maintain their credibility among the nation by siding with the mujaheddin and keeping in step with the aspirations of our Muslim people.      '
NEWS ITEMS: The conference called by
German Social Democrat party, to be held in Bonn end of January, could not be convened due to non-participation of jehad leaders due to the presence of the puppet regime delegates.
   Qazi Hussain Ahmed, leader of Pakistan JI said, "without the participation of the entire jehad forces no solution to the Afghanistan problem will be possible."
-  Lately one of Red army officers from Armenia, who was serving in one of Soviet Frontier Units bordering Afghanistan, defected to the mujaheddin in district Imam Saheb, Kunduz, after killing a Russian officer, and is presently fighting alongwith mujaheddin against the Russian puppet regime.
-  Pakistan's efforts aimed at urgent settlement of the Afghanistan crisis have intensified because the problem of Afghanistan is a hurdle in the way of close Pakistan political and economic relations with Central Asia.
     FEBRUARY
                3
EDITORIAL: Entitled "New Responsibi-
lities in the Present Political Atmosphere", this editorial does not consider the change in Pakistan's policy as something unexpected but regards disunity among the mujaheddin
120
as a big hurdle and expresses the view that, "caught in the cross-fire of colonial powers, we can take successful steps towards our high goals and close the door on the face of all sorts of interventions at the right time only when the jehad forces, particularly those who can play a significant role in the field of war and politics, adopt appropriate measures     and    suitable
unified strategy for the betterment of jehad and for the future of the Muslim Afghan nation and take practical steps in this regard... Today when mujaheddin control most of the country and the puppet Kabul regime is still encircled by the mujaheddin, although the main jehadic forces have lost many golden opportunities yet if they plan a unified strategy they will,God willing, achieve political and military victories.
supply of arms to Kabul.
INTERVIEW:  Mohammad  Deen resident of
Rustaq, Takhar Province, said in an interview, "my four sons have been martyred for the sake of God's consent and for the cause of establishing an Islamic government and my fifth son who is at the front at present, has the same desire." When I asked him what does he feel about the martyrdom of his sons, he answered, "I am completely satisfied . and   pray     that my  only
surviving son may also follow the footsteps of his other brothers. It is a matter of great pride that my sons** have accepted martyrdom on the jehad front fighting against the enemies of Islam rather than as a result of internal differences..."
SUMMARY OF OTHER ITEMS IN THIS ISSUE:
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AHJIHAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
NEWS ITEMS:    Engineer Hekmatyar has
said, "the US by creating differences between the mujaheddin and the government of Pakistan, wants to impose its coveted regime on Afghanistan."
-  Prof. Rabbani said, "our nation will not. accept any imported or imposed leadership henceforth. So long as the murderous institutions of the regime are not dissolved, ceasefire would not be practicable."
-  Ayatuliah Sadeqi Parvani said in an interview with the daily Mesbah, "in a meeting attended by members of Hezb-e-Watan, the Wahdat party would not participate."
   Ahmed Shah Masood, chief of the Supervisory Council of JIA has rejected any talks with the quisling Kabul regime.
   Pakistan has rejected the idea of direct talks with the Kabul regime.
    "Shortcomings of Political forces and justification and Acceptance of Imperialist Plans, "by Rasekh.
     Independence of Republics and the mujaheddin diplomacy.
Central Asian importance of
- Quranic viewpoint about women.
- Islamic community in Central Asia.
                                            19
EDITORIAL: Entitled "the defeat of the Red Army and experience of the past three years" it writes, "the experience of the past three years demonstrated that without common military and political positions of jehad forces and in the absence of their planned program vis-a-vis the problems of the country, not only the jehad process slows down but, in the face of the wishes and objectives of our mujahed nation, fresh hardships and problems crop up."
- Tadjekistan is abstaining from the
NEWS ITEMS:  In  an  exclusive interview
121
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
with Mesbah Prof. Najmuddin Arbakan HI leader of Turkish Welfare, observed, "we shall not spare any thing for the sake of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Ten years ago we were collecting aid and assistance in Turkey for mujaheddin and used to dispatch them by boats to the Afghan mujaheddin and following that we sent the Turkish Muslim Youth, too, to Afghanistan to participate in the armed jehad and a good number of our youth have fought jehad alongside the mujaheddin which has had positive effects."
   Engineer Hekmatyar said, "in the near future an Islamic government shall be established in Afghanistan and will play a significant role in the newly established "Treaty of Muslim countries economic cooperation". He rebutted the idea of apprehension of Middle East countries doubting the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan calling it the propaganda of Western espionage circles.
                                  MARCH
                6
EDITORIAL: The editorial reviews the
latest.events and concludes, "the jehad forces have so far been unable to submit an alternative for the UN plan of world arrogance and have only satisfied themselves with either supporting or rejecting it. It is essential that they should formulate a plan of their own to replace that of the UN and by this means take the initiative in their own hands. But it looks as though the destiny of our nation is going to be sacrificed through the realization of an international conspiracy by former friends and permanent enemies. In order to prevent such a disaster the resistance forces should have to take necessary measures in their earliest convenience."
VOL- 5 NO. 2
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 JIA, in a reception commemorating Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani and * Imam Hasan-al-Banna, said,"Islamic movements rule the hearts and minds of Muslim nations. No matter how many plots and intrigues are at work against the mujaheddin, God willing there will be no other government in Afghanistan than that of Islam."
 - Qassem and Rustam two former USSR POWs in Afghanistan said, "at the present we are engaged in enhancing our Islamic learnings so that we can be of service- to the Muslims of Uzbekistan. We have forsaken our homeland and parents for the sake of Allah and Islam."
  Mujahed
                         DECEMBER
                                   21
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "The opposite
 Step" describes the second round of mujaheddin-Russian parleys in Islamabad as stepping back of the Russians from their word and wants the mujaheddin, too, to bring changes in their actions. In this connection it particularly points out that it is no longer wise to negotiate the fate of Soviet POWs with Russia. On the other hand the mujaheddin may extend their process of negotiations with the rest of Soviet Republics, and after ascertaining their interest in the case, the release of prisoners could be taken up.
 REPORT: The OIC summit, which epded in Dakar 12 December, supported the Moscow declaration. It supported wholeheartedly the issues of Afghanistan, Kashmir and Palestine.
122
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
    In an interview with the French Figaro, Ahmed Shah Masood said, "arms cut-off by US and Russia to both sides will only prolong the Afghan war."
 - Lately the Klabul regime has decided upon burning the documents of its shameful crimes so that, in future, -they would not be available to others.
                                               29
 EDITORIAL:   Under the title, "27
 December", the editorial discusses Soviet disintegration in the hands of the Afghan mujaheddin and concludes: All the nation are having their fingers •crossed impatiently to see the mujaheddin leaders unite and get together with a strong will and determination to overcome their doubts and differences.
 REPORT:  On the occasion of releasing
 three Soviet POWs 26 December, Professor Rabbani observed, hereafter if Soviet military advisers are arrested by mujaheddin they shall be treated as war criminals. He vehemently rejected Andromov's claim that the Soviet prisoner handed over to Rutskoy was an Afghan and said that the prisoner was named Baba Gul, a resident of Daulatabad in Turkmenistan , bordering Afghanistan. He said, during Afghan mujaheddin and Soviet parleys in Moscow no discussion, whatsoever, took place regarding the UN Secretary General's plan. Therefore, discussion on that subject in Kabul and Islamabad is a clear violation of Moscow agreement.
   During a meeting 21 December with Rutskoy, Russian head of delegation. Professor Rabbani observed, "large quantities of modern weaponry have arrived   in Afghanistan        through
 Hairatan. Rutskoy promised me that thej Soviet side w$s qtaite honest in regard to the previous commitments made between   mujaheddin and 1 Russian
 delegations in Moscow."
     Other items in this issue include the following: "Who is entitled to this
 honour?" by Shamsur Rahman Shams which discusses the Soviet defeat by Afghans and the last request of unity and action from jehad leaders. "Thirteenth . anniversary of Communism ignominy and disgrace" by Andaishmand , "K.G.B. from beginning to the end", "Reconstruction in future Afghanistan" by S. M. Kherad. "Difficult test of a great victory," a report about the visit of mujaheddin delegation to Moscow, "The memoirs of a mujahed brother, Abdul Saboor, exchanged with a Soviet prisoner, from Pul-e-Charkhi dungeon".
                                     JANUARY
                 8
 EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "the
 Christian New Year began with three changes of action, pertaining to the Afghanistan case, which could determine the fate of future Afghanistan: (i) The
 Soviet fall and the establishment of 15 independent republics ,  (ii) Arms
 stoppage by US-Soviet to both sides and, (iii) The visit of Pakistan Army Chief of Staff to Rome and his meeting with the ex-King. While discussing these items, it concludes:
     "Jehad parties might have realized that in case they are at a loss to create harmony among themselves they may have the guts to accept each other's singular reasonable action. The new year will usher severe competition among the supporters of UN plan and the powerful mujaheddin groups supporting military solution. Meanwhile, it is most probable that Kabul regime, facing innumerable hardships, may collapse in the course of a military action.
 REPORT AND      INTERVIEW:          In a
123
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 congratulatory session devoted to the collapse of communism and condemnation of 27 December, Professor Rabbani observed, "today the children of Imam Bukhari and great religious scholars need to get themselves acquainted, once more, with Islamic Culture." He said, "yesterday our heroes raised the slogan :   "Afghanistan will prove  the
 grave-yard for the Soviet army." Most of the analysts, political observers and researchers took it as a mere slogan and none thought then that the Soviet Empire would crumble and USSR would be divided into different states."
 - In an interview with the members of the association of poets and writers of JIA, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor said, the contents of thp declaration issued in Moscow is more to the advantage of the mujaheddin. When the Russians got ready to have face to face talks with mujaheddin and the Najib regime was left out then, undoubtedly, this was mujaheddin's victory.
                   15
 EDITORIAL: Under the title, "Pakistan's New Afghan Policy" the editorial discusses Pakistan's problems and calling such a policy disappointing for Kashmir mujaheddin too concludes, "Pakistan , which is interested in a peaceful Afghanistan will not only fail to benefit from siding with Zaher Shah but shall suffer greatly. The best way for Pakistan, which has played a good role in ending the war and stopping the bloodshed, is to coordinate her haphazard and confused policy of support to mujaheddin and that will be the best service she could offer to the solution of the Afghan problem.
 REPORT AND INTERVIEW:  In an interview
 the leader of JIA, Professor R&bbani, observed, "Zaher Shah's supporters, by sticking the ex-King's name beside that of JIA want to use JIA jehad status and
VOL. 5 NO. 2
power to their advantage."
     Other items of this issue:     "A
glance at the fresh changes, in the Afghanistan case" by Saqib;- "Algiers returning to her own self" by Andaishmand.
                 20
EDITORIAL:  "From Algiers to Afghanistan" states:      The latest elections in
Algeria which were finally doomed was a development which provided the world over with fresh thinking, democracy supporters with frustration and imparted a valuable lesson to Afghan mujaheddin." It concludes, "the developments in Algeria jolted severely the position of these countries which were encouraging the Afghan mujaheddin to hold general elections in Afghanistan since there are plenty of similarities between Algeria and Afghanistan       jehad       parties.
      Other items of this issue are: "Our sisters' contribution to the revolution was- also epical", " Islamic Commonwealth Society" translated by Shabdez, "Interview with Abdul Karim Arshad, Deputy jehad Ameer of Faryab Province".
                 27
EDITORIAL:  "Pakistan and the new World
order". Under the above title the editorial     discusses     Pakistan's
adherence to US policy of new world order and in regard to the Afghanistan issue says,  "therefore  the state has
forced the Pakistan authorities to free themselves from the Afghan case and try to please US while resolving the issue. Towards this   and, the  new policy of
Pakistan orders that pro-Western forces be strengthened in Afghanistan.
    A report received from commander Mohammad Ismail Khan, of the South-Western region in Afghanistan indicates
124
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 that due to mujaheddin's successful attacks on Kabul regime caravans, the talks between Kabul..regime trade delegation with Iranian quarters have failed...
 - In a press conference in his office, Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad said that the interim government needed international guarantee.
 •- Due . to joining of a good number of regime militia to the jehad ranks the Herat mujaheddin captured 1,500 pieces of enemy weapons.
    General Momen, regime resident militia commander in Hairatan port, has revolted against the Kabul government decision and taken position against Najib supporters. It is reported that General Sayyed Mansoor, son of Sayyed Kayan, and General Dostum expressed their support of General Momen's stance. The report adds that ’General Momen revolted when a general from Kandahar Garrison was appointed in his place and he was transferred to Kandahar. General Momen is a resident of district Andarab of Baghlan province and speaks Dari. It is understood that linguistic, ethnic and regional differences besides political and parochial tension between Khalq and Parcham groups have reached the boiling point.
                                                                FEBRUARY
                                          3
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "UN plan and JIA
 stance" it emphasizes the need for clarification of UN plan and says, "while considering two fundamental points they may start their efforts towards the solution of Afghanistan problem:.
 (1) Without mujaheddin willingness no plan will be applicable in Afghanistan.
 (2) The Kabul regime ruling party and those who have committed crimes during the past 13 years are considered as national traitors .and war criminals and will not have any role in the future of Afghanistan.
 NEWS ITEMS:  At a press conference in
 Deens Hotel, Peshawar 3 February, Prof. Rabbani said, "the shipment of arms and weapons from the former Soviet republics to Kabul regime, as against the Moscow declaration, still continues,"
    Farid Mazdak a senior member of Kabul communist regime, has accused the Russians of large scale embezzlement in the export of Afghan gas.
    Qazi Abdul Hadi Kashef, a JIA commander in Farah, has said that there were only 5 mujaheddin schools throughout the province.
                 10
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "The commonwealth,
 community and Afghanistan" it writes, "the Afghan jehad changed the Soviet Union into a commonwealth community and that community is trying to deliver similar blow to Afghanistan. The leaders of Central Asian republics, whose majority belong to the same ancient communists, are apprehensive of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, therefore they consider themselves committed, at least for some time, to assist the Kabul regime. Alongside with that, they have launched such attempts as to bring about the break-up of Afghanistan in the name of tribe, citizenship and nationality and in that case bridling the minorities will.be easier. This is one of the main factors of Pakistan's un-restrained efforts towards the resolution of Afghanistan problem, since on the one hand the security of Afghanistan is of paramount importance
125
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 to that country and on the other hand the disintegration of Afghanistan will revive the long buried         issue of
 Pashtunistan      which will  create a
 headache for Pakistan."
      "Now that the commonwealth countries community is proceeding with its program in such a manner, the solidarity and security of Afghanistan call for positive unified action from jehad organizations and fingers remain crossed to that end."
 NEWS ITEMS: During a meeting with Benon Sevan, Prof. Rabbani said, "mujaheddin shall never participate in such a Loya Jirgah or session which is participated by Kabul regime and the communists."
 - In the district of Khulm, Samangan, 30 KHAD agents and regime troops alongwith 47 weapons joined the ranks of mujaheddin.
    The mujaheddin captured an- enemy post in the neighborhood of Faizabad city. Thirty of regime militia including two officers were rounded up by mujaheddin.
 OTHER ITEMS OF THIS ISSUE:
      "Soviet clashes in Afghanistan" is an informative article     supported by
 statistics and documents, about the Soviet troops in Afghanistan, "the fall
 of Soviet empire a glorious ensemble of God's will in history" by Dr. Abdul Hai, which recounts the factors responsible for the Soviet fall. Mushahed Hussain, a prominent journalist of Pakistan, in regard to Rome visit of Asif Nawaz, said that the Rome visit had a symbolic side to it.
                   17
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled "The continuation
 of Moscow parleys, another chance" it discusses the 2nd round of mujaheddin
 and Moscow talks, annoyance of Rutskoy, the objectives of Pakistan and Sevan's remarks that "if the Afghanistan issue is not solved in a year's time, Afghanistan will be disintegrated, it writes, "instead of showing any reaction to the plans of others the jehad groups ought to show up themselves on the stage, hold on to pragmatic initiative and use the opportunity for applying the Moscow declaration to their advantage."
 NEWS ITEMS:       In   accordance with
 the Moscow declaration JIA released three POWs.
    Differences and frictions among various regime groups have now spread to most of the cities including Herat.
   With a state of alert among Kabul regime dissident groups the possibility of Dostum, Sayyed Kayan and General Momen confrontation with Najib supporters is intensified.
    Thd fighting between* pro-regime forces and the opposing militias has started in Balkh, Jauzjan and Faryab provinces. Two pro-regime battalions were disarmed in Balkh and Faryab. Twenty-one tanks and more than 100 pro-Najib soldiers and militia were wiped out by Dostum forces.
    Algerian Muslims take pride in wearing the Afghan mujaheddin uniform.
 REPORT:  Amena Safiullah Afzali, the
 President of Muslim Sisters, Jehad Association, in an interview observed, "we founded Muslim Sisters, Jehad Association 1979 in Herat which was transferred to Iran 1985 and now this association covers more than 12 girl schools comprizing 98 teaching staff and more than 3,500 students under its education program."
126
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
                                             24
 EDITORIAL: "Cultural organization and Dari language". Under this title the editorial writes, "a cultural and political agreement among Iran, Afghanistan and Tadjekistan was negotiated 19 February, 1992 in Tehran and this development, besides its cultural aspect, is considered to be a great success for mujaheddin from political viewpoint. During the past six weeks while the Soviet Union was formally dissolved, the independent Central Asian republics, with their unilateral positions vis-a-vis the Kabul regime had perturbed the political atmosphere of the region and regarding the improvement of relations between Iran and the Kabul regime, some findings had surfaced that instead of the mujaheddin the Kabul regime be invited to this conference. As such mujaheddin’s participation in this session, while contributing to the significance of this cultural organization, is a manifestation of the deep realism between the two countries of Iran and Tadjekistan too. This agreement is the first pact implemented between one of Central Asian republics and mujaheddin which may prove as .an encouragement, in future, for the rest of the Muslim republics to negotiate similar pacts with the mujaheddin.
      Dari language, with a history of over 1,000 years, is the common language among these three countries joining them in common bonds of fraternity. The motive behind the establishment of this cultural and political organization      is the
 Russianization policy in the Russian dominated republics, in the course of the past 75 years, which has deprived the oppressed nations from their original culture and language. At present, after getting their independence, the need for the revival of their true culture, as a first step,
was felt.
    Now that numerous countries, including those in the West, are trying to spread their culture among the newly independent republics, it is the Islamic obligation of the two Muslim neighboring revolutionary countries of Afghanistan and Iran to assist the Muslims in these countries and spare no efforts in this regard. It was with this object in mind that the cultural and Dari language association was formed.
                                  MARCH
               2
EDITORIAL: It is entitled, "Jehad
Council and the Future of Kabul Regime" and explains the JIA plan for the formation of jehad Council in North Afghanistan. Writing about the significance of this council, it says, "since there is no agreed plan among the mujaheddin parties to overthrow the Kabul regime, therefore this plan vould be welcomed by all those desiring the downfall of the regime. It is hoped, those jehad parties which are repeatedly pressing for attack on Kabul, would be in the forefront of being a part to this plan...
      Perhaps some may try to detect ethnic consideration's in this plan of the JIA, but the party cannot forego a great jehadic endeavor just because of an untoward propaganda.
      The JIA has a clear policy that all the anti-regime forces . will be mobilized under the supervision of the jehad council. Therefore it appeals to all the jehad parties to support this plan."
NEWS ITEMS: The first joint meeting of the ministers of the Islamic Republic
127
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 of Iran, Tadjekistan        and Afghan
 mujaheddin leaders was held,        19
 February, at Tehran. In view of the importance of Farsi language in Afghanistan and the Central Asian republics, the participants in the meeting stressed thorough planning for the revival and expansion of this language. During discussion with the officials of other republics, an understanding was reached for the revival of their language and culture. It was emphatically desired to establish a forum for cultural cooperation between Iran, Afghanistan and other countries of Central Asia.
      Prof. Rabbani after his return from Tehran, remarked in a press conference 24 February, "Tehran Conference is a move for fostering unity among the Islamic Ummah. It is the duty of all the Islamic countries, particularly that of the Islamic parties and movements and all Muslim nations,      to     sincerely      and
 whole-heartedly cooperate with their Muslim brothers in Central Asia who have been kept at a distance from their genuine Islamic culture for about 74 years and the Red Imperialism had not only deprived them of their human rights but wanted to estrange them from their history and national identity. By
 the Grace of Almighty Allah, now these nations     have     achieved     their
 independence and earnestly desire to regain their genuine Islamic identity and their past history and culture and, therefore, need your cooperation".
      The Supervisory Council of JIA has started production of the first Islamic feature film entitled "Urooj" in the Takhar Province.
                    9
 EDITORIAL:   "Afghanistan's relations
 with Central Asia" is the title of the editorial which says, "the establishment of a cultural association
 between Afghanistan, Iran and Tadjekistan in which the JIA leader had represented the people of Afghanistan, has been considered by some circles as a step towards the disintegration of Afghanistan. The JIA has consciously taken this step as an Islamic obligation towards the newly emerged Tadjekistan Muslim state and is planning to develop similar cultural relations with other Muslim countries in the region and elsewhere. Steps of this nature top the list of JIA activities for the future. Anti-jehadic groups are attempting to mislead public opinion by juggling facts, thus achieving their own ends. Fortunately, the mujaheddin organizations have felt the need for such activities and have grasped the importance attached to it."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 JIA, speaking at Chamkani congregation mosque on the first day of Ramadan (5 March) said, "the revival of the Islamic culture in Central Asia is an Islamic mission and not an attempt towards disintegration. We support the UN efforts but not its proposed peace plan for Afghanistan."
                                                16
 EDITORIAL:   "The Kabul regime and
 Islamic Fundamentalism". Under this title the editorial reviews the latest Najib proposal to the US for stopping the fundamentalists from taking power in Afghanistan and calls for unity among the mujaheddin groups.
 COMMENTARY:  Discussing allegations by
 the self-interested elements as weil as the JIA policies it says, "some mujaheddin groups have expressed concern over the growing inclinations towards disintegration on linguistic and ethnic grounds. The allegations have taken root from the revolt of the militia forces against Najib in the north of the country. Prior to this
128
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 a meeting of the commanders was called at Zhawara, Paktia, but most of the commanders, including those in Herat and the supervisory council, were unable to attend because of bitter cold weather and the closure of routes by snow. This incident was again falsely interpreted as a regional matter.
      The announcement of the cultural gathering in Tehran of Afghan, Iranian and Tadjek representatives for cooperation towards the revival of the Islamic culture in Central Asia, was also of major concern to some circles. Benon Sevan's threats regarding the disintegration of Afghanistan in case of mujaheddin rejection of the UN peace plan, further added to these concerns.
      Three parties can possibly have interest     in     propagating     such
 incitements namely, foreign nations, the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin.
      Regarding foreign countries having a hand in these for their own ends, there is no need to conjecture. We can say with utmost certainty that every nation concerned would like to benefit from this affair even if it ends ?n the disintegration of the country. But splitting Afghanistan on linguistic and regional grounds, the matter .will not remain confined, within the geographical boundaries of Afghanistan but will, undoubtedly, cause unrest in the entire region which will not be in the interest of any neighboring country. On the contrary, it may have graver consequences for themselves. If ever there is a tendency in this direction, the people of the country will jointly rise against it in the same manner they did against the Soviet intervention. Incitements of this nature, instead of dividing the Afghans, will further induce them to join their hands in stronger bonds than ever before. The Kabul regimes and the former Soviets have always played important roles in dividing the people of Afghanistan on
language and regional basis. During their occupation of Afghanistan the Russians, by adopting the policy of dividing the country into ethnic regions - the same policy they had adopted in Central Asia - tried to create rift among the people. The Kabul regime in confronting the mujaheddin has resorted to the same "weapon” by establishing tribal militia divisions and using them against .each other. The recent revolt of the militia units in the north of the country, is the result of Najibs' divisionist policy which, this time, happens to be to his own disadvantage.
    As far as the mujaheddin are concerned, they have all been struggling to topple the Kabul regime and to establish a single Islamic government in its stead. Only this much should be borne in mind that due to the policies of the former secular governments and their unfair treatment of religious sects, various regions were created. Today the mujaheddin are to satisfy demands for justice and fair-play which they can, under no circumstances, ignore. Equal treatment of every individual in the country is the religious obligation of any Islamic government.
                          Mujahed-e- Farda SPECIAL FOR CHILDREN
                          DECEMBER
            26
    This youth journal writes in its editorial, "27th December is one of the unforgettable days in the history of our country. On this day the Soviets with all their military might, coupled with the help and guidance of the heretic local communist agents, invaded our country and wanted to reach the warm waters of the Indiah~Ocean through Afghanistan."
 129
                                                        SHAH MIL BQ&K C€>.
                                                        F.O. Box 1328, Kabul, Afghanlsie.i Chahrahi Saddarat TeL 25880
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
     "Every day that passed was a witness to the ever - increasing intensity of attacks by the mujaheddin on the Russian aggressors. They killed so many infidel and aggressor Russian soldiers that the communists could not cope up with the job of collecting their dead, and wounded, ultimately finding no other option but to leave our country and give up the dream of conquering the southern regions."
     In this issue in the series of introduction to Islamic countries, Morocco has been introduced. In the series of Islamic jurisprudence lessons, the ’Timings of Daily Prayers' was covered. It also contains interesting    material  regarding
discoveries and inventions.
                                  JANUARY
                 10
     It is an organ of the youth and the children, publishing informative, religious and moral reading material. Some of these are written by children or youngsters themselves and others by writers catering for the younger generation.
     This issue carries Islamic jurisprudence teachings under the title of "Azaan"; introduction to the Islamic country of Jordan; short biography of Khaled bin Valeedj humorous stories and comics; proverbs; puzzles; color outlines; divine teachings and guidelines by the Prophet.
     For example, one of the jokes reads as follows:-
     BARBER: How are things going in
Afghanistan?
BREZHNEV:  Why do you always ask
question's about Afghanistan while
dressing my hair?
BARBER: Because the moment you hear the name of Afghanistan, immediately your hair stand on end, making cutting easier.
                            FEBRUARY
             18
NEWS ITEMS:  This journal, which is
specifically meant for children and the youths warns them against the billiards and or VCR clubs and the consequences awaiting them from frequenting places of this nature and mixing with various types of people.
    In the series of acquainting them with various Islamic nations, the paper introduces Qatar and UAE and throws light on the future role of the youth. •
  Mujahed Ulus
NOVEMBER JANUARY
EDITORIAL: It is entitled "The.Afghans
Will Suffer More Misfortunes" • and states, "now more than ever before foreign interference, particularly by Pakistan military, has been on the increase in our domestic affairs. Selfishness and ' ambitions of some self-seeking Afghans has • placed our faithful nation between the devil and the deep eea."
    "Afghan statesmen are either unable to do anything for the sake of their homeland or do not have the courage to do so and avoid facing any danger for the national cause. However, one thing is crystal clear: Whenever
a person or a gtoup of persons cannot do anything in the interest of their country, though they may have the means to convey the voices of the suffering Afghans to the rest of the
130
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 MISCELLANEOUS:
 world but do not care to do so and do not actively participate in the tremendous travail of Afghanistan, should admit that they have lost face in front of the nation in this world and in presence of their God in the hereafter.”
      "The jehad leadership cannot do anything without the help of Pakistan ISI which is after something that should serve its national interest."
      "Under the circumstances, the Muslim Afghan nation stands in need of an intelligent, wide-awake and sympathetic leader to put an end to its misery. That is why they are looking forward to the appearance of such a leader in whom they may trust and who could, in the real sense of the term, solve this problem. But regrettably the enemies of the Afghan national interest are creating obstacles in this path, also."
 INTERVIEW:    Mohammad Zaher, the
 ex-King, after receiving injuries (in an attempt on his life) said in an interview with the Mujahed Ulus, "as regards my participation in a just solution of the Afghan problem at the present juncture or in the future political structure of Afghanistan, I once again declare in all sincerity-that without asking for any special privilege or position for my own self,
 I vow to. perform my humanly possible service and role assigned to me by the combatant Afghan nation."
      In reply to another question, he
 said, "the crusading and sensitive people of Afghanistan clearly know the
 difference between cooperation and.
 interference from whatever source it
 may be. Hence while appreciating
 sincere' cooperation, it will never give
 an opportunity for interference and
 aggrandizement."
 -  Article, "On the Point of Sword" reads, "Americans and Russians are trying to put an end to the last remnants of the war between the East and the West. But a terrorist wants to create hurdles in the path." Translated from Spiegel.
    "A great scandal and a Tremendous Leakout.".CIA weapons reached Iran via Pakistan and Israelies residing in Islamabad trained the mujaheddin. Translated from the daily Frontier Poet.
     "Who are Responsible for the Devastation of Afghanistan and Attempt on the Life Of Zaher Shah?" written by Sayyed Masood Majrooh
 -  "War and Peace in Afghanistan and Cambodia", written by Prof. Rahmat Rabbi Zeerakyar.
 -  "Iran in search of Political spoils of war in the tripartite > Afghan Conference."
     Article, '’Alien Interference in Afghan Issue",' by Mohammad Hassan Wolusmal, discussing the incidents and interferences from the 27th April 1978 coup to this day.
 - From VOG broadcast:
      "Pakistanis will never forgive Zaher Shah who was persistently advocating his claim on the North West Frontier Province of Pakistan. The Pakistan government Considers .the former Afghan King       a dangerous
 nationalist."
                                  JANUARY MARCH
 REPORT: It is entitled "A glance at the Hamburg Conference" which was held in Germany on 21 December 1991 by HWIA supported by Iran. Afghan statesmen and
131
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992         AFGHAN JIHAO
 experts on Afghan affairs in US and Europe were invited to this moot.
                                                                    One of -the principal aims of this
                                                               conference was that the Peshawar-based
                                                               parties have .not given the desired
 right and privilege to the HWIA and insult and hate and look down upon the
                                                               Afghans residing in US and Europe.j
                                                              Therefore they should cooperate with!
                                                               the HWIA to form a fair and just
                                                                            government in Afghanistan.
      Ayatullah Mortazavi has remarked in his statements in this connection, "you are our national assets. The government and the nation of future Afghanistan need you. The posts of ministries, departmental administrators and other affairs of statecraft are awaiting you."
      Participants of the conference, the Afghans staying in the US and Europe as well as leaders of the HWIA, have directly or indirectly rejected the Leadership Council.
    . Mr. Mohammad Hassan Hashemi Sangcharaki in his speech said, "if HWIA had been a party to the AIG, a neutral and independent government would have been in power in Afghanistan at present."
      Mr. Mohammad Fayyaz speaking about the Leadership Council, remarked, "this council has not taken in view the structure of the Afghan Society or the jehadic forces."
      Mr. Hafizullah Seerat Taloqani, speaking on this occasion, called the Leadership Council a ’blot on history’ and expressed the following opinion about the AIG:
      "In the entire cabinet there is not a single Hazara member. Even there is no Hazara peon."
      He dubbed the Leadership Council
as a Tribal Council. Leaders of HWIA emphasized that if Peshawar-based parties were not taken into consideration, the confusion would be worse confounded in Afghanistan.
      Mr. Najafi, Secretary of Iranian Foreign Ministry, declared in his speech that the Afghan jehad had been born of the Islamic Revolution of Iran. He added that Afghan society is a tribal society and has to keep in view the tribal power source. About Iranian assistance he said, "Iran has always helped Afghanistan. Recently we dropped supplies to some regions from the air. At present we arrange three flights daily to Bamian and hope to increase the number of these flights."
      Kujahed Ulus correspondent held separate interviews with the leaders of HWIA regarding the nature and legitimacy of these flights. Their answers        were         considerably
contradictory.
      Mr. Mohammad Fayyaz said, "there is no central legal government in Afghanistan. Actually in the liberated areas, the jehadic forces have legal power. Since the HWIA controls the central areas of the country, therefore, it has the right to permit the planes of an Islamic country to fly over these areas and to provide their requirements."                      ,
      Mortazavi said, "when the Iranian Foreign Ministry sought my opinion to send its aircraft inside Afghanistan, I did not agree. Then they personally went to the central regions and spoke with HWIA members and some national dignitaries at Bamian and obtained their permission."
      Similarly Hashemi told the Mujahed Ulus • "these flights have both negative and positive aspects. The positive aspect is that the region is faced with famine and the negative
132
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 aspect is that the people at large do not like it. For instance if they want to help they should help in a general way and not in a specific area."
      It could be surmised from Mortazavi's statement that actually Iran had contacted him in connection with these flights whereas he or the people concerned had not asked Iran to do so.
      The magazine has written a brief note regarding the convening and convenor of the conference, which reads as under:
      "Our office received a telefax message from the office of SAS Airlines stating that our tickets were ready and okayed in their office and had been pre-paid by the Iran's Consulate General, Hamburg. It shows that the expenses of the conference were borne by Iran.
      Mr. Najafi,      Secretary      of
 Iranian Foreign Ministry dealing with Afghan Affairs gave some explanations concerning the flights of Iranian planes to Afghanistan. After a while, during refreshment, time I approached him to answer, some of my questions pertaining to these flights for the benefit of our magazine. He promised to do so at the conclusion .of the conference. So after the conference was over, I went to his room and asked, him about it. He said, "at present I am suffering from a headache but will definitely see you in the morning." Unfortunately, the next morning, he had; departed very early and I could not see! him."             .
      Hevad Wolusmal, correspondent of Mujahed Ulus writes, "at the conclusion- of the conference I wanted to interview some of the office-bearers of the HWIA. So I went from one hotel to another and at last returned to the venue of the conference to find someone
VOL- 5 NO. 2
who might cooperate. There I saw that about 50 or 60 office bearers of the party were sitting together. The leaders of the party were sitting in the prominent part of the hall and the rest, comprising old men and some youngsters of 12 to 14 years, were also present there. I was surprised, because no mention of such a meeting was ever made either in the invitation cards or official announcements. Anyhow, I sat at a corner of the hall. Mr. Mortazavi addressing me said, "we have a private meeting. you may wait outside the hall." While I was waiting outside, two Afghans, probably belonging to Badakhshan region, also appeared on the scene but they too were not allowed to attend the meeting. One of them said, "we thought this meeting was for the Afghans." I also could not understand what sort of a meeting it was because 12-year-old boys and aged men alike had access to it but the two Afghans and I were not permitted. I wondered what difference could be there . between us and the participants of the said gathering."
      Here are some excerpts from the special UN reports obtained by the Mujahed Ulus from an authentic source and-published accordingly:
      "We are closing our offices at New York... I. am going to Kabul and these offices are not needed here any longer. The conditions are bad in Afghanistan. There is no capable leader among the mujaheddin. They cannot do anything. Najib is the only leader;,. These seven parties have been formed by others. Najib is also a foreign agent* He is faced with a dilemma because the Khalq and the Parcham factions are irreconcilable., Najib is not a communist. He offers his prayers -and recites the 'Kalemah'. But he was chief of KHAD. .. George. Bush was also 'Chief of the GIA. Both of them do not have a clean record... Pakistanis want the war to continue. They give arms to, mujahed-
133
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 din and tell them to go and kill. People are being killed... Mujaheddin think they can . occupy the cities by force and can do so but it does not make any difference because they only know how to destroy rather than rehabilitate.. When they, occupied Khost, if they had Served the . people, we would have felt pleased. But what have they done? They ruined the city and even took away the windows... Had they built schools, shops and markets there, we would have - felt proud. But regrettably they did not do so... They devastated Khost... They can occupy the cities by force but you know what would happen. What did they do in Kunar? They killed' many people. If they occupy Kabul too# they would' start' massacre. They have been turned into thieves...
      Previously the mines were placed mostly in specified areas and could be conveniently located. But now the difficulty is that the Afghans extract the mines and sell them to mujaheddin who lay them everywhere against their rivals. Therefore, no one knows now whether these mines have been extricated or not?
      The Afghans are without leadership* Two of them do not agree with each other... Afghanistan will be disintegrated* Tadjeks and Uzbeks will have their own Kingdoms. Pashtuns will join- hands with the Pashtuns of Pakistan and lay the foundation of Pashtunistan. The rest of the country would be occupied by Iran* We think that Afghanistan is moving towards disintegration. Very soon a country named Afghanistan will vanish. But if the former King returns# people would prefer him over Na jib. It would be better if he returned but I think he does not have that much courage..."
 ABSTRACT OP OTHER ITEMS IN TRlS ISSUE:
 - Article:  "End of the Afghan War" by
 Prof. Dr. Kakar.
VOL. 5 NO. 2
     Article:   "Misleading Propaganda
 about Loya Jirgah" by Sayyed Mohammad Maiwand Uloomi.
 - Article:  "Strategy for the Political
 solution of Afghan Problem" by Prof. Aeen.
     Article:   "Interference in the
 Domestic Affairs of Afghanistan" by Abdul Hameed Mobarez.
 - Article:  "May God save a Nation from
 Disintegration# "by Mohammad Yousuf Farand.
 NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
 REPORT: Pertaining to Moscow ‘talks
 Ayatullah MOhseni observed, "the mujaheddin# though comprised of various groups# but verbally or practically they have done nothing, subscribes to their differences. On the other hand glaring differences can be witnessed among the Soviet and Russian Federation quarters; and Soviet quarters# even now, are not sincere to mujaheddin. Nevertheless# I believe that the talks were exceedingly clear."
  DECEMBER - JANUARY
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the disintegration of Soviet Union" it recounts the fall of the former Soviet Union describing the   factors   responsible for
 precipitation of the downfall as such.
 NEWS ITEMS: Ayatullah MOhseni said,
 "the way the communist, world was wiped out, the Western world, if not blown up from outside, shall likewise break down from inside."
   The Chief of General Staff of Balkh Province Division 18 and 24 was killed in recent clashes.
134
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
Neda-e-Adalat
NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
EDITORIAL: Entitled, "With whom to
talk?*' it clarifies the decision of mujaheddin to negotiate with Russians and now with the break-up of Soviet Union and the absence of Central negotiating place the editorial says, "the question arises that in regard to the Afghanistan . problem, among the former Soviet Union, with- whom to negotiate? And whether the scattered kind of discussions lead to any kind of tangible result?
INTERVIEW:   In an interview, regarding
the latest refugees from Hazarajat, the spokesman of the ICCA, Ayatullah Taqaddusi said, "according to eye-witness account of those who have arrived from Taftan frontier, the families dig the ground like graves and protect their children in those caves like shelterless chickens. Aid donor agencies, ostentatiously and deceiptfully, attend those places where the drone of their aircraft can be heard by the city population and the world newsmen."
ARTICLES:    "The latest political
developments and the UN plan" by Gibraeli which says, "the Kabul regime's persistent and clear support of UN five-point plan was a matter of great concern to mujaheddin. The recent mujaheddin delegation's historical visit toi Moscow which was performed, with delay and rejection, and was criticized by some mujaheddin leaders, came off to be fruitful and successful unexpectedly.
 Neda-e-Haq
           DECEMBER
 EDITORIAL: Discussing  the Soviet inva-
 sion of Afghanistan 27 December the editorial concludes, "now the time has come we should sink our differences and get united so that to be able to realize the sacred aspirations of our martyrs, namely the establishment of an Islamic government, uprooting communism and bringing the Russian slaves in Afghanistan to trial."
 NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with "Nida-e-Haq" Mawlawi Mansoor said, "I believe that there are less problems in the plan of leadership council and its field of activity is very wide."
 - Rutskoy has said that he was sincere
 in his   commitments made earlier                 in
 Moscow.
 -  Fed up with persistent famine the citizens of Kabul will rise up and demonstrate against the puppet regime.
 - A tankist who has recently defected
 to the   mujaheddin            in       a message to
 regime troops says, "the propaganda of the atheist regime against the mujaheddin is all false. The troops ought to use this  opportunity           to their advantage
 and join the mujaheddin ranks."
      Other items of this issue are: "The Islamic conference and absence of the leaders" by Rayan, in which nonparticipation of some of the leaders has been criticized, "West and extreme thirst of some of the youth for it" by Qayyumi in which those youth are being criticized whose only aim is to visit Western countries. "Incessant US publicity for advantages of the new world
135
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AfGIIANJIHAO              V0L-  5 NO. 2
order" translated by Habib. "A brief glance over the martyr's place and its related matters" by Jaheed. "The best way to prevent the AIDS disease is to observe Islamic and moral tenets."
                           JANUARY
                                 20
EDITORIAL: Entitled, "Fill the vacuum
of leadership with unity" it discusses the topic of Zaher Shah's return, demonstrates its ground and wants the vacuum to be filled in the light of leadership unity.
imposition of all and sundry in future government, against the will and desire of the Afghan nation, is not possible. Personalities like Zaher Shah, who had no role in the 13 years of conflicts, will not be able to restore peace in the country."
REPORT:  The thirteenth anniversary of
the brutal Soviet invasion of our country was condemned by the Afghanistan Women Islamic Organization with the participation of tens of oppressed sisters and mothers in various schools, affiliated to the Afghanistan Women Islamic Organiza-ti<?n.
REPORT: In an assembly condemning the aggression of 27 December, 1979 Mawlawi Mansoor told the audience, "communism, which was considered as a school and super power in the world, was wiped out due to the blessing of our jehad."
                                                 Nesa
 JANUARY-FEBRUARY
EDITORIAL: Entitled, "Zaher Shah is
not a messenger of peace in Afghanistan" it says, "the motive behind discussing Zaher Shah and paving the way for his return by Western supporters is not aimed at restoring peace and security in the country but the imperialists mean to ensure the presence of the puppet regime's remnants in Afghanistan. The jehad leaders' reaction and that of the mujaheddin in regard to Zaher Shah's return and the failure of the £onn conference once again demonstrated that all internal and external efforts will not lessen the indignation and hatred of our people in regard to communist and treacherous elements to the homeland. Efforts towards reconciling mujaheddin with the puppet regime will be fruitless and the
  FEBRUARY-MARCH
NEWS ITEMS: Mawlawi Khales, leader of
HIA, has said in a press conference, "I have never been against women to be educated on Islamic principles, but I am opposed to the Western-style of education even for men."
 Neda-e-Sangar
                   DECEMBER
 EDITORIAL: Entitled, "The Dakar Islamic Summit" has appreciated the united participation of the mujaheddin and has urged the mujaheddin to reach their goal by leading the Islamic revolution and jehad Caravan through solidarity on jehad military and political fronts.
 MESSAGE:  This is the text of the
 message from Lt. General Mohammad Ismail, General Commander of South West region, addressed to Prof. Rabbani, JIA leader, congratulating him on his successful historical visit to Moscow.
 REPORT:   Professor Rabbani told the
136
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992        flHIJlHIlll                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
journalists of Arab countries in Peshawar 3 December, the establishment
of an Islamic transitory government was the right of mujaheddin and not that of the, Russians. He said, "we shall continue our armed jehad till the establishment of an Islamic government in our country.
NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin of Hazrat
Hamza Division of Herat captured an enemy headquarter, destroyed three tanks seizing sizable quantity of arms and equipment.
-  According to MIDIA the Kabul regime has started arming the trusted communist groups of Khalq and Parcham in their homes.
- A MIDIA report says health condition
of Kabul     prisoners, particularly
those of Pul-e-Charkhi, is pathetic and deplorable.
                                                                    FEBRUARY
                  9
EDITORIAL: Entitled "Pakistan policy
vis-a-vis the political solution of Afghanistan problem" it rejects the coalition government. Expressing its opinion regarding the Pakistan new stance says that, endowed with the experience       of     mujaheddin
identification and their political activities, it cannot be imagined that Pakistan will act in such a way. as to ignore the interests of Afghan mujaheddin.
INTERVIEW: Senior Captain Alauddin,
general commanding officer of South-Western region, in an interview said, "as long as a government according to the will and desire of our muslim people is not established, we shall continue advancing the military jehad."
 REPORT: In a press conference at Deens Hotel, Peshawar 3 February Prof. Rabbani said, in order to resolve the Afghanistan problem, UN should act in accordance with joint mujaheddin and former Soviet Union quarters' declaration issued in Moscow,
                         Pasdar-e- Islam
                                JANUARY
                                        8
 EDITORIAL: It says, "the subject
 most talked about nowadays by intellectuals and in political circles is the disintegration of the former Soviet Union." Among the factors leading to this state of affairs, the paper mentions the sacred jehad of Afghanistan ;
 NEWS ITEMS: The year 1991 had a great
 many changes in stock for us. The US intervention in Iraq was one of the bitterest and the disintegration of the Soviet Union being the most welcome event of the year.
                                       22
 EDITORIAL: The editorial reviews the
 recent events in Algeria and says that it is indicative of many facts such as:
 (1) The Muslim people's yearning for Islamic governments, (2) the extent of fear of Western powers from Islamic governments, (3) the presence of the 5th column among the Muslims.
 NEWS ITEMS: Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad,
 leader of Da'eya-e-Islami told a gathering of engineers 15 January# "Afghanistan  has nearly been
 fully destroyed but what has been spared can also be destroyed until the final victory of the jehad. It is#
137
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 therefore, the obligation of committed engineers to prepare, right from now, basic planning for reconstruction of the country.”
                           FEBRUARY
              5
 EDITORIAL: It* is entitled, "The Objec-
 tiveis of the Revolution" in which it discusses the aims of Islamic revolutions and the influence of alien thoughts that can be disastrous to such movements. Then it says that the vacuum created in unified plans in the political field can cause the jehad friends to get disinterested and become tools of the opposition, and falsely propagate that the mujaheddin can only fight in the battle field but are total failures when it comes to thinking.     A        ^
                                  29
 EDITORIAL: The editorial reviews some
 disasters and misfortunes that can befall revolutionary movements and the means to overcome them.
 NEWS ITEMS:
 - The Sherin Tagab district, Faryab Province, fell to the militia force which has revolted against the Kabul regime.
   Kabul regime efforts to ratify disputes between the militia and the regular forces are still continuing.
 - Four Kabul regime jet fighters were destroyed on the ground during the mujaheddin rocket attacks on the military airport in Mazar-e-Sharif.
 Payam-e-Islatn
                            JANUARY
              1
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "Political
 Developments, Disunity among groups and Political Solution of the Afghan Crisis" and after discussing all the aspects of the issue, draws the following conclusions:     "In view of
 complexities in regional and global politics and correlation of the Afghan crisis with these politics, it is essential that our leaders be more careful and acknowledging the superiority of national and religious interests over individual and group interests with regard to the formation of Leadership Council as well as future planning, take appropriate measures for disarming the enemy in pursuance of providing a framework for national policy. They shoyld also evince a spirit of altruism and self-denial for safeguarding national unity and for attaining national and international legitimacy otherwise the rival front will gain strength and isolate the popular jehadic forces and impair and damage them."
 EDITORIAL:  It is entitled "Change in
 Pakistan's Afghan Policy and Political Solution of the Afghan Crisis." Discussing the causes of, Pakistan's policy change exigency, the editorial deduces:
                                                                    "Economic compulsions too drive
 Pakistan towards seeking a solution of the Afghan crisis. Access to Central Asian markets has also an economic as well as political significance for^ Pakistan because, without solving the Afghan crisis, Pakistan can hardly reach the Central Asian markets. This change in policy is based on realistic approach which embodies many interests of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Some of the Afghans complained about the previous policy, saying that Pakistan wanted to impose its favorite, regime on the Afghans. But in view of the present change in policy, the. cause of dis-satisfaction of the Afghans towards Pakistan is removed. Pakistan should
138
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                      AfPlII/INJIH/IQ                         VOL.  5   NO.  2
                               i:   #        #
adopt the following attitude                  in
relation with Afghanistan:
 (1)  To create such favorable social, political and economic conditions as to enable more than three million Afghan refugees, residing in iPakistan, to honorably return to their homeland and reduce the social and economic difficulties faced by Pakistan.
 (2) To cooperate with the people and
 groups of Afghanistan, so that this country     may      be      rid     of
 dissipaton and a stable aind popular government may come into existence.
 (3)  To help bring into power a government in Afghanistan wliich should be friendly to Pakistan.
                             i
      The. Islamic fundament alists in Afghanistan who suffered the harrowing and tiresome war for 13 l<png years, would cooperate with Pakisltatn in this regard and it seems that Ithie UN plan would also be at last accepted by the Afghans and even the fundamentalists. However the question of Zither Shah's return and Pakistan's cooperation in this connection has constrained Pakistan's relations with tlie .fundamentalists endangering t:he peace process."
 ABSTRACT OF OTHER CONTENTS IN THIS ISSUE:-
    European socialists hold- Afghan Peace Conference.
   Soviet Empire has been officially thrown into the dust-bin of histtory.
   Inauguration of tfie first r.slamic Learning Academy in Paris.
                                               29
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "Universal
 Developments and Political Solution of the Afghan Crisis", discussing obstacles in the. path of a solution of Afghan problem, expresses the opinion,
political        and military conditions,, it
is incumbent upon the leaders and all the combatants to stress upon political and. military unity for the sake of religious        and national interests   and
putting an end to group interests, so that the experts may devote their
attention to draft a plan and a long term political and economic program and declare to the public that they are not devoid of         an economic plan and    can
present the best economic order which may be put into practice for ameliorating the moral and material lot of the people. The slogan that Islam has the best economic system, has no appeal for the people with an empty stomach because it cannot satisfy their hunger. People agree that. Islam is a panacea for all the ills. But those groups which claim to be Islamic, possess lesser Islamic characteristics. They should, in the first instance, acknowledge this fact and update their activities to the true Islamic level and then invite the people to their fold."
                                FEBRUARY
               12
EDITORIAL: Entitled "Factors leading to change in Afghan Policy in Pakistan, groups and Political Solution of Afghan Crisis", the editorial draws the conclusion:
     "In view of the present delicate political situation, a constructive and unified stand either in favor of or opposed to a political solution, would be in the interest of the jehadic forces and would encourage them to achieve more distinctions. Such privileges and distinctions•may induce the majority to concede to an acceptable political solution of the Afghan issue, ensuring religious and national goals and reinforcing the political independence of Afghanistan."
139
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AfGHIHIJIHMI              VOL.  5 NO. 2
  Payam-e-Ittefaq
 NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
COMMUNIQUE: Following the unprecedented famine in Hazarajat, during the past 20 years, a large number of our compatriots, owing to severe winter and manifold hardships had to migrate to Pakistan and Iran. These compatriots, who over the years during the revolution, have lived under the regime brutal bombardments and have fought the Kabul Communist regime, have stuck to their bunkers. But in the face of natural disaster had to leave their hearths and homes. Under the conditions in which, most probably, Najib regime may not last long, he has manoeuvred craftily with the proverbial role of a step-mother being more caressing than the real mother, asking for assistance to the central territories.
   Our people would rather die from sheer hunger than ask Najib*s help. They consider his gesture of sympathy yet another of his tricks. The revolutionary council of Afghanistan Islami Ittefaq urges all the Muslim countries, independent nations and humanitarian organizations to come forward to the rescue of the stricken people. Similarly we request the jehad organizations to extend tlieir helping hands in regard to the transportation of aid material so that our people can be saved from starvation.
 DECEMBER-JANUARY
EDITORIAL: Entitled, "who is the
skipper of the revolution?" it writes, "in our. revolution only the nation have fought, . have been martyred and suffered financial losses and are, thereforer, the sole leader of the caravan. They are the ones to implement the government of people for
 the people arid pave the war for soul-searching among the people. Now the time of one man's rule over the people and that of one tribe over the other has passed. The leaders of Islamic groups and jehad parties, who were alongside the revolution commotion and the people,'s enthusiasm, know that now they have reached the inaccessible point and are stationed at a short .distance from the brink of sfelf-seeking abyss. Our nation cannot stand the treachery against belief and homeland £nd do not want to see, once again,elements under the false mask of democracy and religion befool them. Now is the time for the nation. The real leaders of the nation, sympathisers of Islam and the homeland tighten up your belts, victory is not far off."
 INTERVIEW:  in an interview with
 "Payam-e-Ittefaq Prof. Mehdi, the President of revolutionary council of Ittefaq'-e-^Islami, said, "the conditions in' Hazarajat are deplorable and pathetic to such an extent that no
 human can 1 bear to hear it."
       ,1
  JANUAR Y-FEBR U AR Y
 EDITORIAL: "Leaders  and responsibi-
 lities". Under this title it discusses the 'prevalent conditions and the aliens' and neighbors' motives and interests, "it is the responsibility of the wise teachers not to keep quiet in the face of publicity and money of the aliens. Those who are interested only in their bellies and think of the revolution in terms of personal gains alone, are to be auditted separately from the wise and sympathetic leaders. If they are having a good \time in foreign countries temporarily it does not mean that, they are at liberty inside Afghanistan also. Now the political and jehad leaders are obliged to buckle up and: cut the roots of the. imperialist puppets outside the
140
JANUARY-MARCH.1992
 frontiers of the country so that in future reconstruction and restoration of security in the country they cannot be used for foreign manouvres. The people of Afghanistan are a single nation and no tribe excels the other and all are entitled to the right of living as human beings, the right of efforts and progress.
   Payam-e-Shuhada
  DECEMBER-JANUARY
 EDITORIAL: The editorial recounts the
 criminal activities of the Afghan communist party and warns the Muslim nation of Afghanistan to beware of the claim of change in some of these faces.
 NEWS ITEMS: In a gathering in central
 office of HIA on the occasion of condemnation of invasion anniversary of Afghanistan, Ayatullah Mohsend
 observed, "after the ouster of Russians why could we not establish an Islamic government during these two years or more? Let us talk it over frankly. We got away far from God Almighty also. In 1978 and afterwards we were thinking in different terms and presently those have changed. Our religious uprightness has weakened. Satanic whims and wishful bhinking of power attainment have nestled into every one’s head. Competition, rivalry and interest inongering have formed the basis of our toork and that is why we have been defeated. Whosoever forgets God, God Will also have him forgotten."
  JANUARY-FEBRUARY
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "February 15, a
 day to remember in Afghanistan History" it discusses the flight after the Russian defeat.
 NEWS ITEMS: Sayyed Asadullah Zahoori,
 the Secretary of the Organization of Islamic Freedom of Afghanistan who
 VOL. 5 no. 2
 recently joined the HIA,         in an
 interview said, "the organization of Islamic Freedom of Afghanistan with its 32-year-history of struggles, goaded by Godly and humanitarian obligation and sense of responsibility towards independence and territorial integrity of the country, had its due share in jehad efforts and active participation in cultural, political and military activities. Meanwhile some of our party members have been arrested and due to their Confession a few members of our Leadership Council and myself were also jailed. It was in 1987 that we declared oUr existence in irein, naturally under a different name, since the former name could not bemused. All this was done in consultation with party, members for the revival of the party . We are still-blessed with the support of: the majority: of our'’people and have received f messages' 'df solidarity from Kabul, Pakistan and Germany."
                        DECEMBER
            19
NEWS ITEMS: Qazi HUssain Ahmed, Ameer
of. JI, in an interview pertaining to Afghanistan observed that the Afghan issue could be resolved only when political power of the country whs transferred to the mujaheddin. Neither the ruling party nor those living luxuriantly in the West have the right to rule. However, it is hoped that the mujaheddin will generously forgive those Afghans who would like to live in the country as peaceful and noble citizens.
- Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, in an interview with BBC said, "UN and ■ the
141
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          fllGIIANJ[HAO              VOL. 5 NO. 2
 OIC can play an effective role in the process of power transfer from Kabul regime to an Islamic regime acceptable to the majority of the Afghan people. Regarding the Leadership Council, the NIFA believes that it should not be confined to the seven jehad organizations but other prominent persons, endowed with national and tribal backing in Afghanistan, could also have the council's membership".
                                             22
 NEWS ii^EMS: In a meeting with Rutskoy,
 Vice President of the Russian Federation, in Islamabad 21 December Hekmatyar said, "the Russians have not kept their word with the mujaheddin delegation in Moscow in as much as supply of arms and equipment to Kabul regime is still continuing. To quote an example, Moscow dispatched 150 remote control tanks alongwith sizable equipments to the Kabul regime through Hairatan port 17 December*" He said,. during their occupation of Afghanistan the Russians have rounded up 35 to 40 thousand Afghans and their fate is still unknown. The Russians should issue the list of all these Afghan prisoners so that the entire Afghan and Soviet prisoners can be released enblock. • The issue of prisoners' freedom is deeply connected and strongly interlinked with the liberty of Afghanistan, and these problems have to be resolved equitably and on the basis of equality.
 - Qazi Nazir Himmat, who had gone to Ghazni to visit jehad bunkers, told Shahadat on his return to Peshawar, "in case the entire jehad organizations start their operations jointly against Kabul,then the question of Kabul regime survival will not arise."
                                                       IIA and HIA (Khales), in a joint session of leaders, members of
 Executive Councils and some of the >' commanders, adopted a joint resolution:
 (i)  Instead of a 10-member assembly deciding    the fate of Afghanistan in
 Islamabad it is necessary that, as soon as possible, a 500-member Council with 50% Commanders be constituted to decide the future of Afghanistan, (ii) Jehad operations be directed under a unified command from inside the country, (iii)
 We do not accept governments in Afghanistan imposed under pressure by outsi-. ders. (iv) As long as no genuine Islamic government is established by mujaheddin we shall continue our armed jehad.
                                                24
 EDITORIAL: "The Russians are not sin-
 cere in their talks with mujaheddin". Commenting on the 2nd round of talks between the Russians and mujaheddin leaders it concludes:
      "From • the insistence of Mr. Rutskoy on talks with Pakistan quarters and the leaders of mujaheddin, this point clearly surfaced that the entire Russian efforts, at this stage, are diverted towards securing the release of the prisoners. The fact that Mr. Rutskoy did not mention the basic problem of Afghanistan, that of stopping of support to the Kabul atheist regime, but was keen on realization of his own objective, signifies that Russians are not sincere in the resolution of Afghan problem." REPORT:   In a press conference in
 Islamabad Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, told the foreign correspondents, "in " case Soviet POWs are released what can we tell the kith and kin of those jailed Afghans, in thousands, whose dead or alive have yet to be recovered?"
       "We are in need of a leadership council for understanding and harmony among the organizations", he said.
142
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
Hekmatyar told Rutskoy, "if you take a positive step in the direction of peace we shall confer on you the medal for peace." He said# "peace can be restored in Afghanistan when Najib's regime is ended and is replaced by an interim government acceptable to all the mujaheddin."
     Other items incorporated in this issue: "Najib  ought to take a lesson
from Erik Honnecar" by Mian Arwal and "Testing moments for the political vision of Afghan jehad leaders" by Fida Mohammad Fayez.
                                               26
REPORT:  "What was Rutskoy carrying?":
This is a report regarding Rutskoy# Russian Federation Deputy President's visit to Islamabad which states, "Rutskoy^ had a meeting with the delegation of mujaheddin leaders in Pakistan Foreign office 21 December, 1991 in Which he said: The Soviet armed forces Commander-in-Chief told me 21 December, 1991 that the supply of weapon and fuel to Kabul regime has been stopped, . and all the means have been cutoff. I was told by mujaheddin 23 December, 1991 that some material have been moved to Kabul. Immediately on my return to Moscow I shall look into this matter ' and defaulters shall be taken to task. I assure you that the facilities have been stopped and must have stopped.
    Professor Rabbani said, "we are quite serious about the agreement in Moscow though it has been propagated in a very negative form by Moscow media. I have no doubt, whatsoever, in regard to your seriousness and honesty".
- Engineer Hekmatyar in his statement said, "unfortunately . the regime that has been imposed by your forces and is killing daily hundreds of our compatriots by your weapons, is still
ruling. We want peace and security in the region and want to have good relations with all the neighbours. This war is imposed on us and its key is in your hand. It is up to you to maintain peace. The report concludes:   We want
our readers to understand that the Russian delegation had nothing with it except the request for the release of its war prisoners. On the other hand Rutskoy going back on his commitments, in his press conference observed that the Afghanistan issue will be resolved through UN formula and inter-Afghan dialogue. As such it is gathered that he has rescinded the Moscow agreements as a whole but this shall be determined when the joint Commission starts working.
                 30
REPORT: More than  100,000 refugees and
mujaheddin assembled in Nusrat Maina, Peshwar,28 December condemning the Red Army invasion of our country. During this get-together Abdul Rahim Rahmat, the chief of HIA Darul Ifta addressing the crowd said, "the barbarian Russians wanted to crush Islam in Afghanistan and replace it with despicable Marxist ideology but today we see that the enemies of Islam have been driven out of our country disgracefully.
   Describing the latest decision of jehad leaders regarding the Leadership Council as a positive and valuable step he said, "the mujaheddin leaders who recently approved a seven-point plan in Islamabad is totally legal and it has paved the way for solidarity among the rank-and-file of the mujaheddin. The enemies of Islam and jehad are today bent upon annulment and sabotage of this plan". At the end he requested the Afghan scholars to whole-heartedly support the mujaheddin leaders' approved plan and thus pave the way for
143
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
      During this session Engineer Hekmatyar observed: "The declaration of formal dissolution of Soviet Union and the final resignation of the Soviet President coincided with the day when, 12 years ago on this day, the Soviet forces invaded Afghanistan. The US then had suffered from the defeat in Vietnam and had no heart to confront the Russians but it was this mujahed and valiant Afghan nation which toppled.and crushed the communist empire."
                   31
 HEWS ITEMS:  Addressing  a meeting held
 on the occasion of the anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Engineer Hekmatyar observed, "the Soviet Union disintegrated into 15 parts, God willing, the US shall disintegrate into 52 parts. We do not accept a 'foreign-imposed government in Afghanistan and shall fiqht against it to the last. The HIA, God willing, shall be ready to fight out any intrigues in future. In case the Russians determined the fate of our
 40,000 missirug men, we shall also be ready to determine the fate of their prisoners. HIA has maintained its independence and, God willing, shall always stick to its principled stand."
      In a press conference in Islamabad, Prof. Rabbani observed, Rutskoy's latest communique in Kabul is a clear negation of article 4 of the recent mujaheddin and Soviet leaders' treaty since the Russians had declared all their post-1987 commitments as illegal, but presently they have resumed their cooperation with Kabul regime once again. He added that the mujaheddin have, so far, kept all their promises and the Russians should also keep theirs.
 - In a gathering held on the martyrdom
 of Commander Hafizul Haq and his three bunker companions. Professor Sayyaf observed, "now that the Soviet Union is disintegrated, the US and Zionist forces have joined hands against the mujaheddin." Reiterating his previous position once again he said, "we shall fight out coalition and have an independent government in any case."
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial entitled, "A
 Glance at the Resolution of Afghanistan Problems" discusses the Afghan .Muslim nation's sacrifices hoping that prominent scholars and jehad leaders will, through legal verdicts for the prosperity of our people and deliverance from grief, toils,
.tribulations and disunity, arrive at a decision ensuring welfare and liberty of our mujahed nation in this world and hereafter.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Mawlawi Moazin, leader of
 HEIA, at a session convened in Cultural Committee, said, "the desire of the mujaheddin will be fulfilled when a government of their own, and void of alien involvement, is established in Afghanistan."
 -According to a MIDIA report, looting and theft by militias have forced the Jalalabad citizens to vacate the city and to take shelter in the outskirts of the city.
       According     to    MIDIA the
 transportation of military equipment and hardware from Hairatan port to Kabul is intensified.
 - The city of Herat witnessed bloody
 clashes between rival para-military and regime supporters.
     According to MIDIA, during the mujaheddin sniper attacks in different parts of Kandahar city, six soldiers were killed and seven were wounded.
144
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
                                JANUARY
                2
REPORT: Mawlawi Janbaz Sarferaz, HIA
Deputy Political Affairs, who had participated in the conference of Muslim heads in Dakar, in an interview with Shahadat on his return said, "mujaheddin delegation to the Dakar Conference took part primarily in a gathering of foreign ministers in an orderly manner and afterwards in the conference of mujaheddin’s heads of delegations" .
    He said, it was appropriate that one leader alongwith members of other organizations took part but unfortunately our delegation, instead of the head* of a singular organization, comprised seven leaders which created some administrative problems too. Those who participated in the conference were: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi the leader of NLFA, Professor Rabbani JIA leader, Mawlawi Mohammadi HEIA leader, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani NIFA leader, Mawlawi Mansoor HEIA leader, Qazi Waqad
IIA leader, Ayatullah Mohseni HIA leader, Headmaster Abdul Qayyum HIA (Khales) delegate, Mawlawi Sarferaz HIA delegate and Akhlaqi HWIA delegate".
    He said:   "on the whole the
conference concluded to the benefit of the mujaheddin. It was for the first time that the mujaheddin participated in the conference of the Muslim heads playing an active and prominent role." To a question regarding a united.stance or otherwise of the mujaheddin delegation in the conference he said, "it must be said that mujaheddin should have prepared a consensus of their inter-council but it was not done and Sebghatullah Mujaddedi delivered a statement which did not meet with full agreement of some members. They did not oppose it openly, and in this way
 Mujaddedi, on behalf of the Afghan mujaheddin, expressed his opinion which, except for one or two points,was favorable and wholesome."
                   5
 INTERVIEW: Teacher Nanbai, Commander of Al-Shams front in Helmand Province, in an     interview     with      Shahadat
 correspondent said, "the mujaheddin position in Hilmand province against the Kabul regime is fully reassuring. Therein HIA alone has 63 jehad fronts which,from the very outset, are busy in armed jehad but it is unfortunate that the so-called jehad organizations are creating problems for HIA and others."
      To a question in regard to the reasons behind these inter-mujaheddin conflicts, he said, "from the day when Naseem Akhundzada, Commander of IIA, was killed by his relatives, his brother Mohammed Rasool Akhundzada, took position in all sectors of Helmand province against the HIA mujaheddin. The second reason being that the HIA mujaheddin wanted to ban poppy cultivation in Helmand province and replace it with wheat and other crops, but the so-called organizations are engaged in poppy cultivation just the same. The third reason being that the main . routes        for     narcotics'
 transportation are controlled by HIA, but they want to open up these routes for themselves."
                   7
 EDITORIAL: Entitled:  "The continuation
 of    Kashmir     uprising         and
 perseverance of our jehad line", it hopefully concludes that the day is not far off when, with the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, Kashmir also restores its Islamic identity and reaps the fruits of its great sacrifices.
 REPORT: In an  interview with Al-Hayat
145
JANUARY-MARCH .p 1992
VOL- 5 NO- 2
 journal of Jeddah, Hekmatyar leader of HIA said, "the plan for the creation
 of a leadership council deprives the enemy of its initiative in the resolution of the Afghanistan problem and places it in the hands of the mujaheddin. He said, the Russians are not sincere regarding their talks with mujaheddin. He added, "as long as the enemy accuses me and launches propaganda campaign against me, I feel convinced regarding the righteousness of my cause. I advise those who are flaring up religious sentiments in our country to desist from such deeds." In reply to a question he said, - no power would be able to __ disintegrate Afghanistan. Regarding reconstruction of the country he said,"we would prefer
more attention  to be   paid to     the 
agricultural    sector  during      the 
reconstruction  process so that     our 
country attains self-sufficiency."      
 - Qutbuddin Helal in an interview with the BBC regarding the return of ex-King Zaher Shah said that the mujaheddin in the bunkers are not agreeable to the return of Zaher Shah. In response to the question that if Pakistan, pressurized by US, negotiates with Zaher Shah, then how will you take it? He said, "we would consider this as interference in our country's affairs. The Afghanistan problem must be solved by the mujaheddin groups themselves. The mujaheddin organizations involved in jehad must be taken into confidence. We oppose any solution from outside, be it from any quarter."
      Other important items of this issue are: "Pakistan  should not give up
 the valuable title of Ansar" by Zabihullah Qureishi, "27 December the day of the Red imperialist invasion" by Masooma Raza Sayyed, ''The new UN Secretary General and World problems" by Wahdatyar, "The Wardak Province jehad Commanders' resolution rejecting the invitation of the All Commanders' Council to attend the Council" and
local and foreign news.
EDITORIAL:   " Publicity regarding the.
change in Pakistan traditional policy vis-a-vis     the      Afghan     jehad"
substantiates these rumors with the following:   The rumors regarding the
change in Pakistan policy were endorsed by high sounding Pakistani media pertaining to the visit of general Asif Nawaz, Pakistan's Army Chief of Staff, to Rome and his meeting with ex-King Zaher Shah and simultaneously the Pakistan press came out in bold titles saying that Pakistan was ready to accept the UN plan for the resolution of the Afghan problem".
      The editorial concludes, "if Pakistan government is interested in Islam and the benefits of its own nation then change of policy will bring forth lots of difficulties for them. If the change in policy is based on their changing belief then the issue will be audited from another angle".
REPORT:   In a press interview with
foreign journalists Hekmatyar, leader
of HIA said, VI hope the Muslim nation
of Pakistan will not get involved in
international conspiracies against the
Afghan jehad. Those who want to turn
Afghanistan into Lebanon, wish Zaher
Shah to return. I will warn the Iranian
nation that in case of the ex-King
returning to Afghanistan the same can
be repeated in Iran as well. The only
difference between Babrak and Zaher
Shah is that the former was th6
                                                                                                       *•
Soviets' hand-picked while the latter is the Americans' baby."
    In an interview with Mujahed magazine Professor Rabbani observed, "the rumors about JIA's participation in Zaher Shah’s government are baseless. The JIA's position in relation to a transitory government and the establishment of an Islamic
146
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 government/as desired by the Muslim and mujahed nation of Afghanistan, is always declared in clear and unequivocal terms."
 - In an interview with Al—Bunyan news agency,- Engineer Ahmad Shah observed, ' "the generation reared in fire and gun-powder is opposed to the return of Zaher Shah. "
                                                12
 EDITORIAL: ’’The American plan regarding the return of Zaher Shah". The editorial says, "this plot like the rest of imperialistic intrigues is bound to fail because it was confronted with mujaheddin's sharp reaction."
 REPORT AND NEWS ITEMS:Pertaining to the holding of the Bonn Conference, Hekmat-yar observed, "the west-oriented groups have been pressurized, in right earnest, by the West, to compromise with Najib, through the establishment of a coalition government, headed by the treacherous King. Following the Bonn Conference another conference of similar nature and composed of the same faces will be convened under UN auspices. Najib's boat is capsizing and whosoever rides it shall be drowned along with him.
 - Professor Sayyaf, in a message from inside Afghanistan, has said,, "mujaheddin shall treat Zaher Shah in the same manner they treated Karmal and Najib."
 - In an interview Mawlawi Khales said, "presently there is no room for Zaher Shah in Afghanistan. His home-coming will not only fail to bring peace to the country but will fetch fresh disasters with it."
    In an interview with ANA Qazi Waqad, leader of Da'eya-e-Islami said, Zaher Shah's arrival to Afghanistan will create enormous problems.
VOL. 5 no. 2
Therefore it behoves Pakistan to support mujaheddin and refrain from all that which may contribute to strengthening .of inter-mujaheddin differences.
   Gibraeli, the chief of II United Front, in an interview with ANA said, for the future form of government in Afghanistan it is better that a referendum be held.
- In the column of in-coming letters, there is a letter from Sayyed Jalaluddin of Khurasan camp dealing with an extravagant competiton held on the occasion of a religious ritual of a Commander's son in the camp wherein valuable and expensive prizes of arpund 100 thousand rupees in cash, 20 pieces of carpets, 15 taperecorders and 10 golden rings were placed for the winners. The total expenditure of the ceremony came to about 5 hundred thousand rupees      (Rs.500,000). Mr.
Jalaluddin deplored the fact that jehad facilities are being spent lavishly in such a manner that it neither pleases God Almighty nor serves the purpose of an orphan whose kith and kin have sacrificed their lives in the way of the realization of Islamic objectives.
     Other items in this issue include: "American conspiracies against the Afghan jehad" by Naseer Ahmad Hades, "For sterilization of a crafty adversary, unity is needed" by Mohammed Khalil, "The need to establish commonwealth community of Muslim countries" by Wahdatyar, "Zaher Shah, the old discarded piece of imperialism" by Mohammed Zaher Mahbubyar, "A glance at our jehad history" by Ayaz.
                                                14
EDITORIAL:  The editorial entitled, "It
is good to be tested" refutes the rumors that HI A has close relations with Pakistan and its military quarters and owing to this proximity of relations.
147
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
places most of their aids at the disposal of the party. It opines that the main reason behind this is HIA's strong opposition to the recent stances of Pakistan government.
NEWS ITEMS: According to the report of an American correspondent quoting 'Coalition Council * sources, the Iranian authorities have decided to drive out those Afghan refugees from the country who are not holding refugee cards. On the other hand there are many others who do not hold refugee cards but live in Iran just the same.
     Mawlana Samiul Haq, General Secretary of Jamiat-e-Ulama-e-Islami-e-. Pakistan has said, US wants to install a puppet government in Afghanistan.
                                               16
EDITORIAL:  With the title, "Mujaheddin
under the rays of future leadership", concludes: We consider the ex-King and Najib's participation as American intrigue and recommendation which can never be tolerated by our Muslim nation and after the Russian defeat no other power can dare come in the open. As such, the mujaheddin should prepare themselves for future leadership, knowing that the entire Islamic world have reposed their aspirations in them.
REPORT:  In an address at the obituary
of the recent historical Gardaiz battle martyrs, Hekmatyar observed, "I do not think that our neighboring countries will commit such a mistake as to permit alien forces use their territory as passage for entering Afghanistan to fight. I declare in unequivocal terms that no one can guarantee Na jib's survival, nor any power on earth can bring Zaher Shah to Afghanistan. The mujahed people of Paktia who have been martyred in thousands, too, are by no
 means, ready to accept Zaher Shah. This is my desire that as God Almighty toppled the Soviet Empire 27 December, in the same manner He shall topple Najib's regime, through mujaheddin, 27 April."
      Other items of this issue:    "Our
 nation want Zaher Shah to be tried" by Zabihullah Qureishi, "The continuity of jehad, key to the Afghan • problem" by Qazi Kheil, "What goes on in Afghan Colony?" This is a report from a paper which writes that there are many Afghans without a ration-card living in this colony- and they pay exorbitant house rents. Most of the shops here belong to the Afghans and the goods provided gratis to mujaheddin, by aid agencies, are being sold at high prices in these shops.
                                                19
 EDITORIAL: "Democracy on trial" under
 this heading it discusses the election campaign of Algeria where the majority of Mus]ims were successful but was banned by the military government.
 MESSAGE: In a message communicated by
 Hekmatyar from inside the country regarding the recent developments in Algeria, he has expressed his concern and has sympathized heartily with the Muslim and mujahed Algerians.
 REPORT:  In connection with the dis-
 integration of the blood thirsty Soviet Socialist Empire a conference was convened by the students group of Imam Fakhruddin Razi 17 January in Hayatabad in which the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan was emphasized.
      Other items of this issue:  "Nadir
 Shah and Zaher Shah, yesterday and today's choice for the ambitious" by Sayyed Jalaluddin, "Our Jehad and half way friends" by Mohammad Naim Sarek
148
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
 condemning the dispatch of Pakistan delegation to Zaher Shah.
               20
 EDITORIAL:  It  is  entitled  "Dawn  of
 Complete Conquest of the Besieged City of Kabul" and calling the political solution as senseless and absurd, states, "now we are passing through such delicate moments that even one minute's negligence on the part, of jehadic forces would protract and elongate our arduous journey towards our cherished goal. Henceforth we should motivate all our combatant forces in such a way and upgrade the cooperation and understanding among the mujaheddin to such an extent that before the drummers of political solution may get wind of it, we should hoist the Islamic flag in Kabul and such a phenomenon is not possible without unity, selflessness and sacrifice. It is worth mentioning that these days the propaganda campaign of the heretic world is focussed on the Hezb-e-Islami mujaheddin leadership. This in itself is an explicit pointer to the fact that the anti-Islamic elements feel threatened by the possibility of the establishment of an Islamic government in this country."
 NEWS ITEMS:      Addressing a large
 gathering of students of schools, intermediate and graduate colleges of the HIA, 14 February, Hekmatyar declared, "this is the century of Islam's victory and glory. God willing, Islam will regain its glory and greatness. During the reign of the previous -dilapidated regimes nobody dared speak of Islam in the universities or the institutes of learning... The westerners support elections and democracy, provided it gives a chance to their stooges to emerge on the scene."
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 ABSTRACT OF OTHER CONTENTS IN THIS
 ISSUE:-
    "Elected Deputies should Behave with a Sense of Responsibility", by Rahmani, drawing the attention of the new members of HIA's Central Council to some important points.
 - "Aggression and Defeat" written by Dilju Hussaini.
    "American Conspiracies against our jehad and the responsibility of the jehadic leadership" by Feda Mohammad Fayez.
     " The Right to Rule Kabul, principally belongs to the Mujaheddin"; translated by Mohammad Rahim Khanjar.
                 21
 EDITORIAL: "Our decisive stand - a reassuring message of final victory" Under this title it discusses the occidental adversary along with Islamic movements and recalls the confusion of some friends, "The decisive stand of Islamic movement proved that except for the mujaheddin who are honored with millions of martyrdoms, no one else has the right to determine the fate of. Afghanistan. In other words, if Pakistan also wants to be a party to the American conspiracy of the ex-King, the mujaheddin will maintain their jehad activities until the establishment of an Islamic government."
 NEWS ITEMS:
    After the condemnation, by jehad leaders, of the imposition of Zaher Shah plan it seems- that the Pakistan government has finally decided to oppose the move.
    Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, in an Islamic assembly of the Afghan Engineers, 20 January said, "the most
149
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AfCHflHJIHftfl             VOL. 5 NO. 2
important point is understanding and communication among the leaders which ought to continue in a logical way resulting in a consensus."
                  23
EDITORIAL: The editorial says that HIA has taken a firm stand against the entire conspiracies and multifarious intrigues and has frustrated them, such as the Bonn conference where the disclosure of HIA contributed to non-participation ' of others also, and the eventual failure of the conference. Even those who had earlier prepared themselves to attend the conference, helplessly unpacked, declaring their non-participation in the conference.
NEWS ITEMS:
    Reports from Bonn indicate that the conference is postponed. It was scheduled that the conference initiated by Willy Brandt, Social Democrat leader, will be convened 27-29 January. Willy Brandt had in mind that in the conference the representative of the Najib regime, Zaher Shah himself and his supporters and mujaheddin's representatives, particularly the moderates, will get together bringing a consensus towards the solution of the Afghan problem.
-  Thousands of. Afghan students, in a protest demonstration, condemned the conspiracy for Zaher Shah's return saying, if Zaher Shah returned it would be for trial and not for ruling.
                  26
NEWS ITEMS:
-  At a seminar of HIA commanders in 'Darul Aitam Rashedia' campus 25 January, Engineer Hekmatyar leader of HIA, said, "the entire jehad forces ought to close their ranks and contain
 the enemy intrigues. In order to intensify the operations we want the jehad organizations to start their operations against Kabul. The people of Kabul ought to be reassured that their property and lives shall be safe.
 -  the forces of Sayyed Mansoor Nadiri, General Rashid Dostum and General Momen have rev'olted against the Kabul regime and have captured iGeneral Juma Atzek, the regime commander in the north, the Baghlan province KHAD chi.ef and a number of senior regime officials.
    General Hameed Gul, the former chief of ISI, who has a good reputation in regard to Afghan jehad, told journalists after his retirement, vthe blood of the Afghans will certainly yield positive results and no one can impose his decision on them."
                 28
 EDITORIAL: The editorial writes, "the
 series of HIA seminars are continuing according to schedule. Such seminars can, in a way, place the entire cross-section of the nation in the process     of * current political
 circumstances and on the other hand, alongwith the decisions of vanguard leadership, they can advance upto the main frontiers of understanding, thereby creating such an atmosphere of accountability between the nation and leadership as to be able to erase the entire web of doubts and whims propagated by colonialism."
 NEWS ITEMS:
 -  In an address at the seminar of tribal chieftains 26 January in ’Darul Aitam-e-Rasheedia’ Engineer Hekmatyar said, "undoubtedly the contribution of tribal chieftains in this jehad was great. They awakened their tribes and patronized them during jehad, suffered the toils of jehad and homelessness and in the meantime shared the fronts with
150
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AHJ[HAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
mujaheddin and the refugees. May God Almighty confer his blessings on them all the more."
- During a one-day seminar of commanders, Hekmatyar said, "the issue of Zaher Shah does not involve the return of a singular person but it is an effort for the return of a decrepit past regime."
                                               30
EDITORIAL:Entitled "Conspiracies deepen further" it writes, "in case the West-affiliated      elements      have
compromised with the. Kabul regime national conciliation plan, it will be better that they desist from cheating the nation and mujaheddin any longer and settle down with the. regime heartily. Because presently the Kabul regime, changing trucks,' is finding no difficulty in accepting the monarchists and pro-Western elements and the West also prefers, hundred times more, an atheist regime comprising the communists, royalists and. pro-Western elements, to an Islamic regime. If this is true that Kabul regime stance^ and those of Pakistan government vis-a-vis the resolution of the problem, the structure of •future order and the faces that represent them have unified, then naturally the conspiracies against jehad have deepened all the more. Under such sensitive conditions it is incumbent, on the entire influential and sincere jehad forces, irrespective of the refugees and the host (Ansar), to buckle up themselves with all their might and confront the intrigues."
NEWS ITEMS:
                                                             A one-day seminar of prominent scholars was convened 27 January, in
'Darul Aitam Rasheedia'. At the
seminar, while welcoming the scholars,
Hekmatyar said, "God willing the
 leadership and guidance of the nation shall be entrusted to such scholars. This will be the greatest blessing of God Almighty on the Afghan nation to bestow the leadership of this country on mujahed scholars and the learned.
 - Mawlawi Khales observed 23 January, "even though, presently Pakistan is placed under great pressure, we do not think that she will cast to the winds the past 13-year sacrifices and efforts of the Afghan nation. Even so we will not have any grievances against Pakistan because they have separate policy and diplomacy but we will continue our jehad any way."
   A seminar of' businessmen and tradesmen was convened in the campus of 'Darul. Aitam Rashidia' 23 January and with the conclusion of this seminar in Nusrat Maina, the one-day seminar series also ended.
                          FEBRUARY
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled "Our negligence, a
 chance for the puppet regime's survival" it says that the chance provided to the Najib regime's survival is the result of * the rifts among the jehad forces.
 NEWS ITEMS:
    In a one-day seminar of scholars, Hekmatyar observed, "nobody can deny the prominent role of scholars and mujaheddin played in this jehad. The organizations, which want an Islamic government in Afghanistan, .must unite and jointly confront the intrigues."
                  4
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled "Changing stances
 and disclosure of facts" it . discusses the change in Pakistan's stance and
 151
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                MHO                 VOL.  5 NO. 2
 concludes, "the entire influential and powerful jehad organizations are very angry due to the change in Pakistan policy. The difference is so much that some express their resentment openly and the rest have a cautious approach. Those supporting this change in the policy are:       Najib  regime.
 National Awami * Party and the. West-affiliated so-called mujahed elements. Now it is upto the Muslim nations of Pakistan and Afghanistan to judge whether the Muslim and sincere mujaheddin are friends of Pakistan and shall remain friends in future too, or Najib*s communist regime, or the puppet National Awami party or the so-called nationalist West-affiliated elements?
 NEWS ITEMS:  In an interview with ANA
 Engineer Hekmatyar observed, "owing to the pressure     of some particular
 countries UN,   in its unsuccessful
 attempts for the return of Zaher Shah, should not impair its credibility. I hope that Pakistan will not evolve -a policy regarding Afghanistan which will make the enemies of Pakistan happy."
 - In a , press conference Professor Rabbani said,    "Loya Jirgah (grand
 assembly) has lost its previous credibility in Afghanistan. Mujaheddin shall never accept foreign imposed leaders."
    Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Ameer of JIP said, "the solution to Afghanistan problem lies in harmony among mujaheddin, ensuring their confidence and the presentation of an appropriate resolution in accordance with their, wishes." He said, "the US does not want peace but rift in Afghanistan".
                    6
 EDITORIAL:   Entitled   "The fall of
 atheistic belief of the triangle of trinity" it di scusses the puppet regime, ex-King and pro-Western nationalists as the three sides to this triangle, and says that
 their supporters are those whose role in jehad is neither positive nor negative."
 NEWS ITEMS:   In a one-day seminar of
 mujaheddin at Nusrat Maina, in reply to a question from participants. Engineer Hekmatyar said, "the new council may evolve basic changes in various fields of the party. If the majority of party activists consider someone suitable for party-leadership the opposing minority should accept it."
      Captain Amanullah Khuzhman, Commander of HIA■ (Hekmatyar) Sama division, in an interview said, "Zaher Shah will bury the dream of coming to power alongwith him."
    In a meeting with Benon Sevan 5 February, Hekmatyar said, "we propose that UN declare, in unequivocal terms, the unacceptability of Najib regime .to all. He should be replaced by an interim     government         devoid of
 controversial figures. This government will hold elections in few months and transfer the  power to  those who are
 supported by    the majority of     the
 nation." He said, "we are not prepared that power be divided in Afghanistan
 and a coalition government with Najib and Zaher Shah be formed. Your plan is impracticable    and has already been
 rejected by 22 put of 25 organizations. Therefore, we hope that you abandon this plan and choose a route which is conclusive."
 - The Commanders Council, during its recent sessions in district Khost Paktia, rejected the ceasefire proposal by Najib.
                                                    9
 EDITORIAL:  Entitled "Grave responsibi-
 lities' of the new Central Council" it writes, "the life of the previous central council , had expired in August
152
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 and simultaneously it was necessary that a new council be convened. But due to pre-occupation in election procedures and non-availability of polling results from the interior constituencies, the work-program of convening     a  central council     was
 postponed. God willing, the new Central Council     will   be    convened     in
 February-March as brother Hekmatyar had said. In previous councils, due to the conditions laid for lineage and membership of party trustees, limited number of people used to participate in elections, whereas during the recent elections about one million persons went to      the polls.  Naturally,    a
 council, representing one million people, is vested with more powers and, proportionately, it has to .shoulder graver responsibilities.
 NEWS ITEMS:  At a seminar celebrating
 the 50th anniversary of the founding of JIP 6 February, Hekmatyar said, "we shall never unite with those who are unwilling to have an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The JIP expressed their views in regard to the creation of Islamic society while the British still ruled here, the Afghan mujaheddin has also been impressed by this view."
 - During the elections, sometimes back inside and outside the country, for choosing HIA Chief, the polling process among party-members and partners was implemented openly as a result of which the near consensus showed Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar netting 99.09% of the total votes, was re-elected as the HIA leader.
 - A grand function on "discussing the current situation in Afghanistan" was convened 8 February in the campus of HIA political guest-house .in which around one thousand men, comprizing officials and personnel of humanitarian institutions, had participated.
                 11
 EDITORIAL:   Entitled   "The Islamic
 movement's progressive process, a dangerous challenge to Western democracy" it discusses the Soviet defeat in the face of heroic struggle of Islamic movement and now considers the US defeat unavoidable.
 NEWS ITEMS:    While   addressing the
 humanitarian institutes, activists. Engineer Hekmatyar observed, "we expect from the neighboring countries that their territories may not be used by enemies of our jehad for interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. Grand assembly is proposed by those parties who are not very popular among the masses."
      Those Afghan scholars and intellectuals who had participated in the seminar of "Basic Rules of Islamic Government in the Future Society of Afghanistan" convened by the CCAR in Islamabad, urged the entire jehad leaders to adopt a decisive resolution in regard to the creation of an Islamic order for future Afghanistan.
    The scholars and commanders of Baghlan province, in a session 4 February, condemned and rejected any kind . of peace plan in regard to the solution of Afghanistan problem which may be contrary to the wishes of Afghan mujahed nation.
                        J
 OTHER ITEMS OF THIS ISSUE:
      "Kishtmand the Colonial spokesman" by Naseer Ahmed Hares which throws light on the shameful life ’ of Kishtmand. "Unsuccessful trip of Benon Sevan" by Qareeb-ur-Rehman.
                 13
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the operations of
 humanitarian institutions during jehad"
153
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
it throws light on the operations of these institutions and concludes, "the jehad groups ought to control the operations of the institutions with certain sanctions and limitation^ and inspire the aid donors that instead of a good turn to mujaheddin they do not make trouble for them. It is true that the refugees and mujaheddin are facing economic hardships, but in case the assistance caused moral and spiritual damage, then it would be far better to stop the aids completely."
NEWS ITEMS: A high level delegation of Islamic movements arrived in Peshawar for the sake of jehad leadership of Afghanistan.
-  The results of some of HIA Central Council electoral constituencies have been declared.
-  HIA and JIA in Nahreen district of Baghlan province agreed to cooperate with each other in the region's affairs.
-  The general management of Jama'at-e-Ulama-e-Islami convened a glorious conference 29 December, 1991 in Haripur Ghazi camp and emphasized the establishment of an Islamic government.
                   16
EDITORIAL: Entitled "Asthmatic troubles of Western Conspiracies" it writes "this is sufficient honor for the mujaheddin leadership to see that the Red Empire has disintegrated into separate states. They have humiliated and insulted the communism philosophy so much that today its erstwhile disciples refuse to accept it and in this manner revived their forefathers' tjraditions of wiping out the British hegemony from the world map. Now that colonialism ana its puppets do not know where to flee and cannot contain the on-going Islamic movement, they are using the propaganda media against the
 mujahed leadership."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Responding to the queries
 of humanitarian institutions activists, Hekmatyar  said,    "we  hope that    the
 Islamic Republic of Iran will reconsider her stances and in regard to problems adopt a policy as required by Islam. We want to have friendly relations  with    Iran   but have    our
 complaints against the current policies of the government of Iran." He said, "jehad is the best school to bring up leadership and personalities and has been able to train the most effective and capable persons for guidance and leadership of the people."
 - A grand rally to review the current
 developments in     the  country  and to
 find the views of students of various universities, colleges and schools of Peshawar city was convened, 14 February., in the campus of Darul Aitam-Rasheedia in Nusrat Maina.
 - The day of the disgraceful Russian defeat in Afghanistan was celebrated, 15 February, in Quetta city of Pakistan at a great assembly in which Afghan commanders, scholars, intellectuals and refugees had participated.
 - HIA has summarized its final plan in
 this manner, "our plan for the resolution of Afghan problem is that the influential jehad parties reach a consensus on at least the following four points:    (1) the  adoption  of   a
 common    position      against      the
 machinations of the enemies of Islam, (2) Participation in harmonious operations to topple the Najib government, (5) the formation of an interim government in Kabul after the fall of the puppet regime and (4) Holding of elections for the creation of an elected government.
 OTHER ITEMS OF THIS ISSUE:
                                                                     "The necessity of adopting a
154
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
             V'
 singular and decisive position" by Naseer Ahmed Hares; "The entire nation does not want    Zaher Shah" by  Ziaul
 Hague Zia"; "The long hands of colonialism and our Islamic obligation" by Mubesher.
                                               18
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "The third anniversary of the Red army defeat in Afghanistan" and writes, "the Muslim Afghan mujaheddin are   celebrating the third
 anniversary of the' Red army defeat at such a time,     when    due to  their
 sacrifices many changes have surfaced in the world and the region. The movement for the revival of Islamic glory in the world is strengthened more than ever before. The communist school of thought and the overbearing- USSR empire do not exist any longer."
 NEWS ITEMS:  On  the  occasion of the
 third anniversary of   the"  Red army
 defeat, at a seminar in Lahore, Hekmat-yar said, "the singular element which contributed to the downfall of the Red Empire was the Red army defeat in Afghanistan."
 - On the occasion of the anniversary of the communist downfall in Afghanistan, a conference was convened 15 February in the Afghanistan Islamic Cultural Center, in which hundreds of students and youth of various educational institutions had participated.
                                               23
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled, "Islamic
 Economic Bloc, vis-a-vis the New World Order" and writes, "victory of the Western Powers and their allies in the Gulf War and disintegration of the Red Empire, coupled with the collapse of the Marxist Ideology, proved to be a turning point in the political history of the world because it brought about a profound upheaval in the current world
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 balance...
      At the conclusion of the Gulf War, the bi-polar assessment of the world   proved  a wrong judgement.
 President Bush announced his New World Order, through the news media, with enormous pride because the US had emerged as the sole super power in the world. As the West was sure -that it had nothing to fear from the erstwhile USSR and, on the other hand, the communist system was corroding day by day, the US directed all its guns towards Islam and for the destruction of the Muslims. The first present of Bush's New World Order was to disarm r the Middle Eastern and all the Islamic countries but spare Israel..,
      The ECO (comprising Pakistan, Iran and Turkey) held its session at a time when the US no longer has any rival throughout the world to challenge its New World Order. Therefore, this organisation having extraordinary capacity for vitality and expansion in the Islamic World, is a source of anxiety to the US because not only the newly independent Muslim states in Central Asia are inclined towards membership in this organization but with the establishment of an Islamic, government in Kabul, Afghanistan would! also become one of the active members of this movement."
 NEWS ITEMS:      Hekmatyar,  . answering
 questions by students of educational institutions stated, "if someone may think in terms of partitioning Afghanistan, he should know that this is a remote possibility. The reason is that firstly our nation is opposed to such an idea, and secondly all the neighboring countries of Afghanistan should know that if a slightest geographical change takes plage in Afghanistan on regional, ethnic or sectarian considerations, it wout^ not be confined to Afghanistan only \but
155
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992                                IHIfiH VOL. 5 NO. 2
 would affect all the other countries too • » «
      Iran is also composed of Arabs, Kurds, Turkmens, Khurasanis and Farsis. Therefore, if Afghanistan is partitioned Iran also could be partitioned. Pakistan too, being composed of Baloch, Pashtun, Punjabi and Sindhi ethnic groups, would also be affected in the same manner."
      To commemorate the armed uprising of the mujahed citizens of Kabul on 22 February 1980, a glorious function entitled "The Bloodstained Friday" was held under the auspices of the Kabul Province Emirate and the Directorate of Wafa in the premises of the HIA office. Speeches were delivered on the occasion commending the resistance,
                                               25
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "Threat to
 jehad and our Territorial Integrity; Another Futile Exercise"            and
 concludes, "infidel cowardice is afraid of an Islamic government and resorts to all sorts of tricks and spreads rumors about Afghanistan's disintegration. But we know for certain- that the Muslim Afghan nation started the jehad with the great Islamic spirit transcending language, race and ethnic Considerations. Therefore, the tricks of the plotters would prove more futile than all their other tricks."
 NEWS ITEMS :
     Hekmatyar in a speech at a function commemorating the brave resistance put up by the citizens of Kabul, 22 February 1980 remarked, "we give another opportunity to the army to contribute to the . solution of the Afghan crisis... The citizens of Kabul have played a significant role in Afghan resistance against the Russians and earlier against the British."
ABSTRACT OF OTHER CONTENTS IN THIS ISSUE:
ARTICLE:  "We should  not lose sight of
the glorious jehad in the last moments on the verge of victory"; by Nangyal.
ARTICLE:  "Afghanistan's  importance  in
the future set-up of the Region", by Naseer Ahmed Hariss.
                 27
EDITORIAL:  It is entitled "Pakistan's
Mute Afghan Policy". While praising Pakistan's help and assistance to the mujaheddin and the refugees and expressing appreciation for the same, it discusses the process of change in Pakistan government's policy and writes, "although the Muslim nation of Pakistan supports our jehad, yet itj3 government has adopted a policy which cannot be called a policy at all. However, it is upto the government of Pakistan to adopt a policy of its own liking whether or not it may serve the interests of our jehad. But it would be advisable for the Pakistan government not to sacrifice the dignity and honor gained in the Islamic world by supporting this jehad, for lesser and transitory interests... So far as the mujaheddin are concerned, at this juncture, when Pakistan's policy is faced with duplicity, the mujaheddin should pave the way for a strong unity."
NEWS ITEMS:
      Prof. -.Burhanuddin Rabbani remarked at a press conference 26 February, "the mujaheddin have no bad intentions towards the Central Asian republics... Zaher Shah's presence at the head of the future government is not acceptable. Those who give up support to the Najib regime, would be welcomed by us...The United Nation's efforts are only a waste of time."
156
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992           MBHIJIUI .                VOL. 5 NO. 2
                                     MARCH
                                            1
 EDITORIAL: It is entitled "Discord, the Last Gambit of the Enemy to Frustrate Jehad." After enumerating some of these tricks, it adds, "it would be better if all the elements, organizations and states in this region henceforth abstain from adding fuel to the fire of discord. Such deeds are not only direly punishable hareafter but have unpleasant consequences in store for the evil-doers in this world, too. The greatest criterion for the unity of Islamic societies is t|ie Islamic Faith."
 NEWS ITEMS: Hekmatyar, addressing the
 congregation before the Friday prayers in the Khogiani Mosque at Nasser Bagh Camp, declared, "we call upon all the jehadic "organizations to form such a common front as to gather together all the jehad forces on one platform... We are the genuine party to the dispute. We should present a plan. All these efforts for peace are nothing but a connivance to preserve the status quo and to protect Najib... Our real plan is to topple down the Kabul regime through relentless Holy War."
 ABSTRACT OF OTHER CONTENTS IN THIS ISSUE:-
 - Article by Prof.Formuli, "Studies in the field of Character Building of the Youth and the Contribution of Islamic Teachings."
    Article by Shamsul Haq Shams, "Fundamentalist Afghan Mujaheddin Groups do not Agree to UN Peace Plan."
                  3
 EDITORIAL:  It is . entitled "The New
 World Order, Harbinger of a New Danger" and throwing light on Western hostility
 against the Islamic movements states, "emergence of Islamic resistance and movements in the Islamic world, has created a terror in the hearts of the global heresy because they see their economic and military interests challenged by these movements. During the Gulf War it wak observed that the Muslim puppet governments on the one hand' and the Islamic Movements on the other had instigated the entire wofld against the US. Due to this fear, the US Under Secretary for Defense declared in the Asian Defense Conference, as a precautionary measure, that American troops in Asia should retain their full strength and presence so that any state may not consider. the reduced US military personnel as an American weakness."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Hekmatyar  answering news
 correspondents at Rawalpindi Press Club, expressed the view, "there is no possibility of any break-up in Afghanistan and hence no one should have any fears in this regard... A government formed through elections would be acceptable to us. We are not prepared to travel in Benon Sevan’s train because it is doubtful whether or not it will reach its destination without the mujaheddin consent."
 ABSTRACT OF OTHER CONTENTS IN THIS ISSUE:
    Article by Rahmani, "Let us support' the HIA Plan."
    Nangyar in his article captioned, "Formation of Linguistic Association," expresses concern over the establishment of a Persian Language Association in Tehran comprising Iran, Tadjekistan and some of the mujaheddin groups."
                  8
 NEWS ITEMS:
                                                                  Hekmatyar, addressing members of
157
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
 Pakistan National Assembly declared, "we never oppose a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem... The reason for not launching a military operation against Kabul so far, is the fact that we do not want that Kabul residents be hurt..... Here some specific persons have tried to reveal some of our very important secrets to the Kabul regime or the Americans... So long as the fate of our 30,000 missing persons is not known, we cannot release the Russian POWs."
 MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS:
 - HIA and JIA have condemned rocket attacks on Kabul city and blamed Kabul regime for it.
    Hekmatyar briefed a number of Pakistan National Assembly members 2 March at Hotel Islamabad, regarding the latest political developments, and threw light on the 4-point plan presented by him to the UN Secretary General's special envoy relating to a fair solution of the Afghan problem.
                                                19
 EDITORIAL:    "Biased UN mediation
 efforts". Under this title the editorial criticizes the role the UN plans to give to the Kabul regime in the resolution efforts of the Afghan problem and considers it contrary to UN decisions and procedures.
 NEWS ITEMS: Commenting on a Washington Post report Hekmatyar, leader of HIA said, "nobody would dare take any steps towards the disintegration of Afghanistan. All the Afghans belong to a single faith and nation. They are not conflicting with each other in this respect. ThOse who would attempt to split Afghanistan would be subjected to disintegration themselves.
    Major Gulamir Khan, the mayor of
VOL. 5 NO. 2
Nusrat Maina, told the Shahadat in an interview, "the Nusrat Maina project was designed for barren land and the deep wells dug for drinking water have not been 100% successful. The housing area consists of 4,321* dwellings and the water obtained from the five wells is not sufficient. The water shortage in this housing complex is removed by supplying water by means of tankers". He said, the municipal personnel . in the area specially care for the control of prices.
     Shahid
                         DECEMBER
            22
EDITORIAL: The editorial entitled "the
declaration of new jehad leadership council and our expectations" hopefully observes that based on the past bitter experiences, the new leadership council will, more sagaciously, move hand in hand in order to realize the expectations of martyrs (in hundreds of thousands), the crippled, the missing, the prisoners and the rest of the units of the Afghan nation and will pave the way for the decisive fall of th* despicable Najib's regime.
NEWS ITEMS: The second Deputy of Boris Yeltsin, President of thd Russian Federation, during a meeting with brother Hekmatyar, in one of the mujaheddin centers inside Afghanistan, discussed the issues pertaining to the Afghan problem. During the talks both sides stuck to their guns and the Russian insisted, all the more, on the release of Soviet POWs.
- In a message- pertaining to the leadership council and the outcome of the Dakar Conference, Shahadatyar, the jehad Ameer of Takhar, has said, "I am
158
VOL. 5 NO..2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992            AIGHAII JIHAD
    pleased with the creation of the leadership council and the valiant mujaheddin of North East region are deeply concerned about the solidarity of mujaheddin." He said, the sixth session of the Muslim countries' conference was directly influenced by the US and Western dictatorial circles, nevertheless it .is significant from several view points:
    1. Total participation of mujaheddin
1  in Dakar conference which is the
    practical outcome of the emergence of the leadership council.
‘  2. The approval of Azerbaijan's
    membership in the nic.
           JANUARY
                                    28
    EDITORIAL: The editorial discusses the return of Zaher Shah and the change in Pakistan's Afghan policy, which is in his favor and writes, "in the meantime the HIA infused a new hope into our Muslim nation. While taking a sound and appropriate position against the deviation of some ruling Pakistani circles from their principled state policy vis-a-vis the Afghan jehad, the HIA proved that, in war or in peace, it is only the mujaheddin and their representative forceful jehad
    organizations who play the main role. The regretful reaction of Pakistan state and foreign office in regard to General Asif Nawaz's action signifies that no power can take a step detrimental to our sacred jehad's
« ideals and interest."
*1
                                                    Rah-e-Islam
              MARCH
                  4
    EDITORIAL: "The UN, Islamic Fundamen-
    talism and Political solution of the
 Afghan Crisis" is the title of the editorial which discusses the three topics in detail and concludes," the political situation on regional and international levels indicates that the UN is implementing its Afghan plan with the US support. Fundamentalists' claims for the continuation of jehad is on the decrease, and inclinations towards a political settlement are mounting. Peace will, finally, emerge victorious and fighting will be defeated. In the first stage fundamentalism is going to be secluded and in the second it will be driven out of the political scene in Afghanistan for ever. Western intervention       against       Islamic
 fundamentalism in Algeria, despite violating principles of democracy, indicates that the West is serious in crushing fundamentalist forces and, after communism, has placed Islamic fundamentalism on its black list. They are going to fight against it with all their might."
                          DECEMBER
            23
EDITORIAL: Entitled, "27 December, the
day of Red Army invasion of Afghanistan" it deals with the story of Soviet aggression in Afghanistan and says.that Najib has great expectations from mujaheddin's differences and has utilized them to his full advantage. It is expected that our mujahed brothers,  particularly those
responsible for jehad's guidance, will not provide the enemy with further opportunity and sink their differences, and through perfect solidarity bring about the establishment of an Islamic government acceptable to the entire Afghan nation.
159
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 REPORT: A seminar was convened 4
 January by WUFA in Deen Hotel of Peshawar in which Afghan, Pakistani, and foreign scholars, experts and journalists had ( participated. Professor Anwar Khan, Vice-Chancellor of Peshawar University, who had recently returned from a visit to Central Asian Islamic republics, observed, "only through the Afghanistan route, Pakistan can establish economic, commercial and cultural relations with the Islamic republics of Central Asia but the current war in Afghanistan is a big hurdle to this end. Therefore,Pakistan will try hard to bring an end to the war in Afghanistan and restore peace, so that she can develop her bilateral relations with all these Islamic countries . "
 - A seminar by "Friends Institute" established by Mirza Aslam Beg, former Commander-in-Chief of the Pakistan army, regarding the situation in Afghanistan and regional peace, was convened 1 January, in which the participants unanimously observed that those who were trying to disintegrate Afghanistan must be contained vehemently.
                                    JANUARY
                  21
 EDITORIAL: "The  latest position in
 Afghanistan and the various stances".
 Under this title the editorial,
 mentioning foreign efforts towards the
 solution of the Afghan problem, . says
 that whenever the Afghans gained
 victory in the battle-fields, they had
 never felt the need to call for foreign assistance and have, somehow managed to
 overcome their differences by means of
 inter-Afghan dialogues according to
 national traditions.
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Ahmed Hasar^ Dani, a
 Pakistani scholar# upon return from a
 recent trip to Central Asia said in a seminar at the Deen's Hotel 7 February, "the Presidents of Kirgizestan and Uzbekistan emphasized that the Afghan problem was not Moscow's concern, but expressed their profound desire for the political solution of the Afghan issue." He said, the overwhelming majority of the Afghans wanted an Islamic government similar to that existing in Afghanistan prior to the communist coup. He added that the Afghan problem could be solved by means of jirgahs which have a long history in Afghanistan.
    The seminary which was organized by Wafa, was also addressed by Prof. Mohammad Nawaz Tayer, President of the Pashtu Academy in Peshawar who said, "we had been told in childhood that the Russians would, one day, invade the lands in the south and reach the Indian Ocean. But we must be greatful to the Afghans who, by giving valuable sacrifices quelled the Russian expansionist desire for ever."
                                                        FEBRUARY
              6
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "the current stance of Pakistan in regard to the Afghanistan problem" it says that Pakistan's stand has changed and wants political solution to the Afghanistan problem. Welcoming the measure it writes, "we are sure that in the light of soldarity among mujaheddin and their leaders, Pakistan will take effective and serious steps to promote the political solution of the 13-year-old Afghan tragedy in accordance with the wishes of the Afghan nation."
 NEWS ITEMS: In a meeting of a number of Afghan scholars, intellectuals and writers initiated by Wafa 25 January Benon Sevan, UN special representative
160
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
     for Afghanistan observed, "the UN does not want to impose any kind of decision on the people of Afghanistan but on the
 4 other hand UN Secretary General intends to invite 150 representatives from among the entire Jehad organizations, the Afghans outside Afghanistan and the people of Kabul."
     -  In an interview with Wafa commander Abdul Haque said, "the Afghans are
■> capable of determining their own future. By dint of unity and determination our nation can initiate
< plans and measures for the liberation of the country and compatriots."
         UN Secretary General said 27 January, "I think the time has come that particular steps be taken for the political solution of the Afghan problem. In this connection the Afghan people representatives including political leaders, religious and tribal leaders, the opponent groups, resistance groups . and prominent personalities have assured me that an assembly of the Afghans be convened in order to bring about a consensus on transitional period and mechanism which will culminate in the establishment of a broad-based government."
     -  The 3rd all commanders council of Afghanistan Jehad, issuing a joint resolution based on the establishment of an Islamic government and armed jehad, ended in Paktia Province 31 January.
 H - Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has supported the UN peace plan pledging to send his representative to the conference.
         Wali Khan one of Ahmadzai tribal leaders in an interview, said, "presently the entire political and administrative structure in Afghanistan has broken down and only tribal and traditional organizations remain."
                                     MARCH
                                           4
EDITORIAL: "The transition period in
Afghanistan and UN political efforts". Under this title the editorial says, "in order to maintain a real peace in Afghanistan and promote friendly relations among the nations in the region it is necessary to give moral and material support to the UN peace efforts."
REPORTt A seminar, on the Afghan issue and future Afghanistan-Pakistan relations, was held by WUFA 23 February to which all political parties of Pakistan were invited. Rasool Amin, .Chairman of WUFA, addressing the seminar said, "I am quite sure that Pakistan, Iran, the Islamic republics of Central Asia and other Muslim nations as well as the UN will spare no effort in bringing peace to our country."
   Rasool Bakhsh Paliju, leader of Tahrik-e-Awami Pakistan, in his address said, "we possess unfaltering ties with Afghanistan in all respects. Peace must come to Afghanistan soon and independence and democracy must be returned and reconstruction launched."
- The representative from Baluchistan National Movement said, "all neighboring countries, including India, should struggle to resolve the Afghan problem through negotiations because they hav^ common political, social and economic development. The Durand issue can also be solved through negotiations•"
-Dr. Murad Ali Shah, representative of JIP, said "we shall not accept intervention . in Afghanistan from whatever source it may happen to be, including the UN. The Loya Jirgah was the favorite assembly of former rulers in Afghanistan..The US wants to divide
161
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AffiHANJIHAO              VOL. 5 NO. 2
 Afghanistan on linguistic* ethnic and religious basis* whereas all that Afghanistan wants is only the establishment of an impartial Islamic government.
   Shair Ali Pacha, representing .the Pakhtoonkhwah Milli Awami Party, "we shall never give the right to anyone to compromise on the Durand Line and -we strongly resent foreign intervention in Afghanistan. The issue is an internal problem of Afghanistan and only the Afghans are entitled to resolve it."
     Afzal Khan, leader of the Pakhtoonkhwah National Awami Party, stated that the Afghans have settled their problems themselves in the past. But this time it is on account of alien interference that the solution of the problem has been prolonged. "We should like to urge on all parties concerned to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of the Afghans," he concluded.
 -  The leader of Tahrik-e’-Istiqlal, Marshal Asghar Khan, said that the puppet regime and military generals followed the foot-steps of the British after Pakistan attained independence and did not make the least effort to improve relations with Afghanistan. Not only this, but we also slammed the doors in their faces and for this reason Afghanistan was forced to turn to the former Soviet Union. The problem must, therefore, be solved through negotiations and friendly relations with them should also be developed."
 - Mrs. Nusrat Bhutto said on behalf of the PPP, "while appreciating the legitimate jehad of the Muslim Afghans and taking pride ourselves with their valour and sagacity, I should like to add that we had favored a peaceful solution of the problem froin. the time Benazir Bhutto was the *head of government in Pakistan which the present government has given up. We
 hope that the Pakistan government' wilL. make all out efforts to solve the Afghanistan issue on the basis of present policy."
      Warzesh
                               DECEMBER
              22
 EDITORIAL: Entitled "JIA and Exercise"’
 writes, "from its very inception JIA, as an Islamic and revolutionary party, has endeavored to serve the entire Muslim community, and in particular, the people of Afghanistan. Therefore, with the creation of social, cultural and political foundations, it gained the honors of acting as pioneer in various fields." .
     From early 1986 JIA formed a
 department, within the framework of the. Education and Training Directorate, to
 organize athletics. With this aim in
 mind, the 'Olympics and War Exercises'
 department was founded in which
 hundreds of refugee youths carry out
 their exercises as they please.
     Recently the Olympic Department thought of bringing out a paper regarding the athletics of refugees. Therefore, this monthly magazine is the. direct outcome of this decision."
 INTERVIEW: Deen Mohammad Jur'at, JIA
 chief of the Olympics, in an interview with the BBC observed "there are around 1,500 Afghan athletes in various places of Pakistan engaged in activities under the cover of this department. Despite some problems, we have been able to have our athletes participate in all Pakistani competitions during 1991 and our wrestling team won the first place in six classes. During 'All
162
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
   Pakistan' Tae Kwon Do competitions in ' Multan, our selected team won 9 gold, 9 silver, 3 bronze medals and was declared as the winner of Tae Kwon Do 4 competitions in Pakistan in 1990."
   COMMENT:  Shaikhul Hadis Mawlawi Saheb
   Tara Khail observed, physical exercises in all its forms used to be one of the topics during the life time of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) and his venerable companions, so much so that the Prophet himself (PBUH) used to wrestle with Abu Jahl and participate in horse racing.
                                                                   Hazrat Omar, the First Caliph of Islam, used to participate in
 camel-racing, held in the courtyard of the Prophet's Mosque, with Abysenian people. Hazrat Ali, the Fourth Caliph, used to wrestle with Marhab and became well known in this art throughout the Muslim world. The 59th sacred verse of Soorah Anfal reads:  "Get  ready for the
 infidels with all your strength and power". This clearly indicates that exercise or achievement of strength and might, to overpower and subdue the satanic and atheistic forces, is of utmost significance in Islam. Therefore, we can safely say that physical exercise is a phenomenon which the Muslims are encouraged to carry out, and is not against Islamic principles.
 t,
*
163
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992            Af GHAN JIHAD
        CHRONOLOGY, AFGHAN EVENTS
        JANUARY - MARCH 1992
164
  JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AfGHANJIHAO              VOL. 5 NO. 2
                  CHRONOLOGY,
   AFGHAN EVENTS
 JANUARY-JANUARY
   1
 * Arab governments are not willing to
 allow their nationals to fight along with the Afghan mujaheddin against Soviet forces in Afghanistan and now wish   them to go back         to  their
 countries. The 4,000 Arab nationals belong to Syria, Egypt, Jordon and Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries have also stopped their assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
 *  In an interview to India Today, the Kabul regime President Najibullah has said it is not "necessary" for him to resign to arrive at a settlement in Afghanistan. He said he fervently hopes there is peace in his country on the basis of the UN Secretary General's 5-point plan and also the joint statement issued by the Soviets and the Americans. About negative symmetry, he said violations are to be monitored by satellites. "If Pakistan is found to be guilty, there is a definite case for the UN sanctions" against that country, he said. (MLM) *
 *  NGOs, including The World Vision, Freedom Medicine and Mercy Fund have stopped their activities in refugee camps of NWFP and inside Afghanistan.
 (NTN)
 *  According to an agreement between the USA and the former USSR, negative
MARCH 1992
symmetry will become effective as from January 1, 1992. The Prime Minister of
Pakistan,Nawaz Sharif, declared that as the supply of weapons continues to one of the belligerahts, he declines the commitment to stop the supply of weapons from his country. (VOADS)
  * A number of Afghan intellectuals have expressed the following views pertaining to the Afghan stand vis-a-vis the newly emerging Central Asian countries in the former Soviet Union:
       Dr. Kakar, ex-Professor, Kabul University, says, "as we do not have strong, legal, elected and national government our neighbors may, probably, create difficulties for Afghanistan in different ways."
       Dr. Rcivan Farhadi, an Afghan diplomat says:       1. '
       If the people of. Afghanistan are united and have a powerful government, then all those having evil intentions towards Afghanistan cannot harm this country. Similarly the emergence of the Central Asian republics cannot be termed as a significant factor in relation to Afghanistan. However, the Afghan nation will find it possible to play, a leading role to unite a great Islamic region in this part of Asia.
       Sayyed Shamsuddin ’ Majrooh, an ex-Minister of Afghanistan says, "it is
165
JANUARY/-MARCH * 1992       AIGIIAIj JIHAO                 VOL. 5  NO. 2
 not .possible that the Central Asian republics may create difficulties for Afghanistan in the long run or may exert political and moral influence on this country, because at present they are faced with internal disturbances and perhaps do not have the opportunity to think in terms of international relations. (VOADS)
                    2
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have attacked Kabul regime military installations in Islam Qala and Herat killing 35 regime troops (date not given). They have also captured a large quantity of arms and ammunition in the operations. (NWT)
 * A high placed Afghan personality who stressed for anonymity told The Nation in Peshawar 1 January that there is no other way to solve the Afghanistan issue but to accept the UN 5-point program and induct a neutral and impartial interim government in Kabul. According to him, it was no longer possibile to dismiss the Najib regime.
 (NTN)
 * In an interview with the BBC a few hours before the enforcement of negative symmetry on the supplies of arms to Afghanistan, Akram Zaki, Secretary General for Pakistan Foreign Affairs, said, changes taking place in Central Asia have created new opportunities for Pakistan for cooperation with the people of the region. The realization of these opportunities needs the restoration of peace in Afghanistan, he said. (PT) *
*  As reported by a source- of JIA and confirmed by the MIDIA News Agency, the Shaheed Afzali Front Mujaheddin attacked a regiment of the puppet regime 25 and 26 pecember on Torghundi Highway in Herat and later controlled and closed the highway. In this operation 300 militiamen surrendered to the mujaheddin with their weapons and
 the mujaheddin captured 13 vehicles, one tank, three motor-cycles and two long-range guns. Similarly the regiment commander of the Golran district and Deen Mohammad, militia commander of the puppet regime with 52 militiamen were made prisoners by the mujaheddin. The report adjis, the mujaheddin intensified .their attacks on the government centers in the province. (VOAPS)
 *   Ibrahim Bakr, a senior Saudi diplomat and special envoy of the Islamic World Congress for Afghanistan, replying to the criticism of various Afghan circles that "the Islamic World Congress did not pay the required attention to the Afghan issue," said:
      "This is not correct. The Islamic congress has been deeply involved in the  Afghan issue     and     since the
 occupation of Afghanistan by the former Soviet forces, the Afghan seat in the OIC  was allocated    to     the Afghan
 Mujaheddin, * which passed many resolutions unanimously in favor of the people of Afghanistan. (VOADS)
 *  Allexander Rutskoy, Vice-President of the Russian Federation, during his visit to Pakistan, held collective and individual talks with the leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin. As he returned to Afghanistan with a released POW and later announced that the . POW was an Afghan national, it became evident that his talks with the mujaheddin leaders did not yield the result desired by Moscow. (VOIRA)
                  3
 *   Quoting arms businessmen. The Guardian correspondent, Kathy Evans, has reported that Afghan mujaheddin are selling their arms which can now be used in regional strifes. (JG)
 *  The Washington-Moscow pact to stop all military assistance to their respective allies in Afghanistan has
166
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
went into effect. Officials in Washington said the September 13 pact had been implemented before 1 January deadline clearing the way for the formation of a transitional government envisaged in the UN plan. Referring to Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's statement in Islamabad 31 December 1991 that his government was not bound by the Washington-Moscow agreement, an American official said, Pakistan was unlikely to do much on its own in order to continue the war in Afghanistan so long as it has to devote most of its resources to defense against India.
( MLM)
*  On January 3 a meeting, presided
over by Abdullah Zakiri, Chairman of the Afghan Ulama Union, was held at Peshawar. Attended by about one thousand religious scholars, it passed a resolution rejecting, all the plans pertaining to the political solution of the Afghan problem and emphasizing the continuance of jehad till the establishment      of     an     Islamic
government. The religious scholars recently chalked out a plan to the effect that one thousand 'wise and pious' persons should form a council (shoora) to determine the shape of the future     Islamic     government     in
Afghanistan. (VOADS)
*   Commander Sayyed Hussain Anwari, Provincial Council leader of HIA, in an interview at Peshawar regarding the political and military conditions in the suburbs of Kabul city, said:
      "During the current year, the mujaheddin carried out successful operations in the areas west of Kabul and by the grace of God, occupied the Kabul regime's military posts and, as a result of their political influence inside the city and by availing the general amnesty declaration, attracted the attention of a number of the region's militarymen. A number of the
 top brass of the party in power established contacts with us. The office-bearers and members of Hezb-e-Watan are faced with lack of confidence and sharp differences of opinion regarding the future of Afghanistan. Of late the Kabul regime is fanning the ethnic and linguistic differences in order to sow the seeds of dissent among the mujaheddin and the Muslim Afghan nation." (VOADS)
      Baqer Moeen, a journalist and announcer of BBC, who has recently returned from a visit to the Central Asian republics, Moscow and Kabul, says:
      "The Central Asian Republics desire that peace may return to Afghanistan and such a government may be established that its armed forces could control lawlessness and the narcotic smuggling so that they may not be bothered about their southern borders."
      President Nabicov of Tadjekistan Republic called for the holding of futu.re talks on Afghanistan at Dushambe and remarked:
      "The people of Tadjekistan, in view of their deep cultural relations with the Afghans, would welcome the mutual development of these relations." (BBCFS)
 * Peter Thomsen, the special US envoy to the Afghan Resistance, said in an interview with the VOA 2 January that:
      "Now the conditions are more conducive for a peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem and "negative symmetry" decision is a positive step towards this end because the Kabul regime survives on the supply of weapons. It is quite evident that the stoppage of arms supply to Kabul would result in the total collapse of the
167
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 regime. Ultimately the Afghans themselves can solve this problem whereas the UN can only help them in doing so". (VOADS)
                    4
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin destroyed several regime installations killing five troops and injuring dozens of others at Dasht-e-Baboos, Logar, 29 December 1991. They have also captured nine klashnikovs, one machine gun and ammunition in the attack. (NWT)
 *  War between the Afghan mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces has intensified and there are reports of fierce clashes between them in Logar, Gardaiz, Paktia, Jalalabad and Kabul with Kabul regime having received substantial military aid 1 January through five central Asian States. The shipment is still continuing. Prominent Afghan mujaheddin leaders have told the Jang that regime war planes are bombing various areas in the country and both sides are shelling one another's targets with long range guns, missiles and rocket launchers. Meanwhile, a spokesman of Mujaheddin Military Council, Yaqoob Shariatyar, has told the Jang the Afghan mujaheddin are not selling their arms as stated in a report published in London 3 January. He said we cannot betray our martyrs by selling our arms and our armed struggle will continue until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
      Meanwhile, guerrilla commander Jalaluddin Haqqani has called a meeting of all the commanders to take important decisions regarding the future of Afghanistan. Commander Ahmad Shah Masood of Panjsher will also attend the meeting. (JG) *
 * The Afghan Lawyers' Association in Peshawar, in a letter addressed to the UN Secretary General, has asked for immediate action to protect the value
 of the afghani (the Afghan currency) at par with the creditable foreign currency because the Kabul regime is printing the bank notes much in excess of the recognised limit and the value is depreciating day by day. (VOADS)
 * Sayyed Qassem Reshtia, the former Minister, of Information and Culture, said in an interview on 4th January:
      "Any move for putting an end to the war in Afghanistan will be appreciated. In the UN Peace Plan, accepted by Pakistan in general, the name of Zaher      Shah  has not   been
 mentioned. In the event of implementation of this plan, Zaher Shah would be merely a factor in this process. On the basis of surveys conducted among the mujaheddin and the refugees, they believe Zaher Shah has an important role to play in the restoration of peace in Afghanistan. If Pakistan accepts this opinion, it would amount to being realistic, otherwise she has the        right to  take   any
 initiative which may suit her policy." (BBCFS)
                  5
 *  Quoting its own sources, the daily
 Jang said 5 January Pakistan has at last agreed to the US-Soviet proposal to make former     King Zaher Shah  the
 President and Burhanuddin Rabbani the Prime Minister of the interim government. Representation will also be given to Kabul regime President Na jibullah in the set up. The Afghan mujaheddin and the existing Kabul regime will get 40% each and different other personalities 20% representation in the proposed interim government, Meanwhile, a spokesman of the Afghan mujaheddin has said they would not participate in any such government and continue their armed struggle until the establishment of an Islamic government
168
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 in Afghanistan. Inside Afghanistan and in Peshawar also, Afghan mujaheddin organizations have convened meetings to discuss the development. (JG)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin sources in Peshawar have said that Kabul Radio was silent since 1 January and its regular broadcasts could not be heard anywhere. (JG)
 * In an interview with VOA, Ibrahim Bakr, QIC's envoy for Afghanistan, said 4 January a four party conference would soon be held in Riyadh,Saudi Arabia, to seek ways for the implementation of UN efforts and those of ather powers for the solution of Afghan crisis. Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the Afghan mujaheddin leaders would participate in the conference. He said that he was trying to bring about a consensus among all parties of the Afghan conflict to form a government through elections. (PT)
 * Addressing a gathering in Peshawar 1 January, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said that after the collapse of communism, the US has decided to combat the growing power of Islam all over the world especially in the Middle East, reports ABNA. Quoting high ranking Pakistani officials, he said the .Kabul regime President Najibullah is willing to resign from his office in favor of the former King Zaher Shah. He said, the resignation of Najibullah carried no sense specially when it was in favor of the exiled King because he and his friends , being controversial persons, would not be acceptable to the mujaheddin. (NTN) *
*  Speaking to The Nation in Islamabad (date not given) Nasirullah Babar, former Advisor in the PPP Government, has said that in December 1988 former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto had decided that the former Afghan monarch was the only valid option for the
 establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan to end the war. (NTN)
 *  Dr. Khudaidad Basharmal, Ambassador of the Kabul regime to the United Nations, said:
      "I welcome the future of peace in Afghanistan because compared to the last thirteen years, the atmosphere for peace is now much more favorable and the world public opinion is also in favor of peace and the people of Afghanistan have been fedup with war. But if the mujaheddin choose to continue the war, the Kabul regime too has sufficient weapons to defend itself. Under the circumstances, the war will continue." (VOAPS)
 *  It was announced in Peshawar 5 January, that a three-member committee has been formed under the leadership of Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of JIA, to create understanding and harmony among the mujaheddin leaders. This committee has to prepare the ground for better understanding and harmonious thinking among the political party leaders of the mujaheddin. (RT)
 *  Radio Kabul reported 5 January, Felix Armachora, the UN ' Special Representative, visited Pul-e-Charkhi prison in Kabul and described the human rights situation there as "improved". (BBCFS)
 *  A report received from Jauzjan Province says. Major. Mohammad Zargi, Commandant of Regiment 53 of the Kabul regime, who was earlier in contact with the mujaheddin, surrendered alongwith 58 soldiers under his command, to the mujaheddin.
 (VOIRA)
 *  The New York Times writes in its issue dated 2 January:
      Independent political analysts do
169
JANUARY-MARCH# 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
not have faith in negative, symmetry declaration with regard to Afghanistan and express the view:
      "Domestic problems and the 13 years of war are the destabilizing factors in Afghanistan."
      Hamed Karzai, the AIG Political Advisor told The New York Times:
      "Times for military might are over and at this juncture we should devote our attention to the main problem of Afghanistan which is deep domestic polarisation and sectarianism." (VOIRA)
                    6
*  A Kabul regime spokesman has said no fighting had been reported in the country since 1 January, the official deadline set by the former Soviet Union and the US to cut off arms supplies to the Kabul regime and mujaheddin resistance respectively. Official and diplomatic sources, however, said the lull in fighting was because of the winter rather than with the decision to halt the arms supplies. (NTN) *
 * The Muslim says in its editorial 6 January that we absolutely must disburden ourselves with the dead weight of the so-called Afghan mujaheddin leaders harping hypocritically on Islam. Twelve years of hibernation in isolation from the peole in Afghanistan has thrown them out of step with the march of events. Their wholly negative and vindictive policies not only hurt their own political purposes but also land the government and people' of Pakistan in intolerable embarassments with world powers wanting to contribute positively to a final settlement of the Afghan problem. The pseudo-Islamists parading as Afghan mujaheddin leaders should be given one penultimate warning. If they come along and move towards a fair • formula for an
 administration in Kabul, well and good. If not, they should be packed off with whatever ceremony can be mustered to say a sweet goodbye. (MLM)
 *  According to a news report from Peshawar, two Iranian planes carrying 40 tons of relief goods from the Iranian Red Crescent consisting of foodstuff, medicines and clothes for the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees, landed at Peshawar 5 January. The report adds that decision to send this assistance was taken a month ago in a meeting between the Iranian and the UN authorities.
      An Iranian source at Peshawar said, "these goods will be distributed in the Afghan refugee camps with the cooperation of the Pakistan Government and the jehad organizations. This assistance is based purely on human compassion and has nothing to do with political problems." (BBCFS)
      In response to press reports regarding the meeting of the Chief of Pakistan Army Staff with Zaher Shah, Qutbuddin Helal, the HIA (Hekmatyar) Political Affairs Director, said:
      "The solution of the Afghan problem has no connection with Rome because the key to this solution lies with the Muslim mujaheddin of Afghanistan. The ex-King cannot play any positive role in this regard."
      Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President said, Asif Nawaz, prior to departure for Rome, had a meeting with him but did not mention he had any plans of meeting with Zaher Shah also. (VOIRA)
                  7
 *  In an interview to TASS in Moscow the Kabul regime Ambassador, Daud has said that Najibullah regime
170
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992     0(6111)11 JiHAD                VOL. 5 NO.  2
 desires to hold negotiations with all Afghan leaders to end the Afghan war, reports Moscow Radio. He said that to hold negotiations ' with Afghan leaders was their strategy and if the opposition used power, they would adopt retaliatory measures. (NTN)
  * A source close to the Coalition Council at Peshawar revealed that in     a    meeting      between    the
  representatives    of      the   Afghan
  mujaheddin and the officials of the Iranian Ministry of; Interior 2 January,the latter asked the mujaheddin to introduce to the Ministry the
 * Speaking on television on .the eve of new year, the Kabul regime President Najibullah said that it would have been better if the joint US-Soviet statement about stoppage of arms to warring parties in Afghanistan had resulted in an agreement about a ceasefire in the country. (MLM)
  names of those Afghans, who do not hold any introductory cards, so that they could be expelled from Iran within one month.
       The Iranian Deputy Consul-General at Peshawar said that he had not heard anything in this regard from his country, but generally speaking the Iranian policy is that there should be the least violation of the law of the land and besides to enable the refugees to enjoy the advantages of residence in a legal manner. (VOADS)
  *  According to official sources in Pakistan, Asif Nawaz, the Chief of Pakistan Army Staff, met with General Abdul Wall, special consultant to Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former King of Afghanistan at the Pakistan Embassy in Rome. General Abdul Wali in an interview with BBC remarked, "it is hoped that in future further meetings may take place between Zaher Shah and the top brass of Pakistan Army."
       Lyse Doucet, BBC correspondent at Islamabad, has expressed the opinion that this is the first open sign that Pakistan is inclined to’ change her policy vis-a-vis Afghanistan and similarly it emphasizes the point that there is a cooperation among the civil and military officials of Pakistan over the Afghan problem. (BBCFS)
                   8
  *  Fighting in Afghanistan has almost come to an end, after stoppage of US-Soviet aid to the combatants, says VOA. However, observers say that fighting
 *   Talking to Nawa-e-Waqt in a reception on the occasion of Iraqi Armed Forces Day in Islamabad 7 January, the Afghan Charge d' Affairs in Pakistan, Qudratullah Ahmadi, said the Kabul regime President Najibullah and his colleagues will have no objection accepting former King Zaher Shah if he is elected by the people to rule the country. He said Najibullah has not offered to relinquish his post, and asked, why should he make such offer.,
 (NWT)
 *  6fficial sources in Pakistan have said that the Chief of Army Staff, General Asif Nawaz has met in Rome in Pakistan Embassy with General Abdul Wali, the special assistant of former King Zaher Shah of Afghanistan. (NWT) *
 * Sixty Kabul regime troops alongwith their two commanders have defected to Afghan mujaheddin in Baghlan province after operation by the mujaheddin in central Baghlan 1 January under the joint command of commander Ahmad Shah Masood. The defectees also brought with them large quantities of arms and ammunition. Meanwhile, armed clashes are continuing at Gardaiz front between the Afghan mujaheddin and the besieged Kabul regime troops in chilling cold and snowfall. (NWT)
171
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 has always slowed down in winter in the country. (NWT)
 *  Radio Kabul resumed 6 January its normal broadcasts after a breakdown of five days after the damage was repaired by the technicians of AIR and Radio Dushanbe. A well informed Afghan source told the ANS that the breakdown was due to an internal expolosion inside Radio building. (MLM)
 *  Speaking in Kabul, the regime President Najibullah has said that the Afghan people were fed up with the war while the world was waiting for a peace settlement in Afghanistan. He said he believes peace will soon come to his country. (NTN)
 *  Talking to APP in Sukkur, former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Khan Junejo, has said the political scenario in this part of the globe had directly been influenced and as such it was the basic responsibility of the super powers to arrange an amicable settlement of the Afghan issue acceptable to the Afghan people. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan leader Sebghatullah Muja-ddedi alongwithi two other leaders and the former King Zaher Shah have agreed to attend the three-day- meeting on Afghanistan in Bonn 27 January arranged by former West German Chancellor Willy Brandt and are expected to be joined by a high-level Kabul regime delegation, diplomatic sources said in Kabul. Meanwhile, UN special envoy Benon Sevan who made a surprise visit to Kabul 5 January, discussed with the regime President Najibullah .and Prime Minister Fazlul Haq Khaliqyar 6 January the latest developments relating to UN plan for Afghanistan and then left Kabul 7 January. (MLM) *
 *  Addressing a press conference in Paktia, inside Afghanistan 7 January, GulbUddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-
Islami Afghanistan, has said that Babrak was imposed by the Soviet Union while America was trying for Zaher Shah whose return would be possible only if he was brought by thousands of foreign troops like that of Babrak Karmal. He said the Afghans would resist Zaher Shah the same way. He said that Afghanistan was more important for Pakistan and that America always withdrew its hand when Pakistan needed assistance. He said that Pakistan wanted to solve the Afghan problem immediately to pave the way for trade and economic ties with Muslim central Asian states via Afghanistan. He said that Pakistan could only fulfil her wish when an Islamic government was set up in Afghanistan. (PT)
* Dr. Mohammad Amin Farhang, Professor of Bochum University, Germany, in an interview about the proposed conference at Bonn, remarked, "one of the points in the UN peace plan for Afghanistan, is the development of intra-Afghan understanding. That is why a number of political and international forums wanted to hold meetings with representatives of the various strata of Afghan society in order to find ways and means for the implementation of the UN plan. For this purpose, the German Social Democrat Party tried to pave the way for this conference on the initiative of Willy Brandt." (VOADS)
      Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HI A, ait a press conference in Afghanistan condemned the meeting of General Asif Nawaz, the Chief of Pakistan Army Staff, with General Abdul Wall, representative of Mohammad Zaher Shah, the ex-King of Afghanistan at Rome and described it as a negative change in the policy of Pakistan. He added:
      "The former Pakistan military officers always supported the establishment of a government formed by the
172
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 mujaheddin and never favored a government imposed by aliens on Afghans. Whoever may try to impose a government on ue, should know that such an attempt would be tantamount to a declaration of war against us and hence would be responsible for the grave consequences of the same. Iran is also cooperating
 in the efforts to re-instate Mohammad
      v
 Zaher Shah."
      As regards members of the interim government, he said:
      "Persons like Zaher Shah, Najib and leaders of the jehad groups cannot take part in the future interim government     because      they     are
 trouble-makers. I and the HI A are prepared not to take any part in the interim government but to help form the government from representatives of the other jehad groups on the condition that the \ government should have an interim status and should hold elections in less than six months.1'
 (BBCFS)
                     9
 *  In his weekly press briefing in Islamabad 8 January, a Foreign Office spokesman said, Pakistan encourages and supports a political settlement in Afghanistan within the framework of the UN 5-point program. The government of Pakistan, the spokesman said, is not supporting any particular individual as leader of the interim government. He said that the Chief of Army Staff, during his stop-over at Rome, on way to the US, attended a dinner by the Pakistani Ambassador where Sard.ar Abdul Wali Khan, son-in-law of King Zaher Shah was also a guest. He said, "Pakistan in the past has maintained contact with King Zaher Shah from time to time." (PT) *
 *  Addressing a special function at National Center Islamabad 8 January,
 the Minister of State for Tourism, Shahazada Mohiyuddin, said that the open general election is the best solution of the Afghan issue. Senator Raja Mohammad Zafarul Haq said on the occasion that the OIC and the UN both had categorically pinpointed the need for removal of the Najib regime so that the Afghans could decide their fate independently. (PT)
 * Senior Western diplomats and Pakistani officials have said that the UN will push ahead with the first stage of an "intra-Afghan dialogue" between the mujaheddin and members of the Kabul regime at the end of February either in Vienna or Ankara. Meanwhile, Willy Brandt, the honorary Chairman of the German Social Democratic Party (SDP), will host a meeting from 27-29 January in Bonn between the warring Afghan factions. The meeting will be chaired by Dr. Mohammad YouSuf, a former Afghan Prime Minister, and is expected to be attended by the Kabul regime Prime Minister Fazlul Haq Khaliqyar and some moderate mujaheddin leaders. However, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has rejected both the UN efforts and the Bonn meeting. He accused Pakistan of selling out the Afghan cause and trying to impose ex-King Zaher Shah on the Afghan people. (NTN)
 *  A spokesman of Friedrich Ebert Foundation, organizing the Bonn meeting on Afghanistan, has said that about 40 invitations have been sent to Afghan leaders for the meeting. (PT)
 *   Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of the HIA, in an interview with the VOA regarding the recent events in Afghanistan said, "now that the USSR has disintegrated and communism has failed, the US pressurizes Pakistan to solve the Afghan issue somehow or the other."
                                                                     He added, "Zaher Shah's return as
173
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
a leader of Afghanistan is not only of any use to the solution of the problem but would also lead to further bloodshed. The key to the solution of this problem still lies with the Russians. If the Russians agree to the conditions laid down by the mujaheddin, the Afghan issue would be solved in a very short time. "(VOAPS)
*  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the JIA, has severely debunked these news reports from Pakistan and Iran that the JIA leader has agreed to the establishment of such a government in which Zaher Shah be the Head of State and he himself be the Prime Minister. He added that the JIA would never be a party to such an interim government. (VOAPS)
                   10
*  In an interview with the Jang from inside Afghanistan Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HI A, has said three million Afghan refugees in Pakistan are opposed to the return of former King Zaher Shah. He said, according to a survey by a Pakistani agency, only five per cent of the Afghan refugees support the former King, 19.1 percent demand his trial and the remaining are totally against his return. He said, the former King is responsible for the present conditions in Afghanistan. (JG) *
 *  Informed sources say that the US, Kabul regime President Najibullah and the Governments of Iran and Pakistan have agreed on the settlement of Afghan issue and transfer of power to the former Afghan King Zaher Shah for the transitional period in Afghanistan and bloodshed will stop there in March. The present Kabul regime President Najibullah will also get an important assignment in the transitional set up, the sources said. Meanwhile, prominent maliks of tribal peace mission, Nader Khan Zakha Khail and Mian Shah Jahan,
 have intensified their efforts for peace and ceasefire in Afghanistan and have started dialogues with the Afghan refugee leaders and commanders. (JG)
 *  Speaking in a seminar on "Political Solution of Afghanistan Problem" at Islamabad National Center (date not given) the Minister of State for Tourism, Shahzada Mohiuddin, has said the Kabul regime President Najibullah is fighting a battle that he has already lost in Afghanistan and the Afghans will soon enter as victors in their homeland. He said, Najibullah has no other option than to transfer power to the Afghan mujaheddin. Senator Raja Zafarul Haq said, the Afghan mujaheddin have a major contribution in changes in Eastern Europe and Russia. He said, the West will not tolerate the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He said the form of government in Afghanistan should be left entirely to its people and only this will be the best political solution of the problem. (NWT)
 *  Commenting on the reports of Zaher Shah's return to Afghanistan, the daily Nawa-e-Waqt says in its editorial 10 January, only the Afghans can better decide about the future of their country and others should not impose their solution on them. Pakistan at l'east in her national interests should not be active in efforts aimed at bringing back an Indian puppet in Afghanistan whose regime in the past lost no opportunity to harass Pakistan at the instance of India and was the only regime to cast vote against the membership of Pakistan at the UN. Pakistan can avail of the opportunities thrown in its way by the new developments only when there is a friendly Islamic government in Afghanistan. (NWT)
 *  In an interview to a Peshawar-based news agency in Peshawar 9 January
174
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
   Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Chief of HI A, has said that today's Afghanistan had no room for the deposed King Zaher Shah and no interference in their
V,
   internal affairs would be acceptable to them. He said, it was a matter of fact that the government of Pakistan was facing dim and dingy situation as America, after the collapse of communism in the region was not ready to see the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Therefore, Pakistan was being pressurized through various ways to get rid of the Afghan problem by any means. He said, neither Zaher Shah could rule the changed country nor the people, who had rendered historical sacrifices for the last 13 years, were ready to accept him for a single moment. (NTN)
VOL. 5 no. 2
Wakil, has returned from an unannounced trip to Geneva three days after Minister of State Security, Farouq Yaqoubi returned from the Swiss city where they were both . reportedly involved in mediation efforts to speed up the Afghan peace process, diplomatic sources said 9 January. The sources added, Yaqoubi had given the impression that "something was in the air" and' that "Wakil is delighted with the trip". He is also reported to have contacted representatives of Zaher Shah during his stay in Geneva. Kabul regime has not commented.on the journey. (NTN)
*    Unidentified gunmen shot dead Ashiqullah Talib, an Afghan mujaheddin commander belonging to Hekmatyar of HI A. He was sprayed with bullets soon after leaving his home in Peshawar 9 January. (NTN)
*    The Muslim in its editorial 10 January says that it was never a wise policy to leave the Afghan issue to be settled militarily. A peaceful solution like the one now on the table, i.e. the UN plan, has always appeared to be the most pragmatic and sagacious option to follow. The editorial has described it a right and welcome approach. The editorial further says that the HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, considered by some as the key leader of the Afghan mujaheddin, is as usual intent upon creating as much chaos in the situation as he has been doing since he arrived in Pakistan. Hekmatyar's dream of massive support from Afghan refugees in Pakistan in his struggle against a peaceful solution of Afghan issue has little chance of materializing in view of the survey report of the late Professor Majrooh, published in 1988 saying that the mujaheddin leaders in Pakistan enjoy the support of less than two percent of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan. (MLM)
   *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has in a recent press conference, said that the US in collaboration with some Islamic nations was planning to impose their puppet over the Afghan nation in the shape of Zaher Shah and turn Afghanistan into another Lebanon. He said that only an Islamic government in Afghanistan could guarantee peace in the region. (NTN)
   *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 9 January, Ayatullah Amir Hussain Sadeqi Parwani, Chief of HWIA, has said that they would never accept the return of Zaher Shah or other government imposed by foreign countries. He said that they would never bargain on* their firm stand which envisaged interim government of mujaheddin, followed by elections in Afghanistan. He said, they would not participate in Bonn conference if Najib or Zaher Shah or their friends were invited. He said, the Najib regime and differences between various mujaheddin groups were the main hurdles in the solution of Afghanistan issue. (PT) *
   * Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul
  * The 'Pakistan Times says in its
175
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992       AIRHANJIHAfl                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
 editorial 10 January that the meeting of the Chief of Army Staff with Sardar Abdul Wali Khan in Rome seems to have been misunderstood and evoked a sharp reaction from certain quarters. It was a meeting at a social gathering during the brief stop-over of the Chief of Army Staff in Italy while on way to the US. Such a meeting should not be given any special importance and should be seen in the context of the sincere efforts Pakistan has been making to promote a negotiated settlement of the 13-year -old problem. The approach of the hardline Afghan mujaheddin to the issue is uncalled for and would only go to delay the return of peace to that war ravaged country. The future political set-up in Afghanistan is exclusively an issue of the people of that country and Pakistan has nothing to do with it. All that it desires is a peaceful solution to the conflict and early return of Afghan refugees from its soil. It would naturally not tolerate attempts to create hurdles in the way to delay the resolution of the problem. (PT) *
* The Nation says in its editorial 10 January that the so-called Zaher Shah option may or may not be workable. There could be genuine reservations about him in Pakistan because of his pro-Indian leanings when he was at the helm of affairs in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, attempts at browbeating Pakistan into accepting policies which are clearly against its own interests as well as the interests of the majority of the Afghan people, should be firmly resisted. The Afghan resistance is divided on King Zaher Shah's return to Kabbul, but so is it divided among itself. Would leaving all of them to settle their own scores, while the country is ravaged by the renegades and the outlaws, be a better alternative than Zaher Shah, or, for that matter, anyone else who symbolizes the unity of the country? At one time
 many Cambodians wanted to kill Prince Sihanouk. Now they find they have no alternative but to accept him. (NTN)
 * Siddiq Kanju, Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs said in a VOA interview, "the proposal of Willy Brandt, former Chancellor of Germany, fpr holding a conference of the mujaheddin leaders, representatives of Mohammad Zaher Shah and the present Kabul .government at Bonn, is regarded as a positive move by Pakistan."
      As regards the meeting of General Asif Nawaz, the Chief of Pakistan Army Staff with General Abdul Wali, son-in-law of the ex-King of Afghanistan, he remarked, "the policy of Pakistan is, to leave the decision of the modality of the interim government to the. Afghans themselves." (VOADS)
 * A report from Kabul says that the advent of winter has, to a certain extent, reduced the intensity of confrontation between the armed forces of the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin. The report adds that at present the mujaheddin have started shifting weapons to Jalalabad and Kabul and it seems that they are busy stock-piling the weapons. (RM)
                 11
 * The daily Jang in its editorial 11 January says the US probably desires Najibullah to share power in consequence of elections to be held under the former King Zaher Shah in Afghanistan. It is therefore need of the hour that representatives of the Afghan mujaheddin foresee the changing scenario and strive for a solution of the issue through a consensus. (JG)
 * Pro-Zaher Shah Afghan mujaheddin in Pakistan have said that the restoration of Afghan citizenship for the former King and other 18 members of his family
176
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 by Najibullah regime in Kabul took place after agreement on certain matters with the US. (JG)
 * In an informal interview to ANP at Jaji district, the Leader of Hezb-e Islami Afghanistan,Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said it is not his organization alone but 25 organizations which are opposing the return of Zaher Shah and western media are painting wrong picture of the situation with, the aim of bringing back the former King. Only a small organization is supporting the former King, he said. He categorically stated that there would be an armed resistance against the moves to bring back Zaher Shah. (JG)
 * In an article in The New York Times 10 January an Indian writer M.J. Akbar has urged the US to change its policy towards Afghanistan so that Islamic fundamentalists do not assume power in Kabul. He says that Afghanistan could play key role in the "radically altered politics of the region" in which Iran, aspired for the Islamic world's leadership to ultimately confront the US. Once the vast siesmic disturbance finally settles, the old Soviet Union is likely to reform into two blocks: a Christian and Islamic commonwealth. "The tension between the two cultures is. a fact of history, and the moment has come for the two to go their separate ways. They will move at a glacial pace, but one will travel towards Europe and the other towards Iran and Turkey. And it is in the sweep of Islamic nations from the Maghreb to Pakistan, across the belly of the world, that the struggle for a new order will begin. (NTN) *
 *  Leader of Da'eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islami Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad and Leader of United Revolutionary Islamic Front Mohammad Ali Jabraeli in their separate interviews with ANA in Peshawar 10 January opposed the efforts aimed at
 making ground for the return of deposed King Zaher Shah as the future Afghan ruler. They said that they would allow Zaher Shah only if the Afghans through a referendum, suggested to be held under the supervision of UN and OIC, voted in favor of Zaher Shah and westernized democracy. Commenting over the forthcoming Bonn conference on the Afghan tangle, Qazi Waqad said that mujahedin should not participate in any such moot where the butchers of the Afghan nation were also invited. Ali Jabraeli commenting about the Bonn conference said that it was the brain child of Russo-American deals against the establishment of an Islamic government. He proposed the holding of a referendum in Afghanistan which would decide about the future Afghan government. (NTN)
 * Fatihul Mulk Nang Yousufzai, former member of Afghan Parliament in a statement in Peshawar 10 January said "Pakistan's dream of establishing links with the Central Asian Republics would never come true unless an Islamic government is formed and peace is restored in Afghanistan. The elements who wanted to impose Zaher Shah on Afghanistan were not only imposing their will on Afghans but were also creating problems for Pakistan." (MLM)
 * Benon Sevan, special envoy of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan and Pakistan has said, there are certain moves aimed at blocking the peace progress. Everybody knows that there is no other alternative but the political option to solve the Afghan problem. "Under the circumstances, as far as possible, I am pursuing this goal vigorously," he said. (BBCPS)
 * The BBC political analyst has said that the Pakistan government has been supporting the Peshawar based party leaders since the rule of Ziaul Haq but now it appears that Pakistan policy may
177
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AfGIIANJ[HAQ               VOL. 5 NO. 2
have undergone a change in view of the domestic exigencies. Hence, instead of trying to gather all the mujaheddin leaders at one platform, she is inclined to take into consideration the opinion of the majority of the leaders.
(BBCPS)
*   Frank Solomon, Chief of the
International Immigration Organization, working in cooperation with the US Agency for International Development said, "during the past five years, we have provided medical treatment to 1,200 Afghan refugees wounded during the war. They have been sent to 16 Western countries and the United States for better treatment. This Agency is implementing a program so that the refugees living in Pakistan, Iran and, Europe, may participate in                 the
reconstruction work in Afghanistan. A large   number          of  Afghans have  left
Europe  and the         US for Pakistan, under
this    program,               to assist    in
reconstruction work in Afghanistan."
(VOAPS)
*  The Western media have reported that the * Ministers of State Security and Foreign Affairs of the Kabul regime have clandestinely met with Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former Afghan King at Geneva. This visit was part of renewed efforts to persuade the ex-King of Afghanistan to help stop fighting between the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
*  Sultan Mahmood Ghazi, spokesman of
the former Afghan King, Mohammad Zaher Shah, in a VOA interview denied that the ex-King had met with any one of the
Ministers of State Security and Foreign Affairs of the Kabul regime. As regards
participation of the ex-King in the Bonn conference, he said, "so far we
have not received any invitation in this regard." (VOADS)
 * In an exclusive interview at his headquarter in Eastern Afghanistan, the Chief of IIA Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has appealed to the people of Pakistan not to leave the Afghans alone at this critical juncuture because only Afghans are the true friends of Pakistan. He said that those who are conspiring against the Islamic mujaheddin are in fact fighting against God Almighty and are inviting His wrath. He said they totally reject any political role for the former King Zaher Shah. (JG)
 * Senator Mawlawi Samiul Haq has said in Akora Khattak (date not given) that almost all the Afghan mujaheddin leaders excepting only one, have rejected the return of Zaher Shah and therefore Pakistan should not annoy the majority by joining in American machinations and world conspiracies aimed at accomplishing the heinous designs of their own. He said, the big powers, especially the US, desire to form their puppet government in Afghanistan and the return of Zaher Shah is a link in the chain. He said the US does not want the Afghan jehad to reach its logical end. He said if the government of the mujaheddin is not allowed to be set up in Afghanistan, the dream of the Muslim world to establish its links with the Soviet Islamic States will never materialize. (JG)
 * In line with the directives of Sheikh Zaid Bin Sultan Al-Nahyan, Abu Dhabi Crown Prince and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zaid Al-Nahyan, has ordered huge amounts of assistance including foodstuff and blankets to be despatched to the Afghan mujaheddin. (PT)
 * Al-Bunyan quoting international news agfencies, reports that Asif Nawaz
178
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992   IHflllAN Jill AO                    VOL- 5 NO- 2
 Janjua, Chief of Pakistan Army Staff, met with General Abdul Wali, son-in-law of the ex-King at Rome.
      Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf commenting on this news item, remarked, "we would like to clearly point out to our neighbors who gave us shelter, that in case they take part in the international       conspiracies    for
 introducing a power or a personality, it will not only go against the wishes of their own people but would also be contrary to the demands of the Muslim people of Afghanistan." (VOAPS)
 * Solmaz Dabiri, the BBC correspondent
 reports, Asif Nawaz, during his week-long visit      to    the United States
 discussed a number of problems including the Afghan imbroglio. It is said that Pakistan Armed Forces were being pressurized to concede to the UN 5-Point Plan and to stop supporting some of the mujaheddin organizations.
 (BBCPS)
 * Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, leader of
 Da'eya-e-Islami has condemned conspiracies against    the  mujaheddin, in  an
 interview, adding that due to the differences between the leaders concerned, the foreign powers    got an
 opportunity to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and to set-up a government against the wishes of the Afghans. (VOAPS)
 * The mujaheddin, in different opera-
 tions in the provinces of Herat, Parwan and Wardak, killed a detachment of the Kabul regime forces and occupied a security post in Parwan Province. During these operations, seven tanks of the     government      forces     were
 also destroyed. (VOIRA)
                    13
 * Mir Hussain Sadeqi, member of the Supervisory Council of HWIA, during an
 interview in connection with the participation of his party in the Bonn conference said, "in case officials of the Kabul regime, Mohammad Zaher the ex-King of Afghanistan or his representatives    may take part      in    this
 conference, the HWIA will not participate. (BBCFS)
 * Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 13 January, the Pakistani Minister of State for Economic Affairs, Sardar Asef
                                                                                                      / i
 Mohammad Ali, said that the mujaheddin attitude towards political settlement of the Afghan issue and release of the Russian POWs are the biggest obstacles in the way of better trade relations between Pakistan and the Central Asian Republics of the former USSR. He said, the process of peaceful settlement of the         Afghan issue   had    gained
 unprecedented impetus and mujaheddin leaders who might resist such a settlement would find themselves by-passed. (NTN)
 * Iranian transport planes have landed in Kabul carrying foodstuff and clothes for distribution among the poor people. A senior Iranian diplomat in Kabul said, his country sent these goods on humanitarian basis. Observers say Iran's sending of relief goods ditectly to Kabul indicates better relations between the two countries. (MLM)
 *  Dr. Samad Hamed, a former Deputy
 Prime Minister of Afghanistan, Commenting on his participation in the Bonn conference being held between'^ January 27 to 29,    1992, remarked, "I
 would not take part in this conference on account of the following reasons:
 1. So long as the Kabul regime does not admit its illegality and is not prepared to negotiate about the process of power transfer for the establishment of a legitimate government, I would be
179
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
opposed to any discussion between the credible elements of the Afghan society with the Kabul regime.
2.  The invitation card received by me does not throw light on the identity of the persons with whom I would hold discussions in the meeting. I know only this much that at one stage a representative from Kabul will participate in the conference.
3.  The well-wishing and enlightened people of the Afghan society should, as far as possible, forestall the formation of any new coalition or convention for the people of Afghanistan by some well-known circles, under the garb of intellectuals and the Kabul regime.
4.  Presence of some credible circles of the Afghan society with representatives of the Kabul regime in this session, even if it may be unofficial, would be harmful to our cause and the new reality on the eve of peaceful plans by the United Nations, because it would strengthen the hands of those elements or groups who are insisting on the participation of Kabul regime at the international level as a representative government. (BBCPS)
                   15
* Talking to The Nation, Brig. Abdullah, a leader of the Great United Front of Afghan mujaheddin which supports the ex-King has refuted the claim that Zaher Shah had no intention to rule Afghanistan for a long term but wants to become head of the interim government to supervise reconstruction process of Afghanistan. He said that it was right that Hekmatyar had strong position amongst the resistance groups but no one can deny the popularity of the ex-King. He said, now most of the Afghans were determined to bring an end to the war-like situation in their
 country and peace-loving forces of Afghanistan would definitely foil the conspiracies. He said that now all of the rival forces were ready for resolving the conflict in the light of the UN formula. (NTN)
 *  Talking to The Nation on telephone, Khan Abdul Wali Khan’, Chief of ANP has said that Afghans should be given a chance to decide their future according to their historical traditions. Through such methods, he said, the Afghans could resolve their differences and could decide their future system and ruler. (NTN)
 *  The traditional tribal jirgah in Peshawar, has backed Pakistan efforts aimed at finding political settlement of the Afghan conflict. The jirgah was chaired by Amirul mujaheddin Haji Sher Mohammad and addressed by a number of tribal elders. (NTN)
 * Addressing over 70 thousand Afghan
 mujaheddin, refugees and tribesmen at Khar Dhand, Ali Zai of Kurram Agency 13 January the Chief of HIA Hekmatyar, said that alien forces wanted to spoil the victory of jehad in Afghanistan and impose a coalition of the communists and pro-western Afghans. Therefore, they have joined hands to bring the deposed   King Zaher Shah        and are
 organizing seminars and conferences in Europe to pave the way for his return to power. The Bonn conference was a part of such a plot where the communists, the westernized Afghans and the so-called mujaheddin would gather under the patronage of the US and the UN. (PT)
 * Speaking at a "Meet the Press"
 program at Peshawar Press Club 14 January, Agha Murtaza Pooya, Chief of Hezb-e-Jehad said, the ex-monarch has no unifying factor and thus can play no role   in the settlement of the
 Afghanistan problem. The only way out
180
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
 of the present mess is to convene a Vietnam-like intra-Afghan dialogue, which should be participated both by the resistance leaders and representatives of the Kabul regime. Pakistan and Iran can play a key role in bringing peace in Afghanistan. The politics of the two nations on the issue must be coordinated. For this purpose he suggested the formation of Pakistan-lran Commission for Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  The daily Nation says in its
 editorial 15 January that Khan Abdul Wali Khan's suggestion that the future government of Kabul should be no concern of Pakistan and that it is for Afghans to decide who rules there, would be unrealistic on account of our historical links and because of the security considerations involved. Pakistan had a stake in Afghanistan, when its former rulers laid a claim on Pakistani territory with implicit support of the ANP Chief, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, and it has a stake now because three million of its nationals are living in Pakistan. Afghanistan is certainly a sovereign state but if its acts of commission or omission impinge on the sovereignty of its neighbors, then the neighbors have a right to ask for a friendlier government there. Even under normal circumstances any interest shown by Pakistan in the shape and policies of the future government of Afghanistan would have justification enough, but having sustained the struggle of the Afghans morally and materially for more than a decade, it is not mere self-interest that guides Pakistan's concern with the issue. Mr. Wali Khan, or for that matter anyone who is not interested in the restoration of peace in the ravaged land, cannot be true friend of the Afghans. (NTN)
 * Dr. Azizullah Lodin, Political Advisor to the AIG President, Professor
 Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, said in his VOA interview, "I do not think the efforts made recently by the mujaheddin to form 'Leadership Council* would bear fruit. In my opinion, this is a very negative retrogression. The only, option at this critical juncture is unanimity among the jehadic parties in order to seek unanimous solution. Of course, in the absence of a unanimous decision by all the parties concerned, unanimity among the majority of the parties is possible. It is essential to close the ranks with the people at large, for the sake of putting up a common resistance against the communist regime at Kabul. (VOADS)
 * Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Chief of the JI has emphasized that Pakistan cannot change its policy towards Afghanistan, because there does not exist any political solution for the Afghan problem without the participation of all the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Pakistan. (BBCFS)
                 16
 *   The Kabul regime President Najibullah has issued a decree 14 January ordering return of the properties of the family of former King Zaher Shah taken over by the State some 13 years ago, officials said. (NTN)
 * Speaking in Mansoor Auditorium 15 January Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, said neither Afghans nor Pakistanis will accept and tolerate the return of former King Zaher Shah in Afghanistan and his return is against the interests of Pakistan. He said the credit of the disintegration of the former Soviet Union goes to the Afghan mujaheddin. It was the Afghan's resistance that foiled Soviet designs in the Gulf. * But after Soviet disintegration the US has now intensified its efforts against Muslims, he added. (JG)
181
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992                                AffltlANJIH/lfl                                        VOL. 5 NO. 2
 *  In an interview to ANS in Peshawar the Leader of IIAf Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that in case of an Indian aggression the Afghan nation in general and the armed Afghan mujaheddin in particular would fight against Indian forces in the defense of Pakistan. Aggression against Muslim Ummah anywhere is an aggression against the Afghans, he said. (JG)
 *   The relief goods sent by Iran in two ^transport planes have reached Kabul
 regime forces instead of citizens, AAP sources say. Meanwhile, residents of Kabul are facing acute shortaqe of petrol, kerosine oil and food. (NWT)
 *  Moeen Bajori, former professor of Kabul University and member of the Australian Afghan Association in an interview with the VOA regarding Senator Richard Alliston's visit, remarked, "this visit was arranged under the auspices of the Australian Foreign Ministry. Senator Richard Alliston had meetings with the leaders of jehad parties, a number of political, social and academic personalities and members of the WUFA and Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's Special envoy and discussed the UN 5-point peace plan in detail. He travelled to Kabul and Europe and visited Mohammad Zaher the former Afqhan King and other Afghan dignitaries, Alliston is expected to submit his report to the Australian Senate and Government." (VOAPS) *
 *  Najibullah Lafrai, the AIG Minister of Information and Culture, said in his interview with the VOA, "many factors contributed to the downfall of the Soviet Empire and Communism, but the determining factor has been the heroic role of the Afghan mujaheddin. It is a matter of pride for the mujaheddin that their armed struggle for the liberation of the motherland proved helpful in the liberation process of hundreds of millions of other people throughout the
 world. Unfortunately at the moment the leaders of the Muslim republics have not taken quite a positive stand in relation to the Afghan jehad." (VOADS)
                  17
 * In an interview to French newspaper Le Monde in Islamabad (date not given) before leaving for Paris the Prime Minister, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, has said that so long as Najibullah remains in power in Kabul any solution of the Afghanistan problem will be acceptable neither to the Afghan mujaheddin nor Pakistan. (JG)
 * Speaking in Kabul the regime, President Najibullah has said, the prospects for a political solution to the civil war in Afghanistan are very bright these days. Meanwhile, he made the announcement that February 15, the day the Soviet forces had vacated Afghanistan three year ago, will be observed as the national salvation day. (MLM)
     Talking to Mardan journalists in Karachi 16 January the PPP Chairperson Benazir Bhutto said the continuation of civil war in Afghanistan. will not be useful and a political settlement of the issue will have to be found by taking advantage of the present circumstances. (NWT)
 * Pakistan's Minister of State for Economic Affairs said in an interview with the VOA, "the Central Asian republics visited by him are very eager to cooperate with Pakistan. They do not see eye to eye with Pakistan in connection with Pakistan's stand vis-a-vis the Afghan problem. Pakistan's support to the extremist Muslim leaders of Afghanistan comes in the way of development of relations between Pakistan and the secular governments in Central Asia. They termed the desire of the mujaheddin to establish an Islamic
182
 JANUARY-MARC'H. 1992             AfGIHAO                    VOL. 5 NO.  2
 government in Afghanistan as the 'biggest hurdle' in the path of Pakistan's endeavors to extend cooperation with the Central Asian republics." (VOADS)
                   18
 *   Talking to the VOA the AIG Minister for Information, Najibullah Lafrai has said that the Afghan resistance had played a very important role in the disintegration of Soviet Union and collapse of communism. He said it is a matter of pride for the Afghan mujaheddin that their sacrifices for liberation of their motherland also helped other countries of the world to gain independence. (MLM)
 * Talking to a gathering of mujaheddin engineers at Hayatabad in Peshawar 15 January the Chief of Da'eya-e-Islami Afghanistan, .Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, said that the Russians would accept the American style of democracy in Afghanistan but would never like to see the establishment of an Islamic government there as the former USSR republics bordering Afghanistan were against the mujaheddin. He said that final victory in Afghanistan was in the removal of Russian puppets from there. Mujaheddin by the grace of Allah have sufficient capacity of fighting but the only thing they lack is unity. He called on the Muslim engineers to initiate planning for the reconstruction of the war-torn country. (NTN)
 . * Several mujaheddin leaders have declined to attend the three-day Bonn conference to be held from 27 January. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA has said that the conference is a conspiracy hatched by the West and is aimed at formation of an interim government in Afghanistan comprising pro-Western groups, Najib and his friends. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf of IIA has said that he will not attend the
conference due to the presence of representatives of Kabul. Commander of the Afghan mujaheddin in Paktia, Mawlawi Haqqani has said that the social democrats of Germany want to impose a puppet government and Zaher Shah on the Afghan people. A member of Shoora of the Wahdat-e-Islami Afghanistan (HWIA), Mir Hussain Sadeqi has also given a negative response. Mohammad Gailani, the son of Pir Gailani has announced on behalf of NIFA that he would not attend the conference as it would lessen the importance of the proposed meeting under the UN supervision. The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said that his group has not yet taken a decision in this regard. (MLM)
*   Reliable sources told AAP in Kabul that Najibullah offered four million dollars to commander Ahmad Shah Masood for not attacking Kabul, but the offer was turned down. The indirect talks were initiated in the last week of December last and on 9 January Najibullah's representatives reached Panjsher valley in a helicopter and met Dr. Abdur Rahman, the representative of Commander Ahmad Shah Masood, and offered to pay the amount in four equal monthly instalments. An indication of lumpsum payment was also given. Dr. Abdur Rahman rejected the offer as a conspiracy after contacting Commander Ahmad Shah Masood on wireless. (NWT)
*   The UN official sources said 16 January that a UN observer will attend the Bonn conference on Afghanistan in Germany. The sources made no comments about the three-day conference to be held in Bonn from 27 January. (JG)
*   Dr. Vonschen, Foreign Affairs Advisor to the German Parliament, who is one of the active initiators of the international gathering being held from 27 to 29 January, 1992 in relation to the Afghan issue, remarked in a VOA
183
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 interview that "the heroic resistance of the Afghans contributed to the recent changes in Eastern Europe, the collapse of the communist empire and the re-union of the two parts of Germany. Therefore our present efforts are addressed to the object of fulfilling our obligation towards the people of Afghanistan." (VOAPS)
                  19
 * The Kabul regime President Najibul-lah has been sending his movable goods to India where they are being collected by his wife Fatana who is living in New Delhi with her mother and three daughters. (PT)
 * Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 18 January the Federal Minister of States and Frontier regions, Sardar Yaqub Khan Nasr, has said that the Afghans can bring into power anyone they like and there is no truth in the allegation that the Government of Pakistan is trying to bring back the former King Zaher Shah. (NWT)
 * Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 18 January Maj (Retd) Nayyar Zaman, a central leader of Pukhtoonkhwa Qaumi Inqilabi Party (PQP) who recently returned from Kabul, has said that people love Najibullah and hold Pakistan responsible for destruction and devastation in Afghanistan. He said, "Afghan people deny the impression that the mujaheddin have forced the Soviet Union to withdraw from Afghanistan. Fifteen million Afghan people in Afghanistan are much satisfied with the policies of Najibullah and they are desirous of strengthening their economic positions to cope with the current changes taking place throughout the world. (NTN)
                  20
 * The AIG Press Department has stated in a communique that the mujaheddin
leaders Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi have thanked Willy Brandt ' the ex-Chancellor of Germany for inviting them to the proposed Bonn Conference in relation to the Afghan issue, but regretted their inability to attend this conference under the circumstances. Similarly Abdul Rahman Pazhwak, the former Afghan diplomat said, in an interview with the VOA, "I was also invited to this conference but am unable to attend it due to certain vague points." (VOADS)
*   Informed sources say that three Afghan leaders, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi (AIG President), Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani are supporting the return of former King Zaher Shah to Afghanistan. (JG)
                 21
*   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of NLFA, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani in a
meeting in Peshawar (date not given) have unanimously decided not to
participate in Bonn conference on Afghanistan scheduled to be held by
Friedrich Ebert Foundation from January 27-29,  1992. Expressing gratitude to
Willy Brandt for extending them the invitation, they regretted that under
the present circumstances they would not be able to participate in the conference. (PT)
*   The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has thanked the Government of
Pakistan and its leaders for intensifying their efforts in finding a
peaceful solution to the Afghan problem and expressed his full support and cooperation to such efforts. (PT)
184
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
                   22
    The three day Bonn conference scheduled to be held from 27 January in Bonn has been postponed indefinitely, western sources said in Islamabad 21 January. (NTN)
      The Afghan        students    of
 Peshawar-based educational institutions for Afghan refugees staged a protest demonstration 21 January against the return of former King Zaher Shah to Afghanistan. The participants chanted anti Najib and anti Zaher Shah slogans and carried placards inscribed with: "Pakistanis are our brothers. They should not leave us alone; O’ Iran you cannot save Najib regime; Puppet rulers of Algeria respect your peoples' choice; Down with Zaher Shah; Negotiations with Najib are conspiracy against millions of martyrs." (PT)
 * , Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 21 January (JI) Leader, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, has called for implementing the peace agreement on Afghanistan signed by the Afghan mujaheddin in the presence of President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif. Terming the agreement as the best means to solve the problem through evolving a neutral mechanism he said, the formula was agreed upon by the Government of Pakistan and 90% of the Afghan mujaheddin leaders. The formula provides a 12-member leadership council comprising seven Pakistan-based Afghan mujaheddin leaders, two Iran-based leaders and three members to be inducted from Afghanistan. Qazi Hussain Ahmed said this formula is better than those sponsored by UN, US and any other world forum. He said, "only one out of nine groups of Afghan mujaheddin is supporting the return of Zaher Shah as head of the interim government in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *    Thomas Gottierre, Director of
Afghanology Center at the Nebraska University (USA), who stayed in Afghanistan for ten years prior to the communist coup, said in an interview with the VOA, "during my fortnight stay in Pakistan and my contacts with the Afghans, the majority of them were of the view that war against the Red Army came to a stand still three years back and the current war is a tussle for power among Afghan groups. Most of the Afghans are concerned about foreign interference in the Afghan problem and regard it harmful for the future of the country." (VOADS)
                23
*  An Afghan jirgah in Peshawar (date not given) has supported the political solution of the Afghan problem on the basis of the UN plan for Afghanistan. Haji Khair Mohammad Khan, a tribal chieftain adopted a resolution in which he said, "we are of the opinion that the former King of Afghanistan is the only Afghan personality who can become a symbol of national unity and can also provide a vitally needed leadership to head the interim government. The jirgah condemned the remarks made by Qazi Hussain Ahmed and Mawlana Samiul Haq against Zaher Shah and said that such remarks could be considered as shameful and interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. The jirgah was addressed by Prof. Rasool Amin, Chairman of the WUFA. (NTN)
*  As many as 1,000 Afghan POWs captured during the fall of Khost in March last were released by Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani. Majority of these soldiers were from regular Afghan army and the Gelam Jam militia. (PT)
*  A VOA correspondent at Peshawar has recently reported that at a function arranged in the office of Commander Adam Jalalkhel, more than 200 refugees,
185
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 commanders, religious scholars, ethnic elders and chairman of the WUFA participated. They appreciated the recent efforts of Pakistan for finding a political solution for the Afghan problem and lauded her endeavors to bring to an end the 13-year-war in Afghanistan. They said, under the existing circumstances it would be appropriate if the former King of Afghanistan, Mohammad Zaher Shah returns and assumes the leadership of the nation for an interim period so that bloodshed may come to an end, elections may be held and power may be transferred to an elected government. At the end they proposed holding of a traditional Loya Jirgah for the solution of the Afghan problem. (VOADS)
                   24
 *  Addressing a press conference in
 Peshawar 23 January Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad,. leader of DIA has proposed a 22-member commission comprising representatives of Afghan jehad parties, Pakistan, Iran> Saudi Arabia, OIC and the UN for the solution of the Afghan problem. The commission would form the interim government for a period of one year. Leaders of the jehad parties and controversial figures would not be included in the commission. However, the     leaders      could      choose
 representatives for the commission. He said that all the Afghan jehad parties were agreed and united on the continuation of jehad, removal of Najib regime, establishment of interim government of only Afghan mujaheddin but the only problem was that there were differences among them on the question of how to form the interim government. (PT) *
 *  Alauddin Brujardy, Deputy Foreign Minister of Iran, told the Afghan mujaheddin in a meeting in Tehran that he had a new initiative to end the 13-year-old Afghan conflict. The mujahed-
 din in the meeting were led by Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Moazin. Brujardi added, Iran was prepared to extend further aid to Afghanistan and hoped other Muslim nations would follow suit. (VOADS)
                 25
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin organizations are understood to have been advised by Pakistan to propose within a specified period the name of the person they want to head the interim government in Afghanistan instead of Zaher Shah. (JG)
 * Addressing a Juma congregation in
 Shamshatu refugee camp near Peshawar 24 January, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA    said that Afghans should be
 allowed to determine their future without any alien pressure or interference. A coalition government could not run the affairs of the country and only a government having the support of all the mujaheddin parties would be able to restore peace in Afghanistan. He said, "we want peace in Afghanistan more than anybody else but it is the global plots against the right of self-determination of the Afghans that has compelled us to wage armed jehad". He said his party will not observe ceasefire unless an interim government having the support of all the mujaheddin organizations replaces the present regime and holds elections within a period of six to 12 months. Such an interim set-up he said, should not include controversial elements. (MLM)
 *  According to AAP the Afghan commander of Paktia province, Jalaluddin Haqqani, has said it is a historical reality that a strong Islamic Afghanistan is in the interest of Pakistan. He appealed to the Government of Pakistan to maintain its previous role regarding Afghanistan and do not allow the steadfastness it demonstrated in the past 13 years to be
186
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO- 2
swayed in any hurry. He said the Afghan-refugees will not stay permanently in Pakistan and there should not be any doubt in this regard. "The goal of a free Islamic Afghanistan is not far off", he said. (NWT)
*   Addressing a special function on ’peaceful political settlement of Afghanistan problem' at Pakistan National Center, Rawalpindi (date not given) the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said the US should find a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem, support a government of the mujaheddin and avoid complicating the issue. (JG)
*  Dr. Mohammad Hassan Bakar, a former
Kabul University professor has said, Pakistan wishes to establish trade relations with all Central Asian Muslim republics that have emerged after the disintegration of the former Soviet Union. "But the project will be implemented when a legal and national government     is     established     in
Afghanistan", he said.
    Ashraf Ghani, lecturer ai:      John
Hopkins University, said regarding the construction of a railway line from Central Asia to Pakistan via Afghanistan that after the establishment of an independent Islamic government, Afghanistan will again emerge as the center of trade and commerce in central and south Asia.
    Anwarul Haq Ahadi, lecturer at Providence College in Rhode Island (USA), says that the development of trade is related to an adequate transportation network. Regarding the suggestion made by Asif Ali, the Pakistani Minister of Commerce, that Pakistan wished to establish trade relations with the Central Asian republics by extending a railway line through Afghanistan, Ahadi said it would be a welcome move. "Afghanistan will not be economically in a position
 to manage the construction of a railway line without assistance,” he said. (VOAPS)
                26
 * In an interview at a center set up at Georgia by the former US President Jimmy Carter the special envoy of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said the disintegration of the Soviet Union has created a new factor in the region because some new countries of Central Asia have common borders and tribal closeness with Afghanistan. For the establishment of stability in the region the new government of Afghanistan, therefore, needed a stable Afghanistan. He said that with these changes the importance of geographical and political values and the importance of Afghanistan was increasing and due to this factor the importance of a peaceful settlement of Afghanistan issue has increased all the more. He said that unless a political solution is reached in Afghanistan no durable solution could be found. (MLM)
 * Inaugurating the 31st session of the
 Asian African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC) in Islamabad 25 January Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said, a comprehensive political settlement    in Afghanistan was
 essential. "Our quest for a political settlement continues. We are pursuing it within the framework of the five-point proposal announced by the UN Secretary General on May 21 last. The recent developments have brightened the prospects of a political settlement in Afghanistan." (PT)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, told a gathering of over 300 commanders or their representatives at Nusrat Maina, Peshawar, "we can assure the Kabul citizens that we do not wish to ruin Kabul, but they should see to it themselves that Najib
187
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AFGHANJEHAO               VOL. 5 NO. 2
 was toppled before the mujaheddin launched their attacks. They can manage this by coming out into the streets and holding demonstrations - indicating to the world that the present regime is a puppet imposed upon them from the outside." Hekmatyar urged the militarists to make good        their
 past blunders by taking new initiatives. (VOAPS)
                  27
   In view of their mutual differences the interest of the world community in the Afghan mujaheddin has decreased eversince the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan and Japan has virtually stopped its assistance to Operation Salam.
 - On the basis of UN estimates there are between 10 to 20 million landmines in Afghanistan.
 - United Nation's findings indicate that during 1990/91 mine casualities in Kandahar alone, which has a population of only 750,000, have amounted to 15,000. Another 75,000 have been injured. (VOG)
                  28
 * The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Siddiq      Kanju,  told   a
 specially convened press briefing at foreign office in Islamabad 27 January that the government had decided to support the UN efforts for the convening of an Afghan assembly to decide an interim government acceptable to the Afghans. He said, "we will facilitate the convening of a representative assembly and respect its outcome. The ball is now in the UN's court. It is now bp to the UN to remove all irritants and decide who are the acceptable and relevant people to take part in this representative assembly. It is again for the UN to decide about
 the relevant people and the venue of this assembly. They can also decide at what level these representatives should ■attend". Replying to a query the Minister said that Iran had been consulted prior to this announcement. About negative symmetry he said there are unconfirmed reports that weapons are being flown in form the north into Afghanistan. (NTN)
 * Confidential sources told The Nation that Kabul regime President Najibullah has addressed a letter to Ali Akbar fl^ishmi Rafsanjani., President of Iran, stressing the need for direct negotiations between the two countries for playing a due role in early settlement of the Afghan conflict. In a similar letter to Pakistani authorities he has suggested direct talks between the two countries to be held anywhere in Pakistan, Afghanistan or in a third country. (NTN)
 * Defying his transfer orders General Momin, alongwith General Rasheed Dostum and General Sayyed Mansoor Naderi, has disrupted supply of food and other commodities to Kabul. (NWT)
 * A declaration from the AIG office in Peshawar says that Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the JI leader, has been hindering peace efforts for resolving the Afghan issue.
   The AIG, jehad commanders, ulama, religious figures and the entire Afghan Muslim nation, while endorsing the policy of the present Pakistani government, once again urged the JI leader to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (VOAPS)
 * Pakistan has announced her support for the UN peace plan in Afghanistan. The announcement has been considered as a major change in Pakistan policy. Ayatullah Mohseni, the HI A leader, has said in this regard that reasons behind
188
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          RIGHANJIHAfl              VOL.  5 NO. 2
 this move can be sought, (1) in the interest of Pakistan and other factors related to Pakistan itself and, (2) the mujaheddin organizations' failure to work-out a unified plan. He said, since the Kabuj. regime is internally in a disarray and the mujaheddin have an upper             hand militarily, in
 case the       neighboring countries or
 others should wish to impose upon us a government of their" own will, war and bloodshed will naturally continue until a         mujaheddin government is
 formed. He went on, "we do not wish to evaluate all international efforts negatively, but when we note that there are hands at work with designs of imposing     upon     us     individuals
 controversial to the mujaheddin and the nation and * further insist that the Kabul regime be also represented, then in my opinion the net result will be negative". (BBCFS)
 * Siddiq Kanju, Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, said that the mujaheddin support for the political settlement of Afghanistan has ended. He. called on all mujaheddin organizations to cooperate with the UN and urged that five million refugees were now patiently awaiting to see an end to the 13-years of war and to return home. He said, Pakistan's policy could not be influenced by a few individuals. (BBCFS)
 * Mohammad Hassan Wolusmal, editor of the journal Mujahed Ulus:* in regard to the change in Pakistan's Afghan policy and her support of the UN peace plan said, "it is a good sign which removes a main hurdle in the way of the Afghanistan solution. But we must take all necessary precautions. The only solution to the Afghan problem is the political solution and the UN efforts in this direction must - be fully supported. (VOADS)
 ♦Analysts believe the Pakistan Foreign
Ministry and the militarists have reached agreement to Solve the Afghan issue once and for all.
                           i
-  Western diplomats say, the reasons behind Pakistan's change of its Afghan policy are as follows;
-  The mujaheddin's continued failures in the military field.
   Mujaheddin's approach to- Rutskoy, Deputy President of the Russian Federation, whom Pakistan had promised the release of a few Russian POWs in custody of the mujaheddin.
                   \
-  The fall of the Soviet Union and the emergence of Central Asian republics and Azerbaijan as independent states with which Pakistan desires to establish trade relations. The traditional routes to Central Asia pass through Afghanistan. (VOADS)
                 29
*   Addressing the Afghan business community at the Shamshatu refugee camp near Peshawar 28 January the HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has deplored the proposed UN plan for convening an assembly of the Afghans for working out an interim government. He questioned as to who authorized the UN special representative for summoning such a conference and under whose agreement the names of the participants were approved. The convening of the proposed assembly in a western country is in line with the Moscow-Washington contrivance, he said. (PT)
♦  At the outset of his term as UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, has in a press statement said, "I have been urged by a wide variety of Afghan representatives to convene a gathering of Afghans in order to agree upon a transition period, as well as the
189
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 transition mechanism, leading to establishment of a broad-based government through free and fair elections. Support for such a gathering has also been expressed by the governments concerned. For my part, I stand ready to organize this gathering, outside the        region,   with    the
 participation of as many segments of the Afghan society as possible. Accordingly, I have asked my personal representative,     Benon   Sevan,    to
 undertake a further round of intensive consultations to finalize arrangements for the gathering. (PT)
 *  While on his way to Switzerland to attend the meeting of World Economic Forum the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, had wide-ranging talks with top Iranian leaders at Tehran airport, 28 January. The topics included Pak-Iran ties, political settlement of Afghanistan, Kashmir and a just world economic and political order. (PT)
 *  Benon Sevan, personal envoy of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan arrived in Islamabad 28 January after extensive consultations with Boutros Ghali, UN Secretary General in New York. On his arrival he said he would be visiting a number of countries for an intensive three-week consultation process. The Muslim learnt from authentic sources that Benon Sevan has come in connection with the holding of an Afghan assembly by the end of March in Ankara or Geneva. It is almost certain that representatives of former King Zaher Shah and Kabul regime President Najibullah would also attend the assembly. Sources confirmed that a series of consultations on the Afghan issue will start soon between Peshawar-based Afghan leaders and senior officials of the foreign office. (MLM) *
 * Talking to The Muslim the JI Chief, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, has confirmed that
 the government's move in backing UN Secretary General's formula had disappointed the Afghan leaders. He said, "I have conveyed the feelings and reservations of the Afghan mujaheddin leaders to the President about the new shift in Islamabad's Afghan policy. He said that the Afghan mujaheddin leaders had rejected the formula of the UN Secretary General and there was no question of their participation in the intra-Afghan dialogue in which Kabul regime ruler Najibullah and the former Afghan King Zaher Shah would also take part. (MLM)
 *   Talking to the Nawa-i-Waqt the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has said they welcome Pakistan's support to the convening of an Afghan jirgah for an Afghan solution. He said they were pleased over Pakistan's consent to their policies of peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem. (NWT)
 * Talking to the Nawa-i-Waqt commander of the seven-party Islamic Alliance of the Afghan mujaheddin, Mawlana Arsalan Khan, has said that the US-Russia forces were trying to sabotage the sacrifices of the Afghan mujaheddin by once again inducting into power the former King Zaher Shah. He said that Zaher Shah cannot lay his foot on the Afghan soil without the consent of the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
 * The daily Nawa-i-Waqt in its editorial 29 January says that it is only an irony that the super power that occupied Afghanistan by aggression stands itself disintegrated but the regime imposed by it is still in power in Afghanistan. This is also very unfortunate that the Afghan mujaheddin who stood firmly against a super power like Russia and forced it to withdraw from their soil have, due to disunity in their ranks, failed to overpower Najibullah regime in Kabul. Another reason for the Afghan problem to remain unresolved so far is the apparent
190
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AFGHANJIHAO                VOL. 5 NO. 2
indifferent attitude of the US after having achieved its real objective of disintegration of the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, efforts are still going on for the establishment of a government in Afghanistan that can prevent the country from becoming part of an Islamic block in the region. (NWT)
                  30
*  Pakistan has cut all arms supplies to the Afghan mujaheddin and it would not allow its territory to be used as a conduit in future, reports BBC. .The BBC correspondent in Islamabad said this was confirmed by a Pakistani military official. (MLM)
*  The UN Secretary General's personal envoy, Benon Sevan, has arrived in Islamabad and would soon start consultations with various Afghan leaders as part of the process for a comprehensive settlement of the issue, a foreign office spokesman disclosed in Islamabad 29 January. The spokesman said that our emphasis would be mainly to encourage the participation by various groups in the proposed assembly meeting. As far as the ultimate decision was concerned, it rested with the Afghan groups, he said. (PT)
*  The Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakeel, said 29 January that his regime would attend an all-party assembly proposed by the new UN Secretary General to end the 13 year civil war in Afghanistan. (NTN) *
*    ANP Central President, Ajmal Khattak, in a press statement 29 January in Peshawar, , welcomed the decision of Pakistan for endorsing the proposal for resolving the Afghan conflict through Afghan Loya Jirgah and said that the decision has brightened the chances for early settlement of the Afghan issue. (NTN)
*  In an interview with BBC Pakistan's Foreign Secretary, Shahryar Khan, has said that Pakistan had supported the UN plan for a political settlement of the Afghan problem but it did not imply that Pakistan had changed its Afghan policy. (NWT)
*  Speaking to The Nation the Chief of NIFA, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, has congratulated the Pakistan Government for its decision to implement the UN plan for Afghanistan and welcomed it as a realistic step. (NTN)
*  The Kabul regime President Najibul-lah has invited Pakistan's Chief of Army Staff, General Asif Nawaz, for a meeting in Kabul or Pakistan or in a third country to resolve Afghanistan problem. (NWT)
*  The Nation in its editorial 30 January says that Pakistan's dream of sustaining a common mujaheddin front was unrealistic from the very start. Three-way split already existed-- the pro and anti-Zaher Shah, factions, the North and South factions, the Shia and Sunni factions. Pakistan's efforts to heal these rifts over the past two years had failed. The world community had become cynical. The US was disillusioned with, and in fact had become disinterested in their cause. It was now being seen as a fratricidal war in which while Afghan blood was endlessly being spilt, Pakistan was left holding three million refugees at the cost of its own fast-dwindling resources. (NTN)
*  Regarding efforts being made for an Afghan solution the daily Jang says in its editorial 30 January that the main question is not of the willingness of Iran or Pakistan but the willingness of the Afghan mujaheddin. There is not enough possibility of participation of Afghan mujaheddin in a coalitio.n with Najibullah regime and Zaher Shah in the interim arrangement. And probably it
191
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992              Bill                  VOL. 5 NO. 2
will also be a serious mistake to keep them out of the interim set up. Therefore, what is required is that Afghans are allowed to express their free will instead of imposing on them, undemocratically, the Kabul regime which is the product of foreign military aggression or the former King Zaher Shah who is responsible for most of the problems of Afghanistan. (JG)
*  Regarding the recent mission of the
UN envoy to Pakistan in connection with the UN peace plan for Afghanistan followed by general elections, the VOA      correspondent       interviewed
mujaheddin, the AIG President and the HI A leader, Mawlawi Khales. Mujaddedi said,- "I have already given my approval to thfe convening of the jirgah to Perez de Cuellar in Tehran. Mawlawi Khales said that like other effective mujaheddin organizations he opposed the move but with only one difference that the HIA does not claim any leadership for itself neither is it endeavoring to do so. It only wishes the establishment of an Islamic government enforcing Islamic justice and entrusting the jobs       to     skilled
managers. (VOAPS)
*    A delegation of      a European
development and humanitarian organization has arrived in Kabul. The delegation has expressed its readiness to procure food supplies and to assist in the     reconstruction of  rural areas,
mosques and irrigation networks. (RA) *
*  Abdul Shafaq, the HWIA speaker, told
the VOA reporter regarding the UN sponsored conference for the solution of        the Afghan issue that  efforts
leading to the speedy settlement of the problem, with due regard to the principle of Islamic rule in the country and the interest of the nation, will be supported^ "We shall call on Islamic nations to assist us in this regard, provided their efforts do not take the form of an interference in
 our internal affairs. (VOADS)
                 31
 *  Qazi Hussain Ahmed, leader of JI, has in a ceremony at Mansoora (date not given) said that during prolonged armed resistance the political and social conditions in Afghanistan have greatly changed and various Afghan mujaheddin organizations have taken the place of jirgah system there. As such the assumption that the Afghan problem will be resolved by convening any so-called jirgah As a total ignorance of prevalent conditions and only a wishful thinking. As regards the US policy it was confined only to the Soviet withdrawal, elimination of Soviet threat to the Gulf oil and the US itself becoming the sole super power in the world. (NWT)
 * The daily Nawa-i-Waqt has in its editorial 31 January, criticized the ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, for his assertions against the Afghan mujaheddin under the cover of Pakistan's Afghan policy. The editorial says that if Khan Abdul Wali Khan is in agreement with Pakistan's present Afghan policy then he should support Pakistan's Kashmir policy as well. He should apologize for his support, in the past, of the misdeeds of Najibullah regime in Afghanistan. He should urge India too to find a political solution of the Kashmir problem and hold a plebiscite there under relevant UN resolutions. (NWT)
 *  Talking to APP in Peshawar 30 January the ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, has said that the present Afghan policy of the Government was in the best interest of Pakistan. "It is the natural follow-up of Geneva Accord", he said. He said that those who did not agree to peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue, should not use the Pakistan soil and rather should go to Afgha-
192
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992        AIGIIAN JIHAD
 nistan and settle their score with rulers of that country. Pakistan as a sovereign and free country, had all the right to decide about its policies. "We will never allow anyone to interfere into our internal affairs". He said those waging war against the decision taken by the world nations had to face defeat because nobody would provide them assistance. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference at Peshawar Press Club 29 January Mohammad Afzal Khan, MNA has termed as a positive step the decision of Pakistan to support the UN plan for convening of Afghan assembly to decide interim government in Kabul. He said that any talks or decisions without participation of Najibullah could not return peace to Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  In an interview with the Jang ANP leader Khan Abdul Wall Khan, has said that all the people are weary of war in Afghanistan and , in the present circumstances all the nations are agreed that it is not a jehad but a fighting for power. Regarding the role of America he said that it wanted to bring forward such fundamentalists as would fight in the name of Islam and thus serve its interests. And now after achieving its objectives the same US considers Islam as her number one enemy. (JG) *
 * Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 30 January President Ghulam Ishaq Khan said that Pakistan's policy vis-a-vis Afghanistan was consistent aiming at finding a political solution of the problem and it did riot reflect any shift. "It is a continuation, in fact reaffirmation of the policy decisions which have been taken months before", he said. He said Pakistan had been endeavoring for the past two years to see that some political solution was reached on the issue and there was complete unanimity of views on this. (PT)
 *  A spokesman of Iranian Embassy has said in Islamabad 30 January that there was complete unanimity of view between Pakistan and Iran on the solution of the Afghan problem. With the new. initiative Pakistan has come closer to the Iranian position on Afghanistan, he said. (MLM)
 *  Red Crescent Society of Iran announced that it has sent 20 transport planes loaded with 180 tons of foodstuffs, clothes and blankets to the central parts of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan Tribal Shoora in a
 meeting in Peshawar 30 January approved the new Pakistani stance vis-a-vis the Afghanistan issue. The gathering was attended by Uzbek, Tadjek, Hazara and Pashtun representatives. The resolution adopted in the meeting says that the ulama, commanders and tribal leaders have decided to establish a comprehensive       tribal * council,
 representing all factions of the nation. (VOADS)
 * Two Afghan economists have expressed opinion on the construction of a railway line through Afghanistan to join Pakistan with the Central Asian republics.
    Prof. Ghani Ghousi from Hamburg University said, Pakistan's desire to develop economic relations with the Central Asian republics and giving them access to the Indian Ocean by a railway line through Afghanistan is important from two points of view: the political aspect which is related to the political and security situation of the region; the economic aspect calling for further economic cooperation among Islamic nations in the region.
    In the event of Afghanistan's involvement in the construction of the railway line, its economic impact will be less significant. It would be better and more economic if the existing road
193
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992         HKlIMN JfHflO
network were used after thorough repair.
- Dr. Noor Ali, former Afghan Minister of Trade said, there is not much benefit to be expected from such a railway line. Pakistan is not in a position to extend capital and has not the technical and financial potential for the construction of the railway line which may cost billions of dollars. But if the line extends from Herat to Kandahar and from there it brances off to Chah Bahar in Iran and Chaman on the Pakistani border, it will be more beneficial to us because it will complete the railway line extending from Europe to Saigon.
(VOADS)
                                                           FEBRUARY
                                        1
*  Reliable sources say that Pakistan has rejected Najibullah regime's offer for direct talks for an Afghan solution. Pakistan does not recognize the Najibullah regime in Kabul and therefore the question does not arise of any talks with the regime imposed on the Afghans by a foreign power, the sources said. (JG)
*  In a press statement in Peshawar 31 January Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said that Pakistan did not need to frame Afghan policy according to the wishes of those who always remained against Pakistan and hatched conspiracies in collaboration with India and Russia. (NTN) *
*  Kabul regime President Najibullah said 31 January that "mujaheddin extremists" should be ignored if they laid down conditions for attending an intra-Afghan dialogue which the UN hopes to convene in the next two months. (PT)
 *  In an interview with ANS 31 January the leader of IIA Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has said we expect our honest friends not to leave us alone half way and bear with us enduring hardships needed for the achievement of the supreme aims of our Islamic struggle. He also called for the creation of a lasting and durable unity in the ranks and files of Afghan mujaheddin. He said we are not going to give in to the current international conspiracy. (PT)
 *  Pakistan and China have committed themselves to jointly cooperate towards the solution of the Afghan problem and other international issues. Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, said China fully supported Pakistan's policy of seeking a political solution to the Afghan issue. (VOAPS)
 *  VITA, the organization which works for agricultural and rural rehabilitation in Afghanistan with financial support from the USAID, reports that it has Completed 20 training courses for Afghan agricultural workers during the last four years. The organization has opened regional offices in 15 provinces of Afghanistan. (VOADS)
 *  Ahmad Shah Masood, the well-known mujaheddin commander, is reported to have accepted the UN peace formula for Afghanistan and will send his representative to the proposed UN conference on Afghanistan provided the Kabul regime is not represented in it. (BBCPS)
                  2
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 1 February, Federal Minister for Railways Haji Ghulam Ahmed Bilour said, the ANP would stand by the government in the move initiated by it to amicably resolve the Afghanistan issue. He said although the adoption of the present Afghan policy was late but it was undoubtedly a key to the
194
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 solution of the 13-year-long issue. He lauded the steps initiated by the government and congratulated the President and Prime Minister for the bold steps. He said the present policy was a continuation of the Geneva accords struck during the period of former Prime Minister Mohammad Khan Junejo who could not implement it. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 1 February, ANP Central President Ajmal Khattak MNA said that the chances of a peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem had never been so bright as today and this opportunity should not be lost for the sake of a couple of individuals. He said that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar could not be allowed to thrust his opinion on others nor to interfere in Pakistan's internal affairs. (MLM)
 *  In an interview in Peshawar the Afghan Consul has said the Afghan problem could only be resolved through jirgah and election and not through war. Those who were still talking of war had no future in Afghanistan. He said that the American interests in Afghanistan and even in the region as a whole had ended. After the Islamic revolution in Iran, Pakistan seemed to be the alternative for Americans' interests in the Gulf but now that the Soviet Union had ceased to exist and Americans had landed in the Gulf, they needed Pakistan no longer and so it too was supporting the UN Secretary General's five-point plan for' the peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue. (MLM) *
 *  The daily Jang in its editorial 2 February says that despite negation by responsible government circles and even the President of Pakistan of reported change in Afghan, policy, the talk of establishing an interim government led by former King Zaher Shah in Afghanistan, Pakistan's contacts with the ex-
 King, government circles' threatening attitude towards the Afghan leaders disliked by US, the unusual absence from the meeting of the Afghan Cell of the President and differences between the Government of Pakistan' and most of the Afghan mujaheddin leaders, only imply that the Government is deviating from its Afghan policy. The editorial says that resolving Afghan problem through a jirgah is an attempt of imposing, once again On the Afghans, the outdated tribal system which cannot be supported. Imposing the former King on the Afghans, who for full 13 years remained only a spectator of bloodshed in Afghanistan, will plunge the country into a civil war. (JG)
 * France is the first Western country to have reopened her Embassy in Kabul. A French automatic telex exchange has also been put into operation in Kabul. This is the first of three contracts signed between French firms and the Kabul regime. The other two contracts are also in connection with telecommunication services viz:   the establish-
 ment of bothway radio-links between Kabul and other provinces and the construction of an earth station for connecting Kabul with Central Asian republics and the outside world by means of communication satellites.
 (BBCFS)
        3
 * Addressing the World Economic Forum (WEF) on the concluding day in Davos, Switzerland, 2     February the Prime
 Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said, "Afghanistan provides the gateway for an effective cooperation with Central Asia and therefore a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem should be found in the immediate future. (NTN)
 * Pro-Zaher Shah Afghan commanders' meeting chaired by Haji Mohammad
195
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
Ishaqzai at Sarnan, some 60 kilometers from Quetta, 2 February, warned Pakistani politicians to desist from interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. They also welcomed the return of former King Zaher Shah to Afghanistan and demanded that the 5-point UN plan be implemented forthwith. (MLM)
*  Prince Masaud, leader of Mili Islami Muttahida Jabhah (MIMJ), addressing a press conference in Peshawar 1 February claimed that more than 90% of Afghans were in favor of the former King who, according to him, could bring peace in Afghanistan. He said the convening of Afghan Grand Assembly (Loya Jirgah) under the UN flag would pave the way for a political solution of the 13-year-old conflict and the UN 5-point plan for Afghanistan was the only way to solve the problem. (MLM)
*  Addressing a seminar on Al-Quds Day under the auspices of JI in Rawalpindi the Federal Labour Minister, Mohammad Ejazul Haq, said 'we cannot compromise on the sacrifices of 1.5 million Afghans for the sake of some spare parts and assistance. (NWT)
*  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 2 February the JI leader, Qazi' Hussain Ahmed, said that US wanted chaos and not peace in Afghanistan and for that it had hatched a plan. The UN has no policy of its own but follows that of the US. The latter desires Pakistan to abandon its Afghan policy. The US dislikes the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan for fear of fundamentalists. (JG) *
*  Mohammad Aref Nezami, editor of the daily Nation told the VOA in an interview that Pakistan is trying to seek a political solution to the Afghan problem since some time now because the mujaheddin military operations failed to yield result or to evolve a unified
front. Pakistan also had difficulty in adopting a common policy in this regard. The military wanted something else, the ISI was of a different opinion while the Foreign Office supported the political solution. The disintegration of the Soviet Union and the emergence of independent Muslim states in Central Asia, are of significant importance to Pakistan. If the Afghan issue is not solved Pakistan will be unable to open trade relations with them. Pakistan wishes to plan numerous economic projects; its relations with India and Afghanistan are strained; the US has also stopped financial assistance to Pakistan; with three million refugees living on its soil, Pakistan is unable to pursue its previous policy. The IJI and the ANP are demanding the resolution of the Afghan problem. (VOAPS)
                 4
*  Addressing a news conference in Peshawar 3 February Burhanuddin Rabbani, Chief of JIA, has termed the UN proposed "Jirgah" of Afghans to hammer out a solution of the conflict as vague. He said that intra-Afghan talks including Najibullah would never bear fruit as ^he mujaheddin had already rejected the Kabul regime. "We won't allow Afghanistan to become a testing ground for half-baked proposals", he said. (MLM)
*  A rally staged by Tehrik-e-Islami Afghanistan 3 February at the Jalozai refugee camp in Peshawar has opposed the return of ex-monarch Zaher Shah to the country and said his re- imposition would lead to further prolongation of the miseries of Afghan masses. Sayyed Noorullah Emad, former deputy of HIA, said on the occasion that a number of countries, especially the US, was treading the path for the return of Zaher Shah to Afghanistan while 99 per
196
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          DIGIIANJIH/IO              VOL. 5 NO. 2
 cent people of the country were opposed to it. He asked the people, especially the members of Islamic revolution, to block the way of another super power's involvement in Afghanistan after the defeat of the communist giant. (MLM)
 *. The Indonesian Government through its Embassy in Islamabad has presented a token financial contribution of US $
 15,000  to the Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund to support the UN humanitarian      and rehabilitation
 activities in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 * Haji Ali Jan, HIA representative in Karachi, has said that majority of Afghan mujaheddin agree that Najibullah regime should be replaced by an interim government for six months. It should comprise former judges of the high court, some retired generals and former members of the parliament. They should belong neither to mujaheddin groups nor Najibullah regime or Zaher Shah. Those in the interim government be barred from taking part in elections. This government should ensure only two things i.e. to end the war and hold elections within six months on the basis of proportional representation and hand over the government to the party securing majority of seats. (PT)
 " The US State Department in its annual report on human rights says, the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin are both violating human rights. Executions prior to trial of suspects and their tortures are practiced widely by the Kabul regime. According to informed sources, Afghans and foreigners opposing the programs of some mujaheddin groups are being subjected by the mujaheddin to imprisonment, torture and even executions. (BBCPS)
 " The third session of the Commanders' Council ended after five days of deliberations. The meeting emphasized the need to continue tne armed jehad
until the fall of the Kabul regime. Commander Mohammad Akber told the VOA, 550 commanders had participated in the meeting and a resolution was adopted in the meeting which says:
-  Any ceasefire with the Kabul regime was rejected,
-  Regular armed jehad until the fall of the regime was emphasized.
   The five-point will be acceptable only when it is not against the jehad aspirations,
-  Establishing contact with mujaheddin leaders and all those concerned and forming a regular Islamic army in Afghanistan. (VOADS)
     Because of severe budgetary constraints the officials of the AIG ministries have been granted leave (without pay) until further notice. (VOADS)
                  5
*  Speaking on the 'present situation in Central Asia' at the monthly meeting of the Ravians Association in Islamabad 4 February, Sardar Asef Ahmed Ali, Minister of State for Economic Affairs, has said that plans were afoot for holding a grand Afghanistan Assembly somewhere in Turkey next month to which representatives of Afghan groups all over the world would be invited. "We are determined to go full-steam ahead towards an early solution, those who don't come on board will be left behind. If any element tries to create an adverse situation, we will tackle it with our full might", he said. (PT)
*  Benon Sevan, UN Secretary Genetal's special envoy for Afghanistan held a detailed meeting with the leader of HEIA, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammad!, at his residence at Hijrat Keley, Pabbi
197
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5'NO. 2
 4 February and appraised himself of the UN arrangements for convening a meeting of the Afghan Loya Jirgah, The UN representative also held detailed negotiations with Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of HIA, in the latter's office the same day. The negotiations aimed at resolving the Afghan conflict through peaceful and political means. (NTN)
 *  The Kabul-Torkham highway has been opened 4 February, after remaining closed for three years, with the arrival of a goods caravan at Pakistan border, reports BBC. (NWT)
 *  Attended by more than 550 Afghan mujaheddin commanders, an Afghan Shoora in Paktia (date not given) has rejected any ceasefire and vowed to continue their jehad till the elimination of Kabul regime and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The meeting decided that the interim government in Afghanistan should comprise the representatives of ulama, commanders, jehadic parties, tribal elders and intellectuals but any other government imposed on the Afghans would be considered as foreign intervention. If an Islamic government can be established in line with the UN formula the commanders' shoora will not oppose it, the meeting said. (NWT)
   Sayyed Mohammad Ali Javaid, head of HIA political department and speaker of the 41-man commission, in an interview said that the commission had drafted a plan in seven chapters and 91 clauses for submission to the mujaheddin leaders for final approval. He added that the plan envisages a supreme council of the interim government and also      judiciary     system      with
 codifications to ensure the rights of all Afghan factions. Furthermore, independence, the Islamic identity, reconstruction     and      intra-Afghan
 dialogue have also been foreseen in the plan. (BBCFS)
                   6
 *  Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, leader of IIA, announced, in Peshawar 5 February that the IIA leadership is not planning to meet with the special envoy of the UN' Secretary General. He said, "we do not consider Benon Sevan to be an honest broker in resolving the Afghan conflict." (PT)
 *  On the third day of his stay in Peshawar Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's Special Representative for Afghanistan, held a series of meetings with leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, leader of Da'eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islami, Ayatullah Taqaddusi, leader of Shoora-e-ltalaf Islami, representatives of Hezbe Wahdat, stalwarts of the WUFA and a 500-member delegation of peace-loving Afghan commanders, ulama and tribal chieftains. According to reliable sources, during the meeting Benon Sevan suggested to each and every group for handing him over a list of 150 people for induction into a grand committee. (NTN)
 * The UN Secretary General's special
 representative, Benon Sevan, called on the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, at his residence in Peshawar 5 February and discussed the formation of a working group represented by all segments of the Afghan society to prepare the ground . for a grand assembly. Such a grand assembly would take practical steps for the formation of an interim Islamic government and pave the way for the transfer of power to the interim administration. He said for this purpose he has been obtaining a list of the Afghans affiliated with different political organizations for taking their future course of action themselves.     Gulbuddin      Hekmatyar
 reminded the UN representative that the path which has been adopted by them for
198
JANUARY-MARCHr 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
the resolution of the Afghan conflict was lengthy and impracticable. He said, "to me this assembly seems inapplicable because three different parties are invited to it Whereas none are ready to sit with the others, even individually. We are not ready to sit at a table with Najib or Zaher Shah. The ex-King is not a party to the Afghan conflict nor can he play any role for war and peace. By inviting three opposite sides to the proposed assembly it was nothing more than wasting time as it could not bring any results." (MLM)
           •
*  Nazir Ahmed Khan, MNA speaking at a symposium, organized in Sialkot by JI» has said that the US did not want the setting up of a purely Islamic and ideological government of mujaheddin in Afghanistan. The mujaheddin, who. had made tremendous sacrifices and laid down precious lives of over 1.6 million souls during their jehad against the Russian forces would never tolerate a government of the US stooges, arid no solution of the Afghan issue would be acceptable if the mujaheddin were ignored in this regard. The Government of Pakistan should stick to its principled stand on Afghanistan without showing any leniency. (PT)
*  In a press statement issued to AL-BUNYAN 5 February on the occasion of solidarity with the mujaheddin of occupied Kashmir, being observed throughout Pakistan 5 February, the leader of IIA, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, said that the Islamic struggle of the Kashmiri Muslims is as dear to the Muslims of Afghanistan as their own jehad in their country. (PT) *
 * Addressing a big rally held to show solidarity with the Kashmiris the leader of JI, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, has said that the success of Afghan jehad inspired the Kashmiris to achieve the right of self-determination through
 jehad and armed struggle. The issues of Kashmir and Afghanistan were the issues of life and death for Pakistan, he said. (PT)
 " Commander Haji Abdul Khaleq from Farah said in a BBC interview at Quetta regarding the commanders' council, "we shall not abide by the decisions of the council in their last session because the commanders of the south-western region had not participated in it". He said, it should not have been termed as the "third meeting" because it was not attended by the commanders of his region, members of the Supervisory Council or some other well-known commanders. He said, "we will support the UN 5-point peace plan". (BBCPS)
 » Mohammad Amin Akhundzada, the First Chairman of the Muj'aheddin Union and provincial leader of Helmand told the BBC in an interview, "under the present circumstances when Pakistan has accepted the UN plan as the only way for the political solution of the Afghan problem, I consider the move as a step in the direction of peace and am quite pleased with it." (BBCPS)
                  7
 *  In his weekly press briefing in Islamabad a foreign office spokesman told newsmen that there was no change in Pakistan's Afghan policy. Pakistan supports UN Secretary General's 5-point plan of 21 May 1991 and the convening of an Afghan assembly under the UN for a solution. (JG)
 *  Dr. Abdul Hakeem Tabibi, a former Afghan politician, in his address to the Human Rights Commission held in Geneva said, "the blood of the Afghans was spilt unduly? their territorial integrity and the right of self-determination were violated? the sooner the UN peace plan is; implemented, after the necessary alterations, the better". He said, the> political solution was the only way out
199
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
of this scuffle and, by accepting it, the people of Afghanistan should put an end to further bloodshed and destruction. (VOADS)
                    8
*  Addressing a press conference in Lahore 7 February Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said that the Afghan people were ready to elect a parliament but being sure of an outcome like Algeria the adversaries were afraid and were asking for a Loya Jirgah. Loya Jirgah is not an institution in Afghanistan but only a platform where rulers call the people of their own choice to justify and maintain their rule. He said that a ceasefire, intra-’-Af ghan dialogue through Loya Jirgah and formation of a broad-based coalition government under Najibullah or former King Zaher Shah would never be acceptable to the Afghan people. (NTN)
*  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said that Afghan mujaheddin were fighting for the last 13 years only to form an Islamic government in their country and not for a broad-based government or a puppet ruler like Najib. He was speaking in a reception on the occasion of the golden jubilee celebrations of the JI in Lahore 7 February. He said our demands are to remove Najib from the government, constitute an interim government comprising uncontroversial persons, ceasefire and after that elections for a government of the choice of Afghan people. (PT) *
 * The daily Jang in its editorial 8 February says that efforts initiated by the US, Russia, India and certain other western countries to render ineffective the Afghan mujaheddin's struggle and re-impose Zaher Shah and get for Najibullah a representation in the interim government in Afghanistan,
 would never be acceptable to Afghan mujaheddin. At the same time prospects are getting bright for an understanding between Afghan commanders and leaders to foil the US conspiracy. The proposal of convening a Loya Jirgah to establish an interim government in Afghanistan is also a conspiracy against the people of Afghanistan and all such steps are bound to plunge the country into a civil war. The fact is that the US intends to block Pakistan's access to Central Asia by preventing the establishment of the government of mujaheddin in Afghanistan. Pakistan should, therefore, tell the UN envoy that it cannot agree to an Afghan solution which is not acceptable to the mujaheddin. (JG)
   Commander Anwar Khan, Secretary of All Commander's Council of Afghanistan* told the VOA correspondent regarding the re-opening of the Torkham-Jalalabad highway, the Nangarhar commanders have established a council of their own in which all important issues are being decided upon. "But in my opinion", he said, "it will be in the best interest of the mujaheddin if the highway is kept closed, otherwise Najib intelligence will use it sowing seeds of discord among the mujaheddin ranks. Apart from that, the distribution and allocation of customs' revenues among the mujaheddin groups will cause further rift among them. (VOADS)
                  9
   Mohammad Hassan Woluswal, Editor of the journal Mujahed Ulus ,in an interview with the VOA at their studios in the US said, "the Afghans residing in the US are actively busy seeking a solution to the Afghan problem but these efforts are being constantly interfered with by Kabul regime agents and Iran. A seminar on the Afghan issue was recently held in Hamburg, but the participants to it were invited by the
200
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
   Iranian government and in the seminar * sessions the interests of Iran were discussed       rather  than    those   of
   Afghanistan. It is a pity the Afghan , political figures in Europe are in conflict with each other". He said, it would be better if the UN directed its efforts towards the convening of a Loya Jirgah. He added that the situation in the region had greatly changed after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan      where   the neighboring
   countries are now competing   with each
   other. Some of these nations have even got the greed for annexing parts of Afghanistan to their own soil or disintegrating the country. He warned, "these afrould learn a lesson from the British or the Russians".
        At present the only person who can solve the Afghan problem and around whom the     Afghan nation   could   be
   unified, is Zaher Shah the ex-King, who could also save Afghanistan from disintegration. He said, "the moves made by the neighboring countries can prove to be more dangerous than those by the former Soviet Union. (VOAPS)
                      10
   * The daily Jang in its editorial 10 February says the US and Russia are trying their utmost to stop the mujaheddin to form their own government in Afghanistan, thus preventing the establishment of direct links between Pakistan and Muslim States of Central Asia. They are both conspiring to reimpose Zaher Shah on the Afghans. Signs of flexibility in the attitude of the Government of Pakistan are also visible. Pakistan needs to ensure safety of its north western frontiers through the establishment of the government of the Afghan mujaheddin. The courage and fortitude of the Afghan mujaheddin are praiseworthy but differences in their ranks have become
 an obstacle in the way of their victory. If the Afghan mujaheddin can force a power like Russia to take to its heels, then Zaher Shah and Najib can certainly not stand in the face of their unity. (JG)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has been re-elected as Ameer of HIA securing 99.9 percent of the votes cast. There was no rival candidate against him. ( PT )
 * Shaharyar Khan, Secretary Foreign Affairs, in an interview with the VOA said that the change in the Pakistani official policy vis-a-vis Afghanistan was baseless and incorrect. He said, Pakistan had always supported a political solution of the Afghan issue. "Our objective of a political solution is a consensus among the Afghans reached at through the principles proposed by the UN. The dissolution of the former Soviet Union and the emergence of independent Islamic states north of - Afghanistan and the economic and trade activities of Pakistan were, the main causes of the change in Pakistan's Afghan policy. Pakistan has had regular monthly meetings in Rome with Zaher Shah or his representative," he said. (VOADS)
                  11
 * Benon Sevan, UN special envoy for Afghanistan, told a meeting of trade-unionists and tribal and religious leaders in Kabul 10 February that a proposed intra-Afghan peace dialogue in April would be followed by an expanded gathering to approve the composition of a transitional government for Afghanistan. He warned that Afghanistan's unitary character was at stake and if all segments did not work to bring together the fragmented nation, there would be no unitary state left within one year. (NTN)
 *  The AIG President, Sebghatullah
201
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
 Mujaddedi, has protested over the acts of brain-washing of innocent Afghan children by Iran. The protest came when he saw a number of Afghan children of an Iranian school wearing Iranian school uniforms with photographs of late Khomeini on their chests. The function was held in a hotel in Peshawar 9 February in connection with the 14th anniversary of Iranian revolution. They were also singing Iranian anthem in which the Afghan children declared Imam Khomeini as their leader. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said that such an act was an open interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan which the Afghans would never permit. (NTN)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have destroyed am arms depot of Kabul regime in Paghman district in the north of Kabul inflicting heavy casualties on the regime forces. (JG)
 * Kabul regime foreign Minister, Abdul
 Wakil, told Benon Sevan, UN special envoy for Afghanistan, that Pakistan's radical policy change on Afghanistan was "a positive step" towards achieving a political settlement of the country's 13 - year -old war, UN officials said
 in Kabul. (NTN)
   Numerous elders and dignitaries of Kunar Province in a press conference in Peshawar defended the UN peace plan for Afghanistan. They urged the formation of an interim government which may succeed in paving the way for refugee repatriation. They said the former Afghan Monarch should take practical measures for assuming the leadership of the interim government. (VOADS)
 » In a council of the Stanizi tribe in Peshawar a resolution was passed recently which urges continuation of the armed jehad till the fall of the present regime and the establishment of a transitional government in its place.
VOL. 5 NO. 2
The resolution adds that the Stanizis are residing in 13 provinces of Afghanistan and have proved their valour and sagacity during the 13 years of jehad, both against the Russians and the Kabul regime. (VOAPS)
                 12
   The first round of talks between members of the Afghanistan joint commission established in Moscow at the conclusion of the visit of mujaheddin delegation led by Prof. Rabbani in November 1991, was held in foreign office in Islamabad 11 February. (NTN)
   A number of dignitaries have been interviewed by the VOA regarding the change in the Afghan policy of Pakistan. Former Senator, Gordon Hamphrey, said it was regrettable that the people of Afghanistan had not yet attained the. right to self-determination and their sufferings still continued. Pakistan was the only country which stood at the side of the Afghans after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and accepted all kinds of dangers. Apart from the valor shown by the Afghan people during their struggles against the intruders, Pakistan also played a decisive role in the fall of communism. This is important that the Afghans should succeed in establishing a government of their own will, because the present regime is a puppet imposed upon them by the former Soviet Union and must step down.
   A Former US Ambassador in Kabul said, it is only the Afghans themselves who can resolve their internal problems and the foreign sides should not interfere in their internal affairs or policies. After the arms cut-off from Russia and the US to the warring sides, it is now hoped that Pakistan will use its influence for the peaceful solution of the issue.
- Anthony Arnold, former US diplomat
202
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
and author of "Soviet aggression on Afghanistan" says that in the first place the political solution is a very positive and important development* Pakistan must be reminded that Afghanistan is not a country to be told what to do. The Afghans want to manage their affairs independently and without foreign intervention. The UN peace plan is the only formula for the solution of the Afghan problem so far. (VOADS)
                   13
*  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, in an interview with ANA.in Peshawar 12 February, said that during Benon Sevan's recent visit to Peshawar, 22 out of 25 mujaheddin groups based in Iran and Pakistan have flatly told him that they will never attend such an assembly in which the supporters of Najib and Zaher Shah are participating. "Collecting in-effective persons and then finding fake supporters for them will not solve the problem", Hekmatyar said. Benon Sevan has adopted such a lengthy and impracticable approach of rounding up belligerent sides to a gathering in which neither side is willing to face each other, he said. (PT)
 * All the mujaheddin organizations in
 the eastern Nangarhar province of Afghanistan have constituted a joint Shoora for the administrative control of the province and appointed one Abdul Qadeer as head of the Shoora and governor of the province. This was disclosed to'ANA by Commander Shamali, who has been appointed as the deputy chief     of     the     Shoora     and
 second-in-command of the province. The Shoora in its first meeting in Nangarhar 11 February decided to continue jehad till the removal of the puppet regime, restoring peace and security in the province and increasing the defense capabilities of the mujaheddin. The Shoora also unanimously
 agreed to keep the Torkham-Jalalabad highway closed for the traders. (MLM)
 *  Addressing a public meeting at Landikotal 12 February in connection with the fourth death anniversary of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan commonly known as Bacha Khan, Khan Abdul Wall Khan said, "if the Afghan resistance groups, despite peace in their country, keep fighting against the Kabul regime from the soil of Pakistan, it would be a war between two States. We provided shelter to them for 13 long years and now they should return and continue their jehad from their own soil. America, he said, would never allow a government led by mullas in Kabul. (MLM)
   George Arney, a BBC analyst writes regarding the Islamic struggles in Afghanistan and Algeria:  Thousands of
 Arabs fought at the side of the Afghan mujaheddin. They were voluntary fighters seeking the supreme glory of "martyrdom" under the banner of Islamic forces. A group of these fighters affiliated with the "Wahabi" sect, proclaimed an independent Islamic state at Kunar province,near Pakistan, but most of them have, by now, returned to their homes in Algeria, Tunisia and Yemen. These former Afghan, champions now constitute the central core of the fighting forces of the Algerian Islamic Liberation Front. Having been hard baked in the furnaces of the war in Afghanistan, it is unlikely they would have any fear of facing the Algerian army. (BBCFS)
                 14
 *  Speaking at a dinner hosted 12
 February for the visiting Pakistan Education Minister Syed Fakhar Imam at Capitol Hill, Congressman Robert Torricelli,    said     that without
 Pakistan's substantial contribution to the Afghan war the US victory in the cold war would not have been possible. (MLM)
203
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 * More than 40 Afghan - commanders,
 belonging to different Afghan provinces and representing four major Islamic parties of mujaheddin, have issued a 10-point joint resolution in which the UN peace plian has ben rejected. The resolution says the UN plan is a joint conspiracy of Jews and Christians against Islam and the mujaheddin. The Islamic armed jehad shall go on until a true Islamic Government of the mujaheddin     is    established     in
 Afghanistan and remnants of communism have been smashed. (PT)
 * Taking part in a general discussion in the Senate on President's address to the Parliament, Raja Mohammad Zafarul Haq of Muslim League said that the Western world did not like an Islamic Afghanistan. Pakistan, he said, should not deviate from its principled stand on the issue or make any haste. The government in Afghanistan should be established only according to the wishes of the people of Afghanistan. (JG)
   Commander Shari Mangal, from Paktia Province, told the BBC in an interview, "we migrated at the beginning to escape the atrocities of the communist regime. Seven different organizations were established here which are always in conflict with each other. We are winners in the battle-field but the leaders have lost in politics." He said, the numerous tribes in Paktia agree with the UN peace plan and shall soon be able to form our own army, after the fall of the Kabul regime, which may be 200       -  300 thousand
 strong. We shall undertake the security of Kabul city and the army will be at the disposal of the UN. (BBCPS)
                   15
 *  Iran has thrown its full weight behind a UN peace initiative to end the Afghan war, officials at the UN said 13 February. The support was expressed by
 Iranian Ambassador Kamal Kharrazi at a meeting with Secretary General, Boutros Ghali. Kharrazi told the Secretary General that more consultations and communications were needed before the proposed assembly could be convened. (NTN)
 *  Chief of Political Commission of HWIA, shafaq, in an interview with VOA said that during talks with members of Shoora of HWIA in Tehran 12 February UN Secretary General's special envoy, Benon Sevan, has rejected participation of Najibullah in the UN proposed peace conference on Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  In a statement'released to MIDIA AIG Acting Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, asked the Muslim world to put political and economic pressure on Algerian Government for jailing the activists of the FIS and closing the mosques. (PT)
    On the occasion of the third anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, the VOA interviewed a number of University professors in #the US:
 -  Dr. Ashraf Ghani, professor of John Hopkins University said, the mujaheddin organizations in Pakistan did not manage to free themselves from the Pakistani mandate and assume ai truly national and Islamic identity , of their own. Some Pakistani leaders came to believe that they would rule over Afghanistan as their colony and, therefore, did not provide the Afghans with the opportunity to establish a comprehensive organization of their own.
 -  Dr. Ahadi of the Providence University said that after the withdrawal of the Soviet forces the jehad leadership lost its prestige among the nation. They were not elected by the people and were criticized for want of
204
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          DIGIIIINJtHAO              VOL- 5 NO. 2
 effectiveness ‘ and unity and their preference of organizational r>r even personal interests over that of the nation. He said the political solution was not the ideal solution but, at present, can cover the national interests of the country.
    Dr. Mohammad Ali Radwi Ghaznawi, former Kabul University Professor said, foreign intervention, and particularly that of Pakistan, in ,jehad affairs is the main factor, because the host country took a preference to some organizations. He said, the 5-point UN peace plan was the only means for the solution of the Afghanistan issue.
 (VOADS)
                   16
 * Talking to newsmen at the airport before leaving for Tehran to attend ECO summit. Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said 15 February that stepping down of Najib administration and establishment of a broad-based interim government of mujaheddin in Afghanistan were necessary for inclusion of Afghanistan into ECO as member state. (PT)
 * Addressing a seminar held in Lahore 15 February on completion of three years of the Soviet forces' withdrawal from Afghanistan, leader of HIA, Gulbud-din Hekmatyar, refuted the charge that the Afghans were opposing peace. He said the Afghans were ready for a political solution of the problem and had already offered their proposals in this regard. These included immediate stepping down of Najib, formation of an interim government of prominent Afghans, excluding Zaher Shah and the present ruling junta. This interim government should hold general elections within one year. He said it was surprising to note that the Western world was opposing general elections in his country and suggesting Loya Jirgah
 instead. (NTN)
 *  On the directives of Kabul regime President Najibullah, the Afghan Consulate in Peshawar arranged a number of programs to celebrate February 15 as a national day to commemorate the Soviet forces withdrawal from Afghanistan three years ago. All offices of the Kabul regime functioning in .Peshawar remained closed. In this connection Peshawar-based Afghan diplomats and Afghan banks arranged programs and gatherings. In the afternoon all employees of the Kabul regime, working in Peshawar, assembled at the residence of the consul, Abdul Qayyum. Addressing a press conference at his residence the same afternoon, the Afghan Consul said that in the future of Afghanistan no one could ignore the Watan Party. (NTN)
 *  The Afghan Cultural Center was established in Peshawar, last year* through efforts of a group of Afghan youths. On the occasipn of the third anniversary of the Soviet troops' withdrawal from the Afghanistan a meeting was held by the afore-mentioned center in Peshawar in which discussions were held on the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the factors which led to the shameless defeat of the Red Army and. their eventual withdrawal. The meeting ended by a film-show in which the history of the Russian army in Afghanistan from beginning to the end was depicted. (VOAPS)
                 17
 *  In a brief interview with The New York Times in Islamabad Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif has stressed the need for a settlement of the Afghanistan question based on the UN peace plan envisaging convening an Assembly of Afghans belonging to all factions to form an interim government that would rule until elections could be held. "We are looking for a steady political
205
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 JANUARY-MARCH. 1992           HAN lIMAO
 settlement of the problem”, he said. (PT)
 * Addressing a representative gathering of some charity organizations in Peshawar 15 February the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has urged the Iranian leadership to reconsider its present Afghan policy. He said, "we do wish to have friendly ties with Iran, but we have certain complaints about the present' policy of Iran towards the Afghan mujaheddin. (PT)
 * Hujjatul Islam tayaz, Chairman of the HWIA Council of Representatives, in his meeting with Benon Sevan in Tehran said, his party had supported the UN peace plan right from the beginning but is of the opinion that every effort must be based upon the will of the Afghan nation and their fair representation in the destiny of Jtheir country. "Every peace settlement should consider the values of the Islamic jehad of the people of this country" he said.(VOIRA)
 * A UN authority has criticized the world community by commenting that nr measures have been taken to prevent poppy plantation in Afghanistan. Afghanistan has been considered as the biggest exporter of opium when its production of the drug for 1991 was estimated at 2,000 tons. Seventy per cent of the total heroin consumed in Europe is produced in Afghanistan and Pakistan. (BBCPS)
                   18
 * Addressing the first ECO summit in Tehran 17 February, Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said that Pakistan supported a broad-based interim government in Afghanistan on the basis of the five-point UN formula which in turn should hold free and fair elections. In the wake of elections, a democratic government could be inducted which is acceptable to the people of
Afghanistan. "It is however essential that Najibullah steps down first", he said. (PT)
*   Tehran communique adopted in the concluding session of ECO in Tehran 17 February has endorsed Pakistan's stand on Kashmir and Afghanistan and has called for a political settlement of the Afghan conflict acceptable to the people of that country. However, the Council of Deputies, according to informed sources, declined membership request of the Kabul regime and agreed to the Pakistan point of view that the membership to Afghanistan would be granted only when a government, representing the majority of the Afghan people, is established in Kabul. (MLM)
*    Maj. Usman Ziarmal, General Secretary of Afghan Social Democratic Party (ASDP), has in an interview told The Nation in Peshawar 17 February that most of the people wanted an end to ongoing bloodshed in Afghanistan which was possible through holding of intra-Afghan dialogue. If ruling Watan Party played a positive role in the proposed dialogue then it would be given due representation in the proposed interim government. He said at present Mohammad Zaher Shah was the only person who could take Afghanistan and its people out of the present crisis and unify all of Afghans. (NTN)
*   The VOA has interviewed three political analysts in connection with the political settlement of the Afghanistan issue as follows:
- Retd. General Zakir Ali Zaidi said, lack of settlement of the Afghan problem has had two factors: (1) The US and the former Soviet Union each had a different point of view. (2) The fundamentalist mujaheddin groups were set on the military solution.
                                                                   All the Afghans are now sick of the
206
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
prevailing situation and desire a political settlement to enable them to return to their homes. The Afghan problem was previously entrusted to the ISI whereas at the present the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has full authority in this respect. Apart from the Pakistani- JI, the government and the opposition all favor the political settlement. Pakistan wishes to establish economic .relations with the Central Asian states. This can only-be fulfilled when peace prevails in Afghanistan and a government friendly to Pakistan is established there.
    A professor at Jawaherlal Nehro University said that the UN 5-point peace plan would yield no positive results. It would be better if elections were held in Afghanistan under the UN auspices for the setting-up of a government to enable the refugees i.i Pakistan, Iran and elsewhere to return to their homeland. When the UN is capable of seeking political solution to Cambodia and the * Western Sahara, it can also do the same in the case of Afghanistan.
-  Dr. Abdul Hakeem Tabibi, a former Afghan diplomat, said that the change in the Pakistan policy has been initiated on account of Pakistan's economic problems and not as a necessity of the world situation. Pakistan needs to be developed, and for this reason does not desire to suffer economic setback any further and, therefore, endeavors to settle the Afghanistan issue once and for all.
(VOAPS)
    Commander Haji Asadullah of HIA (Hekmatyar) in Kunar Province told the BBC correspondent in an interview that the following decisions were taken in a meeting of the commanders of the southwestern region 16 February:
-  The armed jehad will continue until
 the establishment in Afghanistan of a true Muslim state.
   We strongly reject the UN 5-point peace plan, Najib's ceasefire proposal and the leadership of obscure and controversial elements.
 - We shall accept the verdicts of our ulama and religious leaders in our affairs and shall always support them.
 - We shall not be bound to accept the decisions of aliens in regard to our affairs and strongly reject them.
 (BBCPS)
 " In an interview with the VOA regarding the , third anniversary of the Soviet troops' withdrawal from Afghanistan and the results thereafter, two political analysts have expressed their opinions as follows:
 - Bill McCollum, the representative of Florida in the US Congress and a staunch supporter of the Afghans, who initiated humanitarian help to Afghanistan by pushing a bill for airlifting humanitarian aid to Afghan refugees in Pakistan by means of huge military transport planes, said, it is a pity that despite the lapse of three years the Afghans have been unable to establish a government, representative          of         their
 self-determination, which is their legitimate right. He said, "I have constantly heard Pakistan government statements regarding their support for the Afghan cause but history is witness that their words are different to their deeds.
    Zalmai Khalilzad, assistant undersecretary for policy planning in the US Defense Ministry, said that the Afghan resistance struggle has caused the liberty of the East European states. The former Soviet Union 'assisted the Kabul regime by un-limited military and
207
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AfGIIANJIHAD              VOL. 5 NO.  2
material supplies. Najib's regime has proved to be smarter than originally expected and managed to use the intermujaheddin conflicts to his maximuir advantage.
     Before considering the defeat of Najib and the liberty of the country, the mujaheddin organizations got involved in satisfying their greed for power and to this end they fell- at each other. After the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, friendly nations to the mujaheddin, such as the US, became less interested in them and the mujaheddin also failed to attract their attention. (VOADS)
                  19
*  Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General, warned a large gathering last week in Kabul, "if a political solution to the Afghan question is not found within the current year, there is a real threat that the territorial integrity of Afghanistan will be irreparably shattered". (PT)
*   In an interview in Peshawar 18-February the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said the western circles have much concern ovejr the establishment of an effective economic block by the south-east and Central Asian countries. Such • circles want the establishment of a regime of their own choice in Afghanistan in order to foil the attempts of these countries for establishing a common market in Asia. The formation of the ECO and such other organizations was a great setback for the New World Order a*s it considered such organizations a challenge to their global designs. If a Government of mujaheddin is established in Afghanistan, it will not only join the ECO but play a very crucial role. Hekmatyar said that some circles and
 agencies which safeguard the interests of the west have launched a campaign for creating the impression that the Central Asian republics were against the establishment of a fundamentalist government in Afghanistan. He said, had the Central Asian republics been scared of the mujaheddin government in Afghanistan they would not have established trade and economic links with the Islamic Republic of Iran or joined the ECO. (MLM)
                 20
 * Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 19 February, a foreign office spokesman said, "Najibullah is certainly a personality who has been rejected by all segments of Afghans and so he will not be engaged in any intra-Afghan dialogue or Afghan interim Government. (PT)
 * Indian Airlines is to resume weekly flights to Afghanistan after a three-year break, civil aviation officials said in Kabul 19 February. Confirming this, Indian Airlines sources in Kabul said that the airlines would begin services to Kabul 13 March. (NTN)
 - Dr. Rawan Farhad.i, a former Afghan diplomat, Habibullah Karzai, a former official of the Afghan Foreign Ministry and Saifur Rahman Halimi, HIA (Hekmatyar) representative in New York were each interviewed by the VOA:
    Dr. Farhadi said, there are more negative than positive aspects after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan for which the Afghans and the mujaheddin organizations are to blame. The increase; in ISI and Iranian interventions in the internal affairs of Afghanistan are among the negative aspects of the post-Soviet withdrawal, whereas safeguarding the liberated areas of Afghanistan is a positive aspect.
 "We have fought the greatest enemy
208
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AfliHANJIHAfl              V0L- 5 NO. 2
 of our religion. To win a war is something but to lose peace can be very dangerous," he said.
 - Habibullah Karzai said/ during the past three years nothing has been achieved from the jehad but its only shortcoming was the lack of an independent center and a unified national leadership. An indication of the change in Pakistan's policy has not yet been observed. The parties concerned should refrain from any interference in our affairs and should leave the Afghans to decide on their future political structure through the U,N.
    Saifur Rahman Halimi       regarding
 the stay in power of the Kabul regime said that the establishment of the interim government was a complete failure. The Soviet Union left all its destructive weaponry behind in order to safeguard the Kabul regime. Our enemies succeeded in diverting world-attention from Afghanistan. The Russians managed to send fresh supplies of arms to the Kabul regime. The most dangerous of all was the discord among the mujaheddin groups. (VOADS)
    A member of the tribal council in Shinwar, Nangarhar Province, told the BBC in relation to the establishment of the council, "members from the HIA (Hekmatyar & Khales), the IIA, commanders from NIFA, ulama and tribal elders had .taken part in this shoora. The meeting ended with the adoption of a resolution which says:
    We condemn any form of foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
    We take the change in Pakistan's policy as a good omen.
 - We confirm the UN 5-point peace plan for Afghanistan.
    We urge the UN to use strong
 influence in this regard.
 - We request Zaher Shah to respond positively to the nation's demand so that peace is restored and bloodshed is ended. (BBCPS)
                 21
   Iran, together with the Tadjikistan
 republic and the Afghan mujaheddin, has established a cultural cooperation association. Abdul Haq Shafaq, HWIA speaker, told the VOA in an
 interview in this regard that it was a move   towards cultural  cooperation
 in the region. He said, prior to the fall of the communist regime in the north, Afghanistan had difficulties in doing so. The recent events taking place in Central Asia have facilitated the speedy settlement of the Afghan issue. He added, "the  participants in
 the conference were requested to spare no effort in resolving the Afghan problem  on the  basis  of  mujaheddin
 aspirations." (VOAPS)
                 22
 * Reliable sources told The Pakistan Times in Islamabad 21 .February that Najibullah would soon step down to pave the way for establishing an interim broad-based government in Afghanistan. All the concerned parties like USA, Russia, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Najib himself have agreed to new arrangement dominated by the mujaheddin under the auspices of the UN. (PT)
 * Addressing members of the Sarhad Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Peshawar 20 February, the NWFP Chief Minister, Mir Afzal Khan, has said the government was making strenuous efforts to settle the Afghan problem peacefully which would ultimately boost up trade activities in the frontier province with the Central Asian Republics. (MLM)
209
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          OTGIIANJ[HAO              VOL. 5 NO. 2
*  Addressing a huge public meeting in Hyderabad under the auspices of ANP in the memory of Bacha Khan 21 February the ANP Chief, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, regretted that while Sindh was burning and the entire country was in the grip of crisis, certain elements were more concerned about the Jehad-e-Afghanistan and Jehad-e-Kashmir. He criticized those who wanted to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
(NTN)
*  Addressing academics, diplomats and intellectuals at Bostan 20 February, Pakistan’s Ambassador to the US, Abida Hussain, said that there were no two opinions that the US victory in the cold war .would have remained a dream if Pakistan had not played its role in Afghanistan through its support of the Afghan mujaheddin. (PT)
                   23
*  According to very reliable sources two prominent Afghan mujaheddin leaders, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, have met in Peshawar and discussed matters concerning a joint stand with regard to Afghanistan problem in the context of the latest situation of the issue. Certain . Pakistani officials and politicians have played an important role in arranging the meeting between the two leaders. (NWT)
*  A UN report released in Geneva 21 February demanded the release of all political and war prisoners in Afghanistan saying that there were about two-and-a-half thousand political prisoners at the moment held by Kabul regime. (NWT)
   Dr. Sayyed Makhdoom Raheen, who was one of the participants in the uprising of 22 February, 1980 told the VOA in an interview, "it was a day in which the residents of Kabul stood against the
 Russian invaders and their puppet regime. The uprising was very similar to the insurrection staged on the 17th of Ramadan in the 19th century which marked the beginning of the destruction of the British army, with only one difference that the foreign power involved this time was the Soviet Union. The uprising in Kabul on this day is a record of^ the Afghan nation in their 13-year struggle against colonialism and communism. (VOADS)
               24
 * Addressing a banquet hosted in honor of Kazakhstan President Nur Sultan Nazarbayev in Islamabad 23 February, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan said Pakistan has extended full support to the efforts of the UN Secretary General for convening an Afghan assembly to decide on an interim government, acceptable to the Afghan people. "We shall facilitate the convening of such a representative assembly and respect its outcome", he said. (NTN)
 “ Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan, met the Pakistan President and Prime Minister 23 February to brief them on his latest consultations in Kabul, Tehran, Islamabad and Peshawar. Sevan said, the convening of a preliminary jirgah of the Afghans in Geneva or Vienna in late April can now be expected. He said, 150 members of medium leadership group representing all the sides concerned would take part in this conference. Sevan said that the Central Asian states bordering Afghanistan fear that the ever increasing ethnic conflicts might spread across the border. (VOADS)
               25
 * A large number of mujaheddin commanders and tribal chieftains from the south western zones of Afghanistan in a meeting (date not given), held near
210
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 Quettai adopted a number of resolutions and vowed to continue jehad in Afghanistan till the establishment of an Islamic government there. A joint communique at the conclusion of the meeting viewed that the 5-point UN plan was not in consonance with the spirit of Afghan jehad as it created hurdles in the way of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan. It said the ex-King Zaher Shah was not acceptable to the Afghan people in the future set-up. Therefore, any efforts made for his re-installation in Afghanistan would be frustrated. Najib and members of the communist Watan Party were the killers of the oppressed Afghan people and. mujaheddin would never agree for talks with.Kabul regime or form coalition with it. The communique vehemently condemned the plots for dividing Afghanistan on ethnic, geographical, • tribal and linguistic basis. (PT)
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, had a mee'ting with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 24 February and exchanged views on the current situation in Afghanistan, says ah official hand out. They reviewed measures for early resolution of the problem according to the wishes of the people of Afghanistan. The Chief of JI, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, was also present during the meeting. (PT) *
*  Talking to newsmen at the residence of Kuwait Ambassador in Islamabad 24 February, where he had gone to greet the Government and the people of Kuwait on their, 31st natio'nal day, Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif categorically said that no one can impose a resolution on the valiant people of. Afghanistan against their aspirations and "we have also made this point clear to the UN Secretary General's personal representative on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan". He emphatically said that
stepping down of Najibullah was.a must for taking the issue of Afghanistan to its logical end. Pakistan was making strenuous efforts to bring Afghan leaders on one platform to realize the dream for which the valiant Afghans waged a heroic jehad against a mighty power. Unity among all the mujaheddin organizations was a first and foremost step to    achieve the target, he said.
(PT)
*  Commenting on the latest statement
of UN Secretary General's personal representative on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, on the possible conditional stepping down of Najib the Chief of IIA Abd Rab    Rasool  Sayyaf, in  a  press
statement released by ANS, said "just stepping   down    of Najib    is   not
acceptable to us. The marxist Watan Party as a whole must go away. We cannot envision any chance for a real peace and stability in Afghanistan without the complete elimination of the infidel communist system in Afghanistan and the establishment of an interim-administration of Afghan muj.aheddin there". (PT)
*  The stalwarts of a newly formed
organization of Afghan mujaheddin and refugees. Council of Invitation and Jehad of   Islamic Afghanistan have, in
their first press conference at- Jalozai Refugee camp near Peshawar 24 February, outrightly rejected the UN Secretary General's five-point formula for resolving the Afghan conflict through intra-Afghan dialogue saying that under the formula, Americans want to impose former King Zaher Shah on them contrary to the wishes of the Afghans. They said it was wrong to say that "rival Afghan factions could be unified on the former King" because he was a controversial figure. (NTN)
   A seminar on political settlement of the Afghan issue and future Pakistan -Afghanistan relations was held by the WUFA in Peshawar
211
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AlfillANJltiAQ            VOL.  5 NO. 2
 Intercontinental Hotel 23 February. Participants in the seminar threw light on various aspects of the conflict.
 - Rasool Amin, Chairman of the WUFA, in his opening speach said, "Pakistan has assisted the Afghans during the 13 years of jehad. In order that their relations may be friendly in the future it would be better if Pakistan let the Afghans to determine their future themselves."
    Nusrat Bhutto, leader of the PPP, said that the cold war was ended, the Soviet Union disintegrated but the Afghan issue was still unresolved and the war raged as before.
    Marshal Asghar Khan, leader of Tahreek-e-Isteqlal, said that the Afghans should be allowed to determine their own future.
    Mohammed Afzal, leader of Qaumi Party and Sher Ali Pacha, leader of Pakhtunkhwah Party, said that since the world community had withdrawn themselves from the Afghanistan problem, the Afghans will now have to settle it all by themselves.
 - Qazi Fazl Allah, representative of JUP said, "I urge all party leaders of Pakistan to hold a joint meeting with the mujaheddin leaders so that to preserve and safeguard the Islamic identity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. (VOAPS)
                   26
 * Amin Wardak, a prominent mujaheddin leader in the fight against Soviet troops in Afghanistan in the 1980s, said in Islamabad 25 February that Afghan mujaheddin were becoming isolated by foreign interference and direct aid to Kabul by several neighbouring countries. It is unbelievable these days that everyone is supporting
 Najib. UN wants to. convene an inter-Afghan peace conference in April which would begin the process of setting up a broad-based interim government to organize general elections but its mediator, Benon Sevan, "gives us no clear answer” as to who will attend the conference. He said that Najibullah was aggravating the ethnic tentions and cited the recent replacement in the north Uzbek and Tadjik allied militia leaders with Pashtuns, the same ethnic group as that of Najib himself. (NTN)
 * Talking to newsmen informally in Parliament cafeteria in Islamabad (date not given) the JI Chief Qazi Hussain Ahmed has said that no UN formula can be implemented without the support of the Afghan mujaheddin. He said that UN Secretary General's personal representative, Benon Sevan, is talking about convening a Loya Jirgah for an Afghan solution but the fact is that no such jirgah has any existence there. There is no monarchy in Afghanistan so as to select people for a jirgah nor anyone has given Benon Sevan the authority to nominate people for a jirgah. (NWT)
    On   the  occasion of the Golden
 Jubilee of the VOA, two Afghan prominent leaders i.e. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President and Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, the HIA leader, were interviewed on the effectiveness of the VOA during the jehad:
    Mujaddedi said that the VOA had played a valuable role by bringing the jehad news and the voices of the mujaheddin leaders and commanders to all those interested in our cause.
    Mawlawi Khales said, after the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan the VOA, instead of interviewing the mujaheddin leaders, contacted a number of elements who were neither involved in the Afghan jehad
212
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 nor in the political affairs of the country. The VOA is strongly under the influence of the US government. Despite all this, I should like to admit that the VOA has rendered valuable services to the Pashtu language. (VOAPS)
                   27
 * Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 26 February, a foreign office spokesman said Pakistan is fully committed to comprehensive political settlement of the Afghanistan issue envisaging restoration of peace and normalcy in that country, enabling Afghan people to establish a government of their choice without any outside interference and refugees to return to their homes with honor and dignity. He said that Pakistan fully supported the 5-point plan of the UN Secretary General for bringing about such settlement. He said that while supporting the convening of an Afghan assembly to work out arrangements for the interim government in Afghanistan, the Government of Pakistan has taken into account three important points in the plan stating that no controversial Afghan personality will be inducted in intra-Afghan dialogue or any future interim government. (NTN) Four rockets hit Kabul killing four persons and wounding another 12. The rockets were fired from the north-eastern side of the city. (RA)
   Abdul Haq Shafaq, speaker of the HWJA, in an interview with the VOA said, the VOA transmissions have had positive results because the world community came to know of mujaheddin opinions and stand. But it would be much better if a balance was maintained when reflecting these opinions,
 Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, leader of Da' eya-e-Islami, said that the VOA reflected the opinions of the mujaheddin leaders, commanders and the
general public which we appreciate. The VOA can in future be of better help in the return and maintenance of peace and the realization of jehad aspirations. (VOAPS)
                28
*  Talking to newsmen at Rawalpindi Press Club 27 February the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, proposed a four-point formula to resolve the Afghan issue peacefully. He said Najib regime be removed, impartial interim Government be established to monitor ceasefire and holding of free, fair and just elections in Afghanistan. He, however, said that Najib and his Watan Party would be allowed to contest elections. He said that all the mujaheddin groups are united on this new formula and if the aspirations of the mujaheddin were not kept in view the war would continue in Afghanistan. "The President and the Prime Minister would be elected directly by the Afghan people and not by parliament," he said. (PT)
*  Taking part in NA discussion on President's address to joint session of Parliament the Minister of. State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, said 27 February that there was a complete unanimity of views between all the mujaheddin groups that there can be no talk with Najibullah as he is responsible for the ruination of Afghanistan. "The ceasefire in Afghanistan," he said, "will be implemented after the establishment of an interim government there followed by return of Afghan refugees to their homes." (JG)
    Mohammad Nateqi, deputy of HWIA Commission told the VOA regarding his meeting in Tehran with the Russian Ambassador that according to him (the Ambassador) he had a mission from his government to meet with the HWIA. The
213
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          RIGIIANJllfAO             VOL. 5 NO.  2
 Ambassador said Yeltsin favored the UN peace plan for Afghanistan. The speaker added that the HWIA would agree to a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem when it is settled in a just and fair manner# taking in view the interest of all the under-privileged nationalities in the country. Views were also exchanged in the meeting on the exchange of POWs. (VOADS)
 ** Gulbuddin Hekmatyar# leader of HIA# in his interview with the VOA regarding its broadcast for Afghanistan said that the VOA has had two different policies:
 (1) During the presence of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan it supported the mujaheddin and endorsed their stand refering to them as "world . champions."
 (2) After the withdrawal of the Soviet forces, when the US achieved its objective, VOA also changed its tone addressing the mujaheddin as "failures and warmongers."
   Engineer Ahmad Shah said, "the VOA was extremely effective in reflecting the Afghan jehad, but in actual fact it is the responsibility of the Afghans themselves to see that their voices are heard all over the world; they have given great sacrifices and they should raise their voices as may be appropriate. (VOAPS)
 * Three persons were killed and four injured when three rockets shook Kabul city. The rockets which were fired from the north-east hit the 11th district of the city. (RA)
                   29
 * UN officials in Peshawar have told certain Afghan mujaheddin leaders that many Afghan parties have handed over to them the lists of 150 persons each for a Loya Jirgah to be held in Geneva in April for an Afghan solution. Nevertheless, none of the Afghan mujaheddin parties have confirmed this. The UN
 officials are, however, silent about the list of persons from Kabul. (NWT)
   Regarding the VOA transmission of jehad events. Dr. Rawan Farhadi, a former Afghan diplomat said, during the Brezhnev era which coincided with Taraki, Amin and Karmal rules in Afghanistan, the media published false information. It was very important for the general Afghan public to know about facts. The VOA provided impartial news and rendered valuable services to both Dari and Pashtu languages.
 - Sayye^ Ishaq Gailani said, "the VOA used to reflect the Afghan opinions through interviews. We hope that these voices will be heard for ever*.
   Abdul Majid Malek, in-charge of cultural section of Afghan mujaheddin in Germany, said eversince the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, alongwith other media one of the important, sources for the spread of fresh news among the Afghans, both at home and abroad, has been the VOA. (VOADS)
   Four persons were killed and another six wounded when five rockets hit Kabul. The rockets were fired from the north-east. (RA)
                                      MARCH
                                              1
 * Addressing the ANP central committee meeting in Peshawar 29 February, ANP leader Abdul Wali Khan said, the solution of Afghanistan issue was directly concerned with the Afghan nation. He warned and said that it was a responsibility of Pakistan Government to accelerate its efforts for a politicall solution of the conflict. He said that if Qazi Hussain Ahmed was interested in Jehad, he should go to Afghanistan and quench his thirst. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, he said, instead
214
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
IliJII
VOL. 5 NO. 2
,, of his delaying tactics should come to negotiating table for an early end to bloodshed, otherwise he can also go to Afghanistan and fight it out. He 9aid that at this stage the government had no other option than the immediate -solution of the Afghan problem. (MLM)
  *  In an interview with a Peshawar-based news agency Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, leader of IIA, said (name of agency and date not given) Benon Sevan had no authority to convene an Afghan Assembly in April in Geneva. Such efforts, instead of settling the issue would complicate it. The UN's only mission was to prevent the dethroning of Najib regime and imposing an un-Islamic solution on the Afghan nation. (MLM)
  *  As many as 21 persons were killed and several injured when a rocket fell in Kabul 29 February, reports BBC. A Kabul regime foreign office spokesman said the rocket was fired by Afghant mujaheddin. (PT) *
  *  The daily Jang in its editorial
  1 March, says the four-point plan presented by the leader of HIA, Gulbud-din Hekmatyar, for a settlement of Afghanistan problem, provides a strong and practicable foase and Pakistan should support it. It is also for the Afghan leaders to agree on the formula and thus foil efforts aimed at imposing on them an unjust solution of the problem. The formula envisages elimination of Najibullah regime in Afghanistan, transfer of power in Kabul to a Government comprising undisputed and      non-controversial      figures,
  declaration of ceasefire and holding of impartial elections by the interim government. Afghanistan problem, the editorial says, is basically a problem of the Afghans and therefore it is essential for the UN to desist from any effort to impose on them an unjust solution at the behest of US or Russia.
  (JG)
     Sayyed Qas'sem Reshtia, Afghan historian and writer, in an, interview with the VOA regarding the latter's role during the Afghan jehad, said that the people of Afghanistan, both at home and abroad, were kept fully informed about international developments in respect to the affairs of their country which strengthened their morales. Unfortunately, the objectives of the jehad were not fully realized. Nonetheless, the VOA broadcasts were of great help in enlightening the people of      Afghanistan      and    telling
 them about international efforts towards the settlement of the Afghan issue. (VOADS)
                                                   2
 * Addressing a huge Pasbaan rally at Mandi-Muridke 29 February Senator Qazi Hussain      Ahmed,      leader      of
 Jamaat-e-Islami, said the idea that the US would occupy Afghanistan with the help of UN was nothing but a farce. Nobody can impose their will on Afghan mujaheddin. By attempting so, the US would face the fate of former USSR. All the anti-Islamic forces could not even force the mujaheddin to vacate their homeland. With the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the way of a strong Islamic block, comprising Muslim republics of Central Asia, could be paved. US was creating hurdles; in the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan for fear of this Islamic block. (PT)
   General Rahmatullah Safi, adviser to All Commanders' Council, in an interview with the VOA said that full understanding prevailed among the commanders in Bamian, Hazarajat, Samangan, Baghlan, Takhar and Kunduz provinces. "In the past the people of Afghanistan were addressed as Muslim Afghans, but now the Kabul regime refers to its militia units as Shias, Sunnis, Uzbeks, Tadjiks and Pashtuns, which can be considered as a national
215
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
treason," he said. The newly-emerged Central Asian . republics are still assisting the Najib regime. (VOAPS)
'* Najib, the Kabul regime President has released five prisoners. Two of the prisoners were handed over to the ICRC and the others to the Iranian Embassy in Kabul. (VOADS)
" Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni, the leader of the HIA, in an interview with the VOA has said, the VOA has fully covered reports of the military operations and has devoted greater attention to this cause than any other foreign medium. From the political point of view, this has been greatly in the interest of our mujaheddin and to the disadvantage of the enemy. (VOADS)
                    3
   Talking to newsmen at Rawalpindi Press Club (date not given), the AIG President. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has rejected the four-point formula of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar for a settlement of the Afghanistan problem. He said the formula would cause further delay in the peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue and will generate bloodshed in Afghanistan. He said that "good Muslims" would be welcomed to the UN-sponsored Afghan Loya Jirgah to be held in Geneva. He said he fully endorses the Afghan policy of the Government of Pakistan. (NTN) *
* Speaking at the concluding session of Shuhada Conference in Lahore 2 March the Chief of Jamaat-e-Islami, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, said that the UN peace formula for intra-Afghan dialogue could not provide a practical solution of the Afghan problem and it was unfair on the part- of the UN to compel the mujaheddin leaders to sit with murderers. He said, this formula was part of the international conspiracy to block emergence of
 a contagious Muslim power in the region. He said the US was afraid that a Muslim Afghanistan could serve as a strong bridge between Pakistan and the Central Asian Islamic republics. He said he had clearly told Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Shariff that the UN peace formula, which seemed to have been evolved by the US, was not acceptable to us and that the mujaheddin would continue their war till the installation of a true Islamic Government in Afghanistan. (NTN)
   In the rocket attack on Kabul 29 February, 21 persons were killed and another 121 injured. Prof. Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leaders of the JIA and HIA respectively, while condemning the action said:
 - Rabbani:  the attack has been carried
 out by the Kabul regime itself. The mujaheddin      aim     at     military
 installations and not crowded market places.
 - Hekmatyar:  The rocket  attack on the
 Shahzada Market in Kabul has.not been carried out     by my   group of     the
 mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 - Eng. Ghulam Ali Mahboob, General
 Secretary of the Nangarhar Provincial Council, in an interview with the VOA said, the council which was, formed three years ago, now possessed 20,000 members. It was one of the aims of the council to create unity among the inhabitants of the province. It also endeavors   to  attract inhabitants   of
 other provinces to join the council. He said, a number of residents, elders and mujaheddin from Kunar and Laghman provinces   had already joined it.   The
 establishment of alliance is to prevent further fratricide and to pave the way for the formation of a national and Islamic government. The council has been considering the 5-point UN plan and has approved of it for want of any other for the present. But the council
216
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
(■believes that a practicable way to establishing a national government would be through convening of a Loya ^Jirgah. (VOAPS)
    Dr. Shahrukh Gran, NIFA commander, has said that many plans have so far been formulated for the solution of the Afghan issue but the UN plan is the most comprehensive of them all. All the plans so far have been favored by some mujaheddin organization but rejected by some others. He said, "in my opinion there are only two options for the solution of the problem i.e. the political and the military. All the mujaheddin organizations believe if the Kabul regime falls by peaceful means, then there will be no need for further bloodshed. (VOAPS)
                    4
 *   The government of Pakistan nas rejected the four-point formula of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, for the settlement of the Afghanistan problem and supported the plan of the UN Secretary General. Replying to a question about the formula, a foreign office spokesman said in Islamabad 3 March, that the position of the Government of Pakistan in this regard was quite clear. (NWT) *
 *  Talking in Jang Forum in Lahore 2 March Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of ^HIA, said the UN peace plan for Afghanistan was not practicable and that is why all the mujaheddin groups
>have rejected it. Through this formula *the US wants to prolong the existing circumstances in Afghanistan and does wnot want the establishment of an Islamic Government there. "We will boycott any Afghan assembly in April in Geneva. The UN plan is aimed at distribution of ministries among three groups of mujaheddin, Kabul regime and Zaher Shah. We want a formula which will protect the four-point mujaheddin
 plan envisaging elimination of Najibullah regime, establishment of an interim government of non-controversial persons, declaration of ceasefire and elections in the country. We will cooperate if our points are accepted as the basis of Pakistan’s Afghan policy," he said. (JG)
 *  Talking to The Pakistan Times in Islamabad 3 March Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, said he would not oppose Pakistan Government's efforts to resolve the Afghan crisis according to the wishes of mujaheddin as well as the people of Pakistan. "We want full unanimity of views" and do not want to create "any difficulty for Pakistan", he said. (PT)
 *  Addressing members of Parliament at a dinner in Islamabad 3 March, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar proposed the establishment of a committee of members of Pakistan Parliament to arrive at consensus on a formula for a political settlement of the Afghanistan problem. The proposed committee should bring an agreed formula through discussions with all the Afghan groups, the . Government of Pakistan and other concerned parties, "so as to avoid a situation arising from different formulas of the UN, the Government of Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin", he said. (JG)
 *  The daily Jang in its editorial 4 March says that by advising the Government of Pakistan to propose its own formula for the settlement of Afghanistan problem Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA has made crystal clear the basic reality that he attaches vital importance to Pakistan's role in the Afghan crisis and wishes the fraternal bonds between the people of the two countries . to be further strengthened. Chances of acceptance of a Pakistani formula by the people of Afghanistan are very bright. Anti-Islam forces are engaged at the moment to somehow create
217
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 differences between Afghan mujaheddin and Pakistan so that Pakistan and Afghanistan cannot live like friendly countries, aftqr the resolution of Afghanistan problem, rendering Pakistan defenseless from the back and making Afghanistan to emerge as an obstacle rather than a coordinator between Central Asian Muslim ‘states and Pakistan. All these things are so visible that it should not be difficult for the government to make the reading. That is why everybody who believes in stability and territorial integrity and honor of Pakistan has the desire that Pakistan should not bow before any unjust outside pressure, and decide it as a matter of principle that any set-up in Afghanistan should be reflective of the wishes and aspirations of the people of Afghanistan. A Geneva - Accord like situation, is being created for the Government at the moment. Had we at that moment tried for acceptance of certain' basic matters before signing the Accord it would have been quite different now. (JG)
      Hafizullah     Seerat Taloqani,
 responsible for the HWIA council at Tehran, in an interview with the VOA said, he welcomed the fall of three militia commanders in the north with the Najib regime. He said that under the present sensitive conditions the various national forces ought to have joined hands in order to prove effective in the restoration of the people’s rights and independence. (VOADS)
 " Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, in an interview with the BBC regarding the resumption of talks with the former Afghan King said, "we should include        respectable        Afghan
 personalities in the issue. It was agreed that our organization, alongwith the NLFA and the HEIA (Mohammadi) come to an understanding with Zaher Shah and his associates. If the King is requested to .lead the
 interim government or the one r thereafter, he will certainly not deny it.
 •* The VOA interviewed two Afghan scholars regarding Pakistan's change of policy vis-a-vis the Afghan issue:
 - Dr. Mohammad Alam Pay in said there were many factors for it:
 (1) The dissolution of the former Soviet Union.
 (2) After the withdrawal of the Soviet troops the war in Afghanistan continued only between the Afghans themselves,
 (3) The high rate of population growth
                    I                   i
 among the Afghan refugees which the Pakistani social set-u.p and economy are not prepared to bear any longer.
 (4) Pakistan is a producer of consumer goods for which the Central Asian republics are a ready market.
 (5) Pakistan has accepted the UN peace plan and is also capable of exerting pressure on the mujaheddin groups which have rejected it.
     Naim said, the fall of the Soviet Union and the yearning on the part of Pakistan to promote political,
 cultural and particularly economic relations with the newly emerged Central Asian states is one of thei reasons. He said, Pakistan would rather see that peace is maintained in
 Afghanistan and that establishing friendly relations with Central Asia than to back the fundamentalists and
 use them against the Kabul regime. "The opposition of the fundamentalists would not be very effective because they have
 been created by others. Those who have produced them can also destroy them." (VOADS)
218

JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
KIU
                    5
    Representatives of NIFA, NLFA and HEIA met Mohammad Zaher Shah in Rome on the settlement of the Afghan problem. At the end of the meeting a resolution was adopted which says:
    The UN plan will be supported provided it safeguards the aspirations of the Afghan people.
 - We endorse the complete indipendence of Afghanistan, territorial integrity and the establishment of a political order based on Islamic principles and the formation of future leadership in Afghanistan according to the wishes of the people.
    Reacting to this resolution Prof. Sayyaf said, "this meeting is not worth commenting upon. Meeting with Zaher Shah is nothing but a futile effort."
    Prof. Rabbani said, such meetings would only widen the gap between the mujaheddin groups.
    Hujjatul Islam Ballaghi, chief of HWIA political affairs, said that as a leader Mohammad Zaher Shah was not acceptable but as a citizen he could take part in peace efforts. (VOADS)
                    6
 * On his return from New York to Islamabad Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's representative on Afghanistan, discussed with Pakistan’s Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki 5 March, the current status of the UN effort for a political settlement of the Afghan issue. He told Akram Zaki that preparations were in hand for the convening, in later half of April, of a representative Afghan gathering for deciding on an Islamic interim government. He further informed
 him that like Pakistan other concerned states, including Iran and Saudi Arabia, had assured their support to the UN initiative. (PT)
 *  After a meeting in Tehran 2 to 4 March of Afghan commanders Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Valayati, told Tehran Radio in a broadcast 5 March, while time had come to respect the will of the Muslim Afghan people after 13 years of war, the US and certain other countries were trying to prevent the establishment of an Islamic rule in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  A foreign office spokesman in Islamabad 5 March reaffirmed Pakistan's policy of seeking an early political settlement of the Afghan issue and the government's full support for the UN Secretary General's proposal for the convening of a representative Afghan assembly to decide an acceptable interim government. (PT)
                                                    il
 *  In an interview with a London-based Arabic daily the leader of IIA, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that his party will not send any representative to the Afghan peace moot due to be held in Geneva late April under the sponsorship of the UN. The UN is a partisan body under the influence of the Western powers and therefore it will be just an exercise in futility to expect any justice to the cause of the Afghan mujaheddin under prevailing political circumstances, reports ANS. (NTN)
    In a gathering at Toronto, Canada, in which over 700 Afghans had participated,       Mahmood      Formuli
 responsible for cultural affairs of the Union of Afghans* said that in the gathering which was held under the title "from jehad to victory" matters related to jehad and its achievements were discussed. The speakers in the meeting consisted of Afghan scholars residing in Canada and some other countries. (VOADS)
219
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 JANUARY-MARCH, 1992         IlfGIIJtN JlflAO
   Azizullah Shaf.aq, a speaker from HWIA, regarding a three-day meeting of HWIA commanders in Tehran said that in the meeting matters related to political and jehadic unity and the establishment of an "All Commanders' Council" were discussed. "It was decided", he said "that alongside jehadic activities they should not keep distant from political efforts for the Afghan problem. The UN Secretary General's plan was welcomed and the ceasefire proposal was rejected until the total fall of the Kabul regime."
 (BBCFS)
                    7
 * In an interview with the BBC the UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said he was finalizing the list of those Afghans who have agreed on talks and provided lists to him. The first meeting of 150 Afghans will be held in Geneva by April and no foreign government will be allowed to send its observers in the first meeting which will form an action committee of about 100 Afghans to present its proposal regarding formation of an interim government. He said that all the groups would be given an equal opportunity to take part in the formation of the interim government. He said the UN peace process was going well and there was no one who could sabotage this process. (MLM) *
 * Afghan leaders have communicated to the Government of Pakistan the name of the high ranking Pakistani official who managed to get their confidence and then,through US administration conveyed to Najihullah regime their top secret plan for overthrowing the regime in Kabul before its implementation. After receiving the infomration all those, cooperating in the plan in Kabul were arrested by Najibullah regime and the plan failed, causing a set-back to the
Afghan cause. The Afghan leaders have demanded an action against the concerned Pakistani official. (NWT)
-  Haji Ahmad Ali Ghordarwazi, leader of Hezbullah-e-Afghanistan, regarding the commanders' meeting in Tehran told the VOA, the Commanders' Council which was held in Tehran 2-4 February, was arranged by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The meeting was aimed at creating unity and alliance among the commanders and providing them with an opportunity for exchanging views on various matters. He said, a 14-point resolution regarding the UN peace plan was also adopted. (VOADS)
                  8
-  Dr. Ramzi, founder of an institute
in Kabul under the title "Peace and Health", told the BBC in an interview, "I founded the institute in   Kabul  18
months ago. Since many orphans had taken to the streets and were being used in various manners, I therefore founded the institute primarily to save these  children and  to give  them  the
necessary education. A section of the institute possesses a poly-clinic where sick children are being treated and supplied with medicine free of charge. There  is another   section  in which
children are being trained for 12 months at the end of which families are sought which would be prepared to adopt them,  thus giving  them a   home   and
parental care. (BBCFS)
                  9
* The daily Jang in its editorial 9 March says the way the UN envoy Benon Sevan is going to solve the Afghanistan problem is dominated by the inherent US conspiracy to prevent the establishment of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan and plunge it into a civil war through distribution of ministries among Zaher Shah, the Najibullah groups and certain
220
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992      HfGIIANJIHAfl                    VOL. 5 NO. 2
Afghan leaders. One thing is clear that US desires a solution of the problem suitable to its interests and detrimental to the objectives of the Afghan mujaheddin. This is also a fact that no solution can be imposed on the people of Afghanistan without the cooperation of notable Afghan leaders. A ceasefire, Najib's ouster from power, establishment of an impartial interim government and holding of free elections under its auspices are the only conditions for an Afghan solution reflecting the wishes and aspirations of the people of Afghanistan and their leaders. (JG)
*  Talking to Nawa-i-Waqt on wireless from inside Afghanistan 8 March the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said the UN formula for Afghanistan is unpracticable assuring no solution and the majority of the Afghan mujaheddin have already rejected it. Only those are supporting this formula who have no faith in jehad nor have any role in it. They don't enjoy the confidence of the nation and that is why, instead of seeking mandate from the nation in elections, they are trying to come into power through a Loya Jirgah under the UN umbrella. He said no formula can be successful without the support of the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
   A correspondent of the French daily Le Monde, who had recently gone to Afghanistan, writes his observations as follows:
    The Kabul regime has 160,000 armed troops, whereas there are 600 mujaheddin commanders, over 50 of them having 10,000 armed mujaheddin under their command. (V0G)
                   10
*  The Peshawar and Tehran-based Afghan resistance groups, except HIA of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, have handed over lists of their representatives to the
 UN special envoy for inviting them to meeting of the proposed Afghan assembly to be held next month under the auspices of the UN, reliable sources told The Nation. The proposed meeting will elect one of its participants as head of the future interim government who will replace Najibullah as Kabul regime President. According to the formula prepared by Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special representative for the settlement of Afghanistan problem, all of the resistance groups will hand over to him a list of 150 nominees from each party. Later, the UN will choose 150 nominees from all of resistance groups. According to the UN plan 33% representation in the proposed Afghan Jirgah will go to the Afghan ruling Watan Party and its allies. Another 33% will go to independent and impartial Afghans and former King Zaher Shah and his supporters residing in Europe. The remaining 33% share of seats will go to all of Peshawar and Tehran-based Afghan resistance groups.
 (NTN)
 „ Because of a decrease in foreign aid to the Afghan refugees eversince two years, the education process in the refugee camps in Pakistan has been interrupted. Sardar Mohammad Roshan, the AIG Minister of Education and Abdul Salam Azimi, assistant chief of the Nebraska University Team, told the VOA in an interview that the fall in the foreign aid to the AIG has, naturally, affected allocation of funds to the Ministry of Education resulting in the complete halting of the education process for some time. But with the funds supplied by Saudi Arabia we have managed to reopen, the schools in the camps. Azimi said, it is the objective of the Nebraska Team to see that the education process continues. He said, the project was established in 1986 after consultation with the mujaheddin organizations and has so far managed to publish text books for upto the 9th
221
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992                                    VOL.  5 NO. 2
 grade for distribution in the camps as well as inside the country. "The curriculum for the 10th to 12th grades is currently under review," he said. (VOAPS)
                   11
 * In an interview with The New York
 Times in Kabul 9 March, Kabul regime ruler Najibullah said that his regime and the US had a common task to launch a joint struggle against fundamentalism. Afghanistan, he said, had "strategic and political' significance" in that it serves as a bulwark against the spread of fundamentalism to the Muslim republics in Central Asia belonging     to    Commonwealth    of
 Independent States which he described as "significant for the US". "If Afghanistan is lost and is turned into a center of fundamentalism, you will lose the Central Asian republics," Najibullah said. (NTN)
   Upon a decree issued by the President of the Russian Federation, Yevgini Ostrovenkov has been appointed as the Ambassador of the Russian Federation to Kabul. (RM)
.W Commander Esmail Khan reports from Herat in western Afghanistan that his mujaheddin attacked a Kabul regime logistic convoy, which had left Herat for Helmand Province, killing eight troops and capturing 15 trucks, two armored vehicles and substantial quantities of arms, ammunition and food supplies. MIDIA reports from Herat that six mujaheddin of the Shaheed Afzali front who were detained at the Pul-e-Charkhi prison, were exchanged with three soldiers. (VOADS)
                   12
 *  Addressing party members of IIA in Peshawar 11 March the leader of the party Abd Rab Rasool. Sayyaf said, all those persons whose list has been
 prepared for future interim government in Afghanistan by Benon Sevan are pro-Western anti-mujaheddin elements of dubious character and worse than the communists. At this history-making juncture of Afghan Jehad, I urge all the true supporters of the Afghan Muslim nation, not to leave the mujaheddin half-way through. If our friends really feel that they cannot withstand international pressure any longer, at least they should do their best not to stand in the way of the fundamental goals of our Islamic jehad. I admit the bitter truth that our continued disunity was an unforgivable sin which is one of the main causes of the present problems. On my part, I make it quite clear once again that we are honestly prepared for the creation of a strong and practical unity among all the Islamic-minded parties of the mujaheddin. Our only condition is no compromise on the fundamental aims of our Islamic jehad for the sake of temporary political gains. I am not a candidate for leadership if our above condition is met by our brothers. (NTN)
 * Informed sources say that the. UN-sponsored meeting of 150 representatives to- be held next month either at Geneva or Vienna will elect a committee consisting of about 30 leaders who would be authorized to convene the grand 'jirgah' or the grand assembly of about 500 Afghan leaders and representatives to form an interim government in Afghanistan which would replace the Najibullah regime and hold elections under the UN supervision. An official source said that Pakistan, was firm in its support to the UN plan and would not allow any one on its soil to sabotage the UN efforts. The regime in Kabul, according to diplomatic sources, has already announced its unconditional acceptance of the UN plan and Afghan Charge d'Affaires in Islamabad said that Najibullah would create no hurdle in the implementation of the UN plan.
 (MLM)
222
^
    JANUARY-MARCH. 1992               DfRIIANJIHAO                   VOL.  5  NO. 2
/r,
 * A foreign office spokesman has said in Islamabad that no controversial figures^ including • Najibullah, will attend the Afghan Jirgah to be held in April under the auspices of the ON. He said the people of Afghanistan do not consider Gulbuddin Hekmatyar a controversial figure and are convinced that he will not sit in negotiations with Najibullah. "Pakistan does not recognize Najibullah regime in Kabul nor has any direct contacts with it and reports in this regard are totally unfounded and baseless" the spokesman said. (JG)
 * Prices of wheat flour, a staple food in Afghanistan, have risen by one-third over the past two weeks in the capital Kabul, say local traders. They blame the increase on continuing transport problems on the main Salang Highway to the former Soviet Union and the Kabul regime decision to give its employees money rather than full entitlement of free flour. The Salang Highway has been regularly blocked by heavy snow or security problems posed by guerillas fighting the Kabul regime. Wheat flour in Kabul now sells at an average of 3,300 Afghanis (nearly three dollars) for seven Kgs., up from 2,500 afghanis two weeks ago. Prices of sugar, cooking oil and ghee also continue to rise steadily. The regime is also by-passing the coupon system by buying wheat flour from the market to feed the armed forces- further forcing up the prices -the traders said. "The collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of free or subsidized supplies from Moscow is slowly beginning to bite in Afghanistan, an Asian diplomat said. (PT)
   Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former Afghan Prime Minister, in an interview with th£ VOA regarding the latest efforts by Benon Sevan said, the 150 participants who are to be invited to the UN-proposed meeting on Afghanistan,
 should not refrain from taking part in it enabling the UN to take the first step towards peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan. He said that the Government of Pakistan, which until-recently supported continuation of the jehad, is now defending the UN peace plan in view of the latest developments. Dr. Yousuf added, members to the conference should represent the opinions of the mujaheddin, the ulama and the general public in Afghanistan. "The Afghans", he said "have played a major role in the regaining of independence by the Central Asian republics." (VOADS)
                 13
 *  Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's personal representative on Afghanistan, called on Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,leader of HIA, in Islamabad 12 March and insisted on his own formula for Afghanistan which is totally rejected by the majority of the mujaheddin parties. Hekmatyar advised Benon Sevan to work on implementab^e and practicable ways instead of insisting on UN plan which is impracticable. Hekmatyar presented his four-point formula to the UN envoy. Benon Sevan also had a detailed meeting with the leaders of ICCA in Peshawar 11 March. According to a spokesman of the council, Ayatullah Taqaddusi, the ICCA refused to hand over the list of his party's people to Mr. Sevan. The latter was also confronted with a cool response from the leader of JIA, Burhanuddin Rabbani in their meeting in Islamabad 11 March. (PT)
 *  Talking to newsmen at his residence in Peshawar 12 March, Federal Minister for Railways and central leader of ANP, Haji Ghulam Ahmad Bilour, said that no one^could ignore the role of Najibullah in future of Afghanistan as after late Ghazi Amanullah Khan, Najibullah is a person who saved Afghanistan from foreign aggression. As a result of his
223
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
well-planned and peaceful policies Najibullah succeeded not only in ousting     Russian troops   from   his
country but also foiled American efforts against Afghanistan. He said he was of the firm belief that Afghan people would remember contribution of Najibullah  for  their motherland   and
would elect him as future ruler of their country. (NTN)
* Talking to VOA, leader of HI A Mawlawi Younus Khales has said, that Najibullah  was  trying to seek      US
support and sympathy so that it can thus get an opportunity to be included in the future Government in Afghanistan. Najibullah, he said, used to tell Russians that 98% people in Afghanistan were in his favor * and only 2% opposed him whereas the fact was exactly the opposite. Najibullah is now playing the same game with Americans, he said. (NWT)
*  The daily     Nawa-i-waqt   in   its
editorial 13 March says the UN plan has eliminated any role for Najibullah in Afghanistan and Afghan mujaheddin should use  this opportunity  to their
maximum advantage. The world scenario is rapidly changing and more big changes are imminent. The nations keeping their problems as they are and failing to grasp the situation are finally devoured by the changing circumstances. Najibullah can take advantage of the new developments and the resulting avenues. (NWT)
                   14
*   Speaking at a reception hosted by Mohammad Salahuddin, Editor weekly "Takbeer" in Islamabad (date not given) Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said the efforts of Benon Sevan would be meaningless without deciding the basic and fundamental issues involved in the peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem. He set two pre-
 requisite conditions for the holding of the proposed Afghan assembly:   (1)
 Najib’s announcement of stepping down and (2) a unanimous list of participants. He said that only three Afghan mujaheddin organizations led by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi had so far submitted lists of participants to Benon Sevan. The list prepared by Benon Sevan for the Afghan assembly did not include genuine and effective groups of Afghan mujaheddin. He said that the American Government. was backing Najibullah with financial and military support, helping him to retain its illegal power. (PT)
   IN an interview with the VOA while reacting to Najib’s earlier demand from the US to stop, as he had termed, "the fundamentalists" from taking power in Kabul and turning Afghanistan into a center for terrorism and narcotics, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG said, how can a person like Najib who is himself responsible for the crime of killing hundreds of thousands, dare make such a demand. "If the US acts upon an irrational demand as this, the entire Afghan nation will definitely confront him." (VOADS)
                  15
 *  The Kabul regime official organ. The Kabul Times, said in an article 12 March that moderates could not take power without’ support from the ruling Watan Party. "It goes without saying that the moderate opponents and the western-based Afghan technocrats are in need of a reliable military support and such a might can only be sought within the Watan Party", the article said. The Kabul Times also reported that the US would reopen its embassy in Kabul "in a matter of months". (PT)
 *  UN Special envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, held talks in Kabul 14
224
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH,
1992
    March with the regime Foreign Minister, i> Abdul Wakil, Defense Minister, Mohammad
    Aslam Watanjar and State Security Minister, Ghulam Farooq Yaqoobi, a ^  Foreign Ministry spokesmen said in
    Kabul. No details were available about the talks. (PT)
    * Federal Minister for Labor and Manpower, Ejazul Haq, has criticized Government's Afghan policy and termed it betrayal with thousands of martyrs of Afghan war. He also criticized UN peace formula for the settlement of the Afghan issue and said no negotiations on the issue would be acceptable to the mujaheddin in the presence of Najibullah. (NTN)
      In a gathering arranged by the JIA in Peshawar to glorify the 14 March uprising against the communist regime in Herat , Prof. Rabbani in his address said, if the mujaheddin resolved their internal differences, other problems would not be of particular importance. "When we are trying to strengthen our relations with the Central Asian republics, our enemies term it as a 'separatist move' and when they do not find anything else then they call us 'fundamentalists *. When the West wishes to establish relations with these new states, with which they have nothing in common, there is no problem. But when we decide to promote our relations with them, despite our common culture, language and faith, they make such allegations. (VOAPS)
                      16
    w An extraordinary meeting of six major Afghan mujaheddin organizations in Peshawar 14 March has decided to launch a joint and decisive attack on Kabul. The meeting was attended by Gulbuddin    Hekmatyar,     of    HIA,
                                                            Burhanuddin Rabbani of JIA, Engineer Ahmad Shah of IIA (Sayyaf), Mawlawi •Khales of HIA, Ayatullah Mohseni of
 ICCA and leaders of HWIA. The meeting finalized the details for the joint attack on Kabul. A mujaheddin source told the Jang that all the organizations in the meeting have totally rejected the UN plan for Afghanistan. (JG)
 * The fighting has gradually resumed in Afghanistan and the Afghan mujaheddin claimed to have captured northern Khulm district along the border with Uzbekistan 14 March. MIDIA said 150 regime soldiers and militiamen had been taken prisoner and that a large amount of ammunitions and four tanks had been seized. (NTN)
 *' According to BBC, UN special envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has been holding talks with President Najibullah in Kabul and it is reported that Najibullah handed the envoy a list of names for inclusion in the meeting sponsored by the UN in Europe next month. (NTN)
 * The assertion by the Russian Ambassador in Afghanistan regarding a decisive battle this year between Afghan mujaheddin and Najibullah regime, resulting in the victory of Kabul regime, has proved correct the apprehensions of Afghan mujaheddin leaders, including Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, that Russia and the US are both trying to strengthen Najibullah because establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan is unacceptable to them. After Russian defeat at the hands of the Afghan mujaheddin the US has redirected its assistance to Najibullah regime and according to Afghan mujaheddin, Soviet military advisors are still in Afghanistan. The US is pursuing the policy of reimposing Zaher Shah, creating dissentions among the Afghan mujaheddin. The way the Russian Ambassador in Kabul talked about a decisive battle in Afghanistan merits special consideration by the Government
225
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 of Pakistan. Establishment of any government, other than the Afghan mujaheddins' , in Afghanistan will only render insecure Pakistan's northwestern frontiers. Unless we support the Afghan jehad, neither Islamic character of Afghanistan can be restored nor the safe return of Afghan refugees to their homes can be guaranteed. (JG)
 *  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, ieader of JIA urged the UN, 11 March, to officiallyy denounce direct or indirect participationn of the Kabul regime representatives in the transitional government. In a meeting with Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General, he said it was necessary that all the concerned Muslim people of Afghanistan should agree on the political solution of Afghanistan problem. (VOIRA)
                   17
 *  Najibullah gave Benon Sevan in Kabul, 15 March, a list of his nominees for the forthcoming peace talks, the regime media said. Sevan talks in Kabul focused on 150 Afghans the UN plans to invite for talks on ending the conflict and forming an interim Government that could hold elections, diplomatic sources said. (PT)
 *  After a 90-minute meeting with Najibullah in Kabul 15 March Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's representative for Afghanistan, has warned that time was of the essence, amid signs that ethnic and tribal rifts are widening in Afghanistan posing the danger of its disintegration, reports AFP. (NTN) *
*  In an interview in Peshawar 16 March Hujjatul Islam Ahmad Ali Jebraili, Shoora Rahbar (leader) of the Jabha-e-Muttahida Inqilab-e-Islami Afghanistan (United Revolutionary Islamic Front) has said that mujaheddin's participa-
 tion in any assembly in which the puppet regime is invited will be a "political suicide". The collection of a list from the puppet regime by Benon Sevan has made the intentions of the UN body more clear as until now the stance of the UN was ambiguous and inapprehensible. The mujaheddin have had such feelings towards the UN from the very beginning and that is why they rejected the UN formula. He said that the real party to the Afghan conflict are the mujaheddin and any decision made in any forum in which the mujaheddin are not taken into confidence, will be impracticable and intensify war in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  Presiding over a meeting of the Afghan Cell in Islamabad 16 March, Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said, "there is no way to resolve the Afghan issue except through involvement of Afghan leaders - belonging to all groups - as envisaged in the five-point peace formula of the UN. Official sources told The Muslim that the Prime Minister asked the Foreign Office ' to convey Pakistan's full support to the proposal of holding the middle-ranking Afghan leaders' gathering in Geneva in the second week of April. (MLM)
 *  A US Government official has described absolutely wrong and misleading a report published in the Kabul Times that US is considering to reopen its embassy in Kabul. The official said US would not reopen its embassy in Kabul unless power is completely transferred from Najibullah to an administration of the choice of the people of Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  According to UN reports 200,000 people have been killed and another
 400,000 rendered disabled by land-mines in Afghanistan, reports BBC. (JG)
 " Peter Tomsen, the US envoy for the mujaheddin, expressing all out support to the UN peace efforts for
226
VOL. 5 NO. 2
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992           IlfM JtHfifl
Afghanistan, said that the UN plan could be implemented when foreign intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan ceased and the Afghans were allowed to decide on their destiny themselves. (VOAPS)
                   18
*  Benon Sevan, UN envoy for Afghanistan, who arrived in Kabul 14 March for a trip focusing on a list of 150 Afghans to attend the assembly planned by the UN for late April, as a prelude to the formation of an interim government in Afghanistan, said in an interview 17 March he had extended his stay in Kabul by another day for more talks with Najibullah regime. He said he met Najibullah 17 March for the second time in three days and expected to meet him again 18 March before returning to Pakistan. Benon Sevan also held two meetings with Kabul regime Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil, 17 March. No details of the meetings were released* (PT) *
*  In a message broadcast by mujahed-din-run radio "Payam-e-Azadi" from inside Afghanistan leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has called upon the army officers to restore the prestige of the army by siding with the nation rather than killing their own people for the survival of a dictatorial regime. He urged the army to play its role for ending the war in Afghanistan and restore the confidence of the nation by joining hands with it. He said that if the army did not stand beside the nation there would be two options, either the regime would be removed through jehad or the international conspiracies would lead to its replacement by yet another puppet. He stressed the need for establishing an interitn government in Afghanistan which did not include controversial figures or those who wanted to contest the future elections. "Such a government
should restore peace by observing ceasefire across the country and hold elections for an elected parliament.., followed by a peaceful transfer of power to the representative government, he said." (NTN)
*  Rocket attack on Kabul killed nine persons and injured another six. (RA)
- Rustam Ahmadov, the Uzbekistan Minister of Defense, in an interview said that the Afghanistan situation was extremely complicated but the Uzbek nation wished the people of Afghanistan to have a peaceful life in their country. He rejected reports that in the absence of the. Kabul communist regime, the Islamic- fundamentalists would prove dangerous to Uzbekistan. (VOAPS)
                 19
*  Kabul regime President Najibullah announced 18 March, that he and his whole government would step down on the first day of a neutral transition government when it was ready to take up duties in Kabul, reports ANA. He also said he would not insist on his personal participation in preliminary talks on the formation of a neutral government scheduled to be held either in Geneva or Vienna in April. Reacting to this announcement the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, told the BBC in an interview that Na jib has no other option than to resign because he ^is rapidly losing -control of the situation. He demanded the immediate resignation of Najibullah and transfer of power to such an interim government which is acceptable to all sides. (PT)
*  HWIA has claimed the fall of Balkh
and Nahr-e-Shahi districts in Balkh province.      The      Peshawar-based
commanders' shoora also claimed the fall of the two districts. It said the districts were under indiscriminate
 227
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
bombing by the Kabul regime planes and the resistance was making advancement towards the city of Mazar-e-Sharif, the center of Balkh Province. (MLM)
*  In an Interview in Peshawar 18 March the leader of HIA# Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, termed as malicious and baseless a report published' in Washington Post alleging that the HIA would join hands with the Kabul regime following the eruption of ethnic prejudices in Afghanistan. He said that the western agencies which have launched a disinformation campaign against the
resistance for the disintegration of I      .             I   .     .  -
Afghanistan by fanning different
prejudices# were behind such false and
concocted news. He dispelled the
impression that there were any
differences among the mujaheddin on the
basis of linguistic# geographical or
ethnic prejudices. The HIA leader
regretted that the officials of the
Pakistan Foreign Ministry and the UN
had not fully apprehended his 4-point
plan for the peaceful political
resolution of the Afghanistan problem.
(MLM)
 *  The AIG President, Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, and Foreign Minister Burhanuddin Rabbani have disclosed at a dinner# hosted in Islamabad 18 March by Saudi Arabian Ambassador, that Afghan mujaheddin     have     captured     the
 strategically important Samangan and Balkh provinces of Afghanistan, cutting all supply routes from the north to Najibullah regime in Kabul. (JG)
                                   4 f ‘
 *  Talking to Jang in Islamabad 18 March the Afghan Charge d' Affairs# Qudratullah Ahmadi# said that the UN plan for Afghanistan was fundamentally based on their proposals and any solution emerging from it would be acceptable to them# He said the Kabul regime President Najibullah was bound to accept the decision about the
 interim government in the conference to be held under the UN plan. "We have handed the list" of our representatives to Benon Sevan and are extending every cooperation for the success of the conference to be held under the UN auspices in April" he said. (JG)
 - Al-Bunyan reports that 13 mujaheddin prisoners in Kandahar were exchanged with a Kabul regime pilot 15 March. Two Arabs were included among the prisoners released. (VOAPS)
 " After the announcement by Najib that he would resign when the interim mujaheddin  government was established#
 Kabul was placed under heavy rocket attack  killing seven      persons and
 wounding another eight. (BBCFS)
 " Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi# leader of the HEIA # in an interview with the VGA said that Najib had previously also announced his resignation but we are not sure whether or not he will be sincere this time. He said, "his resignation alone will not resolve the Afghan issue; members of his party are also persona nongrata." (VOAPS)
                 20
 " Addressing a hurriedly called press conference in Islamabad 19 March the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs# Mohammad Siddiq Kanju# has said that ; Najibullah*s announcement about his readiness to step down as soon as an Islamic interim government was formed through UN process would greatly facilitate the process. It served to satisfy all concerns of mujaheddin groups who desired adequate assurances that an Islamic government formed through the"' process would indeed replace the present Kabul regime. The announcement by Najibullah which comes at the end of the latest round of t&lks with UN Secretary General's represen-
228
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 tative, Benon Sevan, fully vindicates Pakistan's policy to firmly support the UN Secretary General's proposal to convene a representative Afghan assembly and determine an Islamic interim government, he said. (PT)
 * Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif has expressed the hope that Najib-ullah's announcement to step down in favor of an interim government in Kabul would pave the way for the establishment of an interim government there. He prayed for the smooth and early implementation of various measures leading to the establishment of an elected government in Kabul which would facilitate the return of more than three million Afghans to their homes in peace and honor. (NTN)
 *• UN envoy Benon Sevan 19 March in Kabul described Najibullah's assurance that he would step down, a major move forward in efforts to end what he called the 13-year civil war in Afghanistan. He also lashed out at foreign interference which he said was complicating the UN peace process in Afghanistan. (PT)
 * Latest reports reaching Peshawar say that the mujaheddin have got control over the city of Mazar-e-Sharif, the civil airport east of the city, the KHAD headquarters. Fierce fighting for the military airport of Dehdadi around
;six kilometers of the city is ; continuing between the mujaheddin and personnel of    the  18th  division   of
 regime army who, after fleeing their ^headquarters, have' sought refuge at the airport and are resisting the mujaheddin attacks. (PT) *
 *  Addressing  a press conference     in
 Islamabad 19   March the  JIA leader,
 Burhanuddin Rabbani, has .said that the victories of mujaheddin in Afghanistan and fall of Mazar-e- Sharif have forced Najibullah to   step down  and pave  the
 way for the installation of an Afghan interim government. He said that Mazar-e-Sharif, in addition to almost all the districts of Balkh and Samangan, have fallen to Afghan mujaheddin. He said that the announcement of Najibullah and the UN five-point peace plan for Afghanistan are vague. (PT)
 -  The Kabul regime and its allied militia are in control of the city of Mazar-e-Sharif despite the presence in the city of some "rebel provocateurs", an authoritative government source said in Kabul 19 March. (MLM)
 *  On his arrival in Islamabad 19 March, after spending five hectic days in Kabul, UN envoy Benon Sevan told The Muslim, "our efforts have, entered an important and decisive phase and I am optimistic about my mission. I am not available for a press statement as things are quite clear. (MLM)
 *  Commenting on Najibullah's offer to step down from power after setting up of an interim government in Afghanistan the daily Jang in its
   9•
 edxtorial 20 March says that Najibullah's announcement is a great victory for both the UN and the Afghan mujaheddin. If the mujaheddin still talked of a military solution or raised any more objections on the UN formula then they would not escape the allegation that they have failed to take advantage of a historical opportunity for the establishment of peace. Now agreement on the list of 150 participants of the proposed assembly in April is need of the hour so as to initiate the first round of talks as scheduled. (JG)
 -  In its comments on Najibullah's announcement of stepping down from power the daily Nawa-i-Waqt in its editorial 20 March says that the announcement has removed the basic impediment as certain organizations of
229
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 the Afghan mujaheddin had laid the condition that they would not participate in any talks wherein Najibullah also participated. Nevertheless, the fact is that Najibullah had no alternative. In principle there was no justification for him to stay in power after the Soviet withdrawal but he had the audacity to continue bloodshed in Afghanistan for the last three years. The fact also remains that chaos dnd dissention among the Afghan mujaheddin organizations provided Najibullah with this opportunity. Now this remains to be seen what the attitude of the Afghan mujaheddin will be. (NWT)
 " Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG and leader of NLFA, in an interview with VOA commenting on Najib's announcement to resign after the interim mujaheddin government was formed said, "we will take, it as a good omen provided he is sincere this time, because he has spoken of his resignation many times in the past.” (VOAPS)
                   21
 s In her comments on Najibullah's offer to step down from power, a US State Department spokesperson, Margaret Tutwiler, said in Washington 19 March that "a political settlement in Afghanistan is what everyone needs. The US continues to give full support for the UN Secretary General's peace plan which includes formation of a transition mechanism. Najibullah's departure would be a contribution to this. The transitional or interim government needs to assume full authority from the time it has been formed”. (PT)
 *» Welcoming Najibullah's offer to step down as soon as an interim government was formed under the UN plan the UN Secretary General, Boutros Ghali, said in his first press conference in the present capacity at the UN 20 March,
"Certainly this decision will help us convene an informal international conference concerning Afghanistan, hopefully at the end of April in Vienna or Geneva. Many obstacles still had to be overcome. We have been working very hard. Only junior members of the different factions would participate in the initial conference, which would prepare for a more important gathering later on, settling the 13-year-old Afghan crisis." (PT)
* Talking to PPI in Islamabad 20 March Chairman of the Senate, Wasim Sajjad, said that the clouds of confusion and doubts hovering in the minds of Afghan mujaheddin leaders should now be removed after Najib's offer that "he will not seek any role in UN-sponsored peace talks and transfer full power to an interim government". Commenting on the announcement, Deputy Speaker of National Assembly, Haji Mohammad Nawaz Khokhar, said this latest development had paved the way for expeditious settlement of the Afghan crisis and the mujaheddin leaders should take full advantage of this announcement. (PT)
" In an interview with the VOA 20 March the Chief of IIA, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf said, '"We do not see anything new in the latest’ proposal of Najib regarding his willingness not to be a party to the future interim government in Afghanistan. His offer has been tied to the formation of a new regime, that is supposed to come into being as a result of the UN efforts which will have his former communist colleagues in it. We totally reject his cleverly designed offer of stepping down. Najib fully knows that his days are certainly numbered and that he cannot hope for a better chance. He is just like a suspended drop of tear which could be expected to fall down at any moment with a slight push." Sayyaf asked Najib to immediately surrender to
230
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
the mujaheddin and thus avail himself
of the Islamic justice. Answering a
question about the current efforts of
Benon Sevan     aimed at      calling   a
gathering of Afghans at Geneva in
April, Sayyaf said, "we will certainly
not go to Geneva to decide on the fate
of our country and our jehad there. We
firmly and fully reject all gatherings
which are imposed by outsiders. We
regard this as a flagrant interference
'in our domestic affairs. It would be
just a false wishful thinking to expect
any positive result from biased and
politically motivated efforts of Benon
Sevan." (NTN)
*
" In a statement issued in Peshawar 20 March the ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, said that through his historic announcement Kabul regime President Najibullah has solved the' 13-year-old problem. A mujahed, notwithstanding his personal interests, has decided to step down voluntarily and has proved to the world that there are people still on the Afghan soil who can sacrifice everything for the sake of their country and the people. The demand of the fundamentalists to remove Najib and hand over the government to them was not only undemocratic but also immoral. Now that the Kabul regime President has offered to step down, the ball is in the court of the fundamentalists,-who have earned a lot in the name of Islam and should now at least take mercy on their Muslim brethren. (MLM)
" Praising Najibullah's announcement a spokesman of the Indian External Affairs Ministry has said in New Delhi 20 March that Najibullah was ready to transfer power and authority to an interim government which may be established through the UN process. The Government of India has always advocated a peaceful political resolution of the Afghan problem through a dialogue and supported UN Secretary General's peace plan. Therefore, "India
 would now urge all parties concerned to work for the success of this initiative so that peace and normalcy can be restored in Afghanistan as early as possible," the spokesman said. (MLM)
 * The powerful mujaheddin forces ar'e still in control of the major part of Afghan city of Mazar-e-Shar if and two air bases. No one is fully controlling the city which is strategically important to the Kabul regime. The Afghan militia groups seem to be strong in the town and a number of Kabul troops have also joined them in resistance against Najibullah regime. A leader of the Ismaili militia who was Mediating between the government and Afghan mujaheddin is said to have joined the resistance groups leaving behind his mediatory efforts. (MLM)
 " Afghanistan Charge d'® Affairs in Islamabad, Qudratullah Ahmadi, has told the Jang that time has come for the Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan and Kabul regime President Najibullah to meet for restoration of historical and brotherly ties between the two countries. Najibullah, he said, was ready to meet Nawaz Sharif in the capital of any country in the world. Kabul regime President, he said, had appreciated and described as positive the statements of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, concerning his (Najibullah's) announcement of stepping down in favor of an interim government in Afghanistan. (JG)
 * Very highly responsible sources have provided to the Jang a page of the announcement of Kabul regime President Najibullah concerning his offer of stepping down from power in favor of an interim government in Afghanistan in which Najibullah says he fully agrees with the proposal of the UN Secretary General that the interim government should be vested with all
231
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AKlHAIIJIHAD              VOL.  5 NO. 2
such powers as can enable it to provide complete guarantee of regional security of the country and unity and protection of the Afghans. The interim government would be duty-bound to provide guarantee for respect of human rights in Afghanistan. Najibullah has also agreed with the UN Secretary General that suitable international guarantees awe necessary to enable the interim government to run its affairs effectively. The interim government, Najibullah says, will set up a representative government through free and fair elections in Afghanistan. (JG)
- Talking to the Jang the Afghan Charge d' Affairs in Islamabad, Qudrat-ullah Ahmadi, has refuted the reports that Afghan mujaheddin have captured Mazar-e-Sharif. According to latest reports, he said, the situation had been overcome and things were normal in the city. (JG)
* The Nation in its editorial 21 March says that even when Najibullah has clearly said that he would step down if and when a neutral transitional government was constituted, scepticism about the prospects of peace persists. The condition being insisted on by a section of the mujaheddin is that Najibullah must step down when negotiations for peace start and not when a transitional government is formed. They suspect that by linking his departure to the actual formation of a government, Najibullah was trying to trick everyone. Since the selection of the Afghan representatives acceptable to all, could take months if not years,,he would continue to hold power for a long time. To lend further credence to this theory, it is opined out that this was not the first time Najibullah had offered to step down. On every previous occasion he had changed his mind, soon after making such an offer. Be that as it may, the chances for a volte-face on Najibullah's part
 are fewer now than ever before. The main reason, of course, is the complete disinterest in his survival by his former supporters - the Russians. (NTN)
 " Gary Thomas, VUA correspondent in relation to the fall of Mazar-e-Sharif said, "it is not yet clear what really has happened to the city and mujaheddin claims regarding the capture of the city cannot be substantiated. According to reports the mujaheddin have concluded an agreement with the militia forces ‘(affiliated with the Kabul regime) permitting them to enter the city." (VOADS)
                 22
 " Very reliable sources in Islamabad say that Pakistan Government does not. recognize the present Kabul regime and therefore the question does not arise of any meeting between Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif and the Kabul regime President Najibullah. Now when Najibullah has himself announced that neither he will attend the proposed Afghan assembly in April nor he has any intention of participating in the interim government, there is no need of any meeting of Prime Minister of Pakistan with Kabul regime President. The sources further say that the UN Secretary General's envoy, Benon Sevan, has already assured that Najibullah or any other controversial figure will not be included in the proposed Afghan assembly and the interim government being set up under the UN five-point plan in Afghanistan would be an Islamic government having no controversial figure. The Government of Pakistan is, therefore, fully agreed with the plan and is extending every cooperation in its implementation. (JG)
 * The OIC is understood to have sent* a special delegation to Pakistan to persuade Afghan mujaheddin on accepting Najibullah's offer for an Afghan solution. Led by OIC Secretary
232
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          IHfilMliVOL. 5 NO. 2
    General’s special envoy, Ahmed Hassan Bakr, the delegation met in Foreign Office in Islamabad 21 March with the r Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddig Kanju, and Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki,and delivered to them a special message of the OIC Secretary General. Later Secretary General Foreign Affairs told Nawa-i-Waqt that Pakistan had welcomed the OIC offer. He said that now when * the Kabul regime President Najibullah had announced to step down, there appeared to be no obstacle in the
S
    solution of the Afghanistan problem. The special delegation has left Islamabad for Peshawar for talks with AIG leaders. (NWT)
    ** Talking to the Nawa-i-Waqt in Islamabad 21 March the Foreign Secretary Shaharyar Khan said in reply to a question that the UN Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, had not so far shown them the list of 150 Afghan representatives to attend the proposed UN-sponsored Afghan assembly next month. Meanwhile, Nawa-i-Waqt has come to know that Benon Sevan, has finalized the list of 150 Afghan representatives for the proposed Afghan assembly. (NWT)
    » The Pakistan Times in its editorial 22 March says that the decision of the Kabul regime President Najibullah to step down in favor of an interim ^ government in Kabul is a major development in the efforts to end the 13-year-old bloody strife in the country. Najib's announcement serves to satisfy the concern of the mujaheddin groups who wanted adequate assurances that an Islamic government would be formed through the UN process to replace the present Kabul regime. It also vindicates Pakistan's policy to firmly support the UN Secretary General's proposal for convening a representative Afghan assembly to determine an Islamic interim
 government. Najibullah's' latest offer that he would • not insist on attending the UN proposed assembly of all Afghan factions when it is scheduled to meet, calls for an objective response by all concerned so that the long-drawn struggle in Afghanistan, which has caused untold miseries to its inhabitants, is brought to an end. The hardliners among the Afghan factions, who say that Na jib's offer to quit is not enough, would be only adding to the miseries of their own people. There are bright hopes of peace returning^ 'to Afghanistan and the opportunity should not be allowed to wither away. (PT)
 * Four mujaheddin’ leaders i.e. Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales and a deputy of Prof. Sayyaf, in a meeting in Peshawar last week, exchanged views on the • political solution of the Afghan problem and expressed opposition to the UN peace plan for Afghanistan. (VOIRA)
                 23
 ** Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HI A,.
 in a statement in Peshawar 22 March
                                                                                                  . •
 said, the aggressive US designs against Libya under the garb of the so-called UN and previously Iraq-bashing through the "good offices" of the world body at a time when the UN turns a blind eye and a deaf ear to the resolutions on Kashmir and Palestine, speak volumes for the fact that the "UN" has forfeited the status of an impartial peacemaking organization particularly on issues concerning the Muslims. This pathetic attitude of the UN evinces the bitter reality that the world body has turned out to be acting only on the dictates of the US. He said the Muslim world should, boycott the "UN" unless it restores its impartiality and independence, and is extricated from the claws of the Americans. If the painful status quo is allowed to
233
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
continue, after Iraq and Libya it will be the turn of others to be dressed down through immorally unbalanced and unilateral resolutions of the Security Council. He said the dubious UN role vis-a-vis the Islamic issues had made the mujaheddin not to concede any significant role to this body and, unless it mends its ways,the mujaheddin would like to give the same mediating role to the OIC instead. (MLM)
-  For the first time in 14 years flag was hoisted on the liberated city of Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan on the Afghan New Year day 21 March. According to AAP the flag hoisting ceremony was performed jointly by Commander Alam Khan and the local mujahed commander Ata Mohammad in the presence of thousands of Mazar citizens. (NWT)
*  Ismail Saleh Bakr, special representative of the OIC Secretary General discussed in Islamabad, 22 March, with Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, matters relating to a just and durable solution of the Afghan problem in the wake of fresh developments. Special emphasis was placed on the need to compliment the UN and OIC efforts with a view to achieving a comprehensive political settlement of the Afghan issue on the basis of the UN plan. (PT)
-  In an interview with VOA Secretary
General Foreign Affairs, Shaharyar Khan,     has     said      Najibullah's
announcement of stepping down had "removed hurdles in the way of a settlement of the Afghan problem". He said Benon Sevan, in whose presence Najib made the announcement, told Pakistan authorities that the announcement has its great impact in Kabul. Pakistan Government, he said, is in touch with the Iranian and Saudi governments which want an immediate implementation of the plan. (PT) *
 *  In a telephonic interview to VOA
 from the UN Headquarters, Pakistan's envoy to the UN, Jamshed Marker, has said that a very positive reaction had been shown at the UN over the Kabul regime President's offer to relinquish his post. He said Pakistan would extend all possible cooperation to the UN Secretary General and his personal envoy, Benon Sevan, for advancing the peace process on Afghanistan. He hoped Naj ibullah would abide by his announcement at the appropriate time,
 (PT)
 *  A UNICEF official in Kabul told the BBC correspondent that the program for the distribution of food supplies to the children has been interrupted for want of material. He added that the situation in Kabul, in respect to food supplies, was deteriorating rapidly. (BBCPS)
 *  A message has been sent on behalf of Najibullah, the President of the Kabul regime, to Islamabad, congratulating President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and the people of Pakistan on their national day. (HA)
 - Khan Abdul Wall Khan, leader of the NAP, has sent a congratulatory message to President Najibullah of the Kabul regime for his announcement of stepping down in favor of an interim government.
 (RA)
                 24          .
 » Ayatullah Sheikh Asef Mohseni, leader of the HIA, in an interview with the BBC regarding Najibullah's readiness to resign his post said, the offer by Najib was not new and woyld not solve the problem. He said, "some mujaheddin leaders are of the opinion that the UN formula is a three-stage plan requiring tremendous time to implement. It will be better if it is carried out in a single step by inviting the participants to a meeting in Afghanistan and establishing the
234
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 interim government right on the spot." In answer to a question regarding the objective of the latest mujaheddin discussions said, it was aimed at creating consensus between the leaders and their respective parties otherwise it might result in civil war. (BBCPS)
                   25
 *  UN special envoy, Benon Sevan, rushed back to Kabul 24 March for top level meetings at the request of the Kabul regime President Najibullah, diplomatic sources said in Kabul. The request was made after key members of Najibullah's Watan Party had been closeted in what party members
 described as "tense" meetings after a crisis over the fall of the strategic city of Mazar-ie-Sharif to Afghan mujaheddin. Situated 437 kilometers north of Kabul the city straddles the vital Salang Highway which is the food and fuel lifeline from the Central Asian republics to Kabul. UN officials confirmed that Benon Sevan arrived Kabul early 24 March on an unscheduled visit and he had gone almost immediately into a meeting with Kabul regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil. (PT)
 *  Huge explosions were heard in the area housing the Presidential Palace of Najibullah in Kabul at night, BBC reported 24 March. The radio also reported automatic weapons firing, which was continuing uninterrupted for the previous two hours. The whereabouts of Najibullah were not known. BBC said the firing and explosions in Kabul Coincided with the arrival of Benon Sevan. Western diplomats in Kabul said that it might be a coup attempt against Najibullah. (MLM) *
 * Leaders of all the Afghan mujaheddin parties held an emergency session at the central office of JIA in Chamkani 24 March to evaluate the current
 situation alongside Afghanistan and the current UN efforts for the solution of Afghan problem. This was their third meeting within this week but the deliberations were kept top secret. Those who attended the meeting were Gulbuddin     Hekmatyar,     Burhanuddin
 Rabbani, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Sebghatullah     Mujaddedi,j     Mawlawi
 Mohammad Younus Khales, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad and Ayatullah Mohseni. (PT)
 - Afghan mujaheddin have established a regular and full-fledged government in their liberated area of Khost and set up a 10-member commission to run the affairs of the government. (JG)
 - In his message for the Afghans in Kabul city broadcast from radio "Payam-e-Azadi", Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said Najibullah is bent upon dismembering Afghanistan on ethnic and linguistic basis. He has been fanning prejudices in the name of a north and south and pitting Pashtuns, Tadjiks and Persians against each other in order to involve them in an internecine war and prolong his rule at the cost of bloodshed. To achieve this end he has been creating an atmosphere for intervention of Iran, Uzbekistan and Tadjikistan on lingual basis to get their support for his tottering regime. (NTN)
 " In an interview with VOA 24 'March the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, said Afghans should take advantage of Najibullah's offer to step down in favor of an interim government. He said, "we are not pushing through and it is only the Afghans who have to solve this issue by themselves. We are trying to bring them together because we think this is the only way to the solution. (PT)
235
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 ** A meeting of a cross section of potential investors in Afghanistan held at the Afghan Consulate in Peshawar 23 March discussed the prospects of trade with Central Asian republics through Kabul and stressed the need for restoration of air link between Peshawar, Kabul and Central Asia. (PT)
 * A report from Peehawar says that the Baghlan mujaheddin, in a series of fresh operations have captured the strategic command post of Jarraq. Twenty troops have defected to the mujaheddin under the general amnesty. Another report says that a group of mujahedin, under commander Abdul Hai Haqjo, attacked the surrounding villages of Baghlan city and captured a number of posts. According to another report, the Kunduz-Sherkhan Port highway has been closed to traffic after' the fall of the Qala-e-Zal district.
      According to JIA reports from inside Afghanistan, commander Aref Khan in a telephone message from Kunduz. says that on the night of 24 March his men attacked the military posts on^ the security bplt at Alehin, killing a number of troops and militiamen and capturing seven security posts and three tanks. (VOADS) •
                   26
 * The UN envoy, Benon Sevan, met Kabul regime President Najibullah and his Foreign Minister after arriving unexpectedly in Kabul 24 March. UN officials said, no details of the talks were available but he will have more talks with Kabul regime officials 25 March. Sevan's visit to Kabul followed crisis meetings of senior figures of the ruling Watan Party. (PT)
 - Pakistan has decided to. send food supplies and other items of human assistance to Kabul and other major
 cities of Afghanistan. Authentic sources told The Muslim 25 March that this decision was taken in view of the request made by the representative of the UN, which has assured that it will supply Pakistan the same amount of food stuff as it supplies to Afghanistan. (MLM)
 “ The UN envoy, Benon Sevan, returned from Kabul to Islamabad 25 March and briefly met Mohammad Akram Zaki, Secretary General Foreign Affairs. It is believed that he briefed Akram Zaki about the latest situation in Kabul and the outcome of his talks with Kabul regime President Najibullah and Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil. Meanwhile, at a diplomatic reception in Islamabad after his arrival from Kabul, when newsipen asked him about firing and explosions in Kabul 24 March at night, Benon Sevan said that Kabul was celebrating Pakistan's forthcoming victory (stet) in World Cup final. (MLM)
 *  Followed by more than an hour of intense gunfire and heavy explosions in Kabul, 24 March at night, a major fire gutted the national guard headquarters at the foot of the historic Bala Hissar walled citadel in Kabul the same night, witnesses said. Sentries at the heavily guarded gates of the complex said that several large military stores,including an ammunition dump, had gone up in smoke. (PT)
 *  Baqir Moeen, BBC correspondent, said upon return from a visit to Kabul that differences among the leadership cadres of the ruling Watan Party did exist from long ago end each group Siras trying to do every thing possible.for its existence. There are others who wish to form a coalition with the mujaheddin parties and there is yet another group willing to form a broadbased coalition with the Afghans at home and abroad, including pro-Zaher Shah elements. But there is no doubt
236
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 that only those who support the UN plan will succeed. (BBCFS )
                   27
 * Talking to Nawa-i-Waqt in Islamabad
 26 March Senator Maulana Samiul Haq described as meaningful the shuttle diplomacy of UN envoy, Benon Sevan, and said it appeared that a conspiracy was going on for imposing a solution on the Afghan mujaheddin against their'wishes. Russian agents and colleagues of Najibullah     should,     under    no
 circumstances, be included in the interim government in . Afghanistan. Afghanistan problem, he said, should be resolved through jehad instead of elections because US can reject the victory of Afghan mujaheddin in elections so as to prevent the establishment of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan, same as it did in the case of Algeria. (NWT)
    Afghan mujaheddin have established, their control over the entire Samangan province, including its center, and besieged the Kabul regime troops and Sayyed Kayan militiamen in Aibak cantonment, reports AAP. (NWT)
 *  Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of JIA, called on President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 26 March and briefed him about the recent developments and victories of the mujaheddin in northern Afghanistan. The discussion also focused on the efforts of the UN for political solution of the Afghan issue. Burhanuddin Rabbani expressed his support for the UN efforts in principle but said the UN formula, as envisaged
    Benon Sevan, is impracticable. (NTN)
 - All the leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin are actively considering to evolve a joint course of action on the UN devised formula for the solution of the Afghan problem. Mujaheddin sources told The Pakistan Times 26 March that
 main mujaheddin parties which enjoyed support of the majority of Afghan mujaheddin and citizens were reluctant to accept the UN formula. Just few mujaheddin parties were favoring the UN formula. Sources said that no formula can be workable unless the major mujaheddin parties were taken into confidence. (PT)
 - Rafiullah Moazin, leader of the HEIA, told the BBC reporter regarding the Iranian and Pakistani intervention in the internal 'affairs of Afghanistan, "we wholeheartedly appreciate the cooperation and assistance the two neighboring countries have rendered to the Afghans. But we have repeatedly requested the ISI and other foreign networks to stop meddling in the affairs of the Afghans, which is against their nature, ap<3 to let them decide their destiny themselves. (BBCFS)
 * Three mujaheddin leaders under separate messages to the citizens of Kabul,26 March, have warned them of the forthcoming deteriorating situation:
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, expressing sympathy with the Kabul citizens said, "at these sensitives moments whent_ the mujaheddin victory is imminent and the Kabul regime is nearing its end , the entire nation should join hands for the preservation of Islamic unity *£nd the maintenance of law and order in the country.
 - Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the JIA, while expressing desire for the maintenance of peace and security in Kabul appealed to the Kabul regime military and police forces to maintain law. and order in the city after the fall of the regime and its taking over by a mujaheddin government.
 - Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HI A, said the fall of the Kabul
237
JANUARY-MARCH, 1992          AfGIIANJIHflO              VOL- 5 NO- 2
regime was       most probable and  the
mujaheddin      should, therefore,   be
completely prepared by establishing their government and appointing their cabinet members in advance. He added that in the event of the fall of the Kabul regime    the militia should hand
over their        heavy weapons to  the
mujaheddin and be relieved from duty? attack on the city and its public places be avoided under all circumstances and the siege of Kabul lifted; the supply routes be reopened; refugees should return home within six months followed by general elections within six months. (VOADS)
                   28
- A regime Foreign Ministry spokesman in Kabul said 26 March that Najibullah has decided to relinquish his charge within four weeks of : the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan. Diplomatic sources in Kabul have also confirmed ratification by Najibullah of the plan during visit to Kabul, 24 March, by UN special envoy Benon Sevan, Meanwhile, in an interview with AFP Benon Sevan said that he had changed his            plan to go ahead
hurriedly, (NWT)
 * In a special interview to Nawa-i-Waqt in Islamabad the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that there was nothing certain with regard to Najibullah's announcement to step down so long as he has not transferred power to an undisputed and acceptable interim government in Afghanistan. There was talk of a political settlement, he said, but the fact was that no positive step as yet had been taken in this direction and it was nothing more than a jugglery of words. The UN plan was unrealistic and impracticable and a meaningless chain of unending jirgahs. Benon Sevan had refused to accept their program for a short cut and real solution of the
 Afghanistan problem. He said, the . US wanted to see Najibullah in power so long as dissentions were created in the ranks of the Afghan mujaheddin but the conspiracies would not be allowed to succeed. If Najibullah did not step down then, as a last resort, they would launch a full-fledged attack on Kabul. He was satisfied with his talks with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, he said. (NWT)
 *  In an interview to Saudi Arabian daily Okaz Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, has said that the UN envoy for Afghanistan has achieved some success within the framework of his mission for the establishment of an interim Islamic government. He stressed that the Afghan issue continues to occupy a pre-eminent position among Pakistan's priorities, and pointed out to the pressing need for an urgent political solution of this problem. (PT)
 *  According to sources, the UN which was earlier considering to hold two sessions of the Afghan assembly, has now decided to compress the entire process to one, so that the assembly is held at the earliest and an interim government is installed in Afghanistan
 to bring peace there. (PT)
 “ Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA, in an interview with the VOA said, the present circumstances demand that prior to the dramatic fall of the Kabul regime and the creation of a power vacuum in the country, the mujaheddin should have an interim mechanism in the shortest possible period so that to take care’ of law and order in the country, particularly in Kabul. (VOAPS)*
 ** Frederick Machmer, who has been an employee of USAID for 24 years, has been appointed as the new Director of Afghanistan affairs. He will handle the 6Q-million-dollar aid program allocated as relief aid to the Afghans- (VOAFS)
238
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
                   29
 » Tarzi, a Kabul . regime Minister without portrolio, said in an interview in Kabul 28 March that food stocks in Kabul have sunk to precarious levels and the regime needs urgent supplies of wheat. He said that government stocks, that largely go to feed the armed forces and government workers, are very low and we urgently need around 100,000 tons of wheat flour to forestall drastic scarcities. The blockade of the strategic Salang Highway by the Afghan mujaheddin is listed as one of the reasons for the scarcity. Asian diplomats    in Kabul say the
 deteriorating food situation is a major factor in persuading the UN to hasten efforts to find a political solution to the conflict. (PT)
 * Benon Sevan, UN envoy for Afghanistan, in an interview to BBC has said he has decided to- accelerate the pace of political process to establish peace in Afghanistan as the danger of a new tribal and military conflict is mounting. The time is short, while ethnic and tribal tension is on the increase, due to which the situation may take a dangerous turn and culminate in the disintegration of Afghanistan. The UN will consider to merge the two proposed Afghan assemblies, as envisaged in the UN plan, into one in order to end the 13-year war as early as possible. The blueprint for an interim, government in Afghanistan is likely to be drawn by July, he said. (PT)
   1-Speaking at the Shamshatu refugee camp in Peshawar 28 March the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that in, order to go ahead with the UN proposals for the solution of the Afghan problem his party had two conditions. The first condition was that Najib should agree in principle to
 resign from his post and hand over power to an interim government. Prior to such an announcement of Najib, all kinds of negotiations were futile and meaningless. The second condition was that the interim government should not be a coalition set-up in which the ministries were distributed between the mujaheddin and the communist Junta of Kabul. It should be purely interim in nature and should not be a coalition. Full security arrangements be made by the army in cities and conducive atmosphere created for the return of refugees within a period of six months which would then be followed by general elections. This was the only option for seeking a durable settlement of the Afghan problem. Jirgahs, he said, would never bring the war in Afghanistan to an end, but merely prolong the issue. He made it clear that without conceding to the conditions of the mujaheddin and getting their consent, the issue could not be solved at any cost. (PT)
 - The daily Jang in its editorial 29 March says that emergence of clear chance of an end to the 13-year-old Afghan war in the light of Najib* s announcement, it has become imperative for the Afghan mujaheddin to cooperate in promoting a peaceful solution of the problem. They should not be overpowered by uncalled for doubts and apprehensions because no power can dare conspire against them after seeing the fate of a super power like the Soviet Union at the hands of the Afghan mujaheddin. (JG)
 " Quoting the NLFA and Al-Bunyan sources, our correspondent reports that during the past 10 days the mujaheddin discussed the formation of a new alliance and the establishment of an interim government. Talks are still continuing and it is said the talk? are actually aimed at establishing a leadership council representing the
239
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 2
 entire mujaheddin organizations in Peshawar as well as. the HWIA and the Islamic     Coalition    Council    of
 Afghanistan (ICCA).
   Prof. Rabbani is optimistic about the discussions, but Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani are not very sure. The latter says that he is prepared to enter into any alliance but prefers if the future interim government is established by UN efforts.
     On the other hand Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General, is leaving for Tehran to discuss the proposed inter-Afghan assembly with the HWIA and Iranian authorities. Pakistani sources say that Siddiq Kanju, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, will also leave for Tehran 29 March for a similar mission. (VOADS)
                   30
   The Afghan mujaheddin captured 400 militiamen and a large quantity of arms and ammunitation 27 March when they attacked the outer security belts of Herat city. A cement factory in Rubat-e-Paryan was also captured by them. (PT)
 * The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, met President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 29 March. He is understood to have discussed the Afghan problem, with particular reference to UN Secretary General’s special envoy Benon Sevan's current hectic efforts to settle the problem and holding a gathering of the Afghan leaders to set-up an interim government for the transitional period. (MLM)
 - Mujaheddin aie close to an agreement on the formation of an interim administration in Kabul. MIDIA has learnt that the precarious situation in Kabul and
 the imminent fall of Najib has made the mujaheddin leaders to focus on the formation of an interim administration to fill the vacuum. This interim administration will be replaced later by an Islamic interim government which will be formed in due course of time. (PT)
       .           _                  _a
 - Hamed Elmi, the BBC correspondent reports from Peshawar that the mujaheddin claim to have captured the Cement Factory west of Herat city. According to the mujaheddin the entire expanse of land from the city to the Iranian border is now under their control.    He   said, discussions in
 Peshawar for establishing a unified administration, to take over in the event of Kabul regime downfall, are continuing since sometime. (BBCFS)
                 31
 * IN a meeting with columnist of the daily Jang and editor of weekly Zindagi Mujibur Rehman Shami,the former Chief of ISI, Retired General Hamid Gul, has said that a conspiracy was under way to pit Pakistan and Afghan mujaheddin against each other. If a so-called government established after a so-called Afghan assembly failed to establish peace in Afghanistan, then a UN peace-keeping force would be made to land there. Pakistan would be compelled to disarm Afghan mujaheddin closing all avenues for them and thus it would be aimed to poise Islamabad and Afghan mujaheddin against each other. He said Afghan mujaheddin felt that the UN plan proposed participation in power and not transfer of power by putting on equal level both the oppressor and the oppressed. (JG)                        A
 " UN envoy Benon Sevan met Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, in Tehran 29 March as part of efforts to speed up a settlement in Afghanistan and set up an interim government in Kabul. Velayati pledged Tehran’s
240
A
JANUARY-MARCH. 1992          AfGliANJtHAll              VOL. 5 NO. 2
 support for the UN initiative and said his country was ready to help international       organizations     in
 transporting relief aid to Afghanistan.
 (PT)
 * Foreign Minister of Iran, All Akbar Velayati, and Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, discussed UN efforts for peace in Afghanistan with UN envoy Benon Sevan in Tehran 30 March, Tehran Radio said. It did not say if thef meeting achieved any specific results, but quoted Velayati as saying that Iran valued UN efforts for peace in Afghanistan and would continue pressing for a settlement until a final solution was reached. (PT)
 * Addressing members of the political commission for the solution of Afghanistan problem in Peshawar (date not given) the Chairman of the Commission,
 Dr. Farooq Azam has said, ’’the hasty decisions of the UN envoy regarding the Afghan problem would create further problems for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan rather than seeking a viable settlement of the issue. The commission re-emphasized its memorandum of March 15 wherein changes were suggested in the 5-point UN formula* (NTN)
 * Mohammad Yotfnus Qanuni, speaker of JIA Supervisory Council and member of All Commanders' Council, in an interview rejected statements that current activities in the north of the country were motivated by ethnic and linguistic considerations. He added, "Afghanistan is a multi-national country and this is why the entire mujaheddin forces have fought against the puppet regime side by side." (VOAPS)
241

 h;


 )!